Annual Report Integrated Financial Sustainability Report 2019 Let’s continue working for a better world santander.cl Annual Report 2019 A B Annual Report Integrated Financial Sustainability Report 2019 1 SANTANDER IN FIGURES 2 RESPONSIBLE BANKING 04 Summary of financial results 18 Santander: A Responsible Bank 04 Infographics by interest group 18 Santander purpose 06 Awards 19 Santander Culture 20 Policies and principles 10 Letter from the Chairman of the 21 Sustainability model Board and Country Head 22 Interest groups and materiality 14 Letter from the Chief Executive 24 Desafíos de Banca Responsable Officer 26 Responsible Banking Priorities 27 Strategic pillars 28 Responsible Banking and Sustainability Government 30 Human Rights 31 Contribution to Sustainable Development Goals 34 1. Creating value for customers 44 2. Creating value for collaborators 72 3. Value to Shareholders 78 4. Creating value for society 104 5. Excellence in execution This integrated report will also be available online www.santander.cl 02 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 4 ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 112 Corporate Governance 137 Economic Environment 128 Compliance 142 Financial System 143 Financial results 5 RISK MANAGEMENT 6 SANTANDER AROUND THE WORLD 7 ANNEXES 157 Risk culture 168 Business Model and 173 Report profile 157 Risk Governance Strategy 173 Materiality 158 Credit Risk 176 GRI Index 162 Market Risk 183 General information 167 Reputational risk 184 Financial statements 188 Contact details Annual Report 2019 03 GRI [102-7] Santander Chile in figures Summary of Infographics by interest financial results group SHAREHOLDERS $ 50,578 billion Assets +8.1% 16.7% 1.3% Loan growth ROAE ROAA $ 47,108 billion Total liabilities US$ 11,179.57 million 3.68% Market capitalisation Return on the last $ 32,732 billion dividend paid Total loans CLIENTS $ 23,490 billion Total deposits 16.1% 3.4 1,143,347 136,821 Million clients Current accounts (including Santander Life $ 554,176 million Life and Superdigital) Customers Consolidated net income for the year 4.8% 13.2% $3,470 billion Nº2 704,021 1,216,360 Equity Customer Loyal Digital Satisfaction customers customers 04 COLLABORATORS SUPPLIERS 11,200 54% 3,902 85% Total Women SME Local Suppliers suppliers 18% 74.9% 21 97.68% Women in leadership Unionisation Award-winning of bills paid in less than positions suppliers 30 days SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT $10.83 billion Total community contribution 2017 2018 2019 Paper consumption (ton) 1,662 1,512 1,268 Paper recycling (ton) 172 534 1,256 Volunteering Electronic waste (ton) 132 148 32.4 Power consumption (MWh) 29,605 28,640 28,139 Water consumption (m3) 107,074* 103,420* 149,106 2,411 269,302 Total emissions (tCO2eq) 18,557 18,377 16,148 volunteers people positively *Estimate impacted Annual Report 2019 05 2019 Awards Financial Rankings BANK OF THE YEAR, ACCORDING TO BANK OF THE YEAR, BY LATINFINANCE BANK WITH THE BEST REPUTATION IN CHILE THE BANKER For the fourth consecutive year, Santander According to the Chilean Bank REP Lab Once again Santander Chile was chosen as Chile was recognised by LatinFinance study prepared by the Spanish consultancy Bank of the Year by the prestigious English Magazine as Bank of the Year. On this Villafañe & Asociados, Santander Chile is the publication The Banker, a prize also awarded occasion, the company was distinguished bank with the best reputation in the country, to Portugal, Argentina, and at a group level, for its digital transformation processes thanks to its good performance and realistic Western Europe and America. The journal and sustained revenue growth, thus objective indicators, obtaining 83.9 points in highlighted the institution’s commitment to consolidating its leadership in the market. the Global Index of Reputation. improving the customer experience and its ability to create excellent financial results in complex scenarios. BEST BANK IN CHILE, ACCORDING TO EUROMONEY For the eighth time, Santander Chile was recognised as the Best Bank of the Country by the English magazine. In the twentyfourth edition of its annual awards, it also distinguished the entity as Best Bank for SMEs in Western Europe and Best Bank of Brazil, Portugal and Latin America. SANTANDER PRIVATE BANKING SANTANDER ASSET MANAGEMENT DISTINGUISHED AS BEST PRIVATE ACHIEVES OUTSTANDING PARTICIPATION BANKING, ACCORDING TO EUROMONEY IN PREMIOS SALMÓN 2019 In 2019, Santander Private Banking (SPB) Santander Asset Management had a won the most significant number of awards remarkable turnout in the Premios Salmón, in its history in the annual private banking which awards the most profitable funds in competition of the English magazine the industry, and obtained the following Euromoney and was included among the awards: 1st place Dynamic Santander top ten private banks in the world. The Select, Permanence series, Aggressive Chilean subsidiary won this award for the Balance category; 2nd place Santander seventh time in a row, which was also Aggressive Private Banking, Executive series, awarded to Argentina, Mexico, Portugal and Aggressive Balance category and 2nd place Spain, as well as at a Latin American level. Santander Chilean Shares, Executive Series, National Shareholder Large CAP category. Also, in the APV category, it achieved 1st place Santander Shares Emerging Asia, Shareholder Emerging Asia category, and 2nd place Santander Select Dynamic, Aggressive Balance category. SANTANDER AMONG THE TOP FIVE OF MERCO COMPANIES BBanco Santander was again recognized by Merco Empresas, reaching fourth place in this ranking that measures the companies with the best corporate reputations. 06 ESG Rankings BEST CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BY SANTANDER CHILE IN THE DOW JONES CAPITAL FINANCE INTERNATIONAL SUSTAINABILITY INDEX MILA 2019 MAGAZINE (CFI) Banco Santander remained for the Banco Santander Chile received for the third consecutive year in the Dow Jones first time the award for Best Corporate Sustainability Index of Integrated Latin Governance, awarded by the English American markets (MILA), the first index magazine Capital Finance International (CFI). of the Pacific Alliance that measures the economic, social and environmental performance of Chilean, Peruvian, SANTANDER CHILE INTEGRATES THE Colombian and Mexican companies. DOW JONES SUSTAINABILITY INDEX (DJSI) Once more, Banco Santander Chile is part of BANCO SANTANDER INTEGRATES THE SANTANDER CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DJSI Chile 2019, moreover ranking first in the FTSE4GOOD INDEX AMONG THE BEST IN THE COUNTRY local ranking among the banks that belong Santander Chile managed to position For the second consecutive year, Santander to this global benchmark in regards to itself as one of 19 companies in Chile to Chile’s corporate governance was recognised sustainable performance issues. During the be part of the stock index FTSE4Good as one of the top three in the country, year, Santander Group was featured on this Emerging Markets and Latin America, according to La Voz del Mercado study, an same index as the most sustainable bank in thereby demonstrating its leadership in evaluation carried out by EY, in conjunction the world. environmental, social and governance with the Santiago Stock Exchange and the matters. The FTSE4Good Index Series, which Institute of Directors of Chile. consists of a series of stock indices of the London Stock Exchange, is a tool to measure the performance of companies in this area according to recognised global standards. Annual Report 2019 07 Human Resources Awards SANTANDER IS RECOGNISED IN THE C3 RANKING OF CREATIVITY AND INNOVATION Santander Chile was awarded again in the C3 Ranking of Creativity and Innovation developed by Brinca Global and the Universidad del Desarrollo, which recognises companies that promote an open innovation climate and culture in their organisations, directly impacting the development of the country. On this occasion, Santander won third place among large companies, climbing one place compared to last year. BEST PLACE TO INNOVATE For the fourth consecutive year, Santander stood out among the companies that best manage innovation in Chile, according BANCO SANTANDER RECEIVES TOP to the Best Place to Innovate Ranking, EMPLOYER SEAL which identified the most innovative Banco Santander received, for companies in the country. Santander the second consecutive year, the was the only bank included in the 2019 Top Employer certification, which ranking, which this time contemplated recognises the companies with the best a 360-degree evaluation, incorporating conditions for the development of their senior executives, collaborators, suppliers employees globally, both personally and customers. and professionally, and which have the highest standards in the value TOP 3 IN GREAT PLACE TO proposition for them and that promote a WORK favourable internal climate. Santander was again recognised by Great Place to Work among the best companies to work in Chile, ranking third in the category of institutions with more than a thousand employees. 08 The efforts made by Banco Santander to innovate and maintain its leadership position in term of financial, labour and Responsible Banking have been recognized nationally and internationally. SANTANDER, BEST EMPLOYER FOR YOUNG PROFESSIONALS Banco Santander Chile was recognised as the best employer for young professionals in the financial industry in the country, and sixth in the general ranking of the survey Employers for Youth (EFY), by Firstjob jointly with the Adecco Group. The assessment considered various attributes, such as career development, benefits granted, work environment and organisational culture. MERCO TALENTO: SANTANDER AMONG THE BEST COMPANIES TO WORK IN CHILE Banco Santander managed to position itself in fourth place in the 2019 version of the Merco Talento ranking, a leading monitor in Latin America that evaluates the corporate reputation among companies that attract and retain the best professionals in the country. The methodology used consists of 360° surveys that include five evaluation perspectives: management, current workers, potential workers, society and experts. Annual Report 2019 09 GRI[102-14] Letter from the Chairman of the Board and Country Head Claudio Melandri Hinojosa Dear shareholders, with great pleasure I present the Annual Report and the Results for the year 2019 of Banco Santander Chile, which not only allows you to see the outstanding financial performance recorded during the year, but also appreciate how we have positioned ourselves as a responsible bank that creates value for all its stakeholders while pushing the boundaries of innovation and competition within the domestic financial system. In fact, as you will see throughout this comprehensive report, we launched a wide range of initiatives during 2019 that allowed us to conclude the year not only as a highly profitable bank but also as the most sustainable one in the Chilean banking market, as evidenced by the demanding Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI). In that regard, I would like to emphasize that during this period, all our business areas operated in an orchestrated manner, innovating and making an essential contribution to the Bank’s results. Thanks to this, last year we closed with a generation of profits attributable to equity holders of $552,093 million and a return (ROAE) of 16.7%. Meanwhile, our efficiency ratio continued to show world-class standards, concluding the year at 40%. Standing out within this year’s performance is how our operation consolidated a 7.7% year-on-year increase in the volume of deposits and an 8.1% increase in the loan portfolio by the end of 2019, where the loans to individuals were recorded as the loan segment with the highest growth rate, in part influenced by the incorporation of 10 I would like to emphasize that during this period, all our business areas operated in an orchestrated manner, innovating and making an important contribution to the Bank’s results. Santander Consumer in November, after challenges, as implied by the stance below the 2.5% growth expected before the obtaining all the regulatory approvals. assumed by our political and legislative social crisis. representatives, cannot dismantle all the In this way, the view with which we value The business climate and the confidence of good we have built in recent decades, but 2019 and, above all, the challenges lying companies and people have failed to pick should be understood instead as an effort to ahead for us as an institution concerning up. This, in tandem with uncertainty at a expand this great house that is Chile, to give the social events recorded in the last half of political level, sets a scene that could affect a better welcome to all our compatriots. the year, particularly after the turning point household spending decisions and new experienced on October 18, a date that has As a bank, we approach this new scenario investments. Added to this is the impact of modified the analysis of scenario mapping not only with a more extensive and inthe coronavirus, whose first global case was for all sectors of activity. depth scenario analysis, but with tangible reported at the end of 2019. The spread and contingent actions that have always of this virus from China has threatened Indeed, during the last three months of prioritized maintaining the highest quality global trade since its inception and could 2019, the political, economic and social standards, the greatest availability of our significantly undermine the growth not landscape was profoundly and unexpectedly face-to-face and digital services and a very only of China, our leading trading partner, shaken by a series of events that have high care for the integrity of our clients and but of a big part of the world’s economies. disrupted everyone’s agendas. In this collaborators. With this, the external sector of our country sequence of events, what has surprised could suffer, putting additional pressure on the most are the acts of violence that In terms of the economy, during 2019 our economic governance. Added to this are have affected the country, especially country’s activity suffered the effects of the direct effects on our economy due to the destruction of infrastructure, public various circumstances, such as the trade war the spread of the virus and containment transport services and facilities belonging between China and the United States, the measures, which at this point are difficult to to companies and entrepreneurs, with the global slowdown and, in the last quarter, quantify. consequent economic and social damage to the impact of the aforementioned social tens of thousands of Chileans. upheaval. In the year we saw a significant In this context of multiple disruptive rebound in investment, supported by large situations, Chilean assets have depreciated. In this regard, we believe it is urgent and projects in mining, infrastructure and In parallel, the exchange rate has necessary to call upon all social actors to energy. Until the third quarter, the economy depreciated quite substantially since value and care for the capacity of dialogue had been accelerating, although at a lesser November, while long-term interest rates displayed within the last 30 years, which has rate than expected at the beginning of the have tended to rise, and the stock market allowed us to achieve remarkable economic, year, which was halted suddenly by the has retreated significantly. This is why, political and social accomplishments social crisis triggered in October. understanding that any forecast at this stage as a country. A dialogue that has been will likely be subject to new revisions, our responsible not only in form but also in Indeed, activity suffered an unprecedented estimate is that Chile will have minimal substance, in the sense that the construction contraction of more than 5% during October expansion in 2020 and a recession cannot of our destiny has always been achieved in due to the physical disruption of several be ruled out, with most of the risks on the a fiscal and institutionally responsible way, activities. Moreover, although the situation downside. By 2021, the economy should bearing in mind that the excellent intention was returning to normalcy during November gradually recover to its trend. to address the problems of the present and December and even though the should not end up mortgaging the future. economy partially regained its dynamism, A global look at the main milestones Accelerating the pace to meet remaining 2019 concluded with a 1.1% growth, well shaping the scenario in which we operated Annual Report 2019 11 in 2019 cannot fail to address the legal and regulatory domain. Undoubtedly in this The initiative, announced in August 2019, was filed by the Chamber of Deputies during We devoted regard, the most relevant aspect relates to the publication of Law 21,130 on January September, and seeks, in the words of the then Minister of Finance, to reduce the costs a great deal 12, 2019, which modernizes the Banking Law. As is well known, this legal change and time taken when changing from one financial service provider to another. of energy is the most significant of the last 30 years, two of its most fundamental elements As I mentioned at the beginning of this letter, we devoted a great deal of energy into achieving two major being the incorporation of new capital and into achieving two major objectives during reserve requirements, in line with those 2019. First, we have sought to strengthen objectives established by the Basel III Committee; the work already being undertaken for years and the identification of early intervention in the area of responsible banking and to during 2019. mechanisms for banks in the event of multiply our efforts to move the boundaries insolvency and crisis management. of innovation and competition within the At the same time, the Banking Law’s reform updated the concept of corporate banking sector, either by consolidating all successful bets of recent years as well as First, we have governance. It modified the structure and some powers of the banking regulator, deploying new initiatives. sought to the most relevant being the transfer of all the powers of the Superintendence of Regarding responsible banking, I must indicate our strategy has a clear direction: strengthen Banks and Financial Institutions (SBIF) to the Financial Market Commission (FMC), a to tackle the enormous challenges we have in terms of the new business environment the work milestone recorded in the calendar on June 1, 2019. and an inclusive and sustainable growth, in order to forge strong loyalty links with already being The year 2019 concluded with a number of our collaborators, clients, investors and the community as a whole. This work that has undertaken for years in other significant policy changes determined taken years saw a substantial milestone and/or in development. Such is the case last September, when as Santander Group the area of of Law 21,167, which regulated payment we formally adhered to the Responsible forms for current account overdrafts, Banking Principles in the United Nations, responsible published on July 18 of that year to take identifying a wide range of areas where effect on January 2, 2020. This single we committed ourselves to fulfil concrete banking and article law provided automatic payment of objectives. a customer’s line of credit once sufficient In the case of Santander Chile, this vocation to multiply funds have entered their current account, is reflected by the highly professional along with offering the customer to change management we have undertaken our efforts this form of payment freely and at any time. concerning ESG (Environmental, Social Other legal reforms relevant to our sector and Governance) risks, as well as the very that were published or that took effect during 2019 are Law 21,163 that amended active connection we have maintained with society through our historical alliances to move the the rules of Law 19,913 that created the Financial Analysis Unit (UAF), to make it with Techo Chile and Belén Educa. In this domain, adoption of the best practices for boundaries of adhere to the new UN standards; and Law 21,081 that took effect during March 2019 our value offer to clients and co-workers has been, is and will continue to be the key innovation and and which amended the Law on Consumer Rights, giving additional powers of lever driving the Bank’s sustainability. In fact, we are already the leading bank within the competition supervision to Sernac (National Consumers Bureau). domestic financial system, according to the latest report from Dow Jones Sustainability within the Finally, and presented as another relevant Index (DJSI), where we have a presence in the Chile and MILA rankings. banking sector. issue at a regulatory level, it is worth mentioning the entry of the draft bill on Being a Responsible Bank is something financial portability into legal discussion. that is furthermore expressed in terms of 12 stamps of quality and recognitions achieved and that we had the opportunity to trigger support for entrepreneurship and catalyst during 2019. Indeed, our bank achieved for a change that would open the market to for innovation. We closed the year with 53 the second consecutive year the demanding greater competition and better price/quality Work/Café offices and specifically model Top Employer certificate and advanced to standards. replicated among the main worldwide the third position in the Great Place to Work regions where the Group operates. Chile (GPTW) ranking for companies with This is how we can inform you with great satisfaction that last year we not only Fellow Shareholders, 2020 will be a over 1,000 employees. successfully migrated our entire fleet of challenging and demanding year. It will be Additionally, Santander Chile was again credit and debit cards to the four-part challenging for the country and, certainly recognized as the Best Bank of the country model but also by year-end the pilot of our for our bank as well. However, as you will by the prestigious global publications acquisition network, Getnet, was launched. have appreciated above, today we have a The Banker, Euromoney and LatinFinance stable company, very prepared and that in 2019; It also positioned itself again Our expectation is that the electronic for years has been laying the foundations as one of three companies with the best payment market will increase by several of a strategy capable of responding in the corporate governance in the local market, times, which implies thousands and best way to the challenges. Our innovative as credited by La Voz del Mercado award, thousands of entrepreneurs will have access vocation, our eagerness to lead in markets bestowed by EY and the Stock Exchange. to POS devices and millions of Chileans with where competition is the norm and our In terms of reputation and recognition, we new financial alternatives to manage their long-standing vision of being a Responsible solidified the leadership positions already resources, where we will spare no effort to Bank are the letters of introduction with achieved in Merco Empresas (4th place) and offer highly innovative and convenient value which we enter 2020 and that allow me to attained the first place in the Bank Rep Lab proposals, such as Superdigital, that we have the confidence that we will continue to of Villañafe & Asociados, which assesses piloted during the second half of 2019. be leaders and the best bank in the country. the reputation of local banks with a highly Other significant milestones of the year in expert panel. the commercial field were the seven years Furthermore, I do not wish to forego renewal of our successful partnership with mentioning the outstanding results Latam, with the incorporation of a wide obtained by Santander Chile in its ESG rating range of improved related benefits for our by Vigeo Eiris. With a significant increase of customers; the launch of new value offer 20 points over the previous measurement, under the Life umbrella, such as the Life we positioned ourselves as the fourth-best Account, the Life Latam card, and the highly bank classified in emerging markets and valued initiative Compensa tu Huella (Offset the eighth-best bank in the world under your carbon footprint), through which retail and specialised banks; a qualification we are not only helping raise awareness validated by the A grade we achieved in the regarding the urgent dilemma of climate 2019 MSCI ESG Ratings. This, of course, has change, but we are providing alternatives gone hand in hand with the display of an so that our customers can perform specific increasing green financing offer in the local actions in that direction, alongside what we market, where the release of the first ESG are doing as a bank. Linked Loan to Acciona stands out, which Of great transcendence during 2019 was ties the financing cost to the company’s ESG our consistent work in terms of customer performance. satisfaction, where our commitment is to Last year we spared no effort to evolve the be the number one bank within the local paradigms of banking. Undoubtedly, the financial system, as we indeed achieved most emblematic case is the revolution that specifically towards the end of the year. we ignited within the business model of the Today, with the NPS (Net Promoter Score) country’s payment system. measurement underway, we have drawn up a navigation chart that I am sure will deliver In this regard, our vision is clear, and results very soon. our decision to keep moving forward is unwavering. We diagnose that the local The Work/Café, additionally, has lived a year payment market had lagged behind, that the of international consolidation during 2019, supply of value available to individuals and while continuing to remain one of our most businesses was insufficient and inadequate, powerful drivers of customer satisfaction, Annual Report 2019 13 GRI[102-14] Letter from the Chief Executive Officer During the year the high adaptability and innovation of our teams was evident, who took forward the task of consolidating our leadership position in the country. Dear shareholders, despite a challenging expansions of Banca Select, Santander Life the most outstanding being the Meritolife internal and external environment, 2019 and the incorporation of our new subsidiary Program. As customers meet their financial was an excellent year for Banco Santander Santander Consumer Chile, dedicated to the obligations on time, they accumulate Chile, where we achieved significant financing of automotive loans. 2019 also “Merits” that allow them to access exclusive progress on several fronts. During the year witnessed a record number of mortgage benefits such as more interest-free the high adaptability and innovation of our loans that increased by 11% during the year. instalments, interest rate discounts, or teams was evident, who took forward the Finally, commercial loans rose by 4.4%, with flexibility in payments of instalment. task of consolidating our leadership position a significant contribution from the SME and Due to the great success of this program, in the country not only in financial terms but Middle-market segments, which both grew in 2019 we launched three more products also in terms of quality of service, digital by over 5%. in the Life ecosystem: (i) The Life Account, experience and sustainability. This sharp increase in assets was which consists of a debit card that does not In this period, profits attributable to the accompanied by a remarkable year for the charge for transactions and that enables Bank’s equity holders reached $552,093 Bank’s total deposits (demand deposits the accumulation of Merits. This has proven million, 6.7% less than in 2018. The plus time deposits) with a 7.7% increase, to be a powerful tool for inclusion and decrease in the results was mainly caused led by a 17.8% growth of demand deposits. empowerment considering that about 25% by the increase of credit risk provisions, Moreover, the average cost of our term of Life Account customers had no access to which rose by 29.3% during the year due deposits in non-readjustable Pesos -which formal banking, and approximately 42% to two factors: (i) extraordinary provisions represent our largest source of financingfell had only limited access to a bank; (ii) Life of $31 billion produced by the credit risk to 2.7% during 2019, reaching the lowest Savings, which allows the customer to model change for the commercial portfolio record of this financing source among our develop a scheduled savings program that analysed as on a group basis, which primary competitors. also contemplates the accumulation of includes mostly the SME portfolio, and (ii) Merits and (iii) Life LatamPass credit card, an additional provision of $16 billion for the The period under review was also one of which is associated with the MeritoLife consumer portfolio, the amount recognized the best years in attracting new customers program, and which also allows the during the last quarter of the year. Excluding and opening accounts. According to the accumulation of LatamPass miles. Life’s total these two effects, our adjusted income latest figures published by the FMC, of all customers reached more than 136,800 at would have reached $ 586,403 million, current accounts opened in 2019, 27% the end of the period, three times higher 0.9% less than the previous year. The ROE corresponded to Banco Santander, which than the previous year and with a total loan adjusted for these factors amounted to allowed us to exceed for the first time 1 amount of more than $ 43 billion. 17.8%. million current accounts. During 2019 we also undertook the This positive result was driven by the 5.6% The constant innovation and technological soft-launch of our 100% digital offer, growth of the operating income, which development which we are committed to Superdigital, available through the app reached a record level of $ 1,910,956 million have resulted in key initiatives to improve stores and with which we have already during 2019, which in turn was the product our customers’ experience. In that line, one exceeded 80 thousand downloads. It is a of the excellent business year the Bank had, of our strongest value offerings is Santander low-cost product that enables millions of with an 8.1% growth of its loans. Among the Life, an initiative that is taking hold as a people in the country to link a payment most outstanding products were consumer new way to interact with the community method to their cell phone to make loans that rose by 13.6%, due to the robust through a generation of digital products purchases in all types of commerce, that rewards positive credit behaviour, with 14 Miguel Mata Huerta including digital platforms such as Netflix, Spotify, Uber, etc. In addition, it allows customers to receive their salary directly into their account. All these efforts have resulted not only in a higher number of new customers but also in increased loyalty with old customers. Precisely, total loyal customers (defined as customers with several products in the Bank and a minimum level of profitability) increased by 4.3%, with an increase of 6.9% among high-income clients, while loyal customers within SMEs and Middle-market companies rose 5.3%. Our ability to innovate in digital banking was also reflected in the total number of digital customers of Santander Chile (who access their web accounts using their password) that grew by 13% during 2019, totalling 1,216,360. This data is a true reflection of the significant advances in quality and innovation that the Bank has made in recent years, framed in the cultural transformation program that we have been implementing and supported by a customer-focused strategy, with the seal of our Simple, Personal and Fair style. Today the Bank’s qualitative goals represent between 15% -20% of the individual goals of each collaborator, thus creating a virtuous cycle between our strategic objectives and the needs of our customers. During the year, we also perfected the ways to measure our customers’ satisfaction, aiming to improve the number of variables observed, as well as the overall scope of the survey. Each semester, an external and independent entity of the Bank interviews about 60 thousand of our clients and 1,200 Annual Report 2019 15 of each relevant competitor. These are done brands (Visa, Mastercard, American Express) CO2 were compensated through carbon via the internet and telephone, and rate determine the associated exchange rates credits. Customers also contributed to a satisfaction with banks concerning three and not Transbank. In addition, we have foundation for a project in a national park main aspects: quality of service, quality been developing our own acquisition near Coquimbo, and within a month had of the product and of the brand image. business under the brand Santander Getnet, already reached 20% of the total funding for These aspects are measured through where already, towards the end of 2019, we this project. net recommendation or Net Promoter made the first transaction in a POS Getnet I also want to highlight the great year we Score (NPS) and net satisfaction. This new in a Work/Café. Our vision is to multiply have experienced in regards to Middle methodology reaches a broader and more the breadth of electronic payments and to Market and Corporate and Investment diverse sample, given that 85% of surveys decrease cash payments through a massive Banking (CIB). Both segments recorded are conducted online, where rating tends to and secure system. We believe that we will strong growth in their activities and be harsher due to the process being more be able to offer companies not only a fairer revenues, with Transactional Banking and impersonal. Additionally, these surveys transaction fee, but also better technology, Treasury standing out. Operating income are audited to guarantee there is no bias in products and benefits, and alliances for these two areas increased by 11.8% in terms of customer selection or questions. exclusive to the commerce. 2019, reaching a record level of $576,495 In 2018 there was a gap of 10 percentage Klare, the first 100% digital insurance million. This increase was mainly generated points between us and the Top 1 in the broker in Chile, is another project developed by low-risk non-credit activities with little Net Promoter Score, while in Net Global and announced during 2019 and that use of capital. This is even more meritorious Satisfaction there were 11 percentage will be fully operational in 2020. It meets because it was achieved in an environment points. During 2019 we improved and our customers’ demand to have an open of weak investment growth, demonstrating closed this distance with our main platform where they can compare and buy the adaptability of our team and its high contender, reaching a gap of only 1 point transparently different insurance offers. synchronicity to the needs of our company in Net Promoter Score and 3 points in Net In just four steps, customers will receive a clients. Global Satisfaction. 100% personalized offer with the insured In terms of efficiency and productivity, the 2019 was also a year of changes in amount, coverage description and other results were equally positive. Santander terms of the country’s payment system. services. Contextualizing, since 2015, operations Chile has always stood out for these with Bank credit cards in Chile had increased Another important initiative in 2019 was qualities, not only when compared to by 30% yearly on average, while those our foray into the automotive financing local banks but also internationally. The with debit cards had increased by 22%. At business. In November, we acquired 51% significant growth in income plus an Banco Santander, we have been active in of Santander Consumer Chile S.A., one of increase of only 3.9% in support costs led the service of these products in expansion, the leading companies in the field, worth again to an efficiency ratio (support costs with a market share of 25% in the number $62,136 million. Santander Consumer over operating income) of 40%. Other of transactions, 26% in the total monetary Chile’s portfolio amounts to $451,000 productivity indicators, such as turnover amount of debit card transactions, and 24% million in loans, mainly consumer loans, and (loans plus deposits) by branch and turnover and 25%, respectively, for credit cards, thus has the second-largest car loan portfolio on employees increased by 11.3% and positioning ourselves as industry leaders in in thecountry, financing approximately 30 7.6%, respectively. These efficiency levels regards to both products. Notwithstanding, thousand vehicles per year. This company were achieved even though the Bank and according to our estimates, only 35% of has a ROE of about 20%. continues to implement one of the most retail stores currently have POS access. For extensive investment plans in its history, Continuing with the year’s highlights, in the which includes a total amount of US$390 the same reason, and considering our strong fourth quarter, we launched our first ecomillion in the 2019-2021 period. market position within the Chilean payment friendly product for retail customers, who system, we concluded that it was time to can offset their monthly carbon footprint These productivity gains were achieved open up the acquiring market and to change through our website and APP. The Bank, with by improving our social responsibility and our credit and debit card stock to a fourthe help of external consultants, calculates sustainability standards. Banco Santander part model similar to that existing in much a customer’s carbon footprint based on their Chile has more than 11,200 employees, of the world. Thus, at the end of 2018, we monthly expenses. The amount of carbon 54% of whom are women, and 75% who announced our intention to terminate our used can be offset by buying, on the Bank’s are members of a labour union. In addition, agreement with Transbank. website or APP, carbon bonds, or by donating the Bank has one of the best programs of The next step was taken in April 2019, when to a green project within Chile. This initiative labour benefits in the country, among which we began the successful transition to the was launched at the end of November I highlight two topics that acquire particular new payment model, whereby international and during December alone 312 tonnes of relevance today: our working week already 16 contemplates approximately 40 hours, to cyber-attacks and fraud. To address this Reporting Initiative (GRI) to adequately and our minimum wage agreed with most threat, Santander has had Cybersecurity account for the Bank’s economic, social and unions is $760,000/monthly, 2.5 times Management in our Technology and environmental performance. Moreover, it above the legal minimum. Operations Division for the past five years. constitutes our Communication of Progress Furthermore, the Risk Division contains a with Global Compact, an initiative we have We also continue to reduce our impact unit dedicated to controlling and monitoring adhered to since 2003. on the environment, achieving further cyber risk. During the period, the Bank spent decreases in paper consumption, electricity, I would like to thank the Board of Directors more than $13,000 million on cybersecurity. e-waste and carbon footprint. Our and all stakeholders for their trust in this commitment from now until 2021 is to The most significant milestone in terms of Bank and its people. The effort made in promote a culture of less waste and more banking regulation was the promulgation recent years is paying off. This became clear recycling within the organization, intending of the new Banking Law in January 2019, during 2019, in an environment that became to reduce electricity and paper by 7% and which determined the transition of Chilean suddenly clouded, and where we were able 15%, respectively, and the carbon footprint banking to the new capital standards under to demonstrate our capacity for innovation, by 5%. BIS III rules. In that sense, we believe we anticipation and flexibility, which allowed are well advanced in its implementation us to achieve most of our goals, reaffirming All this has been achieved through by being part of Santander Group, which our commitment to creating value for our healthy risk management, with advanced mandates us to report our assets and risks shareholders, customers, collaborators, management in our credit risk systems under the European Central Bank’s BIS III suppliers and society as a whole. despite the lower economic growth. The standards. During the year, the FMC began non-performing portfolio ratio of total loans Kind regards. publishing the new models and risk weights concluded the year at 2.1%, the same figure to complete this process by the end of 2020. as in 2018. The impaired portfolio index on total loans also concluded steadily at 5.9% Meanwhile, we continue to monitor our compared to 2018, with an improvement capital level, in line with current standards. in consumer loans from 5.6% to 5.1%. At the end of 2019, our core capital indicator This is a reflection of the consumer credit or the equity of our shareholders divided admission policy focused on growing mainly by risk-weighted assets was 10.1%. Our in the middle and high segments, making total Basel ratio, which includes the Bank’s us become the bank with the best risk subordinated bonds, reached 12.9%. This indicators in the consumer credit business substantial level of capital was achieved among our main competitors. Finally, despite the high growth of the assets coverage, measured as on-balance sheet affected by the sharp depreciation of provisions on the non-performing portfolio, the Peso during the year, which reflects reached 133.0% at the end of 2019, the advanced systems of capital control compared to 126.1% in 2018. and optimization that our institution has implemented. In terms of market risk, particular emphasis was placed on liquidity risk, which allowed Concerning the stock market, the trade the Bank to navigate through the most war between China and the US combined intense period of protests and strikes with social events in the country negatively without shocks. Our liquidity coverage ratio impacted the local market. As a result, the (LCR), which measures the ratio between Chilean banking sector also had weaker high-quality liquid assets (HQLA) and needs performance throughout the year. However, in a 30-day liquidity problem scenario, among our relevant competitors, we closed the year at 143%, more than double accomplished the best performance, with a that required by the current local standard. total return, including dividends of -13.6%. We concluded the year with the greatest In 2019 we also focused on non-financial market value and the best price/value to risks, with cybersecurity and business book ratio among Chilean banks of 2.4 continuity being a central issue. While times. digital banking offers many advantages for our customers and the Bank, it also As in the previous year, our Annual Report increases the possibilities of being subject complies with the guidelines of the Global Annual Report 2019 17 2 Responsible Banking Our Our Purpose Mission To help people To be the best bank, by acting and businesses responsibly and earning the loyalty prosper. of our customers, shareholders, people and communities. Our Our Style Seal Simple, Personal and Fair (SPF). Excellence in execution. 18 Santander: A Responsible Bank Santander Culture Banco Santander has experienced a long Our corporate behaviours to be more SPF: process of cultural transformation that began in 2015, which has allowed the development of different initiatives that have contributed to the progress of people and companies in a simple, personal and fair way. Since 2019, the Bank has focused on the permanent management of culture as part of its DNA and signature way to do its Show Truly Talk work, creating transformations to achieve respect listen straight its business goals and the satisfaction of its collaborators, customers, shareholders and society. Simple is to offer our customers products that are easy to understand while being agile and responsive to their needs. To do this, Santander needs its systems and Keep Actively Bring processes to be easy to operate, which promises collaborate passion allows its employees to deliver clear answers with the flexibility that customers require. Personal is to have differentiated models of care, offering each customer a service tailored to their individual needs. It is also a commitment to the Bank’s collaborators to Support Embrace develop their full potential and achieve their people change objectives. Fair is playing righteously, respecting and enforcing the rules. It is fair play. Santander must be transparent in its relations with others and keep its promises, contributing to the community. In short, we must treat Santander has the mission to others as we would like to be treated. be the best bank, by acting In line with the above, Santander has the mission to be the best bank, by acting responsibly and gaining the loyalty of all its stakeholders, hand in responsibly and gaining the loyalty of all its stakeholders, hand in hand with our SPF hand with our SPF corporate corporate behaviours. behaviours. Annual Report 2019 19 GRI [102-16] Policies and principles Banco Santander Chile develops its business This document is available in the practices that allows minimizing the in compliance with both national and regulation portal on the Bank’s corporate probability and impact of those criminal international current legal regulations Intranet page, in each contributor’s virtual risks that could be considered linked to governing the banking activity. Furthermore, folder, and on the website santander. the Bank’s ordinary activity, according to it has an internal regulatory framework of cl. All collaborators, new and current, the crimes described in Law No. 20,393 policies and principles that guide the action are committed to reading the Code of on the criminal liability of legal persons. of all the company’s employees conforming Conduct, accepting it and signing it. to its purpose, vision and culture. • Reputational Risk Model • Corporate Culture Policy A document that establishes the This framework, consisting of documents It establishes mandatory monitoring principles to prevent, manage and prepared by the Group and approved by rules and guidelines that ensure the control reputational risks, identifying the respective local governance bodies, is formation and anchorage of a solid key processes, assigning roles and sent to Santander Chile to be adapted to the corporate culture in Santander Group responsibilities and establishing local reality and implemented. Likewise, and all its subsidiaries, and which has the framework of practices that the each subsidiary also develops internal as its cornerstone the development of a Santander Group implements for its policies that are approved by the local Simple, Personal and Fair (SPF) work. management. While reputational corporate governance. All these guidelines, risk management is the responsibility in addition to current legislation, ensure • General Sustainability Policy of all employees, per the principles the development of ethical and responsible It defines the general principles of of good conduct and SPF corporate behavior in all areas of the Bank’s activity. sustainability of Banco Santander Chile values, compliance management and the commitments voluntarily ensures effective risk control, proper Key policies and regulations include the undertaken to create long-term value for management and application of the following: all the Bank’s stakeholders. model and the various reputational risk • General code of conduct policies. • Climate change policy and It is the central element of the environmental management • Cybersecurity Corporate Framework organization’s compliance program. This It details the criteria of Santander It is a body of related policies that document brings together the ethical Bank relating to the set of initiatives establishes the principles to which principles and standards of conduct that that advocate the protection of the Santander Group and its subsidiaries must govern the actions of all the Group’s environment, the mitigation of the adhere to manage cybersecurity, defining collaborators, promoting professional, effects of climate change and the key roles, responsibilities and processes just, impartial and honest conduct. reduction of the impact derived from the for the protection of systems, information It addresses the principles of equal activities of the organization, taking into and customers of the Bank. This opportunities and non-discrimination, account the best international practices. framework supports the identification respect for people, a balance between private and professional life, prevention • Stock Markets Code of Conduct and correction of cyber risks; the of occupational risks, protection of the A body of regulations aimed at development of a cybersecurity culture; environment, social and ecological preventing conflicts of interest and the promotes education on the subject and responsibilities, and collective rights. use of privileged information for people compliance with the national regulatory Among the primary regulations are working in key areas within the Bank. framework in this area, among others. the compliance to general and internal • Corruption Prevention Policy Compliance Management and the rules, ethical behavior, non-competition, A document that substantiates the firm Human Resources Division are the areas responsibility, commitment to the Group, commitment of Santander Group to the responsible for managing the values, and prevention of collusion. It also fight against any form of corruption. The principles and standards of conduct of the describes patterns of conduct for various policy details the elements that the Bank organization; collaborators can approach specific situations around conflicts of must comply with in terms of preventing the Management to resolve their doubts or interest, control of information and corruption and bribery, per the provisions queries regarding any of these documents. confidentiality, external relations and with authorities, prevention of money of the Corporate Model of Corporate laundering and terrorist financing, among Defense of the Santander Group. This others. corresponds to the framework of ethical 20 Sustainability model Banco Santander understands sustainability Santander’s sustainability approach: as the ability to adapt to new demands using creativity and innovation as tools • Is an inherent part of the Bank’s business through robust corporate governance. and its corporate culture. This, to facilitate economic and social • Manifests itself at a national level. progress, and at the same time, mitigate the environmental impact of the Bank. • Is reflected in products, services and business management. This approach falls within the context of Responsible Banking and aims at the • Is reflected in the Bank’s individual, mass, creation of long-term value, as well as the and digital communication. management of social and environmental risks that undermine sustainability. It is also one of the essential inputs that the Bank has to achieve its purpose and mission. GRI [102-40][102-21][102-42] Interest groups and materiality People are the core of the purpose and and social areas of the institution through vision of Banco Santander, whether as a materiality analysis carried out by an collaborators, customers, shareholders, external consultant. This topic map is a suppliers or as part of the community. To valuable input for the Bank’s management better manage their business and meet and sustainability strategy and was used to the needs of people related to the Bank, develop the contents of this report. In this the organization seeks to identify all of its way, Santander makes sure to address the stakeholders and to build with them a longissues that are most relevant and that have term relationship based on trust and loyalty. the most impact on the management of its business. (For more information about the Banco Santander Chile managed to identify materiality process, please refer to Section 6 the most relevant topics for each interest “About This Report”.) group in the economic, environmental Annual Report 2019 21 Interest groups of Banco Santander Chile Interest group Subgroup Key topics and concerns raised Shareholders Financial rating agencies • Corporate governance and investors Shareholders • Ethical behavior • Risk management Investors • Regulatory adaptation and contribution to the public debate • Sustainability of results Customers Individual clients • Cybersecurity and data protection SME clients • Digital transformation • Customer satisfaction Corporate clients • Products and transparency Institutional clients Collaborators Management and senior management • Strong and committed internal culture Managers, sub-managers and supervisors • Diversity • Attraction and retention of talent Permanent technical and administrative staff Unions Contractors Contractors (external staff) • Diversity • Attraction and retention of talent • Responsible vendor management Suppliers Technology providers • Diversity Information providers • Attraction and retention of talent • Responsible vendor management Corporate services agencies Public and International Ministries • Sustainable finances Organizations Congress • Indirect environmental impact • Internal environmental footprint International Organizations (e.g. IMF, OECD) Regulatory entities and Financial Market Commission FMC (ex• Products and transparency associations SBIF) • Corporate governance Sernac • Ethical behaviour • Risk management Conadecus / ODECU • Regulatory adaptation and contribution to the public debate • Sustainability of results Civil Society NGOs • Ethical behaviour Associations (e.g. ABIF) • Risk management • Regulatory adaptation and contribution to the Academia and think tanks public debate • Sustainability of results • Indirect environmental impact • Internal environmental footprint Media International media • Ethical behaviour Local media • Risk management • Regulatory adaptation and contribution to the Specialized press public debate Social Media • Sustainability of results Local communities Volunteering projects • Ethical behaviour Inhabitants around offices/branches • Regulatory adaptation and contribution to the public debate • Financial empowerment of people • Commitment to social progress and development 22 Materiality matrix GRI [102-46] [102-47] After a process of identification and analysis to adequately respond to each group and that involved the participation of those reflect the performance of the company, groups of interest most relevant to the so they will be addressed throughout this Bank, we obtained a list of material topics, document. that is, a list of the most critical economic The following matrix indicates the material (E), environmental (A) and social (S) issues, topics according to the importance of these both for stakeholders and for the business topics for interviewees. of Banco Santander. These topics were considered for the preparation of this report 4.0 E5. Cybersecurity and data protection IMPORTANCE FOR THE STAKEHOLDERS HIGH VERY HIGH S1. Strong and committed internal culture E7. Customer satisfaction E6. Digital transformation E8. Products and transparency S3. Attraction and retention of talent E2. Ethical behaviour MEDIUM E3. Risk management 3.5 S5. Commitment to social progress and E1 E2 E5 development A1 E6 E7 E1. Corporate governance E3 A3 S1 E9. Sustainability of results S5 S3 E8 A2. Indirect environmental impact E9 E4 S6 S2 S2. Diversity S4 A2 A1. Sustainable finances LOW 3.0 S6. Responsible supplier management S4. Financial empowerment of people A3. Internal environmental footprint E4. Regulatory adaptation and contribution to the public debate 2.5 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 IMPORTANCE FOR THE BUSINESS Annual Report 2019 23 Responsible Banking: Challenges Santander has a mission, a vision and a way of doing things that results in it being a responsible bank, which actively contributes to creating economic, environmental and social value for all its stakeholders. This is The six Responsible Banking Principles also expressed in Santander Group’s establish a global standard definition of public commitment to the principles what it means to be a Responsible Bank of Responsible Banking at the and are aligned with the UN Sustainable UNEP-FI, which means defining new Development Goals (SDGs) and the Paris challenges for the organization. Agreement on Climate Change. These are: During 2018, the financial initiative of the United Nations Environment Program (UNEP FI), along with 28 financial institutions including Alignment Impact Santander Group since 1992, Align the business strategy to Continue to increase the positive impacts developed the Responsible Banking be consistent with the needs of while reducing the negative impacts of Principles. It is the first global individuals and the objectives of the the organization’s activities, products and framework between the financial society. services. sector and UN Environment to incorporate sustainability into all areas of the banking business and thus contribute to sustainable and equitable economic and social development, while taking care of the environment. Customers Interested parties Work responsibly with clients to Consult, participate and collaborate Banco Santander aims to help encourage sustainable practices and proactively and responsibly with people and businesses prosper, a enable economic activities that create interested parties. concept that is closely linked to this shared success. initiative. Consequently, Santander Group signed its formal adherence to the six principles of Responsible Banking in September 2019, before the United Nations General Assembly. In doing so, Santander Group publicly expressed its firm conviction that accountability and Corporate governance and Transparency and responsibility transparency in the financial sector setting of goals To periodically review the implementation generate confidence, and thereby Rely on an effective corporate of these principles and to be transparent and the opportunity to create value for its governance and a responsible responsible for the positive and negative stakeholders and society at large. banking culture. impacts of the organization. 24 Given their adhesion, Santander delimits two major challenges: on the one hand, adapting to a new entrepreneurial or business environment and on the other, boosting and consolidating inclusive and sustainable growth. Challenge 1: New business Challenge 2: Inclusive and environment sustainable growth Banco Santander seeks to have a culture, Anchored to the mission of Banco Santander, governance, tools, and business practices this challenge contemplates two aspects that meet the expectations that groups of that are closely related: inclusive growth and interest have concerning the company. sustainable growth, which the institution seeks to promote and consolidate to To develop banking activity in a responsible facilitate the progress of all. way a solid and deep-rooted culture is required, one that allows meeting the new For Santander, it is essential to strike a demands of an increasingly changing and balance between economic growth, social competitive business environment, and that welfare and environmental care. Thus, an can, furthermore, foster trust and support inclusive and sustainable growth is part among shareholders, customers, employees of the Bank’s effort to fulfil its purpose of and society in general. Santander gathered contributing to society. all these aspects in the work culture and summarized them in three words: Simple, Inclusive growth, as Santander understands Personal and Fair. it, is to go beyond meeting the needs of customers, and to always strive to help This culture is reflected in the leadership entrepreneurs create businesses and jobs, and behaviour of the Bank’s collaborators, to strengthen local economies, to promote and in their willingness to find new ways financial inclusion, to contribute to the of working. It is also transferred to the education of people as a lever of individual experience of customers, who encounter and collective progress and to develop social a simple, personal and fair way to interact investment programs. with Santander and meet their banking needs. Likewise, this culture is embodied Also, sustainable growth seeks to contribute in responsible business practices, a risk to caring for the environmental and to culture based on integrity, and a long-term mitigate climate change, while promoting strategy designed to protect the interests of sustainable financing, contemplating the shareholders and the whole society. social and ecological risks and opportunities of the environment. Annual Report 2019 25 Responsible Banking Priorities Considering all this, Santander Group made 10 commitments in the form of Key Performance Indicators Top 10 best Women Women in Equitable (KPIs) to continue working companies to in the leadership wage on being a Responsible Bank. work Board positions gap The first four respond to the challenge of the new business environment, and the next to the challenge of inclusive and sustainable growth: Financially Green Use of electricity Single-use plastic empowered finance from renewable consumption sources in corporate buildings and branches Also, Santander Chile actively adhered to the global Scholarships, internships, and People assisted through commitments, establishing a way programs for entrepreneurs community support programs forward for each line of work, which is presented in the following chapters of this annual report. 26 Strategic pillars The implementation of the Responsible communicating how the Bank has managed Banking strategy addresses the following to create value for each of them. strategic cornerstones: Shareholders, These are presented with a statement of Customers, Collaborators, Society and intent and a series of performance indicators Excellence in execution. The following to assess the year-to-year evolution and the chapters in Banco Santander’s 2019 Report achievement of the defined goal, as shown are structured around these five pillars, in the following table: Declaration Key metrics Results 2018 Results 2019 Customers “We want to be the best bank Satisfaction index Top 2 Top 2 for customers, leading in digital excellence and experience, earning Satisfaction Index 100% their loyalty.” Digital clients 120% Digital sales 106% Collaborators “We want to be the best major Talent identification 110% 100% company to work in Chile, attracting and developing talent, committed to Great Place to Work 5 in general ranking 3 in companies our SPF culture.” and 1 in companies with more than with more than 1,000 employees 5,000 employees Shareholders “We want to be the most profitable ROE 19.2% 16.7% and sustainable bank, with strong levels of capital, attractive dividends Solvency 10.6% 10.13% and optimal risk management.” Society “We want to be recognized as a People helped by the Not applicable* 68,944 responsible bank that contributes to organization society.” Financial Empowerment Not applicable* 200,358 persons Excellence in execution “We want everything we Self-generated complaints -4.5% -13.9% do to carry a seal of excellence in execution”. Paperless -16.3% -27% * During 2019 other metrics were used for the strategic pillar “Society”. Annual Report 2019 27 Responsible Banking and Sustainability Government Santander has a particular governance Santander Chile. This committee seeks to structure in terms of responsible banking promote and integrate the challenges of and sustainability, both at a corporate being a Responsible Bank, discussing the and at a local level, which eases the implementation of the general lines, which implementation of these aspects in all are to have an appropriate culture and business and support areas within the Bank, to promote an inclusive and sustainable in each of the countries it operates. growth, as well as monitoring the social and environmental projects of the Bank. During 2019, Santander Chile made a series of innovations concerning the The Sustainability General Policy was implementation of sustainability, to advance also updated, and the old Environmental the achievement of new challenges. Management Policy was transformed into Climate Change and Environmental The Responsible Banking, Sustainability Management Policy. Both are available on and Culture Committee was created the Bank’s website. in replacement of the Sustainability Committee, led by Miguel Mata, CEO of General Sustainability Policy specific sectoral policies for the analysis from the use of natural resources in its of the environmental and social risk daily management, and that it has indirect This document presents the general of the activities of clients operating in impacts through its banking and financial principles of reference in corporate social sensitive sectors, such as defence, energy, services. responsibility and in the management of metallurgical mining, and others. Santander social and environmental risks. It is based restricts its participation in certain activities, Based on this statement, the Bank is on the best international practices that exist which is subject to prior analysis of their committed to the protection of the in this area and on the guidelines issued by environmental and social impact. environment and mitigating the effects the Group, paying attention to the United of climate change to prevent or reduce Nations Sustainable Development Goals the pollution generated by its activities; (SDGs). to establish management mechanisms to Climate change measure the evolution of environmental Specifically, this policy provides the performance; and to promote awareness and environmental framework for the relationship that Banco among its stakeholders about Santander establishes with its employees, management policy environmental care, among others. customers, shareholders, community and In this document, which is covered by The policy establishes the Bank’s internal suppliers. It also refers to its commitment the Sustainability Policy aforementioned environmental management as well as the to Human Rights, responsible taxation, the and in the Group’s Climate Change and management that is carried out by banking environment and the Equator Principles. Environmental Management Policy, Banco and financial services, where the funding of Moreover, it should be noted that this Santander is recognized as a company with sustainable projects stands out, alongside document establishes the approval of direct impact on the environment arising social risk and environmental analysis 28 in credit, equity and funding operations, associations related to the field of with the aim to reconcile the commercial sustainability: performance of the Bank with social and environmental concerns. • Acción Empresas (Chilean chapter of the World Business Council for Sustainable The entire management of Banco Santander Development, WBCSD), since 2005 is aligned to a solid Corporate Governance • United Nations Global Compact, since that is expressed in principles and policies 2003 and a way of doing things that seeks to • UNEP-FI, since 1992. safeguard and materialize the purpose of • PROhumana Foundation, since 2007 the company. It also supports the following Sustainable Development and responsible banking Memberships and initiatives: adherence to external • Responsible Banking Principles UNEP-FI initiatives since 2019 GRI [102-12][102-13] • Acuerdo Producción Limpia (APL), since 2019 In line with the above, Banco Santander • Huella Chile, since 2019 Chile is a member of the following • Equator Principles (EPs), since 2012 Annual Report 2019 29 GRI [412-2][414-1][414-2] Human Rights Banco Santander Chile adheres to the Santander workers are also responsible for en Seguridad Privada (OS10) and don’t Group’s Corporate Human Rights Policy, reporting human rights violations. include training in this area. which includes the United Nations Guiding Santander also encourages its suppliers It should be noted that in addition to the Principles on Business and Human Rights. to adhere to the commitments within Corporate Policy, the Bank has other policies Moreover, the Bank adheres to various this Corporate Policy. In this context, all that incorporate protection and respect for international declarations that incorporate contracts with suppliers include a clause Human Rights, namely: this aspect, including Global Compact, that addresses, among other things, the Sustainable Development Goals, and • General Code of Conduct. field of human rights. In addition, the Bank’s Equator Principles. • Human Resources Policies. procurement model determines the process • Health and Safety Policy. The Group’s Corporate Human Rights of selecting, approving and evaluating its • Labor harassment Policy. Policy, available on the website, expresses suppliers, ensuring that they meet the • Diversity and Inclusion Policy. Santander’s commitment to respect and ethical and responsible banking criteria of • Labor Inclusion of Disabled People promote these rights in all areas of action, the institution, including human rights. Policies. including activities, processes, services In the case of private security guards, • Clauses for suppliers that commit to and operations; and to prevent or mitigate formation and improvement courses were abide by the United Nations Global any violations caused by its activity. All established by the Autoridad Fiscalizadora Compact Ten Principles. 30 Contribution to Sustainable Development Goals Santander is firmly convinced that socially and environmentally responsible Agenda is framed. These are 17 goals, each with different objectives, which seek to The diagram below management contributes to the sustainability of the environment and end poverty, protect the planet and ensure peace and prosperity for the people. The UN indicates the SDGs society, a necessary condition for the Bank’s Global Compact is the body responsible for that are addressed long-term activity. It is in this context that its commitment to the Sustainable promoting adherence to the SDGs among companies. in each chapter of Development Goals (SDGs) of the UN 2030 this report, which are related to specific programs and initiatives that Santander carries out in each area: Annual Report 2019 31 Santander Chile’s contribution to the SDG BORATORS COLLA SH ME RS ER S CUSTO HOLD ARE RESPONSIBLE BANKING L L EXCE IR N ON IO LE CE ME AT ET Y CI NTA N IN OV EX SO INN E CU EN TION V SU PPL IERS IAL SOC COLLABORATORS SHAREHOLDERS • Providing adequate working • Promoting a healthy lifestyle among • Maintaining economic conditions to employees that offers employees, implementing, for example, growth. dignified living conditions. a varied diet in the dining room of the • Improving economic • Promoting youth employment to organization or implementing physical productivity levels provide equal opportunities to new exercise programs. through diversification, generations. • Providing regular safety and health technological upgrading training to all workers. and innovation. → Be Healthy • Ensuring that all company policies consider the issue of gender and • Providing training and lifelong that business culture promotes learning opportunities for equality and integration. employees to improve their skills. → Academia Santander 32 SOCIETY / Environment • Promoting the development of • Promoting the development of • Incorporating climate change renewable energy projects. sustainable projects. measures into policies, strategies → Sustainable Finance • Establishing socio-environmental and plans. • Financing of green projects risk policies and assessments. → Carbon footprint measurement (Acciona) • Social or sustainable bonds → Compensation of the Bank’s carbon → 28% of electricity consumption → Sustainable Finance footprint comes from renewable energy • Acciona ESG loan → Customer carbon footprint (100% wind energy) • SONDA Green Bond compensation • CMPC Green Bond → Climate change policy and environmental management • Arauco Sustainable Bond → Clean production agreement • AES Gener Hybrid Bond → ISO 14001 SOCIETY / Social • Creating and strengthening public• Carrying out education and financial • Carrying out projects private partnerships to carry out literacy programs that accompany the that contribute towards projects that promote poverty development of different sectors of development with a focus reduction. society. on education. → Techo-Chile • Incorporating new technologies that • Creating partnerships → Solidarity Work Café facilitate responsible digital financial with foundations to carry → Santander technical scholarships inclusion. out projects that promote → Financial Education quality of education. • In-school Financial Education Program → Belén Educa • Developing social investment • Financial education talks • Tutoring program programs that reinforce Santander’s commitment to the integration, • Sanodelucas.cl • Scholarships of equality and defence of women. Academic Excellence • Financial Education Olympics — ANP • Developing training programs for • Cybersecurity Talks women in the local communities → Techo-Chile • Promotion of entrepreneurship, creativity where the company operates, to • Santander Technical and innovation, formalization and growth of empower them and improve their Grants Program micro, small and medium-sized businesses, labour skills. • ”Un Techo para through access to financial services. → Belén Educa: Aprender” Learning → Santander Universidades • Women Leaders Mentorship Centers • International Mobility grants • Motivational talk of the Chilean → Country Committment • Brain Chile women’s football team (Compromiso País) → Techo Chile • Santander in the Present • BSO programme (Santander Technical • Learn More scholarships) • Learn Better • Being an institution with solid EXCELLENCE IN EXECUTION/ Suppliers CUSTOMERS principles and defined values. • Having clear policies against • Promoting sustainable practices • Developing products and corruption and bribery in all its in suppliers. services with a positive impact forms. on the environment and society. → Awarding sustainable suppliers • Making our results transparent in → Superdigital → Outsourcing framework all areas of sustainability. → Cuenta Life → Homologation Policy → Customer carbon footprint compensation • Adhering to initiatives that promote compliance with the SDGs. → UN Global Compact EXCELLENCE IN EXECUTION/ Innovation • Offering products and services → PROhumana that promote inclusion and financial education → Acción Empresas • Modernizing infrastructure and investing in more → Cuenta Life → Responsible Banking Principles resource-efficient technologies → Superdigital → Partnerships with various NGOs and foundations → Digitalization and digital transformation • Paperless Annual Report 2019 33 1 Creating value for customers Everything Banco Santander works for begins and ends with its clients, who are at the centre of its activity. Santander is committed to being the best bank for Customer communication channels them, responding to their needs in a timely fashion, providing innovation, technology, availability, flexibility and security. Commercial Corporate website channels and its sections 3,418,185 Total clients 3,184,063 Satisfaction App and claims website, Individuals surveys with traceability of the solution status 207,202 SMEs 24,542 Middle market Social Media Profiles: Social media campaigns, Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, Santander App and YouTube and LinkedIn Contact Center 2,378 CIB 13.2% 1,216,360 Digital customers 4.8% 136,821 18,448 704,021 Total Life Customers Superdigital customers Number of loyal customers 34 Present throughout the country 4 XV Region / Arica y Parinacota GRI [102-4][102-6] II Region / Antofagasta 15 6 I Region / Tarapacá 279 7 4 III Region / Atacama Number of Number of Service traditional Centres (middlebranches market) IV Region / Coquimbo 10 199 XIII Region / Metropolitana de Santiago V Region / Valparaíso 39 38 53 Santander Number of Select Work Cafés 12 VI Region / O´Higgins VII Region / Maule 16 4 XVI Region / Ñuble VIII Region / Bío Bío 24 XIV Region / Los Ríos 8 15 IX Region / La Araucanía X Region / Los Lagos 14 2 XI Region / Aysén XII Region / Magallanes 5 Total 377 Annual Report 2019 35 Strategic Pillars In recent years, Banco Santander has Omnichannel One-Stop-Shop developed a profound cultural and commercial transformation to answer to Santander seeks to be a bank widely Another aspect of the Santander customer the new challenges and opportunities that available to the client, at any time and experience is related to the concept arise in an everchanging world, one in which from any place, which involves the use of “one-stop-shop”, which refers to singledigital innovation, flexibility and agility have technology to enable different attention instance purchasing, that is, the possibility become critical among the modern needs of channels and consultation and requirement for a customer to enter and leave the the Bank’s customers. platforms connected with each other in Bank obtaining everything they may need order to deliver each client with continuous expeditiously, without being put through Within this context, and in line with the and multi-channel service that promotes complex procedures. strategic priority of being the best bank for and favours self-service. customers, Santander is promoting a new Some examples of the above are subscribing service model for individuals, a pioneer An essential aspect of omnichannel banking to products through the website and the in Chile, that is grounded in omnichannel has been to facilitate the access of the client App, accessing current account plans, and banking and in the one-stop-shop concept, to any branch of the Bank. In practice, this ten-minute card replacement and activation, all of which aims to position the customer at means customers stop being assisted by a among others. the centre of the Santander Experience. single executive in a single branch, with the service being extended to all executives and Overall, after the consolidation of the to different channels, always maintaining Simple, Personal and Fair corporate culture, the continuity and quality of the experience. during 2019 the Bank set out to extend these values to its customers to improve Santander is Following this transition, Santander now counts with attention channels that attention, building together the attributes that define the Santander customer promoting a new are more integrated and that allow the experience. This served as a guide for all service model customer to operate interchangeably initiatives and models designed during the through branches–including Work/ year. for individuals, a Café–; digital channels –either the mobile In this way, the Bank focused on granting an pioneer application or the website–; or by calling the Contact Centre. experience focused on channel availability, in Chile, that The main benefits for customers are: continuity of interactions, and agile and fluid attention, always grounded on proactive and is grounded in • Higher availability, with an entire team of straightforward communication. omnichannel executives at their disposal to meet their banking and in the needs. one-stop-shop • Improved flexibility, with the potential to be attended by any branch within the concept, country. all of which aims • Greater proximity to the Bank, through to position the inclusive and innovative formats. customer at During 2019, Santander continued to strengthen its digital channels and the the centre of Contact Centre service. Also, on the private the Santander online banking site, customers are able to request to be contacted by an executive via Experience. phone. 36 Internal customer culture The work the Bank has developed the experience. These initiatives seek for clients has been complemented to provide coherence between what with initiatives along similar lines is projected at customers directly and that involve collaborators, in order to the work done by and for them at promote and instil a culture that favours Central Services. Quality of Service The cultural and commercial transformation consolidation of the new attention model, Complaints management promoted by Santander in recent years – with a focus on digital innovation, which that have materialized in new proposals distinguishes Banco Santander from its Banco Santander maintains various placing the client at the centre of the competitors. communication channels enabled for operation– have responsibly improved the customers to make inquiries and complaints, Customers perceive in Santander the which are: website, Santander App, Contact growth, profitability and sustainability of permanent pursuit to drive the financial Centre and branches. All requirements are the business, bolstering confidence and industry towards new ways of banking entered into the system and managed to satisfaction among the Bank’s customers. in Chile, aiming to meet the increasingly deliver an agile response and solution. This is evidenced in the figures: during 2019, globalized demands of users, which require the number of loyal customers continued new solutions. In this context arises the 360° increasing by 6.9% in the high segment, attention model, with integrated channels, 4.3% in the mass segment and 5.3% in a 24/7 Contact Centre, and the customer SMEs and Middle Market companies. invariably placed at its core. This is also evident in the results of the different surveys applied to clients of The results obtained constitute valuable feedback to continue improving the 2.73 the Bank, among them the Benchmark Santander’s service experience and to meet claims were Study of Satisfaction which considers the established goals both at the corporate registered for every clients of Banco Santander and of its main level and at the level of direct collaborators 10,000 active competitors. The objective is to learn the and Central Services which are monitored customers during perception of the client’s overall experience year by year. 2019. with their financial institution, the Net Promoter Score (NPS) recommendation index, and their understanding of each aspect of the service. RECOMMENDATION (BANK’S TOTAL NET SATISFACTION SCORE) In 2019, the Bank won second place Category 2018 2019 in customer’s recommendation. The Bank’s position compared to the relevant competition 3° 2° This achievement is the result of the Annual Report 2019 37 GRI [418-1] Customer Protection One of Banco Santander’s prime focuses is The Santander challenge: Fraud management its customer’s protection and cybersecurity, considering that it is a relevant and rising risk provide a safer experience In terms of the growing risk of cyberattacks, due to the exponential increase in the use of To address the issue of cybersecurity, Banco and in compliance with the requirements technology. The Bank has worked steadily Santander has established a premise that of the current regulatory framework, in recent years to strengthen the detection, consists in protecting its customers, without Santander has 24/7 support channels so protection and defence frameworks by undermining their experience. That is, that customers who are victims of fraud incorporating the most advanced tools, in any measure taken in favour of the Bank’s can immediately receive aid from the Bank. line with international best practices in this security and its users must necessarily Once a complaint is made, the Bank begins area. consider, from the design stage onwards, its management process and users receive the possible impact on the customer a reference number with which they can The organization has several policies, which monitor their case. Specific workflows have experience and its mitigation. With this, it are frequently revised and renewed. This also been implemented for electronic fraud, seeks to maintain its excellence in service, regulatory body is aimed at business users, theft and/or loss of bank cards and their while reinforcing it with improved security. technology users and co-workers in general, alleged cloning or forgery. addressing all aspects of cybersecurity within the organization, such as identity Customer Service Management is and access management, technology and Privacy and data protection responsible for delivering a response to cybersecurity risk management for service customers regarding these requirements. providers, network security, cloud security Following the updating of the Data and vulnerability management, among Protection Policy as part of the others. improvement plan that contemplated the implementation of the Infringements The risks associated with cybersecurity Prevention Model in this area the Bank are managed at the highest level of the raised the standard of requirements PROMOTING CYBERSECURITY organization and includes the participation regarding the processing of customer data. of the president, the Board, and Senior During 2019, Santander Chile held Management in regular meetings where All employees of the Bank receive constant two external lectures for clients to critical issues regarding this matter are training and reinforcement regarding how raise awareness of cyberattacks addressed. customer information should be treated; and help them take concrete steps restrictions on the use of USB ports and to manage this threat in their own Furthermore, the Board participates in the non-corporate emails have been applied companies and workplaces. One of the cybersecurity strategy in quarterly sessions to prevent information leaks; and contracts lectures was attended by 150 Chief with the Risk Committee, where issues are with suppliers that process personal data Information Officers from different discussed in greater depth. contain more strict security requirements universities, while the other included and clauses that allow auditing their the attendance of 100 clients from processes, among others. large companies. Likewise, the contracts between the Bank To the aforementioned can be added and its clients include specific clauses the successful cybersecurity campaign regarding the use of personal data obtained 2019 “Don’t let your guard down”, in light of their contractual relationship. which counted with the participation Santander Chile’s website contains a section of TV star Carlos Pinto for a second called Security Policy of Portal Use where consecutive year. Aimed primarily at customers are explained how their data is collaborators, the campaign seeks to processed and the powers granted to the keep them alert and aware of the threat organization for their treatment. 38 GRI [102-2] Business areas In line with the Bank’s mission and the new This strategy led to a successful year in challenges, the business areas have been its effort to contribute to the progress of able to respond to the unique demands of individuals and companies, which can different customer segments, with a supply be perceived in the record-level increase of relevant and straightforward products of the number of clients, which in 2018 and services, which resulted in a solid year ranged from 30,000 to 40,000 per quarter, for Santander in 2019. a figure that doubled in the third quarter of 2019 with over 84,000, and that kept strong in the fourth quarter with more than 76,500 customers. Furthermore, Santander Retail Banking achieved a 27% market share in the opening of new accounts during 2019, and more This business area has a differentiated than 1,000,000 current accounts in the value offer, both for high, medium and domestic market. mass income individuals and for small and The milestones achieved during the year are medium businesses with sales below $2 detailed below: billion annually. Retail Banking represents about 64% of gross revenues (including interest income, WORK/CAFÉ fees and income from financial transactions) • The successful Work/Café branch model, and contributed 37% of the net operating which emerged in Chile in 2016 and is income of the Bank through the sale of a currently being replicated in Argentina, variety of products and services such as Brazil, Mexico, Spain, Portugal, Poland, consumer and mortgage loans, credit and and the United Kingdom, concluded debit cards, current and debit accounts, 2019 with more than 50 offices open savings and investment products and throughout the country and a presence in insurance. It also offers specialized loans for all regions. working capital and foreign trade, stateguaranteed loans, leasing and factoring. • Six branches with traditional cash service integrated into the Work/Café During 2019, the Retail Banking area infrastructure, offering more options to continued to focus on boosting the growth their customers. of emblematic projects, such as Work/Café and Life, and the pooling of customers. In • Eight Work/Café 2.0 branches, which the SME business, we worked to consolidate have multi-segment executives, with a model of proximity with a focus on service the ability to respond to commercial quality, obtaining great results. Moreover, needs “end-to-end”. This new form of and adhering to the commitment to be Work/Café increases the executives’ an environmentally responsible bank, productivity due to their new attributions; Santander Chile launched “Santander it noticeably reduces the use of paper, of cyberattacks and to act responsibly Carbon Footprint Program”, an initiative thanks to the digitization of contract against suspicious situations to prevent that allows customers to offset the carbon documents and signature with crimes affecting the Bank and its footprint of the products they purchase with fingerprint; and the delivery of products is customers. their bank cards. done at the time of contracting, allowing Annual Report 2019 39 the customer to leave the branch with • Meritolife: 136,821 customers and more • Select Private Banking had a high level of ready-to-use products. The Work/Café than 1,000 interest rate reductions for customer acquisition. They demonstrated 2.0 branches grew exponentially both good financial performance. significant levels of satisfaction, in productivity and attraction of new validating the model. We expect to customers, obtaining excellent results in expand this project to a second location terms of their satisfaction. in Santiago during the next period and to SUPERDIGITAL continue to improve the value offer. • Two Work/Café branches within A mass prepayment offer aimed mainly at universities, opening spaces that young people, digital netizens and people encourage the generation of ideas and who are not incorporated into the financial the collaboration between students and banking system, such as immigrants. academics. Superdigital operates from an app, • Improvements in the digital Work/Café combining a physical and a virtual electronic service experience, including a new card, as well as a varied menu of financial version for booking rooms, which allows options. With this Superdigital customers you to send personalized invitations to can move and organize their money in attendees and evaluate the experience an innovative way, being able to top-up after the use of the schedule. their phone plans, transfer money to their contacts, or divide bills with them, among other benefits. SANTANDER LIFE • A few days after its pre-launch in July 2019, it had 5,000 customers, a figure Since its launch in December 2017, Plan that has since been continually increasing Santander Life continues to provide and that concluded 2019 with more than the most substantial number of new 18,400 users. customers, thanks to the success of the Meritolife program and the digital capture • The official launch is expected in 2020. of customers. By the end of 2019, Life had more than 136,800 users and over $43 billion in loans. SELECT PRIVATE BANKING During the year, Retail Banking completed Launched in October 2018, this model the value offer for individuals: Cuenta Life seeks to expand and improve the offer to and Life Latam were launched in addition high equity clients, that is, clients with to Plan Santander Life. This generates liquid investments over $40 million or a simple and transversal offer that with a positive balance between debt and promotes inclusion, financial education and equity, subtracting the mortgage, over $100 responsible banking, consistent with the million. Santander culture. This service model has more than • Plan Cuenta Life: a 100% digital account 5,000 customers who require and with rapid account opening, with no receive personalized advice through a income requirement and with a focus on comprehensive service that includes a savings, which supports the inclusion and wealth manager, the support of several financial empowerment of people. Since specialists and a broader and more flexible its successful launch in June 2019, it has product offer than that offered by the branch attracted more than 58,000 customers, network. with an average opening of more than 8,000 accounts per month. • During 2019, the work focused on increasing turnover, providing continuous • Plan Santander life Latam Pass combines the best of both worlds: The Life proposal advice to customers with strong with the successful Latam Pass program, support from the team of specialists in allowing customers to accumulate investment, insurance and prevision, miles through their purchases and the which was vital in the high volatility Meritolife program. Since its launch in environment exhibited during the year. June 2019, it has attracted more than 7,500 customers. 40 Middle-Market Banking 2019 HIGHLIGHTS Middle-Market Banking offers products As a result of this strategy, Middle-Market • 50% growth in structured businesses, and services to companies and large performed very successfully throughout the such as financial advisory for the companies with annual sales of over $2 year, meeting all budgets and achieving high structuring and placement of bonds, billion, as well as real estate companies levels of quality indicators, thus maintaining mergers and acquisitions, among others. that execute projects to sell to third parties market leadership. • 8% increase in digital customers, and construction companies with yearly compared to 2018, reaching by more sales of over $800 million. Middle-Market than 106% the target set. Banking also tends to the institutions’ segment, which includes organizations • In loans, the Middle-Market segment such as universities, government agencies, grew by 5.2% in the year, in line with the municipalities and regional governments. country’s economic growth. This division covers its clients’ needs • The implementation of Factoring Web, through a comprehensive offer that includes a new tool available on the website that commercial loans, mortgage loans, leasing, allows companies to obtain resources to factoring, foreign trade, credit cards, current fund the payment of taxes, obligations accounts, transactional and treasury and working capital, among others. services, financial consulting, savings Some of its benefits are: automatic and investment products and insurance. electronic invoice assignment through Also, real estate companies are offered Office Banking, online communication specialized services for financing, primarily with the Internal Revenue Service (SII); residential projects. and availability of funds in the current account within a maximum of one hour. In 2019, Middle-Market generated $214,611 million, equivalent to 29% of net DIGITAL CUSTOMERS operating income. The business strategy during the year centred on consolidating a Category 2018 2019 Goal 2019 new way to relate to customers, mainly by strengthening the management of advisory Number of customers using an online 1,074,552 1,216,360 1,198,365 platform for services and solutions services by the executives through a change (transfers) of focus, training, and a strong support Individuals 956,709 1,084,515 1,072,517 structure. Moreover, this division focused on the digitization of processes, allowing for SMEs 98,591 111,186 106,398 client empowerment, freeing the executive Middle-Market 17,691 19,009 17,961 who now has more time for advice and other CIB 1,561 1,650 1,489 services that generate higher value. Annual Report 2019 41 Santander Corporate & Investment Banking Present in 22 countries, the Corporate & Furthermore, the division continued to lead Investment Banking (CIB) division offers in rankings related to various investment comprehensive assessment to foreign banking products: multinational companies or Chilean • 1st in Project Finance multinational companies with sales • 2nd in local Debt Capital market (DCM) above $10 billion. These are corporate • 3rd in International DCM for Chilean CASH and institutional clients that, due to their issuers, according to Bloomberg • 4th as DCM Latam franchise, according to • Local Ripley RFP size, complexity or sophistication, require • Global Falabella RFP Dealogic tailor-made services or high value-added • Local Metro RFP renovation wholesale products. One aspect that is becoming increasingly relevant in this segment are finances that GDF This division has four specialized units: incorporate environmental, social and Corporate & Investment Banking; Global governance criteria (ESG), where Santander • Leader in local bond issuances: 12 loans is a global leader and principal promoter during the year and 30% of the volume Transaction Banking; Financial Solutions within Latin America and Chile. In May 2019 placed. New issuers such as Patio & Advisory; and Global Markets, through Banco Santander funded the first loan linked Comercial and Cencosud Shopping stand which it offers a wide variety of products to out, along with recurring issuers such as to ESG (ESG Linked Loan), formalized in the meet the needs of finance, investment and Sonda, CMPC and Latam. country, in favour of the local subsidiary risk coverage of their clients. of Acciona. Similarly, in October the • First structuring agent of issuers related Bank structured the most relevant Green During 2019, the focus of Santander CIB was to infrastructure, refinancing in the long Syndicated Loan at the regional level, also in term the Hospital de Antofagasta and its relationship with customers, for which support of Acciona, to finance solar and wind ViasChile, holding of Abertis toll roads. five strategic pillars were established: energy investments in Chile. This places the Bank at the forefront of sustainability • Funding of project to expand Autopista • To be comprehensive financial advisors, and responsible banking, in line with the del Sol and Costanera Norte, and provider favouring long-term relationships and growing interest shown by investors. of VAT financing of several wind and solar conducting business with added value. projects in Chile. • To be among the top three in all service • Structuring leader in the syndicated credit rankings. 2019 HIGHLIGHTS market, including acquisition financing • To be leaders in infrastructure and energy TRADE and the first credit in Chile, qualified by within M&A and Project Finance. international agencies as ESG. • Glencore: Regional Confirming (Chile, • To optimize the credit portfolio and the Perú, Canada); US$ 80 million efficiency in the use of capital. GLOBAL MARKETS • LATAM Airlines: PDP; US$ 200 million • To optimize the transactional business • Delta OPA on Latam. and add a higher degree of intelligence. • Jetsmart: WK Loan. US$ 30 million • Derivative restructuring mandate in the Santander CIB concluded a successful year, • Arauco. Project MAPA ECA EUR 550 Cencosud exchange. with a 35% growth in the markets area, million (ticket SAN 35%) • Intralatam: Femsa coverage of its capital managing to position itself as a referent • Telecommunication: Mass Receivable; in Chile, Derco and Parque Arauco in in terms of treasury among global and US$ 100 million Colombia. local customers, thanks to its profitability strategy. It also obtained a 23% increase • CMPC: RPP, US$ 270 million • Santander CIB consolidates itself as a in its results, compared to 2018. CIB leader in the markets of fixed income and • Collaboration Revenues: RPP (4); US$ 80 operations accounted for about 21% of the currencies, for international and national million organization’s net income in 2019. institutional clients. 42 Company Products In April 2019, Santander Chile created • Specialized sales area • Cash Management the Company Products Division, with the A network of expert executives with Collaboration with the integral mission to become a leader and a referent national coverage, whose function is management of the client’s treasury provider within the financial system for all to sell and advise SMEs clients and through high value-added products the company products it manages. companies on more complex products. for collection and payment processes employing various face-to-face and This new division focuses strategically • International business remote channels, both locally and on differentiated business management, A family of products and services that the globally. efficient processes, and innovation and Bank enables for its customers so that development, all of which are transversely they can operate their foreign currency • Leasing, Factoring and Confirming directed at the Bank’s three business areas, flows more quickly, with less risk and on A family of products that the Bank to support its management and specialized a larger scale. It includes the following makes available to its customers to sales. To achieve this, the Company Product products: provide working capital and investment Division has four Product Areas and a Sales solutions, generating a differentiated • Transactional products offer to different types of customers and Network: Send and receive payment orders, in segments. unitary and mass mode. • Leasing: • Documentary products Lease with the option to purchase Collections, letters of credit, different assets (including real estate). guarantees. • Factoring: • Financing Advance of invoices and other Import, export, general-purpose. documents (with and without responsibility). • Confirming: Getnet, the new acquirer Improving the payment management of suppliers, giving them the option to from Santander anticipate payments. Since 2018, Banco Santander is driving the payment industry towards greater openness, migrating its card stock from the old threepart model to the new four-part model. This facilitates the incorporation of new players into the market, promotes competition and OLD THREE-PART MODEL NEW FOUR-PART MODEL modernizes the industry. In its mission to contribute to the progress of individuals and companies, Banco Santander will offer the market a new acquisition solution for card payments. This product, Merchant Consumer Merchant Consumer which will be oriented to all business segments and will accept cards from all brands and issuers, will offer a modern, safe 1 3 1 4 and competitive service. Getnet, Santander’s new acquisition network, will help expand the card market in Chile, multiplying the scope of electronic payment and safely reducing the use of 2 2 Marcas 3 cash. In this way, through the Company Products Division, Banco Santander will deliver a comprehensive solution to its customers, supporting the development of companies and improving the customer experience. Acquirer Issuer Acquirer Issuer Annual Report 2019 43 2 Creating value for collaborators Banco Santander aims to be the best company to work for and as such, create value for its employees, who are the cornerstones of the organization. For this, Communication channels with collaborators the Bank promotes diversity and well-being at the workplace, ensuring labour health and safety, and promoting the attraction, development and promotion of talent, all through the Simple, Personal and Fair culture. Global Corporate Intranet commitment with two-way survey communication 11,200 54% Physical and Virtual Centres of Attention, (CAP and Internal magazine Ideas, and special editions in total women mobile CAP) and (CAV) print and digital format collaborators 7.6% 1.1% Mass Complaints e-mails box foreigners people with disabilities 98% with performance evaluation 44 Ana Botín’s visit to Banco I encourage you to continue as Santander Chile before. Count on all our support The president of Banco Santander visited the country in November 2019, where she and trust”. participated in a meeting with the Board. In this opportunity she highlighted our teams’ commitment, and called on them to continue working to offer the best customer service experience. Along with recognizing the dedicated and responsible work of all collaborators, the president invited them to continue walking the path of responsible banking and financial empowerment of those who need it most, highlighting several of the initiatives that Chile has promoted along these lines. She also referred to the upcoming challenges and the importance of being a Bank at the service of the people. President Botín concluded the meeting by thanking the entire Santander Chile team and inviting them to keep striving to always be the best. Annual Report 2019 45 Strategic focus points 1 2 3 4 INFORMATION TO PROMOTE TO COLLABORATE CULTURAL PROCESSES AND COMMITMENT AND STRATEGICALLY WITH TRANSFORMATION SYSTEMS PRODUCTIVITY THE BUSINESS EXCELLENCE IN EXECUTION (TRANSVERSAL) Cultural Change In 2015 Santander began a process of TEAM JOURNEY cultural change to institute the Simple, Personal and Fair (SPF) culture within the A programme that goes deeper into the company. This process was carried out in leadership model and the challenges of three stages; the latter of which, concerning leading in the new culture. It focuses on settlement, was developed during 2019, personal leadership, aiming for managers to and emphasized the permanent SPF culture embody the mission and vision of the Bank, management within the Bank. and to exemplify corporate values and SPF behaviours to stakeholders, thereby building During the year, we continued to work a more robust and sustainable business on the principle initiatives, which seek to over time. During 2019, 84 managers establish Santander culture within the participated. organization and its leaders: MOBILIZERS A programme created in 2016 to support the Bank’s cultural transformation process, which was maintained throughout the current settlement stage. Mobilizers play a crucial role, displaying their ability to influence the organization and to support cultural change in daily work, enabling all collaborators to be ambassadors of this new culture. During 2019, 42 people from the Bank’s 13 divisions participated. 46 PROXIMITY PLAN-SPF MEETINGS SANTANDER RECOGNIZES YOU (SANTANDER TE RECONOCE), An initiative implemented this year intending 2019 to create spaces to foster proximity between managers and employees to discuss the In line with the efforts to establish process of SPF cultural transformation and the culture within the organization, how to proceed regarding future challenges, this initiative seeks to recognize those in order to deliver the best customer service who stand out for being SPF referents; experience. collaborators who promote change within their working teams and who The president of Banco Santander, Claudio represent the values and behaviours Melandri, together with several members of of the Santander culture. In 2019, four the Management Committee, participated in workers were distinguished. a total of 19 SPF meetings held in different cities within the country, with more than It should be noted the recognition is 800 people from the Branch Network, personal and not material, that is, it Contact Centre and Central Services. seeks for recipients to be surprised with The collaborators were able to talk in an a touching, simple personal experience, atmosphere of closeness, participating organized with the complicity of their in instances of reflection and motivation family and co-workers. concerning the culture and its extension to the client, who is at the centre of all the Bank’s activity. 1,598 NEW WAYS OF WORKING supervisors were An accompanying aspect of Banco ambassadors of Santander’s cultural transformation relates Santander Culture. to the incorporation of more flexible forms of work and collaboration in tandem with innovation, to achieve greater agility, productivity and effectiveness, for the benefit of employees and customers. In this context, during 2019 Santander continued to advance in the migration to Office 365, which reached a coverage of 93% of the Bank. This software has various tools that facilitate flexible and collaborative work, as well as ensuring safety. From this technology, it was possible to implement a remote work programme, in a pilot stage, in addition to other initiatives that continue in the line of Flexi-working. Annual Report 2019 47 Staff in figures (as of December 2019) 11,200 collaborators 54% 38.4 9.5 of years years women average age of service 46% 41.3 11.1 of years years men average age of service Collaborators by type of contract GRI [102-8] 2018 2019 6,075 5,154 6,058 5,119 women men mujeres hombres indefinite indefinite indefinite indefinite 34 42 10 13 women men women men fixed term fixed term fixed term fixed term 11,305 11,200 total total 48 XV Region / Arica y Parinacota Collaborators by region 2019 58 28 30 II Region / Antofagasta I Region / Tarapacá 223 2 149 76 112 57 55 III Region / Atacama 66 1 43 24 IV Region / Coquimbo 213 110 103 XIII Region / Metropolitana de Santiago V Region / Valparaíso 8,034 17 4,322 3,729 601 334 267 VI Region / O´Higgins VII Region / Maule 187 2 111 78 333 179 154 XVI Region / Ñuble VIII Region / Bío Bío 95 52 43 453 248 205 IX Region / La Araucanía XIV Region / Los Ríos 81 51 30 306 173 133 X Region / Los Lagos 297 1 145 153 XI Region / Aysén 30 17 13 Total 11,200 XII Region / Magallanes 88 49 39 By type of contract By gender Indefinite Women Fixed-term Men Annual Report 2019 49 Best place to work One of the strategic pillars of Banco and promoters responsible for maintaining a Santander is to be the best workplace pleasant working climate and for generating among major companies within Chile, an atmosphere of trust and collaboration. attracting and developing talent committed to the SPF culture of the organization. In line with the above, Santander promotes the integral development of its For this, it is important to have teams collaborators, the recognition of a job well committed to achieving the company’s done, the conciliation of the personal and goals, and motivated to keep contributing professional life, and a healthy environment with their work and ideas. In this sense, for everyone’s performance, all of which the task of the leading collaborators is helps to create a space of mutual benefit for fundamental, working as team managers employees and the company. Santander among top for Santander recognized as Top Great Place to Work Employer 2019 In 2019, Banco Santander was recognized as For the first time in its history, Banco the third best company to work for in Chile, Santander Chile received the Top Employer in the category of companies with more 2019 certification from the Top Employers than a thousand workers, according to the Institute, becoming the only certified bank Great Place to Work (GPTW) ranking. With within Latin America in this regard. This this recognition, Santander ranks for the recognizes the Bank as one of the world’s second consecutive year among the top five leading employers, providing its employees companies in the ranking. with excellent conditions for growth and talent development at all levels of the It should be noted that the GPTW survey, organization, and continuously working conducted once a year, is a valuable to improve human resources policies and additional input to assess the satisfaction practices for the benefit of its collaborators. of collaborators and to work on measures towards increasing their satisfaction levels. 50 Human Capital Development Banco Santander promotes its employees’ The Santander Academy continued to growth and development through tools and develop in 2019 with emphasis on two main training instances that allow us to have a targets: team prepared to achieve the goals that the Bank establishes in the medium and long • Compliance with a functional curriculum term in pursuit of its strategy. that aims to level the knowledge of collaborators according to the topics of each division and area; Santander Academy • The development of critical knowledge and skills, both in the framework of GRI [404-2] critical roles within the organization and The Bank manages the development in business transformation projects and/ of human capital mainly through the or areas. Santander Academy, a training initiative launched in 2018, with programmes that focus on instructing people for their positions through the delivery of knowledge, tools and strengthening of skills. Among its purposes also lies the transmission of the company’s Simple, Personal and Fair culture to the new staff, the importance of placing the customer at the centre of activities and Highlights 2019 empowering expert collaborators who wish • Update of the contents of the • Specific skills and potentials mapping to transmit their knowledge for the benefit curricula and initial digitalization of corresponding to the talent calibration of others. The above is supported by the some of them. The aim is to have a process carried out throughout 2018 and compliance of curriculums and learning 80% virtual and 20% in-person study 2019, to identify collaborators with high plans determined for each position and role. modality by 2023. performance and growth potential in the organization, and who require a Personal • A general mapping of skills to Development Plan. determine the competencies that will be required in the future. The • A complete transformation of results will be used to update the the onboarding process of new learning plans, thereby ensuring the collaborators, moving from a classical development of adequate human and expository methodology to an capital in accordance with their activity that favours experiential learning needs. through playful activities and stories of outstanding collaborators, generating an environment that facilitates immersion. • The option to pursue diploma courses was offered, in association with the Universidad de Chile: The Internal Diploma of Introduction to Finance, and the Diploma of Innovation and Digital Banking, which allow collaborators to improve their performance and cooperate with the fulfilment of the objectives of the Bank. Annual Report 2019 51 Investment in training Investment in training 2017 2018 2019 Concerning the results obtained by Santander through training investment, Employee training: some of the most emblematic programmes, 0.134% 0.180% 0.178% as % of income with greater duration and investment have Employee training: an impact study. Nevertheless, investment $2,441,504,724 $3,322,300,000 $3,441,504,724 amount ($) return studies is expected from 2020 onwards, for those programmes where the methodology is applied. Average training hours per year, per collaborator GRI [404-1] Position Women Men Total The table shows that the average Nevertheless, analysed by job category, Managers 30.0 25.7 55.7 working hours between men and the chart shows a significant difference in women are quite similar, which the number of hours of training that the Assistant Managers 48.8 48.1 96.9 is indicative of gender equity in Bank allocates to its professionals. This is Supervisors 24.9 28.7 53.6 training and that it is proportional related to the functional, technical and skill Professionals 50.7 58.5 109.2 to the number of employees in formation of their positions. Santander. Administrative staff 40.5 42.0 82.5 Training programmes GRI [404-2] TRAINEE PROGRAMME: PRIVATE TRAINEE CONTACT CENTER DIPLOMA IN INNOVATION AND BANKING / SELECT / SME DIGITAL BANKING 30-day induction programme for new A 20-day induction programme for employees in Contact Centre Executive Programme for collaborators new employees that are executives positions. They work on fundamental and supervisors with 2 years of of Individuals, Select and SME clients. topics of their functions, soft skills, service, and excellent performance They work on fundamental topics of technical knowledge, and others. evaluation. It seeks to develop their functions, soft skills, technical It includes listening to cases and executive proficiencies and enhance knowledge, and others. It includes a resolutions. creativity, entrepreneurship, and field internship process. innovation skills, along with strategic and financial decision-making for 580 participants innovation development at a global scale. During the diploma course, 133 participants a project is developed and applied to a common challenge of Banco Santander, using the Google Design Sprint methodology. 33 participants 52 INTRODUCTION TO FINANCE POSTGRADUATE SCHOLARSHIPS ONBOARDING DAY DIPLOMA Programme for collaborators and The reception for new collaborators, Programme for collaborators with supervisors with 2 years of service supervisors and managers (in an at least 1 year of service, and good and good performance evaluation. on-site modality for people of the performance evaluation. It provides The Bank funds 50% of a national Metropolitan Region). The goal is concepts and tools necessary for diploma, a national master’s degree, to engrain the Bank’s purpose, the financial decision-making within a or a master’s degree in banking and SPF culture, and to always keep the company concerning the context they financial markets. customer at the centre. Also available face. With this, they will be able to is the new Digital Integration Day, manage basic financial information which presents all the topics and areas based on a comprehensive vision of the business that follows the latest 46 participants of the Bank. financial trends, allowing them to create value for their areas. During the course, an applied project is developed, 499 participants and its possible implementation is evaluated. EXTENSION CENTRE 30 A programme that provides participants entertainment and recreational spaces to employees and supervisors with an indefinite contract, for their development in the personal and professional field, thus enhancing motivation and emotional well-being. ENGLISH PROGRAMME Three English programmes for critical positions in need of this language to 496 participants develop their functions: online basic level, on-site group intermediate level, and onsite group communicational advanced level. CROSS THE BORDER Outstanding programme for 875 participants collaborators with at least two years of service and excellent performance evaluation. The aim is to enhance their English level as a tool for professional development by means of a two-month course in an INTERNAL STORYTELLERS English-speaking country. It includes a monetary contribution from the Programme for partners who are company and paid leave. experts on specific topics. The aim is to enhance and refine the skills of internal storyteller. It includes training in soft skills and instructional design. 126 participants 42 participants Annual Report 2019 53 Talent management Being the best financial services open platform requires having the best talent at the service of the strategic objectives of the company. In this regard, Santander seeks to create the necessary instances to attract the right people and keep them motivated and committed to their work. Progress 2019 Digital talent SANTANDER YOUNG PROFESSIONALS PROGRAMME Today’s financial sector requires innovation An initiative that aims to foster a hotbed of and digital talent to respond efficiently and high potential professionals for the different expeditiously to current and future business areas of the Bank. In September 2019, 16 668 challenges. To this end, Banco Santander seeks to attract and incorporate young young professionals were incorporated with digital, statistical, IT and mathematical professional internships throughout the professionals with digital thinking, who thinking, according to the need and year and all over the country, aligned with understand the importance of adapting requirements of the new profiles requested the new curriculum needs of the leading and anticipating the pace of technology and by the Bank. universities of Chile. the industry. Among 2019’s outstanding initiatives are: BUSINESS EXPERIENCE SANTANDER 2019 An event that aims to attract young talent with a profile specialization in digital, 2 positions mathematical, statistical and computational thinking. 100 university students Santander climbed in the Merco Talent participated, who had to solve challenges study, which measures the attraction and inspired by real customer experience cases retention of professional talent in Chilean of the Bank, both in a digital and face-tocompanies, moving from 6th place in face format, alongside issues related to 2018 to 4th place in 2019. cybersecurity. The cases had to be solved using Agile and Gamification methodology, and the proposals were evaluated and awarded by a jury composed of managers from different areas of the Bank. 6th place And Best Bank in the Employers for Youth (EFY) study, from the FirstJob company, where Santander Chile participated for the first time. It is a study that recognizes the best companies for 10 students on the young professionals in Chile, measuring winning team internal and external attributes, and the received 10 work experience of millennials in those postgraduate companies. scholarships valued at US$ 1,000. 54 Outstanding talent management programmes SANTANDER WORLD YOUNG LEADERS PROGRAMME INCLUSION IN TALENT MANAGEMENT An outstanding exchange programme that This is a corporate development promotes international transit and expedites programme, launched in 2019, that seeks Understanding that diversity and the development of internal talent, offering to identify talents with leadership potential inclusion enrich the workplace eight Chilean collaborators the possibility to drive Santander’s transformation. This environment, Santander also of working from one to three months in a first edition of the programme selected implements talent attraction Santander office in another country, while 280 professionals from all countries where mechanisms that meet inclusive receiving eight foreign collaborators in the the Bank is present, who were nominated standards. Chilean offices. This experience benefits not by their own co-workers for representing During 2019 employment platforms only those who travel but also the team that Santander values and leadership. The and inclusive practices were developed welcomes the participants. The programme programme includes activities such as for attracting talent. These tools include allows: training in Madrid, a meeting with Ana Botín, accessibility options, ReadSpeaker mentoring managers, coaching sessions, • To strengthen links between home and system, inclusive job offers, and user volunteering and English classes, among host country teams. experience improvements. others. • To count with ambassadors of culture and corporate values of Santander. • To learn and share best practices, experiences and ideas. • To learn about other cultures. 19 • To develop new capacities. young people from Chile had the opportunity to be part of this training experience which allowed them to develop at a personal and professional level. Annual Report 2019 55 General turnover GRI [401-1] Position 2016 2017 2018 2019 Banco Santander’s overall employment Total employment turnover rate all types of turnover rate fell between 2016 and departures (voluntary, dismissals, retired, etc.) as 14.5% 11.9% 11.9% 11.3% 2017, then remained stable, with a slight % of total collaborators decrease in 2019. In turn, voluntary Voluntary employment turnover rate voluntary employment turnover has remained 3.4% 3.6% 3.7% 3.6% retirement as % of total collaborators stable, around 3%. Total employee turnover rate All types of departures (voluntary, dismissals, retired, etc.) as % of total employees 14.5% 11.9% 11.9% 11.3% 2016 2017 2018 2019 Turnover by age Breakdown by age 2018 2019 Employee turnover rate by age Under 30 years old 17.61% 17.70% Between 30 and 50 11.44% 9.51% Under 30 years old years old Between 30 and 50 years old Over 50 years old Over 50 years old 11.58% 11.40% The employee turnover rate is slightly higher for employees under 30 years 17.61% 17.70% of age and remained slightly over 17% within the last 2 years. Meanwhile, the 11.58% 11.40% employee turnover rate between 30 and 50 years-old collaborators fell from 11.44% 11.44% to 9.51%. 9.51% 2018 2019 56 New recruitment vs turnover Total number Total number Staff of new recruitments of staff turnover turnover rate Breakdown by gender 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 Women 813 561 773 679 12.41% 11.36% Men 895 465 696 583 13.09% 11.40% Performance cycle Santander understands performance as the the line manager and each of the team level a collaborator achieves according to members, to make a status review of their skills, effort and work. The organization their performance after the calendar year manages the performance of all employees, has progressed. not only to achieve the company’s objectives but also to ensure individuals’ growth, by • Bottom-up evaluation: aims to developing and strengthening their potential provide supervisors with feedback to their maximum. about their performance as managers and support them in developing their The management model assigns value leadership, identifying their strengths to what is done, in addition to how it is and opportunities for improvement. done, aligning both them of course to the This evaluation enables the Bank to organization’s culture. This model is carried shape a leadership style that answers out in various stages, in which both the to the organization’s challenges and employee and the supervisor are primarily the SPF culture, based on the feedback responsible. These are: that the teams themselves give to their supervisors, along with the practical tools • Goal setting: this is the first instance that Human Resources makes available of feedback in which the goals to be to them. met–which are specific to their respective function– are determined for the period, • Performance evaluation: it is the final and performance expectations are feedback, where the fulfilment of declared, along with discussing how to the defined goals and the results are achieve these goals. reviewed according to the objectives set at the beginning of the year, being • Feedback: it is a formal instance of assessed with a final indicator. feedback and conversation between Performance evaluation by job and gender categories GRI [404-3] % of workers By job category of the total Managers Assistant Supervisors Professionals Administrative employees managers staff who have received periodic 100% 100% 100% 96.9% 96.3% performance By gender and professional development Women Men evaluations 95.4% 98.8% Annual Report 2019 57 Promoting diversity and inclusion Banco Santander seeks to assemble For this purpose, the Santander Chile has Gender Workers with diverse and inclusive teams that nourish a Diversity and Inclusion Policy, which equity disabilities the work environment with different provides the framework for the respect perspectives, enriching the organization’s and appraisal of this issue within the Bank. capabilities, hand in hand with respect and That being said, in 2019 the organization equality, under the wing of the SPF culture established the focus on the following four types of diversity during 2019 up to 2025: Generational Cultural diversity diversity Gender equity Santander promueve la equidad de género en sus espacios de trabajo, reconociendo el The challenge for valioso aporte que las mujeres realizan a las actividades del Banco. Durante 2019 se Santander Chile celebraron diversos hitos en este ámbito: in the short and medium-term DIAGNOSIS OF WOMEN IN MANAGEMENT POSITIONS is to increase A diagnosis was made of female managers the presence in the Bank, who represent 26.2% of the total number of managers and assistant of women in managers. We interviewed currently management employed women and those who had stopped working in Santander to investigate positions to at least the potential difficulties they had in reaching their position. 30%. 58 WOMEN’S LEADERSHIP SKILLS GENDER DIVERSITY OF OUR PROGRAMME 2018/2019 COLLABORATORS GRI [405-1] This initiative intends to hasten the incorporation of more women into leadership positions within the organization. Breakdown Managers Assistant Supervisors Professionals Administrative 34 women from different areas of the by gender managers staff Bank participated, who experienced Women 12% 42% 49% 57% 53% comprehensive and transformational Men 88% 58% 51% 43% 47% training between November 2018 and June 2019, that sought to strengthen their leadership skills by fostering networks both inside and outside the Bank, enhancing their business thinking and empowering Percentage of women them in their career design and professional of total workforce development. The programme included group classes and workshops, coaching sessions, mentoring and lectures. Men We need to highlight that the group of 46% women leaders who participated in the Mentoring Women Leaders Programme 54% of the total workforce for students of the Belen Educa Foundation emerged from the leadership skills programme. are women Women SANTANDER BEGINS CERTIFICATION 54% PROCESS OF CHILEAN STANDARD 3262 In line with what has already been done, during 2019 the Bank began the process of Chilean Standard 3262 certification, a management tool to make visible and Gender Percentage of address the promotion of gender equity as a diversity women pillar of sustainability. Percentage of women in the total labour force 54% The agreement was signed alongside the Percentage of women in executive positions (over total executive 28% Ministry of Women and Gender Equity positions) at a ceremony attended by government Percentage of women in junior executive positions (over total junior 42% authorities and representatives of different executive positions) companies, who also participated in a Percentage of women in senior executive/senior management positions workshop to publicize this tool in detail and (over total senior management positions). A maximum of 2 levels from 18% the CEO is considered. share different experiences. This standard is expected to be in place at the Bank by Percentage of women in executive positions, in income-generating 24% October 2020. areas (e.g. sales, marketing) Annual Report 2019 59 Workers with disabilities The Inclusion Committee, composed of HIGHLIGHTS 2019 collaborators from different areas and representatives of collaborators with disabilities, is responsible for ensuring • A registry was created concerning employees who could be susceptible to Banco Santander compliance with the Labour Inclusion Law within the Bank, as well as encouraging a disability, who were evaluated through a consultant. Those who qualified were encourages effective employment insertion and guided and advised to certify their disability. effective autonomy for those with disabilities. As of December 2019, 1.1% of the Bank’s • We worked with expert consultants employment employees are individuals with disabilities, meeting both the company’s target for 2019 in the recruitment of individuals with disabilities, to find candidates who met insertion and and what is required by law (1%). Santander the profile of the vacancies that the Bank had so they could be incorporated. autonomy for those hopes to continue to increase the number of individuals with disabilities in its workforce. • Several awareness-raising lectures were with disabilities. held with work teams and supervisors, to demystify the concept of disability and reinforce the opportunities and benefits of having more diverse teams. 60 Generational diversity Cultural diversity Concerning generational diversity, 56% Santander Chile promotes and values of the staff of Banco Santander Chile is cultural diversity in its personnel and concentrated in Generation Y, that is, people therefore seeks to increase the recruitment born between 1980 and 1994; these are of people of different nationalities, always followed by Generation X (people born within the country’s legal framework. As of between 1965 and 1979, with 35% of the December 31, 2019, foreigners represent personnel). In third place are the so-called 8% of the Bank’s staff, mainly people of Baby Boomers, people born between 1944 Argentine, Colombian, Venezuelan and and 1964, who represent 9% of the staff. Spanish nationalities. The Bank expects to maintain diversity among these different age groups. The organization arranged the Welcome Programme, which aims to provide legal guidance to foreign collaborators and their families on visa processing and other procedures relevant for their smooth AGE DIVERSITY OF OUR integration into the country. COLLABORATORS GRI [405-1] Notwithstanding the above, the Bank considers cultural diversity as a value that goes beyond nationalities, which is why it Breakdown Managers Assistant Supervisors Professionals Administrative promotes the recruitment of people who by age managers Staff escape traditional banking profiles, such as Under 30 0% 0% 4% 18% 26% those coming from other areas of work or years old who have international experience, whether Between 30 56% 73% 77% 71% 54% in life, study or work. This aspect was and 50 years measured within the Bank’s management old positions during 2019, which resulted in the Over 50 44% 27% 19% 11% 20% achievement of the target of at least 70% of years old people being culturally diverse. Annual Report 2019 61 Compensation Santander has a compensation and Local minimum wage by gender vs Santander’s initial benefits system that seeks to compensate the contribution, effort and commitment average wage GRI [202-1] of its employees with impartiality. This promotes a pleasant working environment and aids the purpose of National minimum Initial wage in Santander vs National those who integrate the Bank. wage ($) Santander Ratio 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 Compensation is composed of a fixed amount and a variable amount, Woman 288,000 301,000 810,913 819,235 282% 272% depending on the level of performance: Man 288,000 301,000 851,365 869,207 296% 289% • Fixed amount Recognizes and rewards the role and level of responsibility of the collaborator’s position. Santander’s initial wage average vs Santander vs National Ratio • Variable amount National minimum wage % It rewards performance based on meritocracy and achievement of both team and individual targets. It also 869,207 851,365 considers how objectives are achieved, 296 819,235 in terms of leadership, commitment, 289 rigorous risk management, and in line 810,913 282 272 with long-term goals. It should be noted that the average initial salary that Santander offers its employees amply exceeds the legal minimum established in Chile. This is in line with its mission to contribute to the progress of people, and it reflects how the 288,000 301,000 company’s adherence to the principles 288,000 301,000 of sustainability and responsible banking, is an integral part of the Bank’s management. During the year, the minimum income paid by the Bank was, in the case of men, 289% the Chilean minimum wage, and in the case of women, 272%. 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 Santander National initial wage mínimum wage Man category Woman 62 In Banco Santander, we have a remuneration analysis of the earning position in regards policy based on the concepts of equity and to the Gender Pay Gap (GPG), to detect competitiveness, and therefore it does not possible differences and opportunities for discriminate in terms of our employee’s improvement. gender. Each year the group performs an Ratio of basic salary over remuneration of women to men GRI [405-2] Labour Category Ratio of basic wage and remuneration of women to men Position Average wage gap Position Wage Difference Managers 82% Managers 17.76% Managers 27.81% Assistant managers 96% Assistant managers 4.40% Assistant managers 15.74% Supervisors 91% Supervisors 8.99% Supervisors 8.39% Professionals 90% Professionals 10.12% Professionals 4.92% Administrative Staff 94% Administrative Staff 5.75% Administrative Staff 2.00% Ratio of basic wage and remuneration of women to men Average wage gap % % 100 100 100 100 100 17.76 96 91 90 94 82 10.12 8.99 5.75 4.40 Managers Assistant Supervisors Professionals Administrative Managers Assistant Supervisors Professionals Administrative managers staff managers staff Man Woman Annual Report 2019 63 GRI [401-2][401-3] Benefits Reflecting its commitment to its • Childcare facilities collaborators, Banco Santander offers a Banco Santander directly pays a range of benefits and incentives to their fullnursery service for the children of time workers, including life insurance and female employees, who are under two health care, among others that were created years of age. The benefit is granted to promote work and family life conciliation, through establishments recognized by the education and development of the National Pre-School Board JUNJI, employees and their children, and to support with which our organization has an critical moments in the lives of those who agreement, for a maximum monthly are part of the Bank. The following are the amount of 10.5 UF, and an equal amount main benefits and the coverage in place as for enrolment. The Bank also provides of 2019. a substitute benefit for those female collaborators whose children are unable • Life insurance to attend a nursery. Coverage of 36 base salaries in case of natural death; 72 base salaries for • Full payment of licences accidental death; and 36 base salaries for In the case of medical leave due to illness total and permanent disability. Payments or occupational accident or disease, the for these coverages is made once the Bank shall pay all employees their usual worker has delivered their beneficiary fixed remuneration in full for a period of declaration to their respective insurance up to three months. This benefit goes company. This benefit covers 100% of all beyond the minimum legal requirement full-time employees. and includes maternity and parental leave. • Health care This benefit consists in the possibility • Retirement Plan of participating in one of the welfare GRI [201-3] funds, which are autonomous from trade The Bank also offers an additional benefit union organizations and which share a for its senior management, consisting of bipartisan administration with the Bank. a pension plan that seeks to provide them If the employee does not wish to join a with funds for a better supplementary health fund, they must bear the costs of pension at the time of retirement. the health and life insurance supplement on their own. The Bank supplements the voluntary contributions made by the beneficiaries • Parental leave for their future pension, with an On the birth of a child, the Bank grants a equivalent contribution based on seven-day leave to the child’s employee mixed collective insurance policies, father. Of these days, five correspond to the beneficiary of which is the Bank. those granted by current legal legislation. Managers will be entitled to receive The birth must be accredited through a this benefit only if they are currently certificate. In 2019, 90% of collaborators employed at the time of their 60th who became fathers with the right to birthday. this benefit used it. On the other hand the Bank complies with the legislation of paid maternity. During 2019, 417 women took this leave, that is to say 100% of those elegible. 64 Support benefits for the development of collaborators and their families as of 2019 163 266 225 • END-OF-YEAR BENEFITS Christmas food packages Grants for Scholarships Scholarships for offspring • Christmas presents for offspring pre-university for staff studying at universities or • Christmas Party for offspring professional institutes • Annual Christmas Bonus 11 3,582 6 SUPPORT BENEFITS • Uniforms Awards for Best Academic Excellence Ibero-American scholarships • Meals PSU Score Awards for employees’ offspring • Transport • Commitment and Loyalty Bonus • Permanence Bonus • Bonus for Family Dependent of Employee • National Holidays Bonus • Winter Bonus • Holiday Bonus 516 886 558 • • School Bonus Marriage Bonus Collaborators had Collaborators had Bonuses and • Bereavement Bonus access to a nursery access to pre-school child-birth • Bereavement Leave for their children for their children gifts • Marriage and Civil Union Leave Flexiworking I feel very lucky and happy to work in a company that gives me the chance Alongside the above, Banco Santander has adopted labour flexibility as a value to have a real space for myself and that contributes to the improvement of my family. This programme is very their employees’ quality of life, giving innovative since all the people who I attractive benefits for them, ranging from free afternoons and remote work have spoken to about the application to Meaningful Leave (Pausa con Sentido). to this programme are all amazed”. The latter is a programme that grants a special leave of up to three months, without pay, for those who want to take CAMILA LOZANO a break to carry out a project relevant to PRE-JUDICIAL CREDIT EXECUTIVE, their lives and that for lack of time they TERRITORIAL CENTRO CÍVICO, AND have been unable to achieve. BENEFICIARY OF MEANINGFUL LEAVE Annual Report 2019 65 Added to the aforementioned, there are measurement concerning the use of three new benefits in this line that were this modality, which included a survey launched during 2019: of participants and an interview with supervisors and internal clients, obtained • Personalized Schedule; an initiative that good overall results. The design of a allows employees of Central Services policy and procedures for those who to start and finish their working day choose this work modality was also an hour earlier or later. The schedule completed, concerning the function they change can be taken between one to perform within the Bank. five days a week, with the option to choose a different schedule for each day. • Afternoon Leave for Voluntary Work It is also possible to use this model for (Permiso Tarde de Voluntariado); a limited or an extended period. By the pilot programme launched in 2019 that end of November 2019, 429 applications granted a free afternoon leave to Central had been received to try this working Services employees with an indefinite modality. contract, so that they could have 4 working hours to volunteer in their own • Tele-working; pilot programme or third-party initiatives, focusing on launched by the Human Resources helping the most vulnerable people Division in August 2019, with the in our society. This initiative became a participation of 35 collaborators, who permanent benefit from March 1, 2020. worked together with their supervisors to delimit the initiative’s purpose, key Below is the number of partners who definitions, responsibilities, ethical benefited from work flexibility initiatives practices, and other aspects. A perception during 2019: 20 7,612 259 people took collaborators took a employees a Meaningful free afternoon and worked under the Leave 8,902 took special mode Schedule to family leaves Suit You 3,787 4,665 35 contributors collaborators took partners participated in accessed the their Birthday the Tele-working pilot Additional Leave Afternoon off programme 66 GRI [403-1][403-2][403-3][403-4][403-5][403-6][403-7][403-8][403-9][403-10] Health and Safety For Banco Santander, its employees’ Another critical focal point of the Occupational and preventive occupational health and safety is a concern. occupational health plan is the control examinations For this reason, it has implemented a of psychosocial factors and risk factors working programme that includes the concerning musculoskeletal diseases. Since All occupational and preventive implementation of strategies concerning 2017 these risks have been systematically examinations advised to collaborators occupational health, work safety, fire assessed within all branches and central in the context of occupational health prevention and other issues, in order to buildings. With the results obtained in programmes are carried out at the Mutual improve and prevent health and safety the last assessment during May 2019, we de Seguridad. To maintain the confidentiality conditions, and thus promote the wellare working with Mutual de Seguridad in of results, they are delivered directly to each being of the people who are part of the plans for the implementation of corrective collaborator, in compliance with Law 19,628 organization. This programme, developed measures, as there are branches assessed as on the protection of privacy and the Internal jointly with the Mutual de Seguridad, is medium-risk. Regulations of Hygiene and Safety of the monitored monthly and has approximately organization. During 2019 the risk prevention team 60% coverage. attended several workshops to increase For 2019, the approach taken by the knowledge regarding the WMSDs protocol occupational health and safety management application, psychosocial risks protocols and aimed at reducing the accident indicators the Occupational Noise Exposure Protocol caused by occupational hazards, (PREXOR). occupational diseases and transit accidents. It should be noted that, in 2019, the accident rate registered a 7.7% drop compared to 2018, exceeding the 5% reduction target; the occupational disease rate was reduced by 10%, amply exceeding the 6% decrease target; while the road accident rate had Work-related injuries a 15% reduction goal, however, the GRI [403-9] result was 8.9%. According to data from Number Rate the Superintendence of Social Security Number and rate of deaths resulting from an 0.00 0% (SUSESO), there was an increase in transit occupational injury accidents nationwide, especially in the last Number and rate of occupational injury with 0.00 0% quarter of the year. significant consequences (not including deaths) Number and rate of recorded occupational 66 2.35% injury Ankle sprains, knee contusion, hand Primary types of work-related injuries contusion, sacrococcygeal contusion. Work-related diseases GRI [403-10] Number of diseases Number of fatalities as a result of work-related diseases 0 Number of work-related health impact cases 10 Psychosocial diseases; musculoskeletal diseases Main types of work-related diseases and occupational dysphonia. Annual Report 2019 67 Work Safety 2017 2018 2019 Goal Accident rate (/100) 0.78 0.86 0.59 n.a. Fatality rate (/100,000) 0 0 0 0 Average number of days 19.89 12.12 26.45 <30 lost due to accident 2016 2017 2018 2019 Absence rate* 4.00% 4.40% 4.70% 4.60% Days of absence 35.98 61.41 41.41 62.25 Coverage: % employees 100 100 100 100 * Absence rate formula: [number of days absent/total days to be worked] x 100. The absence rate is based on the total number of days lost due to absenteeism of any kind, not only as a result of an occupational injury or illness. This includes days of individual ailment due to minor illnesses as well as personal days taken for undisclosed reasons. It does not include scheduled or allowed absenteeism, such as holidays, study time, maternity or paternity leave, etc. Accident rate 0.86 0.78 0.59 2017 2018 2019 68 Prevention of Joint committees occupational risks Banco Santander Chile has three joint BeHealthy week also offers partners the Health and Safety committees: one for possibility to take voluntary preventive tests Banco Santander Chile has a Risk Prevention headquarter offices and two for branches. such as blood pressure control, glycemia, Policy that provides the framework for all These committees meet once a month weight, height and a health habits survey. activities in this area. Furthermore, the to address the review of occupational These tests are performed by a medical Bank makes available to all employees accident and disease statistics, the analysis team of the Mutual de Seguridad, and a mandatory e-learning course that of occupational accidents, strategies to results are delivered directly to collaborators concerns the use and management of promote accident risk prevention, and other for them to manage their health. fire extinguishers, risks within offices, risks of falls, burns, procedures in case of related topics. The decisions taken by these As reported previously concerning benefits, emergency, and other contents related to bodies are mandatory for the company, in Santander facilitates the access of its occupational risk prevention. the context of the Supreme Decree No. 54, employees to health services outside the which establishes the functioning of joint occupational field through a series of On the other hand, the Risk Prevention health and safety committees. medical agreements with different health department of Santander has a procedure agencies and institutions, which are for identifying hazards and non-conformities informed on the intranet. This is coupled through a preventive management tool called Check Mutual, which seeks to identify Healthy collaborators with a collective agreement that includes health insurance contracted with an processes, assess the level of operational Health initiatives driven by the Bank insurer to cover the co-payment of medical risk control, and establish recommendations include the BeHealthy Week, a programme and dental care of employees and their to address compliance gaps. Likewise, that emerges from the Group to address dependents. the controlling measures, according to the challenge of being the healthiest associated risk levels, are established based organization in the world. The programme The Bank does not receive the results of on the collection of information carried out promotes healthy behaviours concerning medical examinations carried out by its within the workplace. exercise and nutrition, and provides tools employees in the non-occupational context, to control and improve health and stress except those carried out by private security. The Bank’s occupational safety and health management. The 2019 version of this Due to the nature of their functions and programme also consider the levelling initiative considered various activities current regulations, they are required to of competencies of the risk prevention organized around the four cornerstones undergo a physical examination and a team, which continually incorporates of the programme: Know Yourself, Feed certificate of impulse control, after which new technical skills to ensure effective Yourself, Balance Yourself and Move the company only receives a Suitable or compliance with the work plan. During Yourself. Among them, there were Unsuitable result, without additional details. 2019, workshops were held on Manual Loading Management, WMSDs protocol motivational lectures about health, healthy regarding Musculoskeletal Disorders, and cooking workshops, an organic products Occupational Noise Exposure Protocol fair, mindfulness workshops, relaxation (PREXOR), among others. massages and sports and recreational workshops. Annual Report 2019 69 GRI [402-1] Freedom of association Banco Santander Chile maintains a Collective bargaining continuous and fluid dialogue with its 24 agreements trade union organizations and 3 federations, which represent the interests of the GRI [102-41] employees before the company. As a result of these approaches, in December The Bank works collaboratively with all of 2019 a collective bargaining process was them, seeking the well-being of its workers successfully closed with the Contact Centre area of Santander. and balancing the compliance with the Group’s objectives. The organization has It should be noted that 100% of employees a relationship policy for all trade union are covered by collective bargaining organizations, which provides meeting and agreements. communication spaces to facilitate dialogue, welcome their approaches and ensure that they are aligned with the strategic objectives of the organization, as well as periodically reporting on decisions that impact both the Unionization 2017 2018 2019 company and its employees. Percentage of employees represented by 75.5% 75.1% 74.9% an independent union. 70 Corporate volunteering The collaborators’ commitment to The main organizations with which Volunteering hours during 2019, Santander’s mission is strongly reflected Santander performs corporate volunteering in the corporate volunteering initiatives are TECHO-Chile and Fundación Belén broken down by position promoted by the Bank. Educa, to which the active role of Santander Chile in Compromiso País is added since Position Total This consists of a set of activities supported 2019. This is a programme of the Presidency Directors 0.0 by Banco Santander that, aligned with the of the Republic of Chile that seeks to answer sustainability strategy of the company, seek Managers 194.0 the main social problems, among them, to motivate the participation of employees, the incomplete schooling of people over 18 Assistant managers 234.0 who devote their working time, skills and years. Likewise, collaborators can participate Supervisors 811.8 talents to causes, projects and non-profit with their own initiatives through the annual organizations whose goal is to contribute Professionals 2,862.5 Santander solidarity projects contest. positively to society. Administration staff 814.5 During 2019, 24 initiatives were carried The Bank’s Culture Policy contains the Total 4,916.8* out, involving a total of 2,411 employees, guidelines governing the activities to be benefiting 11,554 people. Among the performed, which approach education as *The figure above combines working and nonoutstanding activities of the year was the working hours, with 57% of working hours and the central axis with three primary lines: Volunteer Afternoon launch, the Volunteer in 53% of non-working hours. prevention of school dropouts; promotion of Financial Education programme, Santander higher education; and promotion of financial in the Present (Santander Presente), education. However, the policy also leaves Women Leaders Mentoring, Volunteer in room for the development of other activities Environmental Education, and the various concerning the social and economic needs of solidarity projects organized by volunteers the location where they are developed. from all the regions of the country. These instances are also valuable tools to (For more information about these and strengthen the company’s commitment other social impact programmes see chapter to society; to increase in professionals Creating value for society.) the sense of commitment and pride in belonging to the company; to create bonds that improve internal cohesion between employees; and to develop competencies and skills necessary for their professional and personal life, such as collaboration, teamwork, leadership and creativity. Annual Report 2019 71 3 Value to Shareholders Banco Santander Chile centres its daily financial institution in the country, both efforts around financial business, product in terms of market share, asset strength innovation, risk management, a strong and profitability. Moreover, it is one of the 188,446,126,794 focus on customers’ quality of service and an important presence in the local leading players in the local market, both concerning market capitalization and trading Number of shares in circulation volume. market. This places the Bank as a leading US$ 11,179.57 Communication channels with shareholders million Market capitalization Shareholders’ Annual 20F 16.7% 3.68% Meeting Report Report ROE, one of the yield on last most profitable dividend banks in Chile Quarterly Conference calls Investor Relations results reports and webcasts webpage at Banco Santander website 2.37 A+ times Book (stable) by JCR rating Value agency that started coverage in 2019. Investor conferences Meetings and Communication Banco Santander Chile began its activity in Latin America, visits to branches via email within the country during 1978, with the Europe, USA and opening of a subsidiary dedicated mainly to Asia foreign trade operations. In 1982 the assets and liabilities of the former Banco Español Chile in liquidation were acquired. In 1996, Banco Santander Chile merged with Banco Osorno, and as a result of this merger, Banco Santander Chile’s shares were traded brought to life the largest bank within the Breakfasts with in the local market and in the New York country, achieving leadership in all business local investors Stock Exchange (NYSE). In July 2002, the segments while becoming one of the and minority merger of Banco Santander Chile with largest companies in Chile and since then, shareholders Banco Santiago was approved, incorporating one of the most important stocks traded in the former into the latter. This operation the local stock index IPSA. 72 Shareholder Business name or shareholder name Nº actions % over total Structure Santander Chile Holding S.A. 66,822,519,695 35.5% Teatinos Siglo XXI Inversiones S. A 59,770,481,573 31.7% Santander Group 126,593,001,268 67.2% T Rowe Price Group Inc 4,925,701,200 2.6% Standard Life Aberdeen PLC 3,716,450,000 2.0% A F P Habitat S A 2,916,887,066 1.5% Banco de Chile on behalf of third parties 6,314,521,607 3.4% Schroders PLC 2,755,972,800 1.5% A F P Provida S A 2,498,414,222 1.3% Vanguard Group Inc/The 2,404,530,695 1.3% A F P Capital S A 2,111,056,412 1.1% JPMorgan Chase & Co 1,940,978,400 1.0% Itaú-Corpbanca on behalf of third parties 5,083,184,612 2.7% Banco Santander on behalf of foreign 4,571,196,533 2.4% investors A F P Cuprum S A 1,298,142,588 0.7% Banchile Corredores de Bolsa S. A 1,219,522,255 0.6% Harding Loevner LP 1,113,956,400 0.6% Wells Fargo & Co 1,092,526,000 0.6% B.C.I.Corredor de Bolsa S.A. 840,788,679 0.4% Larraín Vial S.A. Corredora de Bolsa 809,744,704 0.4% Renaissance Technologies LLC 806,210,800 0.4% Santander Corredores de Bolsa Limitada 765,833,180 0.4% A F P Model S A 755,936,113 0.4% INCA Investments LLC 563,000,000 0.3% As of December 31, 2019 Banco FMR LLC 527,084,000 0.3% Santander’s core capital was divided into USS Investment Management Ltd 526,869,600 0.3% 188,446,126,794 single-series shares, Morgan Stanley 486,296,813 0.3% without preference of any kind. The Bank’s shares are traded on the Santiago Dimensional Fund Advisors LP 466,870,800 0.2% Stock Exchange and the New York Stock State Street Corp 443,735,078 0.2% Exchange (NYSE) as American Depositary A F P Planvital S A 427,142,802 0.2% Receipts (ADRs). The primary shareholder is Santander Group, which controls 67.18% AQR Capital Management LLC 407,518,000 0.2% of the ownership through the companies BlackRock Inc 376,796,000 0.2% Santander Chile Holding S.A. and Teatinos Btg Pactual Chile S.A.Corredores de Bolsa 345,251,421 0.2% Siglo XXI Ltda. The remaining shareholders Valores Security S.A. Corredores de Bolsa 316,077,690 0.2% include Administradora de Fondos de Pensiones (AFP)-who as of December 31, Ariel Investments LLC 314,219,200 0.2% 2019 held a total of 5.31% of the sharesBice Inversiones Corredores de Bolsa S.A. 310,148,814 0.2% and other minority shareholders, including Driehaus Capital Management LLC 281,274,000 0.1% investors who are ADRs holders and represent 13.17% of ownership. Relevant Todd Asset Management LLC 260,487,200 0.1% ADR holders that stand out are major global Parametric Portfolio Associates LL 222,464,000 0.1% pension funds and sovereign wealth funds Other 11,387 shareholders 7,636,335,842 4,0% in the United Kingdom, the United States, Canada, the Middle East and Asia. Total 188,446,126,794 100.0% Source: DCV and Bloomberg Annual Report 2019 73 Banco Santander Chile Geographical distribution of minority Share Structure shareholders in Santander Chile Local Others US 2% shares 31% 14.34% AFP 5.31% Santander UK Chile Group 12% 48% ADR 67.18% 13.17% United Arab Emirates 1% Singapore Japan 4% 1% The Netherlands Source: DCV Source: Bloomberg 1% Total return including dividends Price to book value compared to other banks % Santander Chile -13.6 Santander Chile 2.4 IPSA -8.4 Latin America 2.5 Banco de Chile -16.8 Developed 1.3 BCI -19.4 Emerging 1.0 Itaú Corpbanca -31.6 Global 1.2 Asia (excl. Japan) 0.9 Europe 0.8 Source: Bloomberg Source: UBS Global Banks Valuation Comparative Evolution % 10 140 5 120 0 100 80.3 -5 80 -8.5 -10 60 -15 -13.6 40 21.3 -20 20 12-31-2018 1-31-2019 2-28-2019 3-31-2019 4-30-2019 5-31-2019 6-30-2019 7-31-2019 8-31-2019 9-30-2019 10-31-2019 11-30-2019 12-31-2019 0 12-31-2014 12-31-2015 12-31-2016 12-31-2017 12-31-2018 12-31-2019 Source: Bloomberg Santander Chile IPSA 74 Stock Market Indicators 2019 2018 2017 Change% Closing share price ($) 43.00 51.69 48.19 (16.8) Highest share price ($) 53.99 55.23 50.65 (2.25) Lowest share price ($) 42.00 47.50 34.65 (11.6) ADR price (US$) 23.07 29.90 31.27 (22.8) Highest ADR price ($) 32.62 34.94 32.06 (6.64) Lowest ADR price ($) 20.84 28.94 21.36 (27.99) Shares (million) 188,446.1 188,446.1 188,446.1 N/A ADR Ratio 400.00 400.00 400.00 N/A Earnings per share ($) 2.93 3.14 3.0 (6.69) Earnings per ADR (US$) 1.57 1.80 1.95 (12.78) Dividends per share ($) 1.88 2.25 1.75 (16.44) Dividends per ADR (US$) 1.13 1.49 1.04 (24.16) Pay-out policy (%) 60.00 75.00 70.00 (20.00) Share price/profit per share (times) 13.52 17.12 16.83 N/A Share price to book value (times) 2.37 3.01 2.90 N/A Market capitalization (US$ millions) 11,179.57 14,086.35 14,732.00 (20.64) Average daily traded volume (US$ millions) 14.94 17.76 17.91 (15.88) Total return (including dividends) in pesos -13.62 12.00 35.10 N/A Total return (including dividends) in dollars -19.21 -0.25 49.30 N/A Stock price performance After a rather positive 2018, 2019 posed ADR). Considering the dividend paid during Average daily trading volume challenges. For an important part of the year, the year as well, which corresponds to 60% US$ million international stock markets were affected of the attributable income for 2018 in the by the uncertainty created by the trade war amount of $1.88457837 per share, the total NYSE between the United States and China. Due return received by shareholders in the year Santiago Stock Exchange to the importance of these two countries reached -13.6%. for Chilean trade, the local stock market In terms of valuation, the Bank ended experienced high volatility during the year. 2019 trading at a price to book value 17.8 Regarding the social events that occurred ratio of 2.37 times, which reflected the within the country towards the end of 2019, optimism regarding the future performance 14.9 uncertainty in the local market increased of the institution, as well as the positive 10.2 from October onwards, and the Chilean assessment the market has of the Bank’s 7.8 peso depreciated sharply. As a result, the strategy and the good financial results local stock index IPSA closed with a negative achieved. Santander Chile’s share is one annual variation of 11.2% and a total return, of the most traded at a national level, including dividends, of -8.4%. considering the transactions on the Santiago The Chilean banking sector performed lower Stock Exchange and the NYSE. In 2019, than the IPSA as it is a sector exposed to the average daily trading volume reached 7.6 7.1 economic performance. Banco Santander US$14.9 million, of which US$7.1 million Chile achieved the best annual variation corresponds to local shares and US$7.8 among its peers, with -16.8% and ending million to ADR. 2018 2019 the year at a value of Ch $ 43.0 (US$23.1 per Annual Report 2019 75 Dividend Activities with Risk Policy Investors rating The Bank’s dividend policy is governed The Investor Relations area and the Banco Santander is one of the private by the current regulations on dividends Shareholders Department of Santander companies with the best risk rating in outlined in the Chilean Securities Market Chile are responsible for keeping Latin America and emerging markets. The Law and the General Banking Law, which shareholders and investors duly informed of institution has risk ratings at the national indicates that at least 30% of the assigned the Bank’s progress. For this purpose, a full level from Fitch Ratings and ICR; and at the profit for the year is to be distributed. agenda of activities is organized throughout international level from Moody’s, Standard Nevertheless, as in previous years, the Bank the year, including the Shareholders’ & Poor’s (S&P) and Fitch Ratings, all of which has distributed dividends over 30% due Meeting, quarterly report presentations, upheld their ratings of the Bank indicating a to the high returns and good results that conference calls, the Investor Relations stable outlook. In 2019 and for the first time, Santander has achieved. Therefore, in 2019, site, international investor conferences and the Japan Credit Rating (JCR) was added to and following the resolution of the Ordinary various outreach instances. the international rankings, which classified Shareholders’ Meeting held on April 23 of Santander with an A + and a stable outlook. the same year, 60% of the profit attributed Furthermore, various communication to equity holders was distributed of the channels are set up to ensure permanent 2018 profits, which meant a dividend yield contact with various investors and minority of 3.7% at the date of payment. shareholders. In total, during 2019, more than 800 contacts were made with investors The dividend reinvestment programme of all types in more than 10 countries. Local ratings aimed at Banco Santander’s retail shareholders within the country offers the reinvestment of dividends received Fitch Ratings from their shares into the Bank’s own Shares 1CN1 shares, without expenses or commissions Short-term deposits N1+ for the service. Furthermore, the Bank’s shareholders can acquire and sell shares Long-term deposits AAA of any issuer through the Shareholder Mortgage bonds AAA Department, with preferential fees. Senior bonds AAA Subordinated bonds AA Year Dividend Percentage Dividend (Ch$ millon) of distributed yield profits (%) ICR Chile 2015 330,198 60 5.07 Shares 1CN1 Short-term deposits N1+ 2016 336,659 75 5.30 Long-term deposits AAA 2017 330,646 70 4.30 Mortgage bonds AAA 2018 423,611 75 4.24 Senior bonds AAA 2019 355,141 60 3.68 Subordinated bonds AA+ 76 Banco Santander stands out among the main sustainability indexes International ratings Moody’s Due to Santander’s strong commitment to the progress of individuals, its respect Bank deposits A1 towards the environment and its good Baseline Credit Assessment corporate governance, which is also A3 (BCA) manifested in its adherence to the main BCA adjusted A3 initiatives of sustainable development and Senior bonds A1 responsible banking, Santander Group was distinguished, for the first time, as the Commercial paper P-1 world’s most sustainable bank in the Dow Outlook Stable Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) 2019. This international benchmark assesses the sustainability performance of companies Standard & Poor’s in economic, social and environmental domains. Foreign currency long-term A rating Furthermore, and for the fifth consecutive Local currency long-term A year, Santander Chile is part of DJSI Chile, rating DJSI CHILE achieving first place among the local bank Foreign currency short24% 1st A-1 ranking belonging to this index, after term rating reaching a total of 67 points. The Bank also Local currency short-term A-1 managed to stay in the DJSI MILA. rating we are part of the in domestic 24% most sustainable banking This adds to the ESG (Environmental, Social companies in the world Sector Governance) rating obtained with VIGEO Fitch Ratings Eiris, of 58/100 points, which increased Foreign currency long-term by 20 points compared to the 2016 rating, A rating while in the MSCI index, Santander Chile Local currency long-term is evaluated with an A rating in the ESG A ESG VIGEO EIRIS RATING rating field. Moreover, Santander Chile is one of 58/100 Foreign currency short19 companies within Chile to be part of F1 term rating the FTSE4Good Emerging Markets and Local currency short-term Latin America stock index, being very well points F1 evaluated in the environmental and social rating dimension in comparison to other banks in Viability rating A the index. In retail and specialized banking Outlook Stable catrgory These achievements reflect the constant and systematic work that the institution has been developing in recent years in terms of 8th 4th JCR of 270 in the of 100 in sustainability, and they are also an invitation Foreign currency long-term world emerging A+ to continue improving and contributing to rating markets the inclusive and sustainable growth that Outlook Stable the world requires nowadays. Annual Report 2019 77 4 Creating value for society Understanding that to get people and We present here the work that Banco businesses to thrive is essential to achieve a Santander Chile has developed at a balance between economic growth, social social and environmental level, guided welfare and environmental protection, by the General Sustainability Policy, the Banco Santander has undertaken the Climate Change Policy and Environmental challenge of creating value for society in a Management, and the Culture Policy of responsible manner, promoting inclusive Santander, which provide the framework to and sustainable growth through a variety design and develop all projects. of initiatives that incorporate social and environmental criteria in its development. Communication channels with members of the society Press Sustainability room website Santander The Bank’s Social Commitments networks such as a bimonthly digital newsletter Instagram, Facebook, that informs actions and Twitter profiles. concerning our commitment to sustainability 78 GRI [413-1] Social Dimension For Santander, it is important to contribute quality of life and broaden their horizons. to society, not only because it accomplishes When individuals progress, their families, the Bank’s mission of contributing to the and finally, the country progress as well. progress of individuals, but because it generates a positive impact beyond that of The projects detailed here have emerged the direct beneficiaries of its initiatives. from dialogue with various organizations from both civil society and academia, which In this sense, the Bank has chosen to have a long-term relationship with the Bank. contribute to the inclusive growth of TECHO-Chile and Fundación Belén Educa society in three main areas: Contribution are some examples of this. The initiatives to Education and Social Inclusion, that are finally concreted are those aligned Financial Empowerment, and Support of to the company’s mission, and that have Entrepreneurship, with the belief that by the most significant positive impact on the contributing in these areas, individuals community. acquire the tools necessary to improve their Contribution to Education Financial and Social Inclusion empowerment • Santander International • Sanodelucas Santander Mobility Scholarship • Santander Life Programme • Cuenta Life (Life Account) • Universia • Financial Education • Fundación Belén Educa Programme within schools • Compromiso País Programme along with the Public Policy (Nationwide Commitment Centre of the Pontificia Programme) (Santander in the Universidad Católica de Chile Present, Learn Older, Learn • Olimpiadas de Actualidad Better) (News Olympics) of the • Un Techo para Aprender National Press Association Learning Centers Support for Corporate entrepreneurship volunteering • Ideas X • Santander X • Brain Chile • Work/Café Programmes • Santander Technical Studies Scholarships Informe Annual Report Anual 2019 79 Contribution to Education and Social Inclusion HIGHER EDUCATION SUPPORT PROGRAMME Goal 2019 Highlights In just over 20 years, Grupo Santander’s To contribute to the preparation • The number of beneficiaries Higher Education Support Programme of future professionals in the in entrepreneurship and (PAES in Spanish) has become an ally for context of globalization, creating scholarships doubled, from 500 university students within all countries international experiences that in 2018 to 1,000 in 2019. where Santander maintains operations. allow them to broaden their world In Chile, Santander Universities is the area vision and acquire new tools that • The 2020 target is 2,000 they can put at the service of beneficiaries. responsible for managing its contribution to the programme’s three pillars: scholarships, society. entrepreneurship and employment. SANTANDER INTERNATIONAL MOBILITY SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAMME Goal Santander Universidades (Santander To create international experiences Universities) has been in Chile for more than to expand the horizons of young +400 18 years, and for 20 years around the world. undergraduate students taking a It is a programme that offers international semester of training abroad to acquire mobility scholarships for undergraduate new tools of development and scholarships students, young teachers and researchers improvement. awarded who can apply for the Ibero-American scholarship programme to universities in Argentina, Brazil, Spain, Chile, Colombia, Mexico, Peru, Portugal, Puerto Rico, and Uruguay, as well as for free destination and use, in the case of Free Choice Mobility scholarships. Currently, the programme has supported the progress of more than 4,500 beneficiaries. This initiative has a I decided to try international mobility because direct impact on the lives of those involved, in the scientific area, to have networks and expanding their worldview and increasing international connections is quite important. their possibilities for social mobility. During Besides, for me as a person, it is a great 2019, the programme granted more opportunity to be able to develop, to know than 400 scholarships, with applications other cultures, to master a new language and in increasing by 28% over the previous year. general to train myself as a person to contribute to society. The Santander Scholarship for me is a great opportunity.” ISABEL GARCIA, AWARDED A SCHOLARSHIP BY SANTANDER IN 2019 After completing high school, Isabel decided to stay in the Maule Región and study bioinformatics at Universidad de Talca. Thanks to Santander’s International Mobility Scholarships, Isabel was able to travel to Canada and study at the University of Ottawa. 80 Santander Scholarship Awards 2019, a More than 200 students participated in I invite you to make the most of recognition of international mobility Santander Scholarship Awards 2019, a the opportunities you are granted moving ceremony of recognition to the with these scholarships. Always For the third year, Santander Universidades beneficiaries of a Santander International try to leave a mark, contribute celebrates students who received one mobility scholarship, with the objective to your knowledge and skills to the of Santander International Mobility enhance the academic training of students development of others”. Scholarships. with preparation abroad. Cristóbal Díaz, the scholarshipholder of Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile 2018. Universia Promoted by Banco Santander, Universia is the largest university cooperation network in Ibero-America, bringing together more than 1,300 higher education institutions. In Chile, 60 institutions, both public and private, participate. Through its digital platform, young people can access information on higher education institutions, national and international university studies, scholarships, courses, employment options and news from the university world. Among the most relevant initiatives II National Meeting of Metared Chile, during 2019 was the work performed by host institute: Pontificia Universidad Metared, a collaborative network formed Católica de Chile. by managers of Information Technologies 2019 Highlights and Communication (ICT) areas belonging to universities and public and private 1. Metared Chile, its various webinars, lectures and working meetings, institutes in Ibero-America, with more emphasizing the II National Meeting and than 40 institutions within Chile. It the I International Meeting. aims to address the vital task of digital transformation in higher education by 2. Meetings among higher education sharing best practices and success stories, institutions, including the Meeting of and by carrying out collaborative projects. Communications Directors and the Meeting of Postgraduate Directors. During the year, several seminars, meetings and videoconferences were 3. 2020 Admission Journal: a publication held at a national and international Goal that informs future students about prelevel concerning issues related to digital degree admission processes, delivering To be the largest Ibero-American transformation. Among these, the II 70,000 copies nationwide at 219 points. university cooperation network National Meeting of Metared Chile and that contributes to the progress of 4. Labour integration and self-employment the I International Meeting, both based in higher education institutions and course: E-learning course taught to more Santiago, stand out. They addressed the their communities. Its strategic than 20,000 students in 2019, which work carried out among higher education pillars are: to be a meeting ground comprehensively addresses critical institutions regarding their relationship for different institutions; to support issues for all new professionals. to providers, cybersecurity, educational the digital transformation of technologies, indicators and KPIs, among universities; to guide the academic 5. Postgraduate Expo: Fair that brings other topics. orientation of future students together more than 20 universities and to promote employment and reporting on their offer of postgraduate employability. courses and continuing training. Annual Report 2019 81 Fundación Belén Educa Banco Santander has maintained an alliance • Mentoring Programme for Women • Cybersecurity lecture with Fundación Belen Educa since this nonIn 2019 the first version of the Women Banco Santander executives gave lectures profit organization began its contribution Leaders Mentorship Programme was on digital self-care and cybersecurity to promote quality of education within launched, developed jointly with Belén to 160 students from 8th grade to 11th vulnerable sectors. For 19 years, this Educa and the Ministry of Women grade, from San Damian de Molokai cooperation has resulted in several initiatives and Gender Equality. The aim of this school belonging to the Foundation, that have enabled the inclusive and initiative is to encourage young women located in the commune of Cerro Navia. sustainable growth of pupils and students to continue their secondary and higher In the activity, the young students of schools in Puente Alto, Maipú, La Pintana, education, taking as an example other learned about the main risks they face in San Joaquín, Quilicura, Pudahuel, Santiago professional women who act as mentors. their digital interactions through social and Cerro Navia in the Metropolitan Region, On this occasion, a group of 19 female networks and the internet in general and La Union, in the Los Rios Region. The executives from Santander accompanied and were able to ask the Bank’s experts following projects were carried out during the same number of students from Belén questions in a final group discussion. 2019: Educa to guide them in their personal and professional concerns. The programme • Meeting with La Roja Femenina in seeks to build a space for dialogue Santander Club and conversation regarding the role of About 40 female students from Belén • Santander Academic Excellence Educa, from the Arzobispo Manuel Vicuña women in the world of work. Scholarships school of La Legua, attended one of the Four young former students from Belén • Santander tutoring programme National Women’s Football Team training Educa were recipients of an academic Thanks to the support of volunteers from sessions at the Santander country club, excellence scholarship the Bank grants the Bank, 44 students in their high school as part of their preparation for the FIFA annually since 2004 to those with senior year belonging to Belén Educa Women’s World Cup in France, after distinguished school performance, schools received personalized guidance which they shared a moment with the commitment, leadership, responsibility during their final school year on personal, athletes. and contribution to the community, academic and employment concerns. easing their transition towards higher During the 11 consecutive years since The meeting included a motivational education. Historically, this benefit has the program was implemented in the talk directed at young female members enabled scholarship holders to fund Bank, it has gathered more than 150 on behalf of the technical staff of the all or a percentage of the annual fee Santander tutors and a similar number Football Team, who highlighted the for the university courses they have of tutored students. This institution has importance of discipline, perseverance chosen. Currently, the scholarship been successful in accompanying the and teamwork. is intended towards a programme Foundation’s schoolchildren, increasing of maintenance and retention of year by year the continuity of studies • Environmental Education Project scholarship-holding students entering percentage, which in the case of students Four schools of Fundación Belén higher education, providing funding for accompanied by Santander professionals Educa participated in the Santander the student’s transport and food, as well reaches 83% (compared to 73% of the recycling and environmental education as personalized assistance during the rest of Belén Educa students). programme. This resulted in the process. installation of recycling spots within these establishments, awareness • Internships in Banco Santander lectures to all students and teachers, and 29 young individuals who had just training in recycling techniques. finished secondary education completed their internship in various areas of the Bank, thereby meeting the requirement of graduating from their secondary education technical speciality. Goal To promote quality of education in vulnerable sectors, through community investment programmes in schools of Fundación Belén Educa. 14,260 668 1,154 Beneficiaries Volunteers Donated Hours 82 Compromiso País Programme • Santander in the Present Goal EUnderstanding that education plays Nationwide Commitment (Compromiso a transformative role in the lives of To support people over the age of 18 País) is an initiative coordinated by the people, Banco Santander, through its who are currently not studying in the Presidency of Chile, which brings together participation in Compromiso País, has completion of their 12 years of schooling. the public, private, academic and civil society developed this programme with the sectors to solve problems affecting the most goal to enable people over 18 years vulnerable population of the country. To this of age who have yet to complete their end, 16 working groups were set up, each studies, to take free exams and finish addressing various problems identified. their secondary education, thereby allowing them to meet a vital labour 87 28 With the mission of contributing to the requirement. progress of people and with the firm conviction that education is the driving Enrollees Volunteers During 2019, 28 employees of force of the country, Santander Chile joined the Bank participated, who for the this project, leading from the private world duration of three months assisted the workgroup dedicated to ensuring that a group of 87 people comprised of people over 18 years old, who did not workers from the Bank’s suppliers, complete their schooling, are able to do so. parents of different schools in Belén The figures indicate that 37% of Chileans over the age of 18 (about 5 million people) Educa and people that enrolled through the neighbourhood council. 66 1,023 have not completed the 12 years of Each of them was given access to Graduates Volunteer a digital platform to complete their hours schooling required by law (source: CASEN 2017), which has a direct impact on the studies, and to teachers trained to employment and social opportunities answer their doubts online and in the they can access. Banco Santander Chile company of volunteer tutors, who participates in the education workgroup donated 1,023 hours (406 working, with the Ministry of Education, AIEP, Crece 617 non-working). Out of the total Chile and Escuelas del Cariño. number of those enrolled, 66 people took the exam and all of them passed. Banco Santander looks to contribute to the progress of people with the firm conviction that education is the driving force for progress. Annual Report 2019 83 • Aprende Mayor (Learn Older) It is a programme aimed at people over 60, mostly retired or not working, who wish to complete their primary Goal education. 76 older adults from the communes of Independencia, La Granja To support and prepare people and Perquenco attended language, math, over the age of 60 to complete history and science classes twice a week schooling. for three months. The programme, which is part of the Compromiso País initiative, was designed and implemented in an alliance between SENAMA, the Ministry 76 54 Enrolees Tested of Education, Universidad Católica and Banco Santander, and culminated with the examination taken by 54 students, of whom 43 passed. This successful pilot initiative was 43 designed to be replicated by other Graduates institutions throughout the country. • Aprende Mejor (Learn Better) It is a programme aimed at preparing academically individuals deprived of their liberty who have not completed their 12 Goal years of formal education necessary for their high school validation exams. This To prepare academically population today shows a high interest individuals deprived of in completing their studies, but different liberty. issues within the prison context hinder their educational process. Aprende Mejor was a programme 61 28 coordinated jointly by Banco Santander and Gendarmerie, with the support of the Ministry of Education. Thanks to this Enrolees Tested programme, 61 inmates of the Santiago Sur Pre-trial Detention Centre were taught voluntarily by university students from related careers. Of the 61 inmates who enrolled in the programme, 28 took the exam and 19 passed. 19 Approved 84 A Shelter to Learn Education Centers (Centros de Aprendizaje Un Techo para Aprender) Mains goals Specific goals Answering the need to provide educational To generate learning opportunities in 1. To build and enable optimal opportunities and spaces that mitigate the the context of non-formal education educational spaces to develop effects of social exclusion and encourage for children and adolescents living in different educational programmes. community participation around education, encampments and villages. Banco Santander and TECHO-Chile created 2. To promote learning in excluded the Learning Centres “Un Techo para territories through educational Aprender”. These are spaces that provide programmes and activities for non-formal learning opportunities for children and adolescents. children and adolescents living in contexts of high vulnerability. 455 65 3. To strengthen the community’s commitment to children and children social leaders trained There are recreative educational adolescents’ education. attended as educational programmes, which promote skills managers such as collaboration, personal and social responsibility, critical thinking and communication, as well as the value of living and sharing together. 1,092 4 2,739 383 families operating hours of educational Santander positively programmes use of spaces volunteers impacted and 3,713 10 people operational learning centres You go and meet people. What I like the most is playing with friends, playing football with people or other games there, or sometimes we read books. I have a better time than watching TV or playing on my phone. I like games and share with so many kids. Also, I learned to put together the letters because I didn’t know how to read well, and the educational managers have helped me.” Testimony of a child benefited by the Learning Centre. Annual Report 2019 85 TECHO-Chile launches the “Sin Lugar” Banco Santander participates in (without a Place) campaign discussion groups concerning the city On average, 10 families begin their Banco Santander participated in an lives at an encampment every day in unprecedented day of activities to discuss Chile. This reality is what motivated and reflect on education, housing, and the development in 2019 of “Without a integration, together with Government Place”, a campaign with which TECHO– authorities, representatives of the Chile sought to add partners and to raise private sector, citizens, public figures, awareness regarding the consequences and volunteers and residents of the of the lack of housing or of a decent communities where TECHO-Chile neighbourhood to live in. works. The meeting was held in the Metropolitan Park of Santiago and aimed It is a three-chapter micro-series to foster dialogue regarding issues based on real life, which portrays related to the city in order to diminish the experiences of families living in societal gaps and build fairer and more encampments and blocks, reflecting the integrated cities. reality of exclusion lived by thousands of people in Chile. In order to promote social inclusion, Banco Santander invited its clients to join as partners in TECHO-Chile’s endeavour, through communication campaigns within its main social networks. It should be noted that this audio-visual work was recognized in the Achap Awards with four gold medals: Best campaign in Chile, Best Branded Content Series, Best Director, and Best Actor. 86 Financial empowerment GRI [203-2] One of the ways Santander Chile positively impacts people is through financial empowerment, both through financial education initiatives that encourage responsible decisionmaking regarding the management of their finances or by offering them products that encourage their good financial behaviour. SANODELUCAS SANTANDER SANTANDER LIFE: COMMERCIAL CUENTA LIFE (LIFE ACCOUNT) PROPOSAL THAT ENCOURAGES GOOD A pioneering programme in the Chilean FINANCIAL BEHAVIOUR Launched in 2019, Plan Cuenta Life is a banking industry that substantiates 100% digitally contracted account, with Santander’s commitment to the financial Santander Life is a value proposition for a focus on savings and several attributes education of all people, through concrete the mass income segment focused on that allow low-income families and more actions that promote the financial responsible and progressive banking, vulnerable groups to access essential knowledge of the whole society, seeking transactionality and financial education, financial services. to improve decision-making, the use of promoting the good financial behaviour of banking products and the management of customers. It operates through Meritolife, As an example, no fees are charged for personal finances. a merit-based programme that rewards transactions or money orders at national timely response to bank commitments with ATMs, and the one-time monthly fee is The digital platform offers financial literacy access to tangible benefits such as timely UF 0.08. Also, the account does not allow information in its various sections, both payment deferral, reduction of interest rates, overdrafts, which helps individuals avoid for entrepreneurs and for natural persons. payment dates changes, discounts and other over-indebtedness. During 2019, the programme benefited incentives. It also stimulates the behaviour 425,329 people. Cuenta Life also participates in the Meritolife of customers as digital users who can access programme of Santander Life, rewarding the the Meritolife platform from the app or overall banking performance of customers computer. with tangible benefits and incentives Goal The programme was enhanced with within this area. Additionally, through this To provide financial tools and new features, products and sources of programme, customers have access to the knowledge to individuals and recognition, to incorporate the financial first savings tool with targets where you can SMEs. education dimension and help customers select and set a savings and investment plan make better decisions, in line with the with a specific goal. Bank’s goal of contributing to the progress Through Cuenta Life, Santander not only of people. Santander Life impacted a total of is supporting the inclusion and financial 77,197 customers during 2019. empowerment of people who are currently 425,329 excluded from the banking system but it is doing so in a way that is consistent with their people reached culture: a Simple, Personal and Fair. Annual Report 2019 87 Banco Santander awards scholarships for AIPEF’s Diploma in Economic Journalism By means of granting 30 scholarships, With this, the Bank intends to Santander became part of a key project of contribute to the country by granting the Inter-American Association of Journalists financial education to journalists of Economy and Finance (AIPEF). This is a who will have the important task of Diploma in Economic Journalism taught communicating to society clear and by the School of Communications of the reliable information about the events Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile. that occur in the economic field. FINANCIAL EDUCATION PROGRAMME FINANCIAL EDUCATION AT SCHOOL WITH THE PUBLIC POLICY OLYMPICS ANP CENTRE OF UNIVERSIDAD CATÓLICA This year Santander joined the XI Olimpiadas Banco Santander and the Public Policy of students from different schools, de Actualidad (News Olympics) 2.0, a Centre of Pontificia Universidad Católica including those in vulnerable sectors competition endorsed by the National Press have been developing this programme since regarding the responsible management Association (ANP), which promotes the 2016, to improve the financial capacities of their personal finances and their interest, analysis and comprehension of and knowledge of the country’s educational entrepreneurship. In 2019, the the national contingency of the students communities through innovative and course was implemented in seven in the country, through the reading of local comprehensive methodologies. establishments in five communes newspapers. Between May and November of the Metropolitan Region (Maipu, 2019, 1,458 students from 243 schools In its fourth version, the programme Puente Alto, Pudahuel, La Pintana and in different regions of the country had the included the following stages: Renca), granting 335 scholarships for opportunity to measure their knowledge • Development of research concerning people to attend. of current events, and for the first time, of Financial Literacy and Financial financial education as well. The four finalist • “The future is saving” is a digital Behaviour of Teachers in Chile, with the teams, three from regions and one from initiative directed at ninth-graders purpose of investigating the material Santiago, were awarded in an enjoyable that seeks to facilitate the learning within schools and the financial ceremony held in December. process of financial issues, through knowledge that teachers in the country games on a web platform. In this way, have. A nationwide survey on financial we seek to make the internalization education was carried out and was of concepts, economic processes and Goal answered by 1,235 teachers. Among financial techniques more expeditious the main findings, it was found that for students and help them develop To promote the interest, analysis in Chile, 7 out of 10 teachers do not skills that assist them in making better and comprehension of the national feel sure teaching this knowledge to contingency for secondary school decisions regarding the use of money students in primary and secondary students in the country. so that they become responsible and education. informed economic agents. This third • “Finance for Daily Life” is a course stage of the programme is expected to that trains parents and guardians be implemented by March 2020. 1,458 243 students teachers participated 243 18 schools courses 88 application calls, news, and other relevant content. In Chile, there are 18 higher education institutions affiliated to Santander X. In 2019, 10 of them developed university entrepreneurship initiatives within this platform, in partnership with Santander, receiving nearly 1,000 applications for innovative and high social impact initiatives. BRAIN CHILE It is a programme that seeks to promote the transfer of science and technology-based Support for enterprises from the area of national and entrepreneurship and a three-month follow-up to monitor international higher education institutions the development of their business, which to different sectors of industry, managing Another way for Banco Santander to is added to the complete training students to add value to the country and society. It is contribute to society and the local economy receive while participating in the process. an initiative of the Innovation Centre of UC is by supporting entrepreneurship. To this Anacleto Angelini, the School of Engineering end, it has designed several initiatives, The call for entries was made through and the Management of Technology among which stands out its alliance to Santander X, an international digital Transfer and Development of the Pontificia the Association of Entrepreneurs of Chile, platform that seeks to be the largest Universidad Católica de Chile, together with ASECH, which was renewed in 2019 for its university entrepreneurship ecosystem in Banco Santander. third consecutive year. This year, meetings the world. 223 projects were received from were held with entrepreneurs throughout In 2019, besides holding the fifth version 600 students, 50% of whom came from the country, and training sessions were of the contest, BRAIN Chile achieved an regions. organized by Bank executives on financial essential step in the internationalization In the first stage, 60 top projects were of the initiative, agreeing to the matters and other relevant issues. Through implementation of a pilot programme in this agreement, 5,308 people were selected, with members receiving training in Mexico. benefitted during 2019. entrepreneurship. In the second stage, the selection is narrowed down to 40 projects, This also has non-financial offers for SMEs, which receive the support of mentors and such as the Connect your SME programme, experts on topics such as legal advice, which creates a website at no cost for business plan and business pitch. After a customers in this segment. The goal is to presentation in front of a jury, the best 20 support them in their online sales, enabling an extensive catalogue of html5 designs projects were selected and received an initial capital of one million Pesos each to 278 17% participants more participants for all types of business. The programme accelerate their respective entrepreneurship. than in 2018 includes the necessary tools to update Subsequently, in a grand finale, the 10 and manage developed websites. In 2019, winning projects were chosen. 18,167 customers were enabled to use a free web platform. SANTANDER X 25% 40 IDEAS X of participation million pesos to be from other distributed: 12 for Understanding that entrepreneurship is A global platform where young countries the winner, 6 for the an essential economic driver and that to entrepreneurs can connect with each following 3 places, encourage it in early stages is essential, other and with the main actors of the 2 million for the Santander created an exclusive award for entrepreneurship ecosystem: universities, prize for the public, undergraduate students in order to train, companies, teachers, mentors and other and for the first accelerate, finance and accompany their entrepreneurs, in order to develop projects time 1 million was innovative ideas. The best 10 students internationally. They also are given access distributed among obtained a total of six million pesos each to a network that informs on current events, the 8 finalist teams. Annual Report 2019 89 WORK/CAFÉ PROGRAMME SANTANDER TECHNICAL STUDIES SCHOLARSHIPS Banco Santander’s iconic branch model, • Work/Café Lectures Work/Café has become a pleasant space, This project seeks to raise awareness, It is a training programme in technical not only for customer service but also to strengthen and provide visibility to studies, carried out by the Bank jointly encourage entrepreneurship, collaborative entrepreneurs’ experiences to the with TECHO-Chile, in order to develop work and community input through various community alongside the real cases of and strengthen labour skills of people initiatives developed for this purpose. renown people in the entrepreneurship belonging to the most vulnerable areas of With more than 50 offices open and with a and innovation world. the country, providing tools that promote presence in all regions of the country, Work/ self-employment and entrepreneurship. Café is expected to be a valuable ally to During 2019, there were 14 lectures attended by 1,143 people and 8,392 During 2019, 250 scholarships were promote inclusive and sustainable growth. people participated via streaming. awarded for 10 courses in bakery and pastry made in Santiago, Concepción and Valparaiso. The initiative had the voluntary • Work/Café Solidarity participation of six collaborators of the This initiative began in 2018 and seeks to • Work/Café Radio Bank, including economists from the support families living in encampments, The radio programme, which began Research team, who shared their knowledge as well as to promote the work and broadcasting on Radio Zero on August of financial education about saving and development of local SMEs, through the 1, 2018 and remained there until responsible borrowing, among other topics. solidary sale of ceramic mugs. During August 2019, when it moved frequency 2019, the solidarity mugs were available to Radio Infinite from September 30 at 21 Work/Café branches. of the same year, thereby multiplying its scope and achieving national coverage. The central themes of this Goal radio space are entrepreneurship and • Work/Café in universities innovation, in addition to offering To develop and strengthen the labour During 2019, Banco Santander opened a showcase for those who want to skills of people in vulnerable areas of the two Work/Café branches inside share ideas, experiences and tips country, providing tools that favour selfuniversities within the country. The for all entrepreneurs in Chile. The employment and entrepreneurship. first, in March, at the Lircay Campus of programme is led by presenter Universidad de Talca, and the second, in Soledad Onetto, and it is broadcasted September, at the San Joaquin Campus of from Monday to Friday, between 17:00 Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile. and 18:00, through the radio station’s Both branches have co-working spaces, meeting rooms, Wi-Fi, speciality cafeteria and a team of financial advisors from signal Infinita and the TV channel Mega Plus. On social networks, it can 250 10 be heard through the Santander Chile scholarships Bakery and the Bank, creating a pleasant meeting profile on Facebook Live. awarded / pastry courses point for students and academics, where Beneficiaries we expect great ideas, innovations and entrepreneurship will arise. 6 Volunteers from Banco Santander 90 Other initiatives of the Bank women who have received this to be proactive and provide them distinction. This allows them to with the tools to build a united, • Mujer Impacta National Award access mentoring, training courses tolerant and collaborative student 2019 and support workshops so that community. To raise awareness and promote they can continue contributing to women’s empowerment, Banco the country from their respective This initiative included training and Santander signed an alliance with areas. assistance by the team of leaders the organization Mujer Impacta, in charge of the programme, in order to contribute to the Mujer • Volando en V (Flying in V) awareness-raising sessions, Impacta Award, an initiative that During 2019, and thanks to the training workshops for teachers for the seventh consecutive year support of Banco Santander, and representatives, and a series awarded women who contribute Fundación Volando en V was able of interventions to strengthen to improving people’s lives and to develop a programme of school school coexistence: this positively to build a better country. The community coexistence in Colegio impacted 976 students, 56 seven women awarded in 2019 Ozanam of the San Vicente de teachers and 279 families. are now part of RedImpacta, a Paul Foundation. The goal of this community comprised of the 49 programme is to motivate students CORPORATE VOLUNTEERING An important part of Santander’s The following are the most relevant volunteer activities of the year, which contribution to society is made are always aligned to the organization’s mission, the situation and the needs of the by its own collaborators, who are community. encouraged by the Bank to embrace • Environmental education volunteering the mission of helping people and About 80 employees of Banco Santander visited four schools of Fundación Belén companies to thrive and transform Educa to build and enable recycling points for use by these establishments this commitment into actions and the surrounding communities. In this covering a wide range of topics. activity, the collaborators donated 624 hours of work for the benefit of 6,571 people. • Solidarity projects A contest of solidarity projects that Banco Santander organizes every year to allow all of its collaborators throughout the country to develop and implement a project that is in tune with their own social motivation, along with contributing $1,000,000 for its implementation. The 15 winning initiatives of 2019, eight of 2,411 24 11,554 them from regions, were selected from 70 projects received. volunteers initiatives people benefited Annual Report 2019 91 • Volunteering in Financial Education Corporate volunteering in Santander 2019 An initiative that began in 2019 to encourage the financial empowerment of people from vulnerable sectors of 2018 2019 the country, while simultaneously encouraging the motivation and commitment of the Bank’s volunteers to the mission of contributing to the 30 24 progress of people. Iniciatives Collaborators in the commercial, financial and technological areas of the Bank gave lectures about saving and responsible indebtedness to approximately 50 people who are 1,282 2,411 Volunteers undertaking or developing a business idea. It is worth noting that the first beneficiaries of this volunteering 7,525 11,554 Beneficiaries were the students of the Santander Technical Studies Scholarships, a programme focused on developing skills and abilities for self-employment and entrepreneurship of people from Volunteer 10,789 4,917 vulnerable sectors. hours Working 2,973 2,806.75 hours Non-working 7,816 2,110 hours Volunteer hours $ 57,328,543 $37,402,701 valuation 92 Social Investment GRI [415-1] INVESTMENT IN INFRASTRUCTURE AND PUBLIC SUPPORT SERVICES GRI [203-1] In 2019, Banco Santander funded the construction of six temporary housing Type of contribution Total 2019 units in the 21 de Mayo encampment Cash contributions $ 4,163,463,068 in the commune of Colina, which had Cost of hours per volunteer $ 37,402,701 been destroyed in a fire. The cost of this investment was $6.5 million. Donations of goods $ 6,416,793,853 Project administration costs $ 215,900,000 Total $ 10,833,559,622 DONATIONS The General Sustainability Policy provides guidelines for the contributions made by Banco Santander Chile in the area of social Category 2016 2017 2018 2019 investment and donations. It should be Contributions to lobby 0 0 0 0 noted that the Bank does not donate to institutions political campaigns, but it does contribute to Contributions to local, certain think-tanks as a way of encouraging regional and national 0 0 0 0 critical thinking and the development of the political campaigns country’s human capital. It also contributes Contributions to trade unions, think tanks to various guilds for the same purpose, $430,620,962 $397,250,225 $580,990,000 $495,458,610 and/or other taxand these are: Libertad y Desarrollo, CEP, exempt organizations CIEPLAN, ABIF, CAMACOES, UC Public Policy Annual contribution $430,620,962 $397,250,225 $580,990,000 $495,458,610 Centre and Paz Ciudadana. Total percentage of costs attributed to donations/social investment 0.2% 36.4% Donations Social Investment 63.4% Commercial Initiatives Annual Report 2019 93 Environmental The environment’s protection represents a fundamental pillar for the Bank’s Thereby, its actions, principles and its commitments to this area are reflected dimension sustainability management and its contribution to the sustainable growth of in its General Sustainability Policy, Climate Change Policy and Environmental the communities in which it is present, both Management, Socio-environmental Policies in terms of its internal operations and in the and Culture Policy, which ensure responsible development of its banking and financial behaviour with the environment and activities. encompass all of its stakeholders. The following are the main areas of Environmental Sustainable Finance Environmental and social Environmental Footprint Management • Green and sustainable loans risk analysis • Carbon footprint and the most (ESG) • Socio-Environmental Policies • Compensations of Corporate relevant • Green and Sustainable Bonds • Financing of Sensitive Carbon Footrprint of Santander milestones of • Project Finance with ESG Sectors Policies • Operational eco-efficiency the year. impact • Equator Principles • Clean production agreement Sustainable finance Santander is one of the world’s leading are the most important milestones of the environmental, social and corporate banks in sustainable finance and the main year in this area: governance criteria (ESG Linked Loan), driver of this activity in Latin America. being at the forefront of the market and With this, the Bank incorporates ESG leading sustainable financing in the (Environmental, Social, Governance) country. GREEN AND SUSTAINABLE LOANS (ESG) criteria in its line of business at the level of consulting and financing products, both In a booming market, which recorded a It is a multi-currency corporate credit for the Investment Banking segment and global volume of US$ 165 billion in 2019 line for US$ 30 million, structured in two corporate clients, as for the Middle Market and a growth of 230% compared to the tranches -dollars and Chilean pesos-in and Regional Companies. In this way the previous year, Santander is positioned as favour of the local subsidiary Acciona Bank introduces incentives that promote one of the global leaders, ranking second (Acciona Financiación Filiales Chile SpA; the sustainable behaviour of its customers, globally in sustainable loans. AFiFi), for corporate uses. thus achieving a positive impact on the Being supported by having already In this type of financing, the price to sustainable development of society and formalized nearly 60 loans globally under be paid for the credit line is linked to responding to the growing interest that sustainable models, Santander also the behaviour of the debtor in the exists between shareholders, investors and maintains leadership position at a regional environmental, social and corporate customers for this market. level, where we have been in charge governance variables. Each year, Santander develops sustainable financing of several of the principal transactions RobecoSAM, which will act as a rating solutions through the Sustainable Finance registered in Latin America, that have been agency, will evaluate the ESG rating area, recently formed in 2019, which has the first loans under this model in Chile, achieved by Acciona, assigning a score global and country-wide responsibility for all Mexico or Argentina. that will condition the price to be paid sustainable financing activity. It includes two by the debtor. This creates incentives for In this area, two pioneer transactions stood major product areas: Green Financing, both companies to be more responsible in out in Chile during 2019: in Loan and Bond formats and Sustainable matters that are increasingly relevant to Financing or linked to ESG variables, which • In May, Banco Santander financed the the sustainable development of society. are also under Loan and Bond formats. Here first formalized credit in Chile linked to 94 • In October 2019 Banco Santander GREEN AND SUSTAINABLE BONDS consolidated its leadership position in the sustainable financing market, with It is a major global market, with a volume the structuring of the most relevant of US$320 billion, representing 5% of the Chile is a market leader and Green Syndicated Loan at the regional total volume of emissions worldwide. Here, example in the field with level, in favour of Acciona, to finance Santander also ranks among the market the placement of four Green solar and wind energy investments in leaders, especially in Latin America, where it Bonds in 2019: Chile. The instrument was structured was responsible for the first transactions in the leading countries of the region: 1. CMPC’s Local Bond for UF in two facilities: A Syndicated Loan of 2.5 million US$ 150 million amortizing over five • First Green Bond issued for a Chilean years, repayable, and a Revolving Credit 2. Sonda’s Local Bond for UF Corporate (CMPC, in 2017). Facilities (RCF) for US$ 50 million with 1.5 million a five year term. Banco Santander Chile • First Green Bond in Argentina (Jujuy was the only national entity in the 3. Arauco’s Bond for US$ 1 Province, in 2017). billion transaction and acted as a structuring and financing agent. • First Green Bond in Brazil (BRF, in 2015). 4. AES Gener’s Hybrid Bond • First Transition Bond (Marfrig, in 2019). for US$ 450 million • First Hybrid Bond (AES Gener in 2019). In 2020, Santander began the year with the Sovereign Bond loan to the State of Chile, which is structured in two sections, with the EUR tranche for a total of Eur 1.96 billion and the US$ tranche for a total of US$ 1.65 billion to implement an ambitious programme of reforms and investments, all with social and environmental impact. Annual Report 2019 95 PROJECT FINANCE WITH ESG IMPACT This consists of financing under the • Spence desalination plant • Loa Route road concession structure of Project Finance, which funds Water desalination plant in Bahía de Improvement and double-track extension investment projects, usually under a Mejillones that will provide water to work of the current Route 25, which concession framework in infrastructurea copper mine through a pipe of 150 covers 111 km. Furthermore, the type projects, or under a supply contract kilometres. The plant will contribute concession company will have to build or PPP in the case of renewable energy to copper production, reducing water 25 kilometres of new road located on generation projects, water treatment or consumption and mitigating the the Eastern Ring Road in Calama, in the other purposes. In these cases, Banco consequences of the intensive use of this Antofagasta Region. The project will Santander carried out an exhaustive resource in mining within the region. increase safety in a road primarily used analysis process of environmental and by large mining companies, therefore social risks associated with each project reducing the number of accidents on the before deciding the funding approval or route. Furthermore, the improvement in US$ 512 rejection, which includes an evaluation the road infrastructure will allow greater using the Equator Principles, in a specific development and competitiveness in process verified under political risk and million invested the mining sector, which will encourage with specific application to the local and industrial and commercial activity in the global level in the Bank. In this area, some area. relevant projects stand out, such as: • Cerro Dominador Construction of two complementary renewable energy projects, through the use of pioneering technology in US$ 326 Latin America: a photovoltaic plant and million invested a solar concentration plant. It should be noted that this type of project represents progress in the development of a renewable energy matrix for the country, as it allows the use of renewable energy sources for 24 hours. US$ 880 million invested UN Financial Initiative conducts training carbon economy, was supported by the conferences at the local and regional level, in Sustainable Finance and ESG Risks United Nations Environment Programme in Sustainable Finance panels and expert together with Santander Finance Initiative (UNEP-FI) and experts exhibitions, and has shared numerous on sustainability and ESG risk assessment, success stories globally. This shows the More than 50 professionals from the who together with the Executive Director support and momentum Santander provides Bank participated in the training session of Global Debt Finance and the Manager of to all matters related to Sustainable on Sustainable Finance and ESG Risks the Middle-Market-CIB Portfolio, presented Financing and Responsible Banking in Chile organized by the areas of Sustainability, the global situation, the opportunities and and Latin America. Risks and Global Debt Finance. challenges of sustainable financing and the positioning of Santander Group in this area. The initiative, part of Santander’s Responsible Banking commitment It should be noted that in addition to this to contribute to sustainable growth initiative, Santander Chile has participated and support the transition to a low as a sponsor in numerous forums and 96 Environmental and social risk analysis GRI [102-11][201-2] In 2019, the Group created the area of whom the Bank works in this area and thus such as Energy, Soft Commodities, Defence, Socio-environmental Risks within the ensure that its activities are legitimate. and Mining-Metallurgical, determining the Bank’s Risk Division. In Santander Chile, this restriction or prohibition of certain financing Santander also maintains a permanent function is implemented from the Portfolio activities. In the case of prohibited financing dialogue with its clients regarding the risks Manager Middle Market & CIB area, which activities, the restrictions apply to CIB and opportunities associated with ESG operates in the same division at the local customers and customers belonging to the criteria, including information about new level. company, and SME segments whose risk market trends, the Bank’s positioning, the limit exceeds $ 400 million Pesos. Within the framework of sustainability evolution of ESG variables in its industry, and policies, the process of environmental the behaviour of its competitors. The Bank • Policy for the Defence sector and dualand social risk analysis includes an also provides them with solutions according use technologies. internal analysis of the client, the project to their characteristics and goals in order to improve their performance in ESG matters • Policy for the Energy sector, for extraction if applicable, and the industry to which it and to incorporate sustainable financing activities, production and treatment of belongs. solutions into their corporate strategy. oil and gas; coal, nuclear and hydraulic In the case of projects, processes are power plants; other renewable energy developed for technical, environmental, generation facilities; bioenergy; and market, insurance, and financial model, construction of power transmission and SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL POLICIES distribution lines. due diligence. Along with this, the internal verification of compliance and risks, the Banco Santander also has four Socio• Policy for the Soft Commodities sector for evaluation of the Equator Principles if Environmental Policies from which activities with impact on forests, tropical applicable and the evaluation or renewal companies belonging to the corporate savannahs and savannah biomass. of the Know Your Client (KYC) process for segment (CIB) are subject. These policies Corporate & Investment Banking clients are detail the provision of products and/or • Policy for the Mining and Metallurgy developed. financial services and the criteria for the risk sector for the activities of the mininganalysis, social and environmental of the metallurgical sector, particularly those This last element of due diligence helps in customers belonging to sensitive sectors related to mining opportunities and getting to know each of the clients with research; mining development and activities; restoration and recovery of the natural environment exploited; the collection of the metal content in the extracted ore and its subsequent treatment; the processing of by Operations related to these policies are reported biannually to the Risk Committee. Additionally, any financing operation of the working capital line and/or specific operation of the Corporate & Investment Banking (CIB) for which approval is decided by the Group in Madrid, must comply with the procedure of these policies, and be entered into the ESRM corporate platform, with several review bodies. Annual Report 2019 97 FINANCING POLICIES FOR SENSITIVE The financing operations involving sensitive SECTORS sectors can only be approved by the Bank’s higher Credit Committees and reported Santander has Financing Policies for quarterly to the Group. Sensitive Sectors, considered as such for their own corporate reason, political or cultural impact, which may involve a EQUATOR PRINCIPLES reputational risk for the Bank. The following activities are associated with sensitive As a corporate mandate and since the sectors: Group’s accession in 2009, all structured finance projects greater than US$ 10 • Media million must necessarily go through the • Gambling evaluation of the Equator Principles, as part of the process of assessing social and • Club and sports associations environmental risks. • Religious institutions, congregations and orders • Trade union, business and professional associations • Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) • Cannabis industry 98 Environmental footprint To reduce electricity consumption Banco Santander by Chile quantifies 7% the environmental To reduce CO2 impact of its emissions by To reduce paper consumption by operations and 5% 15% defines various To reduce measures and waste going to landfills by objectives to reduce its Environmental 40% Footprint. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT CARBON FOOTPRINT GRI [305-1][305-2][305-3][305-5] Santander has an Environmental Management System (EMS) certified for the An important part of the commitment to of calculation and estimation of its GHG seventh consecutive time in 2019 under the sustainable growth and the fight against emissions, being also reviewed by the audit ISO 14001:2015 and whose validity extends climate change is realized through the company KPMG. Additionally, it increased until July 20221 . measurement and management of the the coverage of the scope 3 measurement corporate carbon footprint, which is why in and set the target of 5% reduction of its total The EMS governance is part of the 2019 the Bank improved the methodology GHG emissions by the year 2021. Responsible Banking, Sustainability and Culture Committee, which is headed by the CEO and is composed of managers of the different divisions of the company. It allows the strategic implementation of the environmental management initiatives of the organization. 2016 2017 2018 2019 Direct GHG emissions Scope 1 197.2 230.3 225.0 627.0 (tCO2eq) Coverage Scope 1 79% 92% Indirect GHG emissions Scope 2 14,992.9 14,277.0 13,776.0 12,090.0 (tCO2eq) Coverage Scope 2 88% 92% Indirect GHG emissions Scope 3 4,376.2 3,431.0 1. The Environmental Management System has a (tCO2eq) determined scope that includes Banco Santander Chile’s three central buildings (Bandera 140, Bandera 150 and Coverage Scope 3 92% Bombero Ossa 1068). Approximately 29% of the labour Total (tCO2eq) 18,377.20 16,148.00 force is concentrated in these buildings. Annual Report 2019 99 The reduction commitment will lead to a Santander Footprint Programme: for the making direct contributions to Chilean series of measures that seek operational first time customers have the option of environmental projects. The bonds come eco-efficiency and thereby reductions in knowing and compensating their carbon mainly from renewable energy projects electrical consumption and the most used footprint and forest conservation and are found in consumable goods such as paper. All the countries with laws that ensure proper In 2019, Santander became the first above will be accompanied by campaigns implementation and verification. In the bank in the world to offer its customers to further strengthen the promotion of a case of environmental projects, the to voluntarily compensate their carbon culture of less waste and more recycling contribution is directed to different nonfootprint related to the products and within the organization, with the goal profit organizations that seek to conserve services they purchase with their credit of reducing the waste going to landfills the ecosystems of Chilean protected areas or debit cards. This initiative seeks to add in 2020 by 40% from the three main and also to contribute to the maintenance them to this sustainability challenge, corporate buildings. of the surrounding communities. considering the relevance that climate change has acquired today and that is The customers’ footprint is calculated by part of the Group’s commitment to be a estimating the impact on CO2e generated carbon-neutral bank by 2020. by the products and services purchased with their Santander cards, based on SANTANDER’S CORPORATE CARBON Those who decide to compensate their indices and international experiences FOOTPRINT COMPENSATION footprint can do it simply from the Bank’s adjusted to the local context, and which website, buying carbon bonds or by In line with the commitments made was verified by an external entity. and in support of the Group’s goal of being Carbon Neutral, Banco Santander Chile compensated the greenhouse gas emissions of its 2019 operations, in scope 1, 2 and 3. This voluntary compensation was made through the purchase of Certified Emissions Reduction Credits (CERs) for a sustainable project in Chile, certified under the United Nations Standard (UNFCC) and meeting the requirements established by the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM). 100 OPERATIONAL ECO-EFFICIENCY ENERGY GRI [302-1][302-4] Reduction 2016 2017 2018 2019 2018-2019 Banco Santander has achieved a sustained Electricity consumption (MWh) 30,865.0 29,605.0 28,640.0 28,139.0 2% decrease in the energy consumption of its facilities, a trend that continued Energy intensity (KWh/m )2 92 89 during 2019, in which a 2% reduction in the annual electricity consumption was achieved compared to 2018. This figure is attributed to the implementation of initiatives such as the system of monitoring and control of energy consumption in Electricity consumption MWh offices and branches, which began in 2018 and which incorporated 44 new offices in 2019, making a total of 102 facilities 30,865 that operate under the energy efficiency 2021 energy modality offered by the system. reduction target 29,605 26,635 (MWh) 7% Furthermore, there has been a 28% increase in electricity consumption from 28,640 Non-Conventional Renewable Energy (NCRE) sources, this after the company 28,139 carried out a contractual agreement with the company AES GENER for the supply of about 8 million kWh of 100% wind generation projects. 2016 2017 2018 2019 WATER GRI [303-5] All of Banco Santander’s facilities have drinking water supplies from the public Water consumption m3 The commitment services of authorized water companies. to reduce the environmental Therefore, water consumption does not affect or involve protected areas or other footprint brings a sources. 154,068 149,106 In 2019, in addition to continuing with consumption reduction plans, efforts were 107,074 series of measures focused on improving the accuracy of the 103,420 aimed at operational eco-efficiency of organization’s water consumption data and also its coverage, from 52% in the previous three years to 87% during the reporting year. This measure will make it Santander Chile. possible to establish a more reliable basis for the analysis and management of water 2016 2017 2018 2019 resources. 2016 2017 2018 2019 Water consumption in all areas (m ) 3 154,068 107,074 103,420 149,106 Data coverage 52% 52% 52% 87% Annual Report 2019 101 PAPER GRI [301-1] Paper is a relevant consumable good in Non-renewable Reduction the operation of Banco Santander, so in materials used 2016 2017 2018 2019 2018-2019 2019 the Bank continued its efforts to Paper (ton) 2,124 1,662 1,512 1,268 16% reduce its use in the internal processes Data coverage 52% 52% 52% 87% and communication to customers, thus achieving a 16% reduction in consumption compared to 2018, as indicated in the following table. Paper consumption (ton) Among the measures addressed to achieve 2,124 the 16% reduction, the decrease in paper consumption related to the printing of 1,662 1,512 documents by employees was reduced 1,268 2021 paper by 5% in 2019 thanks to the following reduction target initiatives: • Renovation of the printer fleet with more 15% energy-efficient equipment and network. 2016 2017 2018 2019 • Modernization of the distributed printing service and the implementation of the PLASTICS “Follow me print” mode which allows the release of printing material only with the Aware of how harmful single-use plastic is to favouring the environment, promotes a employee’s credential and on any printer the planet’s ecosystems, particularly marine healthier lifestyle for employees. on the network, thus ensuring higher ecosystems, Banco Santander Chile, like nine levels of security and greater efficiency. In this same context and considering its other subsidiaries from the Santander Group, customers, the Bank conducted a campaign has committed to stop generating single-use • Scanning of client folders, thus avoiding to promote the use of reusable bags in plastic waste in its canteens, cafeterias and printing copies of them. 2018, and in March 2019 plastic bags were others by the end of 2021. removed for shipments of credit and debit Adding to this, Retail Banking is including migration to an electronic account Likewise, starting in 2020, the removal of cards to customers. statement, which has already reached single-use plastic bottles was stipulated Work/Café also contributed to the challenge a coverage for 88% of customers. within the central buildings of Santander of fewer plastics use by replacing coffee cups, Furthermore, in 5 years, the number of Chile. That is why, since August 2019, the napkins, straws and other consumable goods paper sheets of individual plan contracts Bank gradually stopped delivering soft drinks has decreased by 45%, and the SME plan with compostable materials. and juices in plastic packaging to the various contracts by 30%. units of the company, which in addition to 102 CLEAN PRODUCTION AGREEMENT • Quantitative information was collected on REUSE AND RECYCLING the types of waste generated to encourage GRI [306-2] In March 2019, Banco Santander Chile joined an increase in the supply of solid waste the Clean Production Agreement (CPA) –Zero Banco Santander promotes reuse and management services. Waste for Disposal, signed between Acción recycling to reduce waste generation and Empresas and the Agency of Sustainability • A reference guide was designed and disposal to landfills, concentrating its reuse spread to enable other companies to make strategy on electronic waste, and recycling of and Climate Change. This CPA is made up progress in this area. paper and cardboard, which are separated and of 45 companies and Santander is the first classified for this purpose. financial organization to join. • The implementation of the distinction model of Zero Waste to Landfill Seal was Furthermore, during 2019 the company This initiative seeks to reduce the volumes supported. This process was led by the started the collection of organic waste from of solid waste that are disposed of by Ministry of the Environment. its composting facilities, which adds to the introducing circular economy practices to goal of zero waste after joining the Clean avoid their generation and to increase their • Monitoring and recording of the social, Production Agreement. value. environmental and economic impacts of the CPA were carried out through key It should be noted that the substantial The agreement covers the Bank’s 3 sustainability indicators. increase in the recycling of paper and corporate buildings and the goal set cardboard shown in the table is due to the in December 2020 is to achieve a 40% Similarly, in 2019, Banco Santander’s destruction of archival documentation, reduction in waste going to landfills. To this application to the Zero Waste to Landfill Seal under SBIF Newsletter 3427, which indicates end, among the most impactful initiatives was accepted, a process led by the Ministry of that once documentation reaches 6 years in implemented by the Bank is the design of the Environment. The seal seeks to recognize custody its bank validity expires. the waste management plan Camino Basura companies that raise awareness, prevent and Cero, which was launched in October 2019 value their waste, encouraging its reduction. It is also important to mention that almost and included a recycling and waste recovery all of the paper and cardboard waste operation in canteens, pilot floors and Work/ produced by the Bank is recycled, mainly Café Nueva Bandera. At the end of the year, from the central buildings and the largest the Bank managed to recover 4,000 kg of branches in the Metropolitan Region. organic waste from corporate canteens for composting. In addition to the above, there are other initiatives undertaken by Santander to Non-Hazardous Waste 2018 2019 Disposal respond to the objectives of the Cleaner Total waste generated (ton) 814.5 1,451.8 Production Agreement, including Total waste reused, recycled and sold (ton) 682.0 1,295.5 Electronic waste (ton) 148.0 32.4 Reuse • The formal commitment of the Bank’s Senior Management to the agreement Paper and cardboard for recycling (ton) 534.0 1,255.5 Recycling to develop and implement a Zero Waste Organic sent to composting (ton) 7.6 Composting Disposal policy permanently. Total waste disposed of (ton) 132.5 156.4 Landfill Data coverage 24% 29% Paper and cardboard recycling ton Santander promotes reuse and recycling of waste As part of Santander Week in June 2019, the workshop, held at the Bank’s Training the Bank commemorated the International Centre, all participants developed their own Environment Day by enabling clean points Tetrapak wallets and tested their knowledge 1,256 in the main corporate buildings, motivating in an environmental trivia. employees to dispose of items, from their technological waste to everyday plastics. The workshop was complemented with Thanks to the initiative, 33 kg of waste were information about the national and 534 recovered and then recycled. international context and environmental issues, recognizing reuse as an action that Furthermore, a workshop on awareness allows consumption reduction and savings 164 172 and reuse of Tetrapak waste was held with in a productive system. the participation of 23 collaborators. During 2016 2017 2018 2019 Annual Report 2019 103 5 Excellence in execution Banco Santander ensures that all its the transversal incorporation of the most endeavours have a seal of excellence in advanced technology and innovation, all execution. In addition to the daily work of which are fundamental to provide a of its employees, the Bank offers the customer experience adequate to today’s permanent support of its suppliers and demands. Technology and innovation Technology and innovation are essential Technology and innovation tools that enable Banco Santander to deliver 100% accessible, flexible and agile services. strategy $ 37,791 million The implementation of higher levels of technology and innovation is optimizing the The Technology and Operations Division oversees the Bank’s technology and investment in technology way the Bank interacts with its customers, innovation domain, guiding its activity in and innovation through new products and services, and compliance with the company’s Innovation the way it works internally in terms of Policy. new processes and methodologies, all of which benefits customers, employees and The strategy of this division is to be an shareholders. enabler of the Bank’s strategy. To accomplish $ 3,916 million this, it uses innovations and technological advances that uphold the different strategic pillars of the organization’s objectives: investment in robotic automation processes clients, collaborators, shareholders, society and excellence in execution. As a result of its Innovation management, in 2019 Santander was recognized among the most innovative companies in Chile in two 790 innovation rankings: Best Place to Innovate and Creativity and Innovation C3 (for more in BitSight’s information, see page 8). cybersecurity rating 98 -20% technological compared to incidents 2018 104 Enterprise architecture in Santander Enterprise architecture consists of a strategic practice that enables the capture of the complete vision of the company’s system in all its complexity, as well as the connection between business initiatives and the technology that upholds them. Santander Chile has adopted an enterprise architecture that follows a methodology of continuous improvement, based on a comprehensive vision that keeps the structure of organizational information updated. This aligns all processes, data, applications and technological infrastructure in regard to four dimensions: business, data/ information, applications and technology. IT and Projects Avoid Help specific Better control Control Drive IT business carried out silos and business of IT of Costs to add value alignment correctly duplication changes In line with this definition, the IT Architecture Investment in technology team has created the Enterprise Architecture Unit, whose fundamental pillars are: and innovation During 2019, Santander Chile powerfully Evolution of the Systems Plan drove technological advances in Ch$, in millions • Strategic Vision/High level cybersecurity, doubling the investment compared to 2018. Another area of high • Establishment of architectural pillars relevance has been robotization, with an BAU (Business As Usual) Robotization investment close to $ 4 billion for process Regulation and Big Data • Establishment of technical/functional automation projects, both for customers and Major projects architectural guidelines and principles Cybersecurity and obsolescence for internal processes of collaborators. Business • Participation in the business and Bank strategy, with a focus on innovation and critical projects Investment level • Interaction with business and Santander 37.791 by priority (Ch$, in 2018 2019 34,724 Architecture Review Board (SARB) millions) 2,386 2,298 • Governance and maintenance of Business 12,843 9,722 3,916 3,104 functional domains (map of systems) 3,836 Cybersecurity and 3,943 6,452 obsolescence 13,526 11,479 Major projects 13,526 11,479 Regulation and Big 3,943 3,104 3,836 Data 6,452 Robotization 3,916 12,843 9,722 BAU 2,298 2,386 Total 35,714 37,791 2018 2019 Annual Report 2019 105 DEVELOPED PROJECTS AGILE Overall compliance with the 2019 The transformation towards the Agile Development Plan reached 98%, with working methodology enabled the Bank a growth of 13% over the 2018 Plan, to advance in the adoption of DevOps. measured in the number of annual This software development methodology deliverables. is essential for digital transformation and digital product generation. This allows the Bank to be more efficient with customers Compliance of the Development Plan and more expeditious in terms of project 2018 2019 delivery and work teams productivity, 1Q 105 131 improving the pace in terms of cost, quality and methodology. Number of 2Q 169 182 deliverables per quarter 3Q 144 175 4Q 218 229 Total 636 717 Compliance 98% 98% Adoption of Agile methodology in Santander Chile Completed in 2018 vs 2019 2017 2018 2019 % Agile 10% 25% 50% Adoption Nº of Agile 6 25 58 cells 229 182 175 131 Technological incidents 218 105 169 144 To deliver the best experience to its 1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q Agile Transformation customers, Santander Chile proactively manages technological incidents by monitoring all its platforms, channels and 2018 2019 services. The evolution of technological incidents 58 in the last 3 years shows a 50% decrease, Total deliverables 50% falling from a rate of 0.57 per day in 2017 to 25 0.29 in 2019. 6 25% 717 10% 636 Incidents per day 2016 2018 2019 Budget Teams 0.57 0.33 0.29 2017 2018 2019 Days with incidents <=1 2018 2019 Year Days < =1 Objetive 2017 86.58% 80% 2018 95.28% 85% 2019 96.41% 90% Dias = 0 Objetive 106 2019 Highlights Technology and innovation INTEROPERABILITY THREE-PART MODEL 2019’s main milestone in this area was to migrate the Santander card stock to the four-part model with a worldwide standard and to have built interoperability, with 1 3 which Santander Chile became the first Merchants Consumers bank in the country to be productive with interoperability for Mastercard, Visa and American Express, both for credit and debit in the case of the first. The store pays MDR to Under an Under product To accomplish this was a challenge for Transbank affiliation contract the Bank, which had been developing this contract between between Issuer project since 2018. With this achievement, Transbank and and Cardholder Transbank the four-part model was installed, that is, Merchant transfers 100% Transbank charges acquirers no longer authorize or perform the of the MDR to the the Issuer for its exchange directly with card issuers, but with Issuer services the card brands. This implies a change in the settlement model, as acquirers no longer transfer the merchant discount to stores while paying Transbank 2 Issuer brands an interchange fee that is forwarded Under a to the issuers. Instead, acquirers are financed transaction by the difference between the merchant contract between discount and the interchange fee. With the implementation of interoperability in credit and debit cards, Santander allows new acquirers to enter the market, FOUR-PART MODEL generating a fairer and more competitive MDR: Merchant Discount Rate / IF: Interchange Fee business environment for commerce, as well as a better service for consumers. 1 3 Merchants Consumers AUTOMATION AND PROCESS ROBOTIZATION The merchant During 2019, the company gave a pays MDR to Under an Under substantial boost to automation projects the Acquirer affiliation contract Product by creating the Robotic Process Automation between Acquirer contract (RPA) area. The establishment of this area between Issuer and Merchant together with the adoption of leading and Consumer technology and endeavours in process 2 Acquirer pays IF to 4 reengineering, allowed many of the bank’s the Issuer transversal and multi-area projects to be addressed, focusing on strengthening Brand business, providing greater security Income of Issuer income in operation and increasing efficiency Acquirer Acquirer IF Issuer indicators. At the end of the year, 52 MDR – IF processes were automated with this technology. Under licensing with brands Annual Report 2019 107 CYBERSECURITY The digital transformation, along with the companies, government agencies and BitSight Portal increasing use of smart technologies, poses educational institutions. new risks, especially for the banking sector. This is why, one of the Bank’s primary focus This score far exceeds the target set for 2019 is cybersecurity, for which the company and represents a significant leap from the has taken a series of measures at different 2018 rating, with which Santander Chile levels, in regards to both regulations, continues its progress towards increasing its updating the policies that govern this area, cybersecurity levels. 790 and in attention to collaborators, suppliers and customers (for greater detail see page 650 710 38). 620 All this has earned the Bank a rating of Bitsight Indicator 790 points in the BitSight’s cybersecurity 2018 2019 rating, a leading international organization Summary 2018 2019 in cybersecurity assessments that analyses Santander Chile 650 790 Goal 620 710 Santander Chile Goal Banco Santander Chile carries out the first Risk Tech Day During this event organized by Santander IBM Watson, Big Data Scoring, multinational of “fintech” companies with innovative Chile, managers and collaborators from FICO-Chile and the consulting firm applications for a digital ecosystem and how different areas met with advanced technology Deloitte participated by addressing the they impact daily life. suppliers to share knowledge, experiences implementation of artificial intelligence in and good practices concerning new different industries; the new global trends Likewise, different areas and managements technologies and their incorporation into daily of fraud and possible control strategies; the of the Bank offered presentations about work. incorporation of robotics in ways to approach technology and innovation in relation to cognitive integration; and the development aspects of their management. MIGRATION TO CLOUD In 2019, leveraged by Grupo Santander’s year. The connection to AWS will be made strategy, Santander Chile began its in March 2020, which will enable two highmigration to the cloud, called Cloud Firstlevel platforms for Cloud services. Hybrid Multicloud. In this way, the project to implement Santander Private Cloud (OHE) Likewise, the Bank has begun the has been initiated. Phase 1 is expected to be transformation of processes by adopting completed by June 2020. the DevOps methodology to speed up the development of new systems, their The Bank also works with Microsoft since production and maintenance. The goal is to September 2019 to display projects in the have 95% of the operation in both private public cloud, with three applications in test and public cloud environments in a threeenvironments in Azure by the end of the year plan. 108 Suppliers Banco Santander extends the requirement of excellence in execution to its suppliers, who as strategic partners support the daily operation of the organization with their services, to meet the needs of customers. 4,108 85% 4.3% Likewise, the Bank promotes the social and total % strategic critical environmental commitment of its suppliers, suppliers suppliers suppliers asking of them the same high standards AS Santander, and adding them to the challenge of being responsible companies together. 30 97.8% 8.5 invoices paid in Days on average less than 30 days to pay suppliers Communication channels with suppliers Homologation process Rewarding (service monitoring) Suppliers Corporate reporting Service channel manager Annual Report 2019 109 Outsourcing and supplier Supply chain Supplier Risk Management management model GRI [102-9][204-1] The support of suppliers is essential for Banco Santander’s supply chain includes six the service that Santander offers to its All agreements that Banco Santander Chile customers and, in this regard, the Bank establishes with its suppliers, whether by stages: must ensure that this support is of quality, purchasing goods, contracting services or • Decision and planning thereby avoiding potential risks that may outsourcing activities, are regulated under • Negotiation arise from working with external people and the provisions contained in four primary • Homologation companies. documents: • Recruitment For this purpose, Santander counts with • Corporate framework for Outsourcing • Tracking robust risk management that includes, in and Agreements with Third Parties • Completion addition to the aforementioned frameworks, the implementation of a Homologation • Outsourcing and supplier management Santander maintains an average annual Policy since 2015, which has evolved model volume of over 3,800 suppliers, equivalent according to services’ inherent needs and to $ 490 billion. In regard to income, the risks. It establishes a rigorous process for • Homologation Policy Cost/Income indicator is 40.9%. Most suppliers, according to the type of service • Strategic Outsourcing Policy purchases are linked to the categories provided, which includes: a review of the of technology, real estate, operations, security management and service continuity, These regulations manage and safeguard advertising and marketing. elements related to cybersecurity, data compliance to this area’s requirements, protection management and security of with emphasis on the prevention of risks About 90% of the suppliers are domestic, the physical infrastructure, among other related to the operation with third parties, that is, based in Chile; the rest comes from aspects. considering the quality and method of countries such as Brazil, Mexico, the United During 2019, efforts focused on identifying delivery of the service or product. States and Spain. relevant suppliers, for which an internal questionnaire was given to the Bank’s service managers, who answered 14 qualitative questions regarding suppliers. Among the topics addressed were Number of suppliers cybersecurity, data protection, physical 2018 2019 security, physical infrastructure and business Total number of suppliers 3,575 4,108 continuity, determining the existence of Number of suppliers defined as critical 62 178 180 suppliers relevant to the Bank, which were categorized by the relevance of the Number of Tier 1 supplier companies (out of total 84 68 suppliers) type of risk they may suppose: Critical, High, Medium and Low. Number of local suppliers 3,494 4,018 Number of SME suppliers 3,392 3,902 Non-relevant suppliers were segmented according to their annual billing. They were divided into three categories: Tier 1, with a billing of more than $ 800 million, Tier 2: between $ 800 million and $120 million, and Tier 3 with less than $ 120 million. Expenditure on suppliers 2018 2019 The analysis of expenditure on suppliers is Total expenditure on suppliers $438,543 Mn $ 517,276 Mn based on the number of relevant services, Expenditure on local suppliers $ 401,448 Mn $ 438,323 Mn the level of risk (Critical, High, Medium and Low) and the result obtained in the Percentage of expenditure on local suppliers 92% 85% homologation process (Suitable, Suitable Spending on critical suppliers $ 122,072 Mn $ 144,715 Mn with incidents and Unsuitable). 110 ESG risk assessment of Payment commitment to Supplier suppliers suppliers Awards GRI [407-1][308-2][412-2][412-3] [414-1][414-2] The simple, personal and fair (SPF) culture As a way to encourage its suppliers and to extends to Santander’s suppliers, by keep building lasting relationships of mutual In line with Santander’s sustainability and promoting a fair commitment to make benefit, in 2019 Banco Santander again responsible banking commitments, the payments no more than 30 days late, as celebrated the Supplier Awards, an event Bank placed greater emphasis on these stipulated within the Bank’s payment policy. the company has been performing for 19 issues in terms of its suppliers during consecutive years. 2019. The Bank applied three evaluation As a result of these good practices, for the processes to continuously measure the eighth consecutive year Banco Santander On this occasion, the event was held at has been certified with the “Pro-SMEs Seal”, the Work/Café in Escuela Militar, where environmental and social performance an initiative of the Ministry of Economy and 21 suppliers were distinguished: 8 as of suppliers in order to work with related Development that encourages the payment the best of the year in its categories and companies and motivate those with gaps of at least 95% of the invoices issued by 13 as outstanding suppliers. For the to join in: smaller supplier companies, within 30 first time since this initiative was carried • Biannual review of the commercial consecutive days from the date of receipt out, Santander applied an informative and social security debts of workers of of the document. During 2019, Banco sustainability survey to the 21 winners. supplier companies. Santander achieved 97.68%. • Nineteenth assessment related to the awarding of suppliers. • A questionnaire included in the annual homologation process, with questions for the supplier pertaining ISO certification, adherence to the United Nations Global Compact or pertaining 8.5 days the existence of their own ethical, is the average the Bank social and environmental principles, takes to pay suppliers such as Code of Conduct, prevention against money laundering and terrorism financing; internal frameworks, policies, procedures, and management systems; environmental and social performance indicators, initiatives, awareness campaigns, etc. The questionnaire also examines whether the company complies with the certification of Chilean Standard 3267 which conduces to the “Chile Inclusive Seal” recognition, along the Law No. 21,015, which promotes the recruitment of individuals with disabilities. Annual Report 2019 111 3 Corporate Governance Banco Santander has a solid corporate governance, which meets the highest international standards and is committed to responsible management of the Bank. It is headed by a Board whose functions are clearly determined and which is actively involved in defining the business strategy as well as in proper risk control. 112 GRI [102-22] [102-23][405-1] Board members Claudio Rodrigo Orlando Melandri Hinojosa Vergara Montes Poblete Iturrate President First Vice President Second Vice President Félix Alfonso Ana Rodrigo de Vicente Mingo Gómez Morales Dorrego de Carlos Echenique Gordillo Director Director Director Directo Lucía Juan Pedro Blanca Óscar Santa Cruz Sutil Santa María Pérez Bustamante Bravo von Chrismar Carvajal Director Director Alternate Director Alternate Director 27% 45% 12 98% 5 years 8 are are independent regular average of average Directive women members sessions Board attendance seniority Committees Annual Report 2019 113 CLAUDIO MELANDRI HINOJOSA Free Trade Agreement Advisory Council, FÉLIX DE VICENTE MINGO President the National Savings Commission and the Director Economic Conicyt Group. He has authored He is the President of the Board of Directors numerous articles published in specialized He has a business degree with a of Banco Santander Chile. With more than professional journals and has edited several specialization in Economics from the 30 years of experience in the financial books. Universidad de Chile. He started as a fruit industry, he was Chief Executive Officer of exporter in the O’Higgins region and as Banco Santander Chile from January 2010 to Member of the Board since July 12, 2018. the Administration and Finance Director of March 2018. His professional career began Telemercados Europa, and then served as at Banco Concepcion and in 1990 he joined Other current positions: president and partner of several companies, Santander Group, where he has held various both in Chile and abroad. Between • Researcher at the Public Studies Centre. leadership positions, including that of 2013 and 2014 he was the Minister of • Associate researcher of the MossavarRegional Director, Branch Network Director, Economy, Development and Tourism, Rahmani centre for Business and Human Resources Director and Commercial having previously worked as the director Government, of John F. Kennedy School Banking Director. He was also Executive Vice of Promotion of Exports (ProChile), an of Government, Harvard University. organization belonging to the Ministry of President of Banco Santander in Venezuela, • Professor of economy at Universidad where he worked for three years and Foreign Affairs. Católica de Chile. oversaw the formation of the commercial • Economic consultant and member of the In 1999 he was nominated as Businessman area of the entity in this country. directive board of several companies. of the Year, in the youth category of Universidad del Desarrollo. He has also He is an accountant auditor and commercial been distinguished with the following engineer. He also holds an MBA at awards: Public Man of the Year in the Wine Universidad Adolfo Ibáñez. ORLANDO POBLETE ITURRATE Industry (2011), Outstanding Character Member of the Board since February 27, Second Vice President in the Salmon Industry (2012), Member 2018. of Universidad de Chile’s Circle of Honour Lawyer from the Universidad de Chile with (2013), Man of the Year of Software Other current positions: a master’s degree in law from the same Companies Association (2013), Public university. He also graduated from the Character of Engineering Consulting Firms • Country Head of the Santander Group in Senior Management Business Program (2013). Chile. PADE, of ESE Business School at Universidad • President of Santander Chile Holding. de Los Andes. Member of the Board since March 27, 2018. • President of Universia Chile. Between 1979 and 1991, he worked as a teacher of Procedural Law at Universidad de Chile and then he held the same position ALFONSO GÓMEZ MORALES at the Universidad de Los Andes. Between Director RODRIGO VERGARA MONTES First Vice President 1997 and 2004 he was Dean to the Faculty He is a civil engineer from the Pontificia of Law of that university and from then Universidad Católica de Chile, Master of He graduated with a business degree from until 2014 he served as rector, year in Design and Doctor of Philosophy at Royal the Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile which he became a member, to date, of the College of Art of London. in 1985. He obtained a PhD in Economy at Management Board of that University. Harvard University in 1991. His professional career began as an He has been a Board member since April 22, academic at the Industrial and Systems He was president of the Chilean Central 2014. Engineering Department of Universidad Bank between 2011 and 2016 and a Católica de Chile. He became a founding member of its Board between 2009 and Other current positions: member of Apple Chile, Unlimited and 2011. His professional career began at Virtualia, the first social network developed the Chilean Central Bank, becoming chief • Partner of the law firm Orlando Poblete and Company. in Latin America. He has served as director economist in 1992. Between 1995 and 2003 of numerous organizations, including Derco, he worked at the Public Studies Centre and • Member of the Arbitration and Mediation Centre of the Chamber of Commerce of the National Council for the Arts and Culture, between 2003 and 2009 at the Economics Digital Country Foundation and the National Institute of Universidad Católica de Chile. He Santiago. Innovation Council. He worked as a dean has been the economic adviser to Central at the Engineering Faculty and, later, at Banks and governments of various countries the Business School of Universidad Adolfo in Latin America, Eastern Europe, Asia and Ibáñez. He launched the Innovation Centre Africa, and external consultant for the World UC, in his role as executive president. Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the Inter-American Development Bank and the Other current positions: United Nations. Also, he has been a member • Director of the Innovation Centre UC of, among others, the Presidential Advisory Anacleto Angelini. Council for Labour and Equity, the US-Chile • Director of SONDA Ltd. 114 ANA DORREGO DE CARLOS LUCÍA SANTA CRUZ SUTIL BLANCA BUSTAMANTE BRAVO Director Director Alternate Director She has a degree in Business Administration She has a Bachelor of Arts in History at King’s She has a business degree with a from Universidad Pontificia de Comillas College, University of London, and an MPhil specialization in Economics at Universidad ICAII-CADE. She also holds an International in History at the University of Oxford. She Católica de Chile. MBA in Business Administration from obtained a Doctor Honoris Causa in Social Universidad Pontificia de Comillas ICAIISciences at King’s College, University of Her professional experience includes a CADE. London. place as an economic analyst in the Chilean Central Bank, and as a research analyst She was the Commercial Director of She has been a Board member since August at Oppenheimer & Co. New York and in Transactional Banking at Bankinter. In 2000 19, 2003. IM Trust. In 1998 she joined Viña Concha she joined Santander Group, where she y Toro as the Head of Investor Relations, Other current positions: held various positions, including Director of where she worked until 2010. In 2001 she E-Business Development and in recent years • She is a member of the Directive Board of became the Assistant Director of Corporate she has served in the Corporate Strategy and Universidad Adolfo Ibáñez. Communications. Development area at Santander Group. • Director of insurance companies Chilena Other current positions: Consolidada Seguros Generales and Member of the board since March 15, 2015. Chilena Consolidada Seguros de Vida. • Head of Investor Relations at Viña Concha Other current positions: • Member of the Chilean Academy of y Toro. Social, Political and Moral Sciences. • Member of the Directive Council of the • Director of Caceis and Caceis Bank Concha y Toro Centre of Research and (France). Innovation. • Director of Caceis Spain. RODRIGO ECHENIQUE GORDILLO JUAN PEDRO SANTA MARÍA PÉREZ ÓSCAR VON CHRISMAR CARVAJAL Director Titular Director Alternate Director He has a degree in Law from the Universidad He is a lawyer from the Pontificia He is a civil engineer from Universidad de Complutense de Madrid and state attorney. Universidad Católica de Chile. Santiago with specialized studies abroad, in the United States and Europe. In 1976 he joined the Banco Exterior de He has been the Legal Corporate Director España as deputy general manager and of the Santander Group in Chile and He worked as the Director of the Financial head of Legal Services. He was subsequently prosecutor for Banco Santander Chile, Banco Division at Morgan Bank and as Director appointed as deputy general director and O’ Higgins and Banco Santiago. He has of the Financial Area at ING Bank, and member of the Executive Committee worked as President of the Legal Committee then joined Banco Santander in 1990 as and served as executive director of Banco of the Banking and Financial Institutions General Assistant Manager in the Financial Santander from 1988 to 1994. He served as Association (ABIF) for more than 20 years Division. Between 1995 and 1996 he was a board member of various industrial and and as the President Pro Tempore at the the General Manager of Banco Santander financial companies, including Ebro Azúcares Financial Law Committee of the LatinPerú. In 1997 he became general manager American Banking Federation (FELABAN). of Santander Chile, after which he joined the y Alcoholes and Industrias Agrícolas and chaired the advisory council of Accenture. Board of Directors. Member of the Board since July 24, 2012. He was also non-executive chairman of NH Other current positions: Hotels Group, Vocento, Vallehermoso and Other current positions: Merlin Properties SOCIMI. • Director of the Santiago Stock Exchange. • Member of the Arbitration and Mediation • Director of Sinacofi. Member of the Board since March 26, 2019. Centre of the Chamber of Commerce of Santiago. Other current positions: • Vice-chairman and executive director of Banco Santander Spain. • Member of the board of Santander Mexico. Annual Report 2019 115 GRI [102-25] Performance parameters To support the management of its corporate Compliance with these parameters is based • Independent audit: there is an governance, Banco Santander has delimited on the following standards: autonomous area within the Bank in several parameters based on the principles charge of monitoring activities. • Independence of directors: five of the established by the Basel Committee, Board members are independent. • Compliance: a compliance area oversees including: the application of the Bank’s ethics codes, • Participation: directors are active Chile’s Corporate Governance regulations • Close supervision from the Board and members of the Board’s supporting and the United States Sarbanes-Oxley senior management. committees as part of the administration Law, as well as the corresponding Basel • Simple and clear organizational management. criteria. structure. • Ethics: all staff subscribe to Banco • Supervision: The Bank is monitored by • A robust internal control system. Santander’s Code of Ethics. Employees the Financial Markets Commission (FMC) directly related to stock markets sign and by the U.S. Securities and Exchange • Permanent determination and an additional code of conduct specially Commission (SEC). monitoring of risks. designed for this area. • Independent internal and external audit. • Separation of functions: commercial and support areas are separated to effectively • Subsidiary supervision. manage risks. Non-commercial teams • Executive compensation design with oversee risk management, and most long term plans. credit decisions are taken by committees. GRI [102-18] Governance SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING BOARD OF DIRECTORS structure Corporate Governance at Banco Santander Chile is organised in 3 CHIEF EXECUTIVE levels: OFFICER DIRECTOR AND OTHER FIRST LINE MANAGEMENT COMMITTEES COMMITTEES 116 GRI [102-18] Board of Directors The highest corporate governance body in Board designation and • Protecting the interests of shareholders Santander Chile is the Board of Directors, and the general public, together composed of nine directors and two selection processes with the adoption of information GRI [102-24] and communication policies with alternate directors. All of them have been individually elected by the respective shareholders, markets and public The members of the Board of Directors of opinion. Shareholders’ Meeting for a three year Banco Santander Chile are appointed and period, with the possibility of being reselected under the guidelines provided by • Approving the individual and elected indefinitely for periods of equal the Group and the regulation outlined in consolidated Financial Statements of the duration. Currently, two of the directors the Chilean Securities Market Law and the Bank and its subsidiaries and presenting are directors of the Group and five are General Banking Law. it to the Shareholders’ Meeting. independent per Art. 50 of Law 18.046 of It is a highly qualified group that collectively • Summoning the Shareholders’ Meeting, Sociedades Anónimas (Chilean Securities displays ample knowledge on retail, preparing the discussion agenda and Market Law). The President of the Board is proposing agreements. not an executive of the organization. private, wholesale and investment banking; management of assets, finance and • Monitoring, controlling, and evaluating On March 26, 2019, Andreu Plaza López accounting, operations and risk; insurance; the effectiveness of the Corporate resigned from the Board of Directors of legal, regulatory and public policy matters; Governance system, as well as Santander Chile, and in his place, Rodrigo marketing, sales and communications; establishing reporting channels. Echenique Gordillo was appointed. human resources, compliance and auditing; • Setting appropriate mechanisms to and corporate planning and development. comply with domestic legislation, In addition, they have extensive national regulation and policies. and international experience, both in the financial sector and in other areas related to • Approving transactions carried out with the banking business that are relevant to the related companies. Bank’s administration. • The approval and periodic review of the risk appetite framework of the Bank and its subsidiaries. Functions and activities of The Board of Directors gathers in ordinary the Board meetings held at least once a month, and GRI [102-26] [102-20] [102-22] [102-29] in extraordinary meetings convened by the [102-30] [102-31] [102-25] [102-33] president or at the request of three or more Currently, about The Board of Directors is responsible for the directors if the president approves the need for such meeting. Directors must attend at half of the administration of Banco Santander Chile, as well as representing it at a judicial and least 75% of the annual meetings held by the Board. board consists extrajudicial level. Its main roles include the following: The regular sessions are scheduled annually of independent at the president’s proposition, and they deal • Establishing and approving policies, with matters previously agreed by the Board general strategic guidelines, corporate of Directors concerning the bank’s business, directors; a values, and lines of responsibility with their respective reporting channels, income statements, regulatory compliance, internal government, reports, risks, and significant in addition to monitoring their implementation. others. Agreements are adopted by an absolute majority of the voting directors. step in line • Defining and approving the strategic In the event of a tie, the vote of the person presiding over the meeting shall resolve the with the best plan, promoting medium-and long-term outcome. capital management in line with the defined risk profiles. international In 2019, the Board held 12 regular sessions and no extraordinary sessions. The average attendance of directors at annual meetings practices. was 98%. Annual Report 2019 117 GRI [102-18] [102-22] Board Committees Banco Santander Chile has eight committees The committees are created and modified by supporting the Board, composed of the Board as deemed necessary. They meet different Board members with the aim of regularly, with a pre-established frequency, strengthening business development, value subrogation schemes, statutes and formal creation and corporate compliance. minutes, and monitoring bodies, reporting their activity to the Board. RISK COMMITTEE MARKET COMMITTEE To propose the risk framework To oversee the results of the trading and the general policies necessary investment portfolios; to make for the definition of the Bank’s risk estimates of both the national and DIRECTORS AND AUDIT appetite, and to supervise the correct international situation that can be used COMMITTEE identification, measurement and control for taking positions; to review with of all risks faced by the company. the business managers the Bank’s risk To oversee the financial statements appetite and to approve the risk limits elaboration process of the Bank as well President: Alfonso Gómez established on an annual basis. as the corresponding management Members: Óscar von Chrismar, Félix President: Óscar von Chrismar of internal and external auditors, in de Vicente, Blanca Bustamante y Juan order to provide adequate and accurate Members: Rodrigo Vergara, Lucía information for shareholders, investors Pedro Santa María Santa Cruz, Claudio Melandri y Alfonso and the general public. Frequency: Biweekly Gómez President: Orlando Poblete 23 ordinary / Only once in February Frecuency: Monthly Members: Félix de Vicente, Rodrigo 12 meetings Vergara y Juan Pedro Santa María (secretario) Frequency: Monthly STRATEGY COMMITTEE 12 ordinary / 2 extraordinary To assess and outline the main goals ANALYSIS AND RESOLUTION and guidelines of Santander’s Strategic COMMITTEE Plan elaboration. To approve the plan ALCO (ASSET AND LIABILITIES defined by the senior management To outline and control the compliance COMMITTEE) for the Santander Group as a whole to the general and specific policies, and for the different business units, in rules and objectives concerning the To have knowledge and approve, addition to regularly monitoring their prevention of money laundering and depending the on the case, the risks progress. the funding of terrorism under local and positions adopted and managed laws and regulations, as well as those by the Financial Management Area of President: Claudio Melandri of the Santander Group. the Bank and its subsidiaries in Chile. Members: Rodrigo Vergara, Félix de President: Juan Pedro Santa María President: Rodrigo Vergara Vicente, Alfonso Gómez, Lucía Santa Cruz, Blanca Bustamante y Óscar von Members: Óscar von Chrismar y Lucía Members: Claudio Melandri, Óscar Chrismar. Santa Cruz von Chrismar, Félix de Vicente y Alfonso Gómez Frecuency: Quarterly Frecuency: Monthly 4 meetings 12 meetings Frequency: Monthly 12 ordinary 118 APPOINTMENT COMMITTEE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Constant review and implementation Constant review of the policy of policies and processes for the documentation regarding the appointment of positions defined as evaluation and remuneration of “key positions”, along with the revision positions defined as “key positions”, and with regard to other members of as well as other members of the the organization. organization. President: Félix de Vicente President: Orlando Poblete Members: Blanca Bustamante y Óscar Members: Alfonso Gómez y Claudio von Chrismar. Melandri. Frecuency: Quarterly Frecuency: Quarterly 4 meetings 4 meetings Furthermore, the Bank has 13 frontline Within the Legal Division of Banco committees, some of which report to senior Santander Chile, there is an area of management, the Board of Directors and/or Internal Governance that is in charge, other committees. These are: among other matters, of providing advice and following the different • Management Committee committees already mentioned, and is in • Global Compliance Committee constant coordination with the Group to • Customer and Quality Committee achieve its objectives and guidelines, in • Risk Control Committee • Risk Management Committee compliance with the highest European and • Executive Risk Committee international standards on the subject. • Donations Committee • Disclosures Committee • Responsible Banking, Sustainability and Culture Committee • Technology and Operations Committee • Executive Credit Committee • Local Marketing Committee • Regulatory Archives Committee Annual Report 2019 119 Directors and Audit Committee Background The Committee meets monthly, and EXTERNAL AUDITORS accordingly, in 2019 they held 14 meetings, Law 18,046 of the Chilean Securities Market 12 ordinary meetings and 2 extraordinary The Committee is also responsible for Law (Ley de Sociedades Anónimas) requires meetings in March and November advising the Board in the designation of companies to have a Directors Committee respectively. These sessions usually last external auditors each year. In turn, the whose functions are determined under three hours on average and are held before Board of Directors formulates a proposal Article 50. the Board meeting, in which a review of to the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting, the session is reported. An annual report the body that ultimately appoints them. Chapter 1-15 of the Updated Compilation of For the 2019 financial statements, the is submitted in January of each year Norms (RAN) of the former Superintendency committee recommended the firm summarising the issues addressed in the of Banks and Financial Institutions, now PricewaterhouseCoopers Consultores, Committee during the previous year. the Financial Market Commission (FMC), Auditores y Compañía Limitada, which had requires that banks must have an Audit worked as an audit firm during 2018. The Committee, which reports to the Board audit firm gives its opinion on the financial of Directors, the functions of which are Issues covered during 2019 statements of the Bank and its subsidiaries specified under these same norms. and reports on the state of internal control. The observations the audit firm makes in Additionally, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of INTERNAL AUDIT its final report are strictly followed up and the United States of America requires that monitored by the Committee every month. companies registered in that country, such as The Bank’s Internal Audit unit reports to the By the end of the year, all of them have been is the case of Banco Santander de Chile, have Committee and, within this framework, the implemented. an Audit Committee. work agenda for the year was proposed in December 2018, with work planned at each In turn, the former Superintendency of session being monitored. It should be noted Banks and Financial Institutions, now FMC, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND INTERNAL that by the end of the year the programme allowed banks to have both Directors and CONTROL was fully completed. Audit committees to function as a single entity, an option Banco Santander de Chile At each ordinary meeting, the director of the One of the most critical functions of the decided to adhere to, under the agreement unit explains in detail each and every one of Committee is to know, analyse and provide of its Board. Accordingly, the Statutes of the the audit reports issued, summarising the its opinion regarding the Bank’s financial Directors and Audit Committee approved conclusions reached and usually qualifying statements, the state of internal control and, by the Board of Directors, specify the the unit or the process being audited with in particular, the sufficiency of provisions. functions of this body, the tasks that Law its corresponding rating. It also reports on This includes both the interim and the 18,046 requires, the regulation of the the status of compliance of the Committee’s annual financial statements issued at the former Superintendency aforementioned recommendations and oversees their end of the period. Considering that the Bank and the provisions the Sarbanes-Oxley Act progress. is registered in the United States, it must postulates concerning audit committees. also issue a 20-F report to be presented It should be noted that for personal reasons, to the authorities of that country, as it the Director of Internal Audit of the Bank contains the Bank’s financial information returned to Spain, so the appointment of a by the end of the year. For this effect, Composition new Director of Internal Audit was proposed. the Bank must issue the Financial Report Mr Oscar Gómez Llorente was chosen by the Internal Control certification. All of this is According to the Directors and Audit Bank’s Board of Directors, being nominated also reviewed by the Committee. Regarding Committee’s Statutes, the committee in December’s meeting and beginning his Internal Control, during the year the is composed of (3) three directors who duties in January 2020. Committee received from the responsible count with the necessary condition of management information on the progress independence. At the beginning of the 2019 of the different processes that conclude in fiscal year, the members of the Committee the methodologically supported statement were: Mr Orlando Poblete Iturrate, President, that the internal control in the Bank is Mr Rodrigo Vergara Montes and Mr Félix de satisfactory. Vicente Mingo. Director Juan Pedro Santa María Pérez has been the secretary. 120 AUDIT FOLLOW-UP compliance and results, explaining eventual regularly receives many communications differences if any. that are the subject of research and receive The Committee continuously monitors the different solutions, a diffusion plan was progress and timely implementation of The Committee’s Chairman leaves a formal implemented during July for the entire all recommendations left by the various record of the contracts reviewed and organisation to cast more visibility to it, audit authorities as a result of their approved before their presentation to the which included a news item and banner on annual visits. During 2019 the Committee Board so that, if the latter deems, they are the Intranet, plus a graphic in the elevators; received a monthly report from the approved. and subsequently a presentation to the management in charge of coordinating Board of Directors. Finally, in November, a the different responsible areas, regarding survey was published for all of the Bank’s the Audits made to the Bank by the former COMPLIANCE AND PREVENTION OF employees for them to test their knowledge Superintendence of Banks and Financial MONEY LAUNDERING AND FINANCING OF about the complaints channel and to Institutions (2017 2018), and the audit TERRORISM collect the aspects of improvement that made by the Financial Market Commission could be implemented. Its results have (ex-SVS) to Santander Corredores de Bolsa During the year, the Committee has been vital in meeting new challenges in its Ltda throughout 2018 and the one carried received information from the Compliance administration and promotion. out during 2019 to Santander Corredora Department and has analysed the main de Seguros Ltda. Finally, the Committee aspects that have been subject to the Global receives a monthly report on the audit of Compliance Committee, which oversees the Bank carried out by the auditing firm the adequate management of compliance REMUNERATION SYSTEM AND PricewaterhouseCoopers Consultants, risks to which the Bank is exposed. Subject COMPENSATION PLAN FOR DIRECTORS Auditors and Limited Company. In case that to analysis are the assessment and The Human Resources Management in their opinion, the implementation of an resolution of the following risks: Normative informed The Committee about different observation is not advancing adequately, it Compliance, Behaviour, Reputational, aspects concerning the compensations is presented to the administration so that and Money Laundering and Financing received by the Bank’s directors, and about progress can be made. of Terrorism. Concerning the latter, the the Remuneration Policy. The Committee is Compliance Department has reported to also informed of each of the main targets the Audit Committee the information and and types of remuneration, whether fixed OPERATIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES analysis conducted on the functioning of the or variable, the system of collective deferral money laundering prevention system, which of variable remuneration, differentiating Law 18,046 of the Chilean Securities Market is based on a high-level informational tool between the different levels, the trends in Law (Ley Sociedades Anónimas) demands called NORKOM. remuneration by industry with demographic the Audit Committee to provide information indicators in the Bank, and the turnover, concerning the operations conducted by the Related to Compliance issues, the promotion, absenteeism and training Bank with other companies or individuals Committee has been monitoring the coverage of the Bank’s staff. that are related by property or management, normative aspects that affect United States in the terms defined by the law. The goal rules: FATCA and Volcker Rule. These issues of this analysis is that those transactions affecting most of the banks in commercial are carried out at market conditions, that and financial relations with that nation have LEGAL PROCEEDINGS THAT MAY AFFECT is, that agreed-upon terms are fair. The forced the development of complex control THE BANK Committee devoted considerable time to systems and the training of operators to Every three months, the Committee is analyse these operations, particularly in comply with said regulations. thoroughly informed about the status of technological service contracts for the Bank, the judicial processes that affect the Bank. which Santander Group provides through The Judicial Defence area of the Bank’s specialised professional entities, thereby DIRECTORS AND AUDIT COMMITTEE Prosecutor’s Office presents those issues achieving a technology that is not only CONFIDENTIAL MAILBOX that may be riskier for the Bank as well as homogeneous but also at an international the eventual provisions that should be made level while providing the best possible The Committee has enabled for the to face an adverse outcome. Because of security. For each operation submitted, Bank’s employees and its suppliers a the importance of reputational risk every the Committee requires a reasoned and communication system that is confidential, day, this area has divided each lawsuit professional explanation to back it and, in managed by an external supplier that is a presentation by amount and reputational particular, asks for objective background leader in these matters at an international risk. This information includes all issues, in information regarding the fees to be level and through which they can address Santiago and in regions, with their respective paid for the service requested. Moreover, the Committee directly to report irregular, procedural status. the Technology Division must inform conflicting or potentially dangerous periodically about technology budgets, their situations. Although the Committee Annual Report 2019 121 GRI [102-29] [102-34] Initiatives related Relevant to the Board of topics Directors In line with international best practices in Among the most important topics reviewed • Responsible Banking and corporate governance, two amendments during the sessions of the Board were: Sustainability: in line with the work that were made to the Board regulations: Grupo Santander develops as one of the • Acquiring business: Banco Santander founding members of the Responsible • Adjust the minimum attendance Chile decided to enter into the acquiring Banking initiative of UNEP-FI, during requirement of directors at annual business, and in this way operate cards 2019 the Board approved the General sessions, either face-to-face or remotely, of all issuers, both banking and nonSustainability Policy and the climate to 75%. banking in nature. This requires the change and environmental management • Inclusion of a clear reference to the creation of a company to support the policy. It also created the Responsible search for diversity in the composition banking business, a subsidiary of Banco Banking, Sustainability and Culture of the Board and its succession plans Santander Chile, which holds most of the Committee, which is responsible for through gender criteria, professional shares of that company. In October 2019, these matters. experience, skills and competences, the management of the Bank presented among others. this initiative to the Board, which • Acquisition of 51% of Santander unanimously approved the creation of Consumer Chile: At the Board’s proposal this company, with a single banking in an Extraordinary Shareholders’ business that will be the operation Meeting of Banco Santander Chile held of payment cards, exercising the role on August 27th, 2019, the acquisition of of operating company or operator, as 51% of the shares issued by Santander established in the regulations of the Consumer Chile S. A was approved, a Central Bank of Chile. transaction which was approved by the Financial Market Commission (FMC) in • Cybersecurity: to analyse the situation November of the same year. The Bank of the Chilean financial system and the completed the purchase on November Bank’s safeguards for monitoring and 27, 2019, with which Santander preventing events that could compromise Consumer S. A. became a subsidiary of its technological security. During 2019, the Bank and a support company for the the Board approved various policies that banking business. regulate cybersecurity issues, which have been duly implemented. • Cancellation of Securities Agency registration: in 2018 Banco Santander • Change of the General Banking Chile decided to cancel the registration Law: in January 2019 the Law 21.130 of Santander Securities Agent by was enforced, modernizing banking submitting the corresponding application legislation, introducing important to the Financial Market Commission. amendments to the General Banking It also requested authorization to set Law, the Law 21.000 that created the up a financial advisory company as a Commission for the Financial Market, subsidiary using the agency’s legal the Organic Law of the Banco de Estado vehicle. Thus, at the October 2018 de Chile and the Tributary Code. This is session, the Board of Directors agreed to one of the most significant changes for amend the by-laws once the regulator’s the banking sector and a challenge for its authorization has been obtained. This members. The Board has been informed authorization was granted in April 2019 of these changes, and as the regulator and in November the cancellation in the dictates guidelines, Banco Santander has registry, for which reason the company been adapting to the new legislation. name and objective of Santander Agencia de Valores Limitada was modified on December 18, 2019, and renamed Santander Asesorías Financieras Limitada. 122 GRI [102-27] Induction and training of the Board To make the incorporation of new members internalize the roles and responsibilities of into the Board of Santander Chile more these units within the organization. expeditious and efficient, the Bank has an induction procedure for new directors. It Moreover, directors are trained by experts includes the delivery of documentation in contingent matters or of interest to of interest for the proper performance the Bank to strengthen decision-making of their duties and a series of meetings and governance. During 2019, the Board with divisional managers of each area to received annual training on the following topics: Board training topics in 2019 1 3 4 RESPONSIBLE BANKING AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION BENCHMARK WITH MAJOR RETAIL SUSTAINABILITY BANKS IN THE COUNTRY AS OF Topic raised to directors as a priority OCTOBER 2019 Presentation of Climate Change Policy and under ongoing review. The training and Environmental Management. addresses how the Bank carries out Training at the request of directors, Instruction of Santander Chile criteria investment in digital transformation, for a better understanding of strategic regarding environmental protection according to budget commitments initiatives, loans, volumes, profit for the initiatives, mitigation of the effects and shareholder expectations. It year, number of employees, branches, of climate change and the impacts explains the creation of committees current accounts, main balance sheet generated by the activities of the and working groups to address issues items, and others. institution. of digital transformation, in addition to the Bank’s strategic planning process Duration: 30 minutes that prioritizes the initiatives to be Duration: 45 minutes financed according to their strategic relevance and criticality. 2 Duration: 30 minutes 5 COMPLIANCE CYBERSECURITY TRAINING Deepening of compliance functions, During the year, the Board was trained covering the risks of money laundering on various topics, including incidents prevention, product governance and and vulnerabilities in cybersecurity, consumer protection, regulatory risk their impacts, and improvements to and reputational risk. be implemented in management and prevention, among others. Duration: 30 minutes Duration: 150 minutes Annual Report 2019 123 GRI [102-28] GRI [102-35] [102-36] Self-assessment Board Fees of the Board The board must conduct an annual selfThe remuneration of Board members is receive a remuneration of UF 15 for each assessment process, in compliance with decided annually by the Shareholders’ session they attend, while the president of the rules issued by the Chilean banking Meeting. In 2019 fees were agreed at an this committee receives twice this amount authority. This process can be done Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting held on for each attendance. internally or commissioned by a third party. April 26, 2017 and ratified since then. The According to Article 50 bis of the Chilean The 2019 self-assessment was carried out monthly fee of each director for attendance Securities Market Law, the members of the internally through a questionnaire prepared is UF 250, which is doubled in the case of Directors and Audit Committee must receive by Alfredo Enrione for the ESE Bussines the president of the Board and increases an additional remuneration not less than School of the Universidad de Los Andes. In by 50% in the case of the vice-president. one-third of the fee they receive as directors. the session held in December, the results Similarly, directors receive remuneration In compliance with the law, the fee of the of this process were presented, which for one or more committees –except for president of this committee amounts to 230 evaluated the internal climate, the training the Directors and Audit Committee and the UF, while the other directors receive 115 UF and induction processes, the work agenda, Comprehensive Risk Committee– amounting for attendance at each session. the quality of information for the Board and to UF 30 for each session of the respective its relation with the strategy, stakeholders, committee they attend. Directors who serve as executives of and risks. The directors agreed that the the Bank in Spain are not paid for their The members of the Risk Committee, topics to be worked on will be reviewed by participation as members of the committees whose frequency is two sessions per month, the Strategy Committee. they attend. Directors who serve as executives of the Bank in Spain are not paid for their participation as members of the committees they attend. 124 Board Fees during 2019 Board members Monthly stipend Additional monthly stipend for integration of (in UF) committees (in UF) Claudio Melandri Hinojosa 500 0* (President) Rodrigo Vergara Montes 375 60 UF ALCO Comitte (monthly) (First vice-chairman) 115 UF Directors and Audit Committee (monthly) 30 UF Market Committee(monthly) 30 UF Strategy Committe (quarterly) Félix de Vicente Mingo 250 30 UF ALCO Committee (monthly) 115 UF Directors and Audit Committee (monthly) 30 UF Directors and Audit Committee (quarterly) 60 UF Appointment Committe (quarterly) 15 UF Risk Committee (quarterly) Lucía Santa Cruz Sutil 250 30 UF Strategy Committee (quarterly) 30 UF Analysis and Resolution Committee (monthly) 30 UF Market Committee (monthly) Alfonso Gómez Morales 250 30 UF ALCO Committee (monthly) 30 UF Risk Committee (fortnightly) 30 UF Strategy Committee (quarterly) 30 UF Market Committee (monthly) 30 UF Remuneration Committee (quarterly) Juan Pedro Santa Maria Pérez 250 60 UF Analysis and Resolution Committee (monthly) 15 UF Risk Committee(fortnightly) Ana Dorrego De Carlos 0** 0** Rodrigo Echenique Gordillo 250 0*** * Claudio Melandri voluntarily Blanca Bustamante Bravo 250 15 UF Risk Committee (fortnightly) resigned from receiving his (alternate) 30 UF Strategy Committee(quarterly) remuneration for attendance at 30 UF Appointment Committee (quarterly) Board support committees. Óscar Von Chrismar Carvajal 250 15 UF Risk Committee (fortnightly) ** Ana Dorrego de Carlos does not (alternate) 60 UF Market Committee(mensual) receive compensation as she is a 30 UF ALCO Committee (monthly) director of Banco Santander, SA 30 UF Strategy Committee (quarterly) (Spain). 30 UF Appointment Committe (quarterly) *** Rodrigo Echenique does not 30 UF Analysis and Resolution Committee (monthly) belong to any Board Committee. GRI [102-19] Delegation of authority process The Board delegates part of its powers manager and the managers of each division. concerning the administration of Banco The Board has the power to appoint the CEO Santander Chile to the senior management, and to take cognizance of the appointment which includes economic, environmental of key positions, in addition to evaluating and social issues. Senior management is an the performance of senior management. executive body composed of the general Annual Report 2019 125 Senior Management 4 5 1 3 Miguel Matías José Manuel Fred Mata Huerta Sánchez García Manzano Tagle Meller Sunkel Chief Executive Director of Retail Director of Middle-Market Director of Santander Officer Banking Banking Corporate & Investment Banking 6 7 2 Emiliano Franco Guillermo Muratore Rizza Sabater Maroto Chief Financial Director Financial Officer (CFO) of Risk Controller 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 126 14 9 10 11 Carlos María Eugenia Ricardo Cristián Volante Neira de la Fuente Núñez Bartel Jeffery Florence Kauer Manager of Clients Director of Human Resources Director of Technology General and Service Quality and Communications and Operations Counsel 12 8 13 Ricardo Sergio Cristián Martínez Sánchez Ávila Salas Peirano Novoa Director of Internal Director of Administration Director of Corporate Audit and Costs Products 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 Annual Report 2019 127 Compliance The Bank manages the growing challenges Aligned with the corporate strategy and preventing the institution from being of probity and integrity, in addition to business model, the following four risks are used as a vehicle for money laundering or Santander’s adherence to standards, managed: financing of terrorist groups. supervisory requirements and principles and Regulatory compliance risk: The risk of Reputational risk: The risk of a negative values of ethical conduct, by establishing non-compliance on the Bank’s behalf, of the economic impact, current or potential, standards that guide its action in the regulatory policy and expectations which due to an impairment in the perception interests of shareholders, customers, could lead to legal or regulatory sanctions. of the bank by its employees, customers, employees and society in general. In this shareholders, investors and society in context, the Compliance and Conduct Conduct Risk: The risk that actions from general. Management is responsible for overseeing either employees or the Bank might be the implementation and compliance of reflected in negative results for clients or for Compliance manages these risks through a laws, international regulations and internal the markets in which it operates. transversal area in charge of coordination, manuals; the approval and monitoring governance, planning and consolidation of products; the prevention of money Prevention of money laundering and through processes, information systems and laundering; and reputational risk. funding of terrorism risk: Consists of reports. Governance and organizational Compliance reports directly to the Legal 10. Complaints Committee occurred, and the latter in turn informs Department and functionally to the Board, 11. Editorial Newsletter Committee the senior management to manage and and to the Executive, Audit, Comprehensive implement the corrective and mitigation Risk and Global Compliance Committees. measures that are necessary. The Global Compliance, Local Marketing Likewise, it participates in the following and Regulatory Follow-up Committees Compliance is audited by the Internal Audit committees: are organized directly by the Compliance Management, the third line of defence that Management, where this area has a voice, periodically evaluates that the policies, 1. Analysis and Resolution Committee vote and power to manage proposals and methods and procedures applied by the (ARC) and Pre-ARC Committee improvements. compliance area are adequate and effective. 2. Local Marketing Committee It also carries out the necessary tests and In addition, Compliance is invited as a reviews to verify that the appropriate 3. Non-Financial Risk Committee permanent guest to the Directors and Audit controls and monitoring elements are in 4. Loan Portfolios Committee Committee, the Analysis and Resolution place and that the rules and procedures 5. Regulatory Follow-up Committee Committee (ARC), the Pre-ARC Committee defined by the Bank are complied with. 6. Suppliers Committee and the Risk Committee. 7. Cybersecurity Committee In this way, the first line of control, made 8. Donations Committee up of the business and support areas, 9. Responsible Banking, Sustainability and periodically reports to the Compliance Culture Committee Management on incidents that have 128 GRI [205-1] Annual compliance program During 2018, the implementation of This program’s objective is to reflect the the Target Operating Model (TOM) implementation of TOM in the role of Supervision/ was completed, a compliance function compliance and conduct, detailing the Governance Auditing transformation program that strengthened activities in Business as Usual (BAU) mode Requirements the role of this management as a second and the priorities to be addressed during line of defence, along with the best financial the year, and thus safeguard and mitigate industry standards worldwide. any behaviors against the Bank’s values. The program contains planned activities Once the transformation took place, that cover the risk management of the Regulatory Risk an annual Compliance Program was compliance and conduct function, based Radar Management established, in line with the Corporate on greater coordination between control Compliance and Behavior Framework, and functions and reporting to Management. In in compliance with the requirements of the summary, the annual program considers the European Central Bank (ECB), considering following concepts: the size and complexity of the country. Continued Culture and Improvement Training Process GRI [102-17] Ethical training All Bank employees are required to conduct to its employees. At the training level, the mandatory e-learning training courses on payment of incentives is associated with the the General Code of Conduct and the Manual following: for the Prevention of Money Laundering • Successful completion of the e-learning and Funding of Terrorism. The course of the courses “General Code of Conduct and General Code of Conduct is valid for two Corporate Defence” and “Prevention years, after which a refresher course must of Money Laundering and Funding of be taken. Terrorism”. Also, to safeguard internal compliance • Signing the following manuals: General with regulatory policies and measures, Code of Conduct, Corruption Prevention the Bank applies a results contest for the Policy, Money Laundering Prevention Branch Network and the Contact Centre Manual, Manual of Conduct in the use of that involves the payment of incentives ICT, Crime Prevention Policy. Annual Report 2019 129 Regulatory Changes En 2019 se registraron una serie de The law consists of three main guidelines: • Incorporation of an early modificaciones normativas en distintos regularization plan 1. The handover of responsibilities from the ámbitos que son relevantes en materia de Superintendence of Banks and Financial • Capitalization by the financial system cumplimiento y prevención. Institutions (SBIF) to the Financial Market and preventive capitalization Commission (FMC). The integration • Appointment of a delegated inspector between the SBIF and the FMC took place or interim administrator National Regulations: on June 1, 2019. • Elimination of the creditor agreement Law 21.130 modernizing banking 2. New capital requirements, including: legislation: published on January 12, 2019, • New minimum capital requirements this law amends the decree of Law No. 3 of Law 21.167 regulating the forms of 1997, which establishes the consolidated • Role of the regulator in the weighting payment of overdrafts of bank Current text of the General Banking Law. The main of assets for the determination of the Accounts: published on July 18, 2019, it objective is to incorporate the new capital required capital comes into force on January 2, 2020. It and reserve requirements, under the • Recognition of institutions of systemic is a single article law that seeks to allow rules established by the Basel Committee. importance banks to automatically pay a customer’s Furthermore, it updates the concept of line of credit once enough funds have corporate governance and modifies the • Distribution of dividends been deposited into the current account. structure and some powers of the banking It provides that the customer may change regulator. It provides for salvaging and 3. Early intervention mechanisms for the payment method of the credit line intervention mechanisms in case banks banks in case of insolvency and crisis at any time, which will become effective incur solvency problems. management, highlighting the following: in the calendar month following its instruction. Law 21.163 amending Article 38 of Law 19.913: published on July 13, 2019. A single The law that modernizes banking article act amending Article 38 of Act No. 19,913, establishing the Financial Analysis legislation is one of the most Unit (UAF) and the offence of money laundering. The aim of this law is to update important changes in the banking the legislation on money laundering to the new UN standards in the areas of financing business over the past 30 years. terrorism, weapons of mass destruction and money laundering. The resolutions Banco Santander and the Chilean containing the new standards are ratified by the National Congress and consist primarily banking industry in general face of: • To extend the power to freeze assets the challenge of meeting the of persons and entities designated by resolutions concerning the prevention requirements of modern banking and fight against the financing of terrorism and the proliferation of legislation coupled with the weapons of mass destruction. new functional structure of the • Prohibition of operating with FATF-listed countries. regulator, which will contribute to • Specify the flow through which money strengthening the is spent that seeks to finance activities associated with money laundering and the financing of terrorism and regulate it Chilean financial system. with greater certainty. 130 Law 21.081 amending the Law on Consumer Rights, which entered into force on March 14, 2019. It mainly strengthens consumer protection, improving various processes and providing the Sernac with the power to control. Agreement no 2270-02-191212 of the Transparency and Central Bank adopted by the Central Bank’s Council at its ordinary session no 2.270, consumer rights held on December 12, 2019. Under this agreement, published on December 16, 2019 in the Official Journal, an amendment was made to Chapter III.D. 2 of its Compendium of Financial Standards, on the The approval and modification circuit of new requirements to be implemented over recognition and regulation of framework products and services marketed by the the course of the year. agreements for the procurement of Bank has remained unchanged from the Other relevant aspects during the year derivatives. previous year. The post-launch review of related to the risk of conduct in the the marketing of new products and services The goal of the agreement is to update the marketing of products and services have has been relevant, allowing adjustments Central Bank’s regulation on derivatives, been the progress of monitoring the training needed for improvement. incorporating a new articulation and of sales teams, including both new revenues structure within the framework of the Concerning Consumer Rights, in March and the usual production. Additionally, management of situations associated 2019 the amendments to the Consumer Compliance participated in the review of with banks with solvency problems and Rights Protection Act came into force, where the variable remuneration of sales teams regulating the effects of the closeout netting Compliance Management has worked in to incorporate ethical practices in these clauses in the case of counterparties that are conjunction with the Procedural Defence processes and ensure the mitigation of the banking companies. and Customer Service teams to address the associated risk. Annual Report 2019 131 2019 Highlights 1 Update of the Prevention of Corruption Policy GRI [205-2][205-3] The content of the following preventive 3. Training elements aimed at mitigating and 2 preventing the risk of corruption and bribery Mandatory in nature, all employees are in Banco Santander were modified: required to complete specific training in corruption prevention and money 1. Specific controls: laundering matters, which includes the Personal Data Protection primary warnings and criteria to avoid • Guidelines regarding gifts and behavior that is not appropriate for the Policy Update invitations to civil servants. employees of the Group. Furthermore, Understanding the need to modernize • Guidelines regarding gifts and all contributors must subscribe to the how personal data are currently managed, invitations to Santander’s employees. Corruption Prevention Policy contained in concepts and general principles have been their respective virtual folders. integrated both the General Data Protection • Guidelines for the actions of agents, Regulation (GDPR) and Law 19.628 on intermediaries, consultants and protection of privacy, aligning with corporate business partners. 4. Crime prevention model guidelines and serving as the basis for the Here, it should be noted that Banco model of protection of personal data to be Added to the risk of the crime of corruption, Santander Chile did not make contributions implemented in Banco Santander Chile. risks are threatening the company for to political campaigns, political crimes committed by third parties external organizations, lobby organizations, to the bank or by persons within the same lobbyists, and/or other tax-exempt groups institution. Also, there are criminal risks with political influence during 2019. inherent to the company. Those offences are those established in Law 20.393 as a result of the regime of criminal liability of legal 2. Complaints channel persons. It is the instrument through which Banco Santander, with the firm desire to employees can confidentially inform expand its culture of ethical responsibility, Compliance of any act that is allegedly has a Crime Prevention Model that allows illegal or that is contrary to the provisions of minimizing the probability and impact of the Corruption Prevention Policy, of which those criminal risks that could be considered they have knowledge in the field of their associated with their ordinary activity. This professional functions. model is certified by ICR Clasificadora de Riesgo Ltda. The policy states the confidentiality of communications made through this It should be noted that Banco Santander channel and the prohibition of retaliation. Chile does not register corruption causes or It also provides that the processing of incidents during 2019. any complaint shall be carried out by the Directors and Audit Committee, which shall keep a register of all complaints received, in compliance with the requirements of data protection regulations. The complaints’ management will fall under the external company Ethics Point. 132 3 Improvements in the management of ethical conduct in the stock markets During 2019, useful corporate tools for managing the risk of market abuse were implemented: 4 • APAMA is a global tool for monitoring Furthermore, during 2019, the control treasury operations and financial of internal or external communications management in the securities markets. between Banco Santander Chile’s staff who carry out an activity close to the financial The alerts management done via Apama Sanctions policy emerges thanks to the global regulatory markets, with each other and with third framework, to ensure the integrity of parties, was strengthened. This robustness During 2019, this policy was updated, the financial markets and prevent the was made possible by the consolidation of which is essential to ensure full compliance use of inside information to obtain controls and the hiring of Bloomberg Vault, with the sanctions regulations and benefits, as well as the manipulation which allows Trade Surveillance analysts serves as a guide to all business areas, of prices. Since September 2019 all the to control communications through this branches and subsidiaries of the Group. control scenarios belonging to the tool renowned service. In the implementation of measures and had been implemented, allowing the procedures for the control of persons or Finally, it should be noted that during 2019 Trade Surveillance team of Compliance entities subject to restrictions, prohibited improvements were implemented in access Management to cover the revision of countries and restricted operations were policies to restricted areas that handle inside fixed income orders that are operated in incorporated, and the online review in the information and communication policies the Treasury of Banco Santander Chile. lists of negativities for the registration of within the physical treasury area were customers, interveners, counterparties and • MarCo, a tool developed to process strengthened, enabling the compliance all types of operations. the procedures related to the Code officer to impose direct sanctions in case of of Conduct in the Securities Markets non-compliance. (CCMV), concerning the control of personal operations and sensitive information. MarCo is designed to provide greater transparency and improve the interaction between people subject to the CCMV. Annual Report 2019 133 5 7 Country Risk Policy Anti-Money Laundering (AML) The updated policy incorporates a zeromodel risk appetite for sanctioned countries The objective of the model is to develop and the implementation of enhanced a statistical technique that will effectively due diligence measures, as indicated in detect the likelihood that a client will be the Newsletter #59 from the Financial able to use Banco Santander’s services to Analysis Unit (UAF) on risk countries and hide, manage or transfer funds from illicit jurisdictions under the follow-up process of activities. the International Financial Action Task Force (FATF). Operations with restricted countries are reported monthly to the Analysis and 8 Resolution Committee. Foreign Account Tax 6 Compliance Act (FATCA) and Common Reporting Standard (CRS) UAF’s Newsletter #49 Within the regulatory framework for the It introduces amendments to Newsletter automatic exchange of tax information #49 in three relevant points: due diligence between states (FATCA and CRS), in 2019, and knowledge of clients, electronic funds the compliance of all units with the transfers, and countries in risk jurisdiction. reporting obligation to their corresponding Although it is referential, the Bank, in authorities was highlighted by its relevance. due diligence, implemented processes for customer risk and simplified and strengthened customer knowledge. 134 9 Free Competition GRI [206-1] Banco Santander is in the final stage of implementation of the Model of Free Competition, which seeks to strengthen the regulations and guidelines set forth in the Law 20.945 that perfects the system of defence of free competition and as amended by Law Decree 211, granting new powers to the National Economic Prosecutor (Fiscalía Nacional Económica) and hardening the penalties associated with crimes against the competition. It is important to mention that Banco Santander has a competition policy that applies to all its subsidiaries and considers a training program for all its employees. During 2019, 8,948 workers were trained through the e-learning platform, and it is expected to continue along this path, which is aligned with the Bank’s priority interest in complying with antitrust regulations. In legal matters, during 2019 Banco Santander Chile held two pending legal actions related to unfair competition and violations of the legislation dealing with monopolistic practices and against free competition. Annual Report 2019 135 4 Economic and financial performance Despite a year marked by the trade war and the social unrest, the Bank achieved a good performance of operating income, becoming the leader in account openings and maintaining the best efficiency in the market. During the year, Santander managed to grow the loan book by 8.1%, incorporating Santander Consumer Chile to the numbers from November 2019. It was a record year for account openings, thanks to new initiatives such as Life and Superdigital. This also drove an increase in demand deposits during the year. 136 Economic Environment Global Economy Local Context Globally, 2019 was marked by the The Chilean economy began 2019 with In turn, inflation remained low during commercial dispute between China and a slow performance, affected by the the year, though it kept gradually rising the United States, which, after reaching its external scenario and a relatively weak along with the exchange rate increase and peak towards May, lessened towards the labour market. Over the months, growth concluded the year at the target of 3%, after year’s end when the two countries reached prospects were reviewed downwards as the several years below it. Lower inflation, the an agreement. This conflict, coupled with world decelerated. Although consumption uncertainty of the external scenario and the contraction of global trade since 2018, remained contained, investment rebounded the progressive weakening of activity led worse financial conditions and domestic in hand with large investment projects in to a shift in local monetary policy. Thus, political problems in several countries, mining, energy and infrastructure, alongside the Central Bank went from announcing a caused the global economy to expand by the dynamism of the real estate sector. trajectory of increments in its rate in early around 2.9% during the year, its lowest 2019, to successively cutting the Monetary growth since 2009. The last quarter of the year was marked by Policy Rate (MPR), from 3% in June to 1.75% the social unrest triggered on October 18th, in October. The slowdown in the Chinese economy, which generated a sharp contraction in the which decreased its growth by 6.1%, caused local economy and a substantial loss of a fall in the price of raw materials, affecting value of local assets, along with increases the pace of activity in emerging countries in risk premiums. In November, the Chilean and particularly in Latin America, a region economy again displayed a negative growth, that was also affected by internal tensions. a trend that was reversed only in the last month of the year. Therefore, the local Given the international context, the central economy closed 2019 with growth of 1.1% banks implemented expansionary policies that, although positive, is well below the by sharply lowering long-term interest rates 3.5% projected at the beginning of the year, during the first half of the year, while global and well below the 2.4% expected before stock markets performed well and recovered the outbreak of the social conflict. Added the losses observed during 2018. to this is the increase in the public deficit by 2.8% of the GDP, due to lower income and higher expenditure growth. Imacec % 8,00 6,00 4,00 2,00 0,00 -2,00 -4,00 -6,00 Jan 2017 Mar 2017 May 2017 Jul 2017 Sep 2017 Nov 2017 Jan 2018 Mar 2018 May 2018 Jul 2018 Sep 2018 Nov 2018 Jan 2019 Monthly variation (seasonally adjusted) Annual variation Annual Report 2019 137 Annual CPI Var. USD exchange rate 2019 Monetary policy rate 2019 % % 776.5 3.00 3.00 3.0 2.75 2.8 2.7 2.5 2.7 2.6 2.50 770.4 3.00 3.00 2.2 2.8 713.1 2.6 692.0 2.50 2.50 2.00 2.2 2.4 677.1 667.7 718.4 721.0 2.2 2.06 692.4 686.1 1.75 1.75 667.4 656.3 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Ago Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Ago Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Ago Sep Oct Nov Dec Source: Central Bank of Chile New Banking Law A new version of the General Banking Law commission has an official known as the The FMC, in agreement with the Central (GBL) was published in January 2019. prosecutor, who oversees an area known as Bank, may impose additional capital Among the most relevant changes is the Investigation Unit and who is in charge requirements for Systemically Important the indication to adopt the capital levels of investigating disciplinary proceedings. Banks (SIB) ranging from 1% to 3.5% of riskestablished in the Basel III standards weighted assets. In particular, the Central According to the new version of the law, the Bank may require the addition of up to 2% by Chilean banks and the integration minimum capital requirements rise in terms of a bank’s core capital to total asset ratio; a of the banking regulator (formerly the of quantity and quality. Total regulatory reduction in the activated technical reserve Superintendency of Banks and Financial capital remains at 8% of risk-weighted requirement from 2.5 times the regulatory Institutions) to the Financial Market assets, including credit, market and capital to 1.5 times the regulatory capital; Commission (FMC). operational risk. The minimum Tier 1 capital and/or a reduction in the interbank loan limit In this way, the FMC becomes an integrated increased from 4.5% to 6% of risk-weighted to 20% of the regulatory capital of any SIB. regulator, having under its supervision assets, from which up to 1.5% could be insurance companies, security issuers, Additional Tier 1 (AT1), either in the form of The FMC shall have until December 1, 2020, credit unions and credit and prepaid cards preferred shares or perpetual bonds, which to establish weightings. Until then, banks issuers in addition to banks. This committee may be convertible to common equity. The must maintain a regulatory capital of at is composed of a council of five members FMC also establishes the conditions and least 8% of risk-weighted assets, net of the -leaving behind the previous structure requirements for the issuance of perpetual estimate and deductions of required credit of sole supervisorswhose chairman is bonds and preferred stock. Tier 2 capital is losses and paid capital, and reserves (“core appointed by the President of the Republic. now set at 2% of risk-weighted assets. capital”) of at least 3% of total assets, net In contrast, the other four, although of required loan loss allowances. Banco Additional capital demands are incorporated Santander must maintain a minimum appointed by the President, are previously through a conservation buffer of 2.5% of regulatory capital ratio to risk-weighted ratified by the Senate. risk-weighted assets. The Central Bank may assets of 11%. The commission’s responsibilities include establish an additional counter-cyclical the regulation and definition of general financial buffer of up to 2.5% of riskThe FMC has already begun publishing supervisory policies, as well as sanctioning weighted assets, in accordance with the drafts for consultation. On August 12, 2019, powers. For the latter’s purpose, the FMC. Both buffers must be composed of the first draft for the identification and core core capital. 138 capital charge for banks considered as SIB The minimum amount of the sum of was published. To reach a market share after the systemic factors to be considered this, the following four factors are weighted: is 1,000 bps, equivalent to a weighted share of 10% of the four factors. The 1. Size (weighted at 30%): it includes total additional core capital charge depends consolidated assets in the domestic on the size of the total factor, as set out in market. the table below: 2. National interconnection (weighted at 30%): it includes assets and liabilities with financial institutions (banking and non-banking) and assets in circulation in the Chilean financial market (variable and fixed income). 3. National substitution (weighted at 20%): it includes participation in local payments, assets in custody, deposits and loans. 4. Complexity (weighted at 20%): it includes Systemic level Range (bps) Additional core capital charge (%RWA) factors that could lead to more significant difficulties concerning costs and/or time I 1000-1300 1.0%-1.25% for the orderly resolution of the Bank. II 1300-1800 1.25%-1.75% These include the notional amount of III 1800-2000 1.75%-2.5% OTC derivatives, inter-jurisdictional assets and liabilities, and available for sale IV >=2000 2.5%-3.5% assets. Annual Report 2019 139 Given the size and market share of The current mechanism estimates the Pilar II, intending to ensure proper risk Santander Chile, it is likely that the Bank credit risk-weighted assets (CRWA) using management. The FMC, counting with at will be classified as SIB according to the a methodology based on the Basel I least four of its Board’s votes, will have regulation proposed by the FMC in this area. Standard. The standard approach proposed the power to impose additional regulatory under Basel III is more advanced, as it capital demands of up to 4% of riskOn September 13, 2019, the FMC published has categories that depend on the type weighted assets, either at Level I or Level II, the risk weights for operational risk. Two of counterparty and the different risk if it is determined that the above-described factors are considered in the estimation of factors. These categories are not based level of capital and buffers is not sufficient the operating risk coefficient: on accounting criteria, but rather on the for a particular financial institution. The 1. Business indicator component (BIC): underlying risk, so all exposures that have FMC shall be responsible for establishing it considers interest income, interestmortgage guarantees, such as home weightings of the risk-weighted assets generating assets, dividend income, mortgage loans, are treated differently from as a separate regulation, based on the financial transactions, fees, and other those exposures not secured by a mortgage. implementation of standard models, subject operating income and expenses. These Furthermore, in the case of mortgageto agreement with the Central Bank. are multiplied by a marginal coefficient. backed exposures, there are different types of treatment depending on the type of real The following table provides a comparison 2. Internal loss multiplier (ILM): it is estate and whether the obligations are paid between regulatory capital demands under a component based on 10 years of with the income generated by the property the previous law and those under the new historical operating losses, or at least five itself. The new framework also allows the General Banking Law: years in some special cases. use of internal methodologies, subject to compliance with minimum requirements. On January 27, 2019, the FMC published The standard in consultation includes the for consultation the risk weight model for possibility of reducing the CRWA when the credit risk. The Basel Committee on Banking credit risk mitigating factors are considered, Supervision (BCBS) defines it as the risk that such as compensation agreements, a debtor or a bank counterparty will not guarantees and others. meet its obligations under the agreed terms and is the most relevant risk in the Chilean The new General Banking Law also banking industry. incorporates the capital requirements of 140 CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS: PREVIOUS VS. NEW REQUIREMENTS (% of risk-weighted assets) Capital categories Previous law New General Banking Law (1) Total Capital Tier 1 (2+3) 4.5 6 (2) Equity 4.5 4.5 (3) Additional Capital Tier 1 (AT1) 1.5 (4) Capital Tier 2 3.5 2 (5) Total regulatory capital (1+4) 8 8 2% above regulatory capital to be classified as (6) Conservation buffer 2.5 Category A of Solvency (7) Total capital requirement (5+6) 8 10.5 (8) Counter-cyclical buffer Up to 25 (9) SIB requirement* Up to 6% in the event of a merger Between 1 – 3.5 * Systemically Important Banks Annual Report 2019 141 Financial System By the end of 2019, the total loans in Meanwhile, within the context of the the system (excluding foreign banking incidents of social unrest that occurred investments) grew by 10.4% when during the last months of 2019, both the compared to the same period last year. non-performing loans on total credits, as well as the expected loss, increased slightly This subsidiaries was driven by the increase At December Ch$Bn US$Bn in comparison to 2018. The non-performing 2019 in mortgage and commercial loans, which loans (NPLs) as a percentage of the total Assets 290,500 388.7 rose by 11.2% and 10.1% respectively. The portfolio increased from 1.9% at the end strong growth in mortgage loans answered Loans 196,454 262.9 of 2018 to 2.1% at the end of 2019. In to the decline in long-term interest rates, Deposits 152,221 203.7 response to these events, the banking which boosted demand for new investments system increased its stock of provisions as a Equity 21,834 29.2 and a high level of refinancing of mortgage percentage of the non-performing portfolio loans. Income 2,639 3.5 and concluded 2019 with a coverage of 144%. MIN 4.0% The growth in commercial loans was caused by an increase in loans to medium and large Cost of credit 1.3% In terms of profitability, despite the companies primarily, and to the higher NPL Ratio 1.9% diminished economic growth, the drop in depreciation of the Peso in the year, which inflation and the flattening of the interest Coverage Ratio 143.5% increased the loan balance in dollars. rate curve, the banking system achieved a Efficiency Ratio 47.0% Consumer loans display a 7.2% growth solid return reflected in a ROE of 12.1% and a ROA of 1.0%. The Chilean banking also Return over during 2019, which contrasts the increase average assets 1.0% of over 20% in 2018. This deceleration was continues to stand out due to an excellent (ROAA) mainly caused by several banks acquiring efficiency level of 47% and a solid ratio of ROAE 12.2% consumer portfolios from non-bank effective equity to risk-weighted assets of 12.8%. Core capital 10.3% institutions during 2018, inflating the level of growth. BIS ratio 12.8% Total loans $Bn, annual var. ROE System % YoY % 169,262 174,763 180,057 18.58 163,069 166,009 17.99 17.50 17.21 14.65 14.83 14.18 12.02 12.10 11.03 11.55 11.5% 11.4% 10.1% 11.6% 10.4% Dec 18 Mar19 Jun19 Sep19 Dec19 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Source: FMC 142 Financial results Summary of Results Net income attributable to equity holders Additionally, the ROAE decreased by 2.5 reached $552,093 million ($2.93 per share percentage points, from 19.2% in 2018 to and US$ 1.57 per ADR) by the end of 2019, 16.7% in 2019, while the ROAA decreased decreasing by 6.7% over the previous year. by 0.28 percentage points, falling from The Bank’s total operating income increased 1.58% to 1.30%. Excluding the model 4.6%, encouraged by 5.4% growth of the change and the additional provisions operating income generated by the Bank’s recognised in 2019, the adjusted ROE would business segments. have reached 17.8% and the ROAA 1.3% during 2019. This positive increase in revenues was primarily offset by two factors: (i) a smaller The Bank’s loan portfolio increased by 8.1% non-client margin due to lower inflation and in 2019 compared to 2018, mainly due to long-term interest rates and (ii) an increase an increase in mortgage and business loans. in provisions caused by the regulatory The addition of Santander Consumer Chile to change which mainly affected SMEs, and the numbers starting November 2019 also additional provisions taken in light of the added $450 billion to the Bank’s consumer social context during the last quarter of the portfolio. year. The Bank’s total deposits grew 7.7% in Santander continues to be the most efficient 2019, with a 17.8% increase in demand bank among the largest banks in Chile, with deposits driven by the growth in current an efficiency ratio of around 40% and a accounts and the strength of the moderate increase in support costs of 3.9% organisation in the transactional banking during 2019. Santander Chile continued business with companies. to invest in new initiatives, and greater digitalization and cyber security. Annual Report 2019 143 SUMMARY OF RESULTS (Ch$, in millions) 2019 2018 2017 var % 19/18 var% 18/17 Net interest income from business segments 1,356,989 1,319,398 1,335,803 2.8 (1.2) Non-client net interest income 1 59,862 94,970 (9,112) (37.0) Total net interest income 1,416,851 1,414,368 1,326,691 0.2 6.6 Net fee and commission income 287,086 290,885 279,063 (1.3) 4.2 Results of financial transactions 207,019 105,082 129,752 97.0 (19.0) Other operating income 24.,598 39,526 87,163 (37.8) (54.7) Operating profit 1,935,554 1,849,861 1,822,669 4.6 1.5 Provisions (420,447) (325,085) (299,205) 29.3 8.6 Net operating profit 1,515,107 1,524,776 1,523,464 (0.6) 0.1 Operating expenses (749,861 (721,933) (704,893) 3.9 2.4 Other operational costs 2 (63,747) (45,779) (101,658) 39.2 (55.0) Operating profit 701,499 757,064 716,913 (7.3) 5.6 Net profit (post tax) 554,176 596,262 577,263 (7.1) 3.3 Minority Interest 2,083 4,360 12,448 (52.2) (65.0) Net income attributable to equity holders 552,093 591,902 564,815 (6.7) 4.8 Net income per share 2.93 3.14 3.00 (6.7) 4.7 Profit per ADR (US$)3 1.57 1.80 1.94 (12.9) (7.4) Loans and clients receivable accounts4 32,716,883 30.266,929 27,563,229 8.1 9.8 Interbank loans 14,852 15,093 162,684 (1.6) (90.7) Total loans 32,731,735 30,282,022 27,725,913 8.1 9.2 Total deposits5 23,490,249 21,809,236 19,682,111 7.7 10.8 Equity 3,470,317 3,285,709 3,108,063 5.6 5.7 Net Interest margin 6 4.1% 4.4% 4.4% -32 bps +2 bps Efficiency 7 40.0% 40.0% 40.8% -1 bps -81 bps ROAE 8 16.7% 19.2% 19.2% -244 bps -7 bps ROAA9 1.3% 1.6% 1.6% -32 bps +2 bps Non-performing loans / total loans 2.10% 2.09% 2.28% -3 bps -20 bps Coverage of non-performing loans 10 133.0% 126.1% 128.8% +693 bps -267 bps Core Capital 11 10.1% 10.6% 11.0% -46 bps -40 bps Basel Ratio 12 12.9% 13.4% 13.9% -55 bps -50 bps Branches 377 380 385 (0.8) (1.3) 1. Corresponds to net interest income and adjustments to corporate activities (other) / 2. Includes impairment losses. / 3. Change in net income per ADR may differ with the change in net income per share due to exchange rates. / 4. Gross provisions. / 5. Includes demand deposits and term deposits. / 6. Net interest margin is net interest income for the year divided by average interest-bearing assets. / 7. Efficiency Ratio: operating costs excluding impairment and other operational expenses divided by operational income. Operational income = net interest income, commissions, results of net financial operations and other operating income minus other operating expenses. / 8. Net income attributable to equity holders over average equity. / 9. Net income attributable to equity holders over average total assets. / 10. Loan loss allowances divided by non-performing portfolio. / 11. Equity attributable to equity holders of the bank divided by risk-weighted assets as defined by the FMC BIS I. /12. Regulatory capital divided by risk-weighted assets. 144 Loans Total loans increased by 8.1% during 2019 the final approval by the Extraordinary in respect to 2018, a variation headed by Shareholders’ Meeting and the Financial the loans to retail banking, which grew Market Commission (FMC). This contributed 10.3%. Loans to individuals were the $451 billion in consumer credit as of fastest-growing segment, increasing by December 2019, which represented 8% of 11.3%. The expansion of this portfolio was the total consumer credit. focused on high-income clients, which In the SME segment, the year-on-year increased by 15.7%. Banco Santander Chile’s growth was of 5.7%. In this segment, the Life Program also contributed to the record Bank maintained a conservative approach, opening of current accounts during the focusing on companies that were bigger and year, and provided $43 billion in consumer less risky, those of which can also create a loans to the portfolio, increasing by 68.1% revenue through other value-added services in comparison to the previous year. On the provided by the Bank. The Middle Market other hand, mortgage loans increased by segment (BEI) grew by 5.2% during the 11.0% driven by lower long-term interest year, in line with the country’s economic rates. This higher growth was achieved by growth. Santander Corporate Investment maintaining the loan to value ratio below Banking (SCIB) had a slight decrease of 0.6% 80%. as the Bank continued with its profitability Consumer loans increased 13.6%, driven by strategy, focusing on the transactional and the incorporation of Santander Consumer treasury services that the Bank offers these Chile S.A. in November 2019, following companies. LOANS BY SEGMENT (Ch$, in millions) 2019 2018 2017 var % 19/18 var% 18/17 Individuals 18,833,518 16,921,496 15,408,301 11.3 9.8 SMEs 4,085,049 3,865,141 3,824,868 5.7 1.1 Individuals and SMEs 22,918,568 20,786,637 19,233,169 10.3 8.1 Middle-Market 8,093,496 7,690,380 6,775,734 5.2 13.5 Corporate banking (SCIB) 1,671,662 1,681,697 1,633,796 (0.6) 2.9 Other 48,009 123,309 83,215 (61.1) 48.2 Total loans 32,731,735 30,282,023 27,725,914 8.1 9.2 LOANS BY PRODUCT (Ch$, in millions) 2019 2018 2017 var % 19/18 var% 18/17 Commercial 15,914,831 15,239,659 13,908,642 4.4 9.6 Housing 11,262,995 10,150,981 9,096,895 11.0 11.6 Consumer + cards 5,539,057 4,876,289 4,557,692 13.6 7.0 Consumer 4,161,347 3,459,137 3,192,712 20.3 8.3 Cards 1,377,710 1,417,152 1,364,980 (2.8) 3.8 Loans and accounts receivable from customers 32,716,883 30,266,929 27,563,229 8.1 9.8 Interbank 14,852 15,094 162,684 (1.6) (90.7) Total loans 32,731,735 30,282,024 27,725,913 8.1 9.2 Annual Report 2019 145 Loans by segment Loans by product SCIB Consumer 5% + cards 17% Middle market 25% Individuals Commercial 58% 49% SMEs 12% Housing 34% Other 0.1% The Bank upheld a strong position as a leader in Chile, reaching a market share in total loans of 18.2%. TOTAL MARKET SHARE AND MARKET SHARE BY PRODUCT (%) Santander Banco de Scotiabank BCI Banco Itaú Chile Estado Corpbanca Total loans 18.2% 17.0% 14.1% 13.8% 13.8% 9.8% Individuals 21.0% 17.2% 15.7% 13.1% 15.5% 7.7% Consumer 20.8% 17.0% 13.0% 14.6% 8.4% 7.2% Housing 21.1% 17.2% 17.0% 12.4% 19.1% 7.9% Commercial 16.0% 16.4% 12.9% 14.4% 12.5% 11.6% Market Share of Total Loans % 18.2 17.0 14.1 13.8 13.8 9.8 Santander Banco de Chile Scotiabank BCI Banco Estado Itaú Corpbanca Source: FMC 146 Client funds SOURCES OF FUNDS (Ch$, in millions) 2019 2018 2017 var % 19/18 var% 18/17 Demand deposits 10,297,432 8,741,417 7,768,166 17.8 12.5 Time deposits 13,192,817 13,067,819 11,913,945 1.0 9.7 Total deposits 23,490,249 21,809,236 19,682,111 7.7 10.8 Mutual funds 6,524,098 5,576,243 5,056,892 17.0 10.3 Total client funds 30,014,347 27,385,479 24,739,003 9.6 10.7 Issued debt instruments 9,500,723 8,115,233 7,093,653 17.1 14.4 Adjusted loans / deposits 95.1% 98.0% 100.7% -290bps -270bps MARKET SHARE PARTICIPATION IN DEPOSITS (%) Santander Banco de Scotiabank BCI Banco Itaú Chile Estado Corpbanca Total deposits 17.4% 16.5% 11.9% 12.7% 18.2% 9.0% Demand deposits 20.8% 22.9% 9.8% 13.0% 21.0% 5.1% Term deposits 15.4% 12.7% 13.0% 12.5% 16.5% 11.2% Chilean market excludes subsidiaries and branches abroad of Banco Estado, BCI, and Itaú Corpbanca. Banco Santander’s main funding source consists of customer deposits (demand deposits and term deposits), which represent 49.9% of the Bank’s total liabilities. In 2019, total deposits increased by 7.7%, reaching a market share of 27.4% market share in terms of new 17.4%. current accounts, net During 2019, deposit growth was led by demand deposits, which grew by 17.8% due to the increase in retail current accounts, the continued strength of the Bank’s transactional banking services for business, and the seasonal growth in demand deposits in the last quarter of the year, as customers sought greater 21.7% liquidity during the social unrest. As for the share of total creation of current accounts, it was a record year current accounts for the Bank. During 2019, Santander obtained a market share of 27.4% in terms of new net accounts, thus increasing the share of total current accounts from 21.3% in December 2018 to 21.7% in December 2019. With this, Banco Santander managed to strengthen the market share in demand deposits, reaching 20.8% by 20.8% market share in demand the end of 2019. deposits Annual Report 2019 147 Market share of new current accounts, net New current accounts Market share 27.4% In turn, time deposits had a moderate 95,009 increase of 1.0% during 2019, which is 16.2% 14.2% 13.1% explained by the reduction of the Monetary 9.8% 11.0% 56,053 Policy Rate (MPR) applied by the Central 4.5% 49.388 45,568 Bank of Chile, causing this product to 34,062 38,264 become less attractive. Aiming to protect the 15,739 profit margin, the Bank focused on reducing its costs for this product. Santander Banco Banco BCI Scotiabank Falabella Itaú de Chile Estado Corpbanca The Finance Division is responsible for managing the Bank’s other funding sources, Source: FMC mainly the issuance of bonds and bank lines. The growth of the Bank’s mortgage portfolio reinforced the strategy of issuing long-term New quarterly gross accounts1 assets to match the terms of assets and liabilities. Also, given the low-rate context, the Bank took the opportunity to refinance +66% some of its bonds in order to lower the 70,277 funding cost. With this, the bond growth during the year was 17.1%. The above-mentioned low-rate 42,312 environment prompted a 17.0% increase in the mutual funds traded through the 33,230 Bank, as customers sought higher-return investments. 1Q18 2Q18 3Q18 4Q18 1Q19 2Q19 3Q19 4Q19 1. Includes current accounts, Life, and Superdigital. Deposit cost evolution in Pesos2 3.1% 2.9% 2.48% 2.8% 2.5% 2.33% 2.17% 1.75% 31-12-2017 31-03-2018 30-06-2018 30-09-2018 31-12-2018 31-03-2019 30-06-2019 30-09-2019 31-12-2019 Santander Chile BCI Banco de Chile Monetary Policy Rate 2. Quarterly interest expenses paid for nominal deposits in Pesos over a quarterly average of the Source: based on information from the FMC. time deposits balance in nominal Pesos. 148 Equity At the end of 2019, the equity attributable measures, it should be considered that use of capital by assigning it to operations to the Bank’s equity holders amounted risk-weighted assets increased by 9.4% with high profitability in terms of its to $3,390.823 billion. This figure is 4.7% during 2019 when compared to 2018. The consumption. higher than its 2018 record, thus achieving decline in ratios was also affected by the a core capital ratio (equity attributable to In this regard, it is essential to note that the depreciation of the exchange rate, which the Bank’s equity holders on risk-weighted Financial Market Commission (FMC) is in the reached 7.1% during the year. This resulted, assets) of 10.1%, which is slightly inferior process of publishing under consultation in turn, in a higher growth of the Bank’s to the 10.6% recorded by the end of 2018. Basel III standard regulations which will be dollar-denominated assets, inducing the Likewise, the Basel Ratio (regulatory capital implemented in Chile. Regarding the current increase of 9.4% of risk-weighted assets. divided by risk-weighted assets) stood regulations being placed in consultation at 12.9% by the end of 2019, a figure These Bank solvency indicators rank higher by the Central Bank, the transition to Basel lower than the 13.4% recorded by 2018’s than what is currently required in Chile and III standards is expected to be neutral to conclusion. For both capital adequacy reflect a strategy that involves the efficient positive for Banco Santander. CAPITAL ADEQUACY (Ch$, in millions) 2019 2018 2017 var % 19/18 var% 18/17 Core Capital 3,390,823 3,239,546 3,066,180 4.7 5.7 Tier II 913,578 862,119 815,072 6.0 5.8 Net effective equity 4,304,401 4,101,664 3,881,252 4.9 5.7 Risk-weighted assets 33,478,951 30,600,177 27,911,835 9.4 9.6 Basic capital/Total assets 6.70% 8.26% 8.56% -156 bps -30bps Basic capital / Risk weighted assets (Tier I) 10.13% 10.59% 10.99% -46bps -40bps Basel ratio 12.90% 13.40% 13.91% -50bps -50 bps Annual Report 2019 149 Business results he net contribution by business segment due to the social unrest during the last decreased by 7.8% in 2019 when compared quarter of the year, the Bank established to the previous year. The net participation higher provisions, including additional of individuals and SMEs had a year-on-year requirements of $16 billion for consumer variation of -25.1%, while Middle Market loans. reached 3.3%, and Corporate Investment Banking (SCIB) was 23.2%. In this regard, Excluding extraordinary effects, the net it is essential to consider that the Bank had contribution of business segments would to assume, during 2019, a single charge of have decreased 1.1% instead of 7.8%, $31 billion due to a regulatory change in with the division of individuals and SMEs the provision model for commercial loans decreasing 12.1% instead of 25.1%. analysed on a group basis. In addition, RESULTS BY BUSINESS SEGMENT ANALYSIS (Ch$, in millions) Individuals MiddleSCIB Total Corporate Total and SMEs market segments activities (other) Interest income and net 960,248 298,587 98,154 1,356,989 59,862 1,416,851 adjustments Var. % 1.1 9.4 1.5 2.8 (37.0) 0.2 Net fee income 230,627 38,712 29,103 298,442 11.356 287,086 Var. % 4.6 5.4 (17.0) 2.1 679.4 (1,3) Result of financial operations 30,097 17,178 94,761 142,036 64,983 207,019 Var. % 52.8 2.0 65.3 51.3 480.2 97.0 Operational income 1,220,972 354,477 222,018 1,797,467 113,489 1,910,956 Var. % 2.6 8.6 17.4 5.4 8.4 5.6 Net provisions (374,642) (42,812) (758) (418,212) (2,235) (420,447) Var. % 36.1 62.7 (132.4) 39.7 91,3 29.3 Net operational result 846,330 311,665 221,260 1,379,255 111,254 1,490,509 Var. % (7.5) 3.8 15.6 (1.9) 40.9 0.4 Operating expenses (575,511) (97,054) (65,343) (737,908) (11,953) (749,861) Var. % 4.0 5.1 0.7 3.9 4.1 3.9 Net contribution 270,819 214,611 155,917 641,347 99,301 740,648 Var. % (25.1) 3.3 23.2 (7.8) 47.2 (3.0) 150 Operational income The Bank’s net operating income rose by 5.6% during 2019, driven by an 8.4% increase in the operating income of corporate activities. SUMMARY OF RESULTS (Ch$, in millions) 2019 2018 2017 var % 19/18 var % 18/17 Net interest income from business segments1 1,356,989 1,319,398 1,335,803 2.8 (1.2) Non-client net interest income 2 59,862 94,970 (9,112) (37.0) -Net interest income 1,416,851 1,414,368 1,326,691 0.2 6.6 Interest-earning asset yield3 6.8% 7.0% 6.9% -30 bps + 19 bps Cost of funds4 2.7% 2.7% 2.5% -4bps + 20bps Net interest margin (NIM) 5 4.1% 4.4% 4.4% -32 bps +2 bps 1. Net interest income for business segments. Excludes Corporate and Financial Management activities (classified as “Other”) / 2. Net interest income to Corporate and Financial Management activities (classified as “Other”) / 3. Interest income divided by average interest-earning assets over the last 12 months. Interest-earning assets are the total gross loans, interbank loans, and assets available for sale / 4. Interest expense divided by average interest-bearing liabilities and demand deposits over the last 12 months. Interest-paying liabilities include repurchase agreements and securities loans, time deposits and other time liabilities, interbank borrowings, issued debt instruments, and other financial obligations / 5. Net interest margin is the annual net interest income divided by average interest-bearing assets. Interest income, the Bank’s primary revenue, decrease in collection fees. Nevertheless, covers the results of Financial Management increased by 0.2% during the year. Net commissions by business segment rose by operations. The income increase linked to interest margin (NIM) fell from 4.4% in 2.1% thanks to larger commissions from financial transactions in the Client Treasury 2018 to 4.1% in 2019. This decline is mainly current accounts, credit lines and insurance, (business segments) was 51.3% in 2019, explained by the decrease on interestas a consequence of the steady growth of representing 69% of total Treasury income. earning asset yield (interest income divided customers during the year. Loyal clients This, reflected customers demand to limit by interest-earning assets) from 7.0% in (those that have more than four products their exposure to volatile exchange rates 2018 to 6.8% in 2019, primarily due to and meet a minimum of usage and levels and to the uncertain global markets. At a lower inflation in the year. This led to a of profitability) also increased in the year, the same time, the results of the Financial 37% fall in the non-client financial margin, growing 6.9% in the highest segment, 4.3% Management division, responsible for which includes mostly the Bank’s structural in the middle segment and 5.3% in SMEs capital positioning, liquidity, funding, and position in assets according to the variation and the Middle Market. Life, the range of inflation, increased by 480% primarily due of the inflation-linked UF. products for the mass segment that rewards to net profits from the sale of available good financial behaviour also expanded its investments in a context of sharp decreases Interest income coming from business segments, which does not include the effect offer, adding the option of a simple current in local and foreign rates. It should be noted of inflation, increased 2.8% during the year, account and the possibility of accumulating that the financial instruments that constitute encouraged by an 8.1% increase in loans. Latam miles through the credit card. the portfolio of financial assets at amortised This high level of growth was offset by the Furthermore, the Bank has already relocated cost are mainly debt instruments issued by negative effect on the margin of low longa large number of its cards to use the new the Central Bank of Chile, The Republic of term interest rates, which led to a record four-part model in the acquiring field, which Chile and the Treasury of the United States. level of mortgage refinancing at lower rates. positively affected the commissions of this This was slightly balanced by the lower product, starting the second half of the year. funding cost of the Bank, as a result of the In terms of the result of financial operations, high growth in demand deposits described they increased by 97.0% in comparison above. to last year. This result mainly includes In turn, commissions fell by 1.3% during the Client Treasury business along with the year. This fall is mainly explained by the Non-client Treasury results, which in turn Annual Report 2019 151 Provisions Provisions increased by 29.3% during 2019, Despite this increase in provisions and the resulting in an increase in the cost of credit cost of credit, the leading indicators of (result from provisions over average loans) credit risk remained stable in the year. The from 1.1% in 2018 to 1.3% in 2019. This NPL ratio (non-performing portfolio over increase in provisions was mainly due to total loans) closed the year at 2.1%, the (a) the change in the regulatory model of same figure as 2018. Impaired loans over provisions for the portfolio analysed as a total loans also remained stable at 5.9% in group in July 2019, which mainly affected comparison to 2018, with an improvement SMEs, and meant the recognition of in the consumer loan portfolio from 5.6% to extraordinary provisions by $31 billion; and 5.1%, offset by an increase in the impaired (b) $16 billion of additional provisions in the loans ratio in the commercial portfolio from consumer portfolio related to the change 5.7% to 5.9% at the end of 2019. Finally, in the social context of the last quarter of coverage, measured as loan loss allowances 2019, and to cover potential future changes over non-performing loans, reached 133.0% in the model of provisions required by the at the end of 2019, compared to 126.1% in Central Bank. 2018. Operating expenses In 2019, the Bank continued with its platform that is being developed for the investment program in digital products future sale of insurance products; (iv) other and technology accompanied by significant digital processes to back-office functions; increases in productivity and efficiency. and (v) the opening and transformation of Total operating expenses grew by only branches with the format of Work/Café. As 3.9% in 2019. Technology costs increased of December 31st, 2019, Banco Santander with investments in new digital customer Chile had a total of 377 branches, of which services and back-office platforms, creating 53 correspond to the Work/Café format. long-term efficiencies. The new initiatives With these investments in technology, it included: (i) Superdigital, a transactional was possible to maintain the efficiency ratio digital platform with prepaid debit and stable at 40.0%, once again consolidating credit cards; (ii) Santander’s Life, a range of the Bank’s position as the most efficient products for the mass segment that rewards among the major banks in Chile. good financial behaviour; (iii) Klare, a digital Other operating income and Efficiency ratio against competitors expenses Other operating income during the year decreased by 37.8% due to a lower release 48.9% of non-credit contingencies compared to 55.6% 49.4% 57.7% 44.2% 2018. This was partially offset by insurance 40.0% compensations for damages some of the Bank’s branches suffered during the social upheaval between October and December 2019. Conversely, other operating expenses Santander Banco Scotiabank Banco BCI Itaú de Chile Estado Corpbanca increased by 39.2%, due to higher costs of insurances contracted for cybersecurity and Source: FMC fraud. 152 Taxes GRI [207-1][207-2][207-3] SUMMARY OF TAXES (Ch$, in millions) 2019 2018 var% 19/18 In 2019, tax expenditure amounted to Income before taxes 702,645 758,389 (7.4) $150,168 million, which involved a 9.5% Price level restatement of capital1 (58,022) (111,242) (47.8) decrease over the $165,897 million of the Net income before tax adjusted for price previous year. The tax rate remained stable 644,623 647,147 (0.4) level restatement at 27% in both periods, while the monetary Statutory Tax rate 27% 27% correction was 47.8% lower. These elements, together with higher tax credits Income tax expense at Statutory rate (174,048) (174,730) (0.4) compared to 2018, led to a decrease in the Tax benefits 2 23,880 8,833 170.3 effective tax rate of 50 basis points. Income tax (150.168) (165,897) (9.5) Effective tax rate 21.4% 21.9% -50 bps 1. For tax purposes, capital is indexed to CPI inflation. The statutory tax rate is applied over net income before tax adjusted for price level restatement / 2. Mainly includes income tax credits from property taxes paid on leased assets as well as the impact from fluctuations in deferred tax assets and liabilities. The Bank’s tax management is framed efficient legislation, for the simultaneous within the Group’s corporate guidelines, benefit of general and business interests. which demand the adoption of ethical Likewise, the Board of Banco Santander practices to prevent and reduce both fiscal Chile has defined a catalogue of transactions and reputational risks1. At a local level, of special fiscal risk; those that can be Banco Santander Chile’s Fiscal Policy is included in any of the categories of Special approved by the Board of Directors, and Fiscal Risk should be referred to the Bank’s sets a system of tax risk management and tax advisory team, which is dependent of control to ensure compliance. the Intervention and Control Management The principles of the Bank’s Fiscal Policy Division, which in turn refers them to Banco are to cooperate with the competent tax Santander’s Corporate Tax Counsel. In case authority, which in Chile corresponds to of the existence of a Special Fiscal Risk, the the Servicio de Impuestos Internos (SII); operation is submitted to the Board for its to provide this body with the information approval, through the Audit Committee. required to fulfill its obligations; to ensure transparency by avoiding the use of structures of an opaque nature; to respect the rules on transfer prices and to provide customers with tax information regarding the products and services contracted as early as possible. It also dictates contributing to the trade unions to which the Bank is affiliated, as long as such participation does not involve a reputational risk, and 3. The principles of action in tax matters are to collaborate with the development and available in https://www.santander.com/es/ implementation of more equitable and nuestro-compromiso/politicas Annual Report 2019 153 Economic value generated and distributed GRI [201-1] The economic value generated during 2019 Economic value by Banco Santander Chile was $2,359.649 (Ch$, in millions) billion; 2% more than in the previous period; 2019 2018 2017 53.4% of this amount is for the payment of Direct economic value generated 2,359,649 2,314,080 2,163,168 capital providers, 17.4% for the payment of salaries and benefits of employees, 13.9% Retained economic value 197,336 172,651 246,618 in operating expenses, 6.8% in payment of Distributed economic value 2,162,313 2,141,429 1,916,550 taxes to the State and 0.2% in contributions Dividends 355,141 423,611 330,645 to the community. Suppliers and other administrative costs 1,231,837 1,140,991 1,032,888 Human resources expenses 409,904 397,564 396,967 Income taxes accounted for in the year 150,168 165,897 143,613 FMC contribution 11,043 10,274 10,005 Investment in CSR 4,220 3,092 2,432 Economic value 2019 Contribution to Payments the community to the State 0.2% 6.8% Employee wages and benefits Payment 17.4% to capital providers Operational 53.4% expenses 13.9% Retained economic value 8.4% 154 In 2019, the Bank continued its investment program in digital products and technology accompanied by significant increases in productivity and efficiency. Annual Report 2019 155 5 Risk Management As the leading banking entity in the country, risk management is essential to the daily activity of Banco Santander. It is the way to ensure that the organization acts responsibly in the face of economic changes, customer demands and a new social and business environment, always in line with the corporate culture and current legal regulations. 156 156 Risk Risk culture Governance Risk culture is key to business development. The Board is the body responsible for To support the work of the Risk Committee, In recent years, Banco Santander has been establishing and monitoring the Bank’s risk the Board also has three committees dedicated to building a risk culture within management structure, counting with a that are key in this matter: The Assets the organisation, sensitizing collaborators to corporate governance system in line with and Liabilities Committee, the Market the significant role that each of them plays the local regulation and international best Committee and the Audit Committee, the in risk management, and which is necessary practices for this purpose. latter of which has the mission to ensure to answer to the need of the customers and the continuous improvement of the internal The Board delegates to the Risk Division, shareholders to count with a responsible control system. Each of these committees an area that reports directly to the Chief and, therefore, reliable bank. is composed of directors and executive Executive Officer, the identification, members of the Bank’s Administration. measurement and control of the various risks faced by the Bank. The areas of credit, market, non-financial and infrastructure risks depend on this division. On the other hand, the Integral Risk Committee is responsible for the review and monitoring of all risks that may affect the Bank, including reputational risk. INTEGRAL RISK BOARD OF AUDIT COMMITTEE (IRC) DIRECTORS COMMITTEE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Miguel Mata H. RISK DIVISION MANAGER Franco Rizza CREDIT MARKET NON-FINANCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE RISK RISK RISK • Individual assessment • Inflation • Operational • MIS • Group assessment • Interest rate • Technological • Methodology • Exchange rate • Cybersecurity • Liquidity Annual Report 2019 157 Credit risk To manage this risk, the Bank has arranged • The monitoring, analysis and control of Mechanisms: a set of credit approval committees, in the limits defined in the Risk Framework which teams from both the Risk Division as well as the key credit risk indicators • Assignment of concentration limits to and the commercial areas participate and for each area, segment or product, credit risk by a particular debtor, debtor verify jointly the quantitative and qualitative identifying possible sources of concern. group, industry segment and country. parameters of each credit applicant. Approval levels are assigned by hierarchy • The formulation of risk policies, the and are continually being reviewed. compliance of guarantee requirements, the evaluation of credits, the rating of • Determination of credit risk provisions The Risk Division and the Risk Committee risks, the sending of reports, and the for probable loan losses, under the have the following roles: compliance with legal and internal instructions issued by the Financial regulatory requirements. Market Commission (FMC) in the • Cultivate a risk culture throughout the Compendium of Financial Standards, organization. • To approve or reject credit applications, as well as the credit rating and risk • Verify the compliance to the Group’s either individually or as a group, via credit assessment models approved by the strategic objectives, depending on the scoring. board. assumed and potential risks, and to alert • To establish the structure for approval management about them. and review of credit applications. Estimation of provisions estimate: • To review the level of compliance • To determine the risk appetites of The estimation of provisions is based on with regulatory requirements and the Bank by client and sector, which models of expected loss, in line with Chapter recommendations issued by local and includes limiting the concentration of B1 of the FMC’s Compendium of Financial external supervisors, ensuring their exposure that counterparties may face in Standards. The loan portfolio is divided into implementation on the stipulated dates. geographical areas or industries, as well Group-analysed loans and loans analysed • To review the adequate handling of risk as by issuer, credit rating and liquidity. individually. Each of these has different by management areas, formulating, models of provisions for consumer loans, • To develop and maintain risk when applicable, any necessary mortgages, and commercial loans. In a classifications and models to quantify the mitigation actions under policies simplified way, provisions for most loans are expected loss. approved by the Board. determined using the following formula for expected loss: PROBABILITY OF PROVISIONS = EXPOSURE x NON-COMPLIANCE x SEVERITY Value of the loan. Probability % of debtor falling into Loss incurred once the non-compliance. This probability customer is already in default, is determined depending on what determined with historical type of client they are and their data. historical behavior, among other variables. 158 Provisions for individual Credit quality of debtors Behaviour of different credit assessments segments In terms of the different credit segments of The Bank evaluates client portfolios on an Banco Santander (commercial, mortgage and consumer), assessed both individually INDIVIDUAL COMMERCIAL PORTFOLIO individual basis for loans greater than $400 million. For this purpose, a risk category is and as a group, there are the following By the end of 2019, when compared to the assigned to each debtor and their respective portfolio definitions: same period last year, the balance of the loans, considering the related industry or commercial portfolio assessed individually Normal portfolio: It comprises debtors sector, their partners, their administration, grew by $407,181 million. The normal whose ability to pay allows them to meet the financial situation and their payment portfolio of this segment represented their obligations and financial commitments. capability and behaviour. All parameters 88.37% of the total (a reduction of 1.03% According to the assessment of their used in internal models are continuously compared to the proportion 2018), while the economic and financial situation, it is reviewed, including the probabilities of nonsubstandard portfolio represented 7.93% of estimated that this condition will not change compliance and expected loss. Similarly, the the total (increasing by 1.23%). Finally, the in the short term. status of the client is reviewed periodically. non-compliance portfolio reached 3.7% of Substandard portfolio: It comprises the total stock (a reduction of 0.2%). all debtors with financial difficulties or significant deterioration of their payment Provisions for group capability and where there are reasonable assessments GROUP COMMERCIAL PORTFOLIO doubts about the full repayment of capital and interest in the agreed contractual terms, By the end of 2019, when compared to Most loans to individuals or small showing a low level of slack in meeting their the same period last year, the balance of businesses are approved through a short-term financial obligations. the group commercial portfolio grew by standardized risk system. This system can be characterised as decentralized, automated, $252,897 million. The normal portfolio Default portfolio: It comprises debtors and and is based on multiple parameters, in this segment accounted for 89.7% of their loans for which recovery is considered including demographic information and the total (rising by 0.2% from the 2018 unlikely, as they show impaired or no specific credit behaviour, among other share), while the non-compliance portfolio payment capability. This portfolio also aspects. Through these variables, a logical accounted for 10.3% of the total stock includes debtors who have ceased to pay regression is established, which considers (decreasing by 0.2%). their debts or with apparent signs that they payment performance with the Bank so will cease to pay, as well as those who far and behaviour with other banks, which require a forced rearrangement of debts, delivers a certain level of risk assessment reducing the obligation or postponing the MORTGAGE PORTFOLIO of the client in question. Then, transactions principal or interest term. By the end of 2019, compared to the same with similar credit characteristics that period last year, the mortgage portfolio indicate the ability to pay the debt –with balance grew by $1,112.014 billion. its capital and interest– are placed under a The normal portfolio in this segment standard profile, and the actual historical represented 95.3%, while the default loss that the Bank has had with that type portfolio represented 4.7% (for both of pattern is used to calculate the expected portfolios, there are no changes from the future loss. previous year). The Bank’s models are reviewed monthly in terms of predictability and stability, using indices that seek to capture the underlying CONSUMER PORTFOLIO trends of current loss behaviour. When a client has an amount of debt or has skipped By the end of 2019, when compared to payments, said client moves into a different the same period last year, the balance of segment with a more considerable expected the consumer portfolio grew by $662,768 loss, capturing current trends in each profile million. The normal portfolio accounted for risk. 94.93% of the total (increasing 0.53% from the 2018 ratio), while the default portfolio accounted for 5.07% (decreasing 0.53%). Annual Report 2019 159 Individual commercial portfolio Grupal commercial portfolio $11,424.472 billion $4,490.359 billion Non-performing loans Non-performing loans 3.70% 10.30% Substandard loans 7.93% Normal portfolio Normal portfolio 88.37% 89.70% Mortgage portfolio Consumer portfolio $11,262.995 billion $5,539.057 billion Non-performing loans Non-performing loans 4.70% 5.07% Normal portfolio Normal portfolio 95.30% 94.93% Proportion of over 90 days non-performing portfolio and impaired portfolio The impaired portfolio is defined as the loans in default plus the portion of the substandard portfolio which is closest to entering into default. Impaired mortgage portfolio Impaired commercial portfolio Impaired consumer portfolio $529,124 million $1,106.565 billion $280,920 million Unsecured Unsecured Secured debt debt debt 7.8% 36.7% 10.7% Unsecured Secured Secured debt debt debt 89.3% 92.2% 63.3% 160 The 90 days overdue non-performing portfolio includes the total amount of credit that has non-payment equal to or greater than 90 days, even if only some or all of the credit fees (capital and/or interest) are in non-performing status. Total portfolio Commercial portfolio 145% 145% 129% 129% 135% 129% 126% 128% 177% 115% 6.6% 5.9% 6.5% 6% 5.9% 7.1% 6.7% 7.3% 6.8% 7.0% 2.5% 2.1% 2.3% 2.1% 2.1% 2.6% 2.3% 2.6% 2.7% 2.5% Dec 2015 Mar 2016 Jun 2016 Sep 2016 Dec 2016 Mar 2017 Jun 2017 Sep 2017 Dec2017 Mar 2018 Jun 2018 Sep 2018 Dec 2018 Mar 2019 Jun 2019 Sep 2019 Dec 2019 Dec 2015 Mar 2016 Jun 2016 Sep 2016 Dec 2016 Mar 2017 Jun 2017 Sep 2017 Dec 2017 Mar 2018 Jun 2018 Sep 2018 Dec 2018 Mar 2019 Jun 2019 Sep 2019 Dec 2019 Coverage Impaired Non-performing Coverage Impaired Non-performing Consumer portfolio Mortgage portfolio 360% 38.0% 316% 48.0% 301% 275% 41.4% 42.7% 227% 27.9% 8.0% 6.5% 7.2% 5.6% 5.1% 5.1% 4.6% 5.1% 4.7% 4.7% 2.7% 2.2% 2.3% 1.8% 1.6% 2.3% 1.7% 1.8% 1.3% 1.6% Dec 2015 Mar 2016 Jun 2016 Sep 2016 Dec 2016 Mar 2017 Jun 2017 Sep 2017 Dec 2017 Mar 2018 Jun 2018 Sep 2018 Dec 2018 Mar 2019 Jun 2019 Sep 2019 Dec 2019 Dec 2015 Mar 2016 Jun 2016 Sep 2016 Dec 2016 Mar 2017 Jun 2017 Sep 2017 Dec 2017 Mar 2018 Jun 2018 Sep 2018 Dec 2018 Mar 2019 Jun 2019 Sep 2019 Dec 2019 Coverage Impaired Non-performing Coverage Impaired Non-performing 1. Coverage: Provisions divided by the NPL portfolio, including additional provisions for the consumer portfolio of $20 billion in 3Q18 and provisions according to the new provisioning model for commercial loans analysed on a group basis for $31 billion in 3Q19 and additional provisions of $16 billion in 4Q19 for the consumer portfolio. / 2. Impaired loans = non-performing loans + restructured loans. / 3. Non-performing loans= loans that are 90 days or more overdue. Annual Report 2019 161 Distribution by economic sector The Bank’s portfolio is highly diversified by which increases the possibility of having a economic sector, not presenting a significant stable portfolio over time. percentage within any particular industry, Total commercial portfolio $15,914.831 billion Manufacturing Mining Fishing 8.1% 2.6% 1.6% Other Electricity, water and gas Transport 25.2% 2.2% 4.8% Services Agriculture and livestock Communications 17.6% 8.1% 4.8% Commerce Forestry Construction 21.1% 1.0% 6.3% Market Risk There are four major market risks that structural liquidity requirements. It is also HIGH-QUALITY LIQUID ASSETS can affect the Bank: exchange rate, the area in charge of managing the Bank’s inflation, interest rate and liquidity. balance sheet, particularly in regards to High-Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA) are Their measurement and control are liquidity and sensitivity analysis. This area an essential component of liquidity risk the responsibility of the Market Risk has the following functions, which are management. They consist of balance Management, which is part of the Risk supervised and controlled by the ALCO and sheet assets, mainly composed of financial Division. The limits are approved by the Risk Division: investments that are not provided as the various committees in charge, a collateral which have a deep secondary • Optimization of the cost of liabilities, market. Generally, they correspond to low responsibility that lies mainly in the Market seeking the most efficient financing credit risk assets. Committee and the Asset and Liabilities strategies, including the issuance of Committee (ALCO). bonds and bank lines. These assets are divided into three levels, according to the Basel III standards, with Tier • To handle short-and long-term liquidity 1 assets being the most liquid and Tier 3 Liquidity risk regulatory limits. assets being the least liquid. As of December 31, 2019, the Bank’s HQLA amounted The Finance Division manages the liquidity • Management of inflation risk. to $3,773 billion, which corresponded risk through a portfolio of liquid assets, to • To manage the risk of local and foreign primarily to Level 1 liquid assets, mostly ensure the Bank always keeps sufficient currency rates. composed of bonds of the Republic of Chile liquidity to cover short-term fluctuations and the Central Bank of Chile and American and long-term financing, as well as to meet treasury bonds. 162 In terms of liquidity, the primary metrics LIQUIDITY COVERAGE RATIO (LCR) NSFR managed by the Bank’s Finance Division are % as follows: The Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) is a measurement of liquid assets over net 109.5 109.5 1. Regulatory Liquidity Index to 30 and 60 outflows at 30 days. It is used by banks days. 108 globally as part of the Basel III standards. Chilean banks were required to use it 2. Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR). beginning 2019, with a minimum level of 3. Net stable financing ratio (NSFR). 60%. The objective of the LCR is to promote the short-term resilience of the liquidity risk profile of banks. To this end, the LCR ensures 2017 2018 2019 Millions of Pesos / as of December 31, 2019 that banks have an adequate, high-quality Level 1: Cash and Cash liquid assets (HQLA) fund free of charge, 1,305,534 Equivalents which can be easily and immediately Level 1: Fixed Income 2,452,599 converted into cash in private markets to meet short-term liquidity needs. Level 2: Fixed Income 15.,105 RCL 3,773,238 At the end of 2019, Banco Santander Chile’s % Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) indicator stood at 143.1%, well above the minimum 151.6 required by the current standard and already 143.1 Liquid assets (consolidated) above the 100% needed by 2022. This 138.5 Ch$, in millions reflects the conservative liquidity policies imposed by the Board through the ALCO. Fixed Income 15,105 NET STABLE FUNDING RATIO (NSFR) Cash and Cash This indicator is a domestic regulatory 2017 2018 2019 Equivalents version of the NSFR required by Basel III, (Level 1) which provides a sustainable maturity 1,305,534 structure for assets and liabilities, allowing Fixed banks to maintain a stable funding profile in VaR trading positions Income relation to their activities. US$ million (Level 1) 2,452,599 As of December 31, 2019, the NSFR stood at 108%. The Central Bank and the FMC still 6.1 do not define a limit to be met by banks for this index. 4.2 4.3 1.7 1.6 REGULATORY LIQUIDITY RATIO IN 30 Exchange rate risk 0.5 0.1 1.1 0.1 AND 60 DAYS With the rules established by the Asset and The Regulatory Liquidity Index measures and Liabilities Committee (ALCO) and the Market High Low Average High Low Average High Low limits net capital inflows and net income. Average Committee, the Bank should not have According to current regulations, the 30-day significant exposure to foreign currencies. mismatch may not exceed by an amount Therefore, almost all exchange rate risk more than once the basic capital of the is included in the trading book and is Bank, and the 90-day mismatch may not measured and controlled with Value at Risk 2017 2018 2019 exceed it by an amount more than twice. As (VaR) limits. of December 31, 2019, the 30-day indicator reached 64% and the 90days indicator represented 80%, amply meeting the requirements of both terms. Annual Report 2019 163 Interest rate risk VaR trading positions US$ million For the financial management portfolio, the Bank has more liabilities than assets 9.8 exposed to short-term rates, resulting in mismatches when there are rate 5.5 adjustments. To manage this risk, Banco 2.4 2.5 2.3 Santander performs a sensitivity analysis 1.7 regarding local and foreign currency. 1.2 1.2 1.2 Through simulations, the limits are set in relation to the maximum loss that rate High Low Average High Low Average High Low movements could have over the capital Average and considering the net financial income budgeted for the year. In the case of the trading book, this risk is managed by Value at Risk (VaR) limits. 2017 2018 2019 2019 2018 2017 Effect in Effect in Effect in Effect in Effect in Effect in financial capital financial capital financial capital income income income Financial management portfolio local currency (Ch$, in millions) Loss limit 100,000 275,000 48,000 192,001 48,000 175,000 High 32,719 273,473 43,742 189,725 (37,148) (141,287) Low 12,686 145,338 27,854 170,450 (22,958) (112,818) Average 24,719 228,772 37,569 180,972 (29,110) (128,506) Financial management portfolio foreign currency (US$Mn) Loss limit 30 75 30 75 30 75 High 20 35 12 38 16 42 Low 5 1 4 (10) 4 15 Average 12 12 9 22 10 23 Financial management portfolio consolidated (Ch$, in millions) Loss limit 100,000 275,000 48,000 192,002 48,000 175,000 High 34,462 271,989 45,492 192,848 (38,249) (142,442) Low 15,236 143,836 29,167 168,766 (23,571) (112,277) Average 27,918 227,303 38,908 182,557 (29,948) (128,360) 164 Inflation risk GAP UF Ch$, in billions The bank has assets and liabilities that can be adjusted according to the variation in the Chilean Indexation Unit, Unidad de Fomento 4,754 4,816 4,741 (UF). In general, the Bank has more assets than liabilities in UF, and therefore moderate increases in inflation have a positive effect on readjustment income. At the same time, a decline in the value of UF negatively affects the Bank’s margin. For the management of this risk, the ALCO sets several limits on the Dec 2018 Jan 2019 Feb 2019 Mar 2019 Apr 2019 May 2019 Jun 2019 Jul 2019 Ago 2019 Sep 2019 Oct 2019 Nov 2019 Dec 2019 difference between Assets and Liabilities denominated in UF. GRI[102-15][201-2] Systemic Emerging risk risks In August 2019, and in the context of the The main emerging risks identified by implementation in Chile of the Basel III Santander in Chile are climate risk, risks standards, the Central Bank published arising from the social context in the in consultation the regulation that will country, risks arising from the emergence of determine which banks in the country coronavirus and regulatory risk. hold a position as institutions of systemic In regards to climate risk, it can cause effects importance. In line with the international in three areas. First, there are transition risks, standard, the Financial Market Commission which are related to the process of moving (FMC) would consider four elements: towards a low-carbon economy. Second, size, interconnection, replacement and there are physical risks related to the impact complexity. of extreme climate events. Third, there are Given the characteristics of Banco liability risks, which are associated with risks Santander’s operation in Chile, the Bank from counterparties that may suffer losses is likely to be classified as systemically from the effects of climate change. important, which would imply an additional The effects of climate change can be capital requirement estimated at 1.5% manifested in credit risk, related to the -1.7% of risk-weighted assets, in addition difficulty of companies to align with the to any measures related to the technical transition to a low-carbon economy; reserve and the reduction in interbank loans market risk, given the adjustments in in situations of financial stress, among energy prices and commodities, bonds, others. Annual Report 2019 165 stocks and derivatives; operational risks, against the dollar and a reduction in growth The operations and results of Santander given the effect on business continuity; and projections. The long-term consequences Chile may also be negatively affected by reputational risk, which could arise given of this social scenario in the country are the coronavirus outbreak (COVID-19) which the scrutiny of different interest groups difficult to predict but could include a since December 2019 has spread globally. concerning the Bank’s response. decline in economic growth, an increase in Such events could disrupt local and global unemployment and a deterioration in the economic activity, which could affect our In terms of the risks arising from the social business environment. operations and financial results. The extent context, during October 2019 a process of to which coronavirus will impact our results expression of various social demands began Concerning regulatory risk, Banco Santander will depend on future developments, in Chile, mainly related to the aspiration of Chile is subject to a series of regulations, which are highly uncertain and cannot be greater equality and inclusion, as well as supervision, and various reviews, predicted, including new information that fairer relations. In response, the Government consultations and other requirements may arise about the severity of coronavirus announced a social agenda that seeks to by the authorities that regulate the and the actions taken to contain this disease increase basic pensions, expand health banking industry in the country. In their or treat its impact, among others. coverage, reduce working hours, and lower supervisory role, regulators seek to maintain and stabilize public transport and electricity the solvency and security of financial tariffs. institutions, with the ultimate goal of safeguarding the stability of the financial To fund these reforms, the Government system and consumer protection. and the opposition reached an agreement regarding a new tax reform and, Following the publication of a new subsequently, most political parties version of Chile’s General Banking Law announced a referendum to initiate a in 2019, a process was initiated that will constitutional reform process, which lead banks to adopt the policy contained will take place in October 2020. This last in the Basel III standards. As mentioned measure brought tranquillity to the markets above, it is estimated that this process will after a period of increased volatility in the have a neutral to positive effect for Banco local stock market, weakening of the Peso Santander. 166 Reputational risk This is managed by the Compliance The 2019 milestones include the Management and addresses the possibility following: of a negative economic impact for the 1. Bimonthly scheduling of the reputational applied to the gambling and betting Bank as a result of a deterioration in the perception that different interest groups risk workgroup sectors, as well as the cannabis industry. have of Banco Santander. The workgroup ensures the correct 3. Centralization of socio-environmental implementation of the Model and the During 2019, the Bank continued working policy management other reputational risk policies that are to establish the structure of the reputational The management of socio-environmental approved by the Group, also acting as a risk function as a function independent policies became centralized in body for the debate on risk management of other risks, in a plan that has been the Environmental and Social Risk and critical capacity exercise, reporting developed since the approval by the Board Management (ESRM). ESRM is a the issues addressed to the Global of socio-environmental policies (2016) and global team of experts in social and Compliance Committee. The workgroup the Reputational Risk Model (2017). environmental issues, responsible for the convenes representatives from different implementation of socio-environmental areas of the Bank, both from business Reputational risk is characterized by having policies and the assessment of social and support activities, mainly including its origin in a wide variety of sources and environmental impacts at the the other risk control and supervision (employees, customers, shareholders, Group level. This change implies that functions, which should incorporate investors and society in general), so it Energy, Soft-commodities and Miningreputational risk management as part of requires a unique approach as well as a Metallurgical Policies are managed by their operations. management and control model quite the ESRM team. In contrast, Defence different from other risks. Its management 2. Update of reputational risk management Policies, Financing of Sensitive Sectors requires a global interaction, not only with policies and other reputational risk policies business and support functions as the first During 2019, reputational risk adopted in the future are still managed lines of defence but also with the risk control management policies, that is, socioin Santander Chile by the Compliance and supervision functions as the second environmental policies and their department. line and with which they manage the management procedure were updated to relationship with specific interest groups, in simplify the processes and to place the order to ensure consolidated risk supervision management of these policies in a global while relying efficiently on current control specialized team, as explained below. frameworks. The reputational risk model is based, Furthermore, the General Policy on therefore, on an eminently preventive reputational risk in the defence sector approach, but also on an effective process of and its respective procedures were crisis management and risk management, updated, with documents containing as well as on identification processes, early the criteria governing all banking activity warning management and monitoring of in relation to companies carrying out events and risks. Its goal is the integration pursuits linked to defence equipment and of reputational risk management both into dual-use technologies. business and support activities, as well as into internal processes, and for the control Finally, the policy of financing sensitive and supervision functions of the risk to sectors was also updated, incorporating incorporate it as part of their activities. new exclusion and restriction criteria Annual Report 2019 167 6 Santander around the World The Santander Way Our purpose Our aim as a bank Our how To help people and To be the best open financial Everything we do should be businesses prosper services platform, by acting Simple | Personal | Fair responsibly and earning the lasting loyalty of our people, customers, shareholders and communities. 168 The SPF culture is based on our eight corporate behaviours... Show Trully Talk Keep respect listen straight promises Support Embrace Actively Bring people change collaborate passion ... and a strong risk cuture Everyone`s business Annual Report 2019 169 OUR STRATEGY IS BUILT AROUND A VIRTUOUS CIRCLE BASED ON LOYALTY People Employees who are engaged ... Engagement among the best in the sector • Our aim is to be an employer of choice. Focus on employee engagement, leveraging our SPF culture to 86% 85% retain and attract the best talent. • This year we received important recognitions, of note: one of the 25 best companies to work for at global level (Great Place to Work). Leader in diversity 2020 by the Financial Employees proud to Openness to change, good Times, and in addition, for the third consecutive year, we work for Santander at sharing best practices and encouraging innovation lead the Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index. 2019 global engagement survey Customers ... leading to strong financial results ... • Increase in loyal customers, both individuals and businesses, has resulted in a significant growth in revenues, loans and customer funds. +9 +15 x2 36% • Loyal customers use our digital channels more as they hold more of our products and services and interact with Loyal Digital Increase in mobile 2019 digital sales us more often. customers customers sales as % of total sales % 2019 vs. 2018 Sales: new contracts excuted Shareholders ... leading to strong financial results ... 2019 total dividend Cash dividend • Our focus on customer loyalty is delivering results: allper share per share time record figure in customer revenue1 with 3% growth (+4% in constant euros) and accounting for 95% of total +8% 0,23 0,20 C.+3% x2,3 revenue. EUR EUR • We continued to strengthen our balance sheet, generating vs. 2018 vs. 2014 more capital and improving credit quality. Creation for shareholders Note: Proposed and • We continue growing our cash dividend, as we have been TNAV per share + subject to 2020 AGM doing for the last five years. dividends per share approval. declared in 2019 1. Customer revenue= net interest income + net fee income ... and more investment in communities, helping to Communities motivate and engage our people ... Most • We remain committed to generating profit in a more responsible and sustainable way. sustainable 2.0 mn 1.6 mn bank in the • Initiatives and actions to support inclusive and sustainable world causes, and good causes in the communities in which we operate. People financially People helped through empowered in 2019 our community programmes in 2019 170 OUR BUSINESS MODEL 1. Our scale • Local scale based on three geographic regions, Top 3 bank1 in 9 of our where we maintain a leadership position in our core markets Local scale 10 core markets. and • Global reach backed by our global businesses, global reach enabling greater collaboration across the Group to generate higher revenue and efficiencies. 1. Market share in lending as of Sep-19 including only private owned banks. UK benchmark covers mortgage market. 2. Customer focus • We serve 145 million customers, in markets Top 3 in costumer with a total population of more than satisfaction (NPS)2 one billion people. in 6 markets Unique personal banking relationships • We have over 100,000 people talking to our +72% 22 13 strengthen customer customers every day in our c.12,000 branches Loyals loyalty and contact centres. customers (millions) 2014 2019 2. NPS – Customer Satisfaction internal benchmark of active customers’ experience and satisfaction audited by Stiga / Deloitte. 3. Diversification • Geographic diversification in three regions, Europa Nort América South América with a good balance between mature and developing markets, and among customer Our geographic and 47% 16% 37% segments (individuals, SMEs and large business diversification corporates). make us more resilient • Global businesses contributing 26% of Group under adverse Global businesses (SCIB and WM&I) earnings that strengthen our local franchises. • Santander Global Platform (SGP) supports the digital transformation across the Group and SCIB WM&I aims to become the best open financial services platform. Santander Global Platform Note: Underlying attributable profit contribution by region, excluding Santander Global Platform and Corporate Centre. Resilient profit In 2019, once again, Group net operating income (EUR billion) Net operating income = Total income-operating expenses. generation our business model throughout the demonstrated strength 23 24 24 24 23 24 23 25 26 26 18 20 cycle and resilience, supported by a disciplined execution against our strategic 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 priorities Annual Report 2019 171 7 Annexes 172 GRI [102-43][102-46][102-50] [102-52][102-54][103-1] Report profile Materiality Banco Santander Chile presents its twelfth To determine the content of the report, 2. Collection of perceptions sustainability report and the fifth one a materiality process was carried out Internal interest groups: publishing the financial statements in an following GRI recommended methodology. integrated report format. This report has This consists of an analysis in terms of • Senior management interviews been prepared following the guidelines the risks and opportunities concerning • Collaborators’ survey and recommendations of the International economic, social and environmental issues, Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) and delivering a 360° view of the Bank. 3. Analysis of results and matrix adhering to the core option of the Global development of material topics: 1. Identification of material topics Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, in A consolidation of the information Review and analysis of secondary their most updated versions as of 2019. collected and an analysis of results sources, trends, media, standards and Additionally, the Bank’s financial information to produce a list of material issues Global ratings; identification of an initial is published in accordance with the N°30 prioritized by internal and external list of both topics and stakeholders to General Regulation provisions of the perspectives, depicted using a materiality consult. Financial Market Commission (FMC). matrix which is presented in the Chapter Responsible Banking. This document presents the Bank’s performance on economic, governance, social and environmental matters comprehensively from the January 1, to COLLECTION OF STAKEHOLDERS’ PERCEPTIONS: December 31, 2019. Interest group consulted Means of consultation The published information covers the operations of Retail Banking, Middle Market Shareholders and investors Online survey and Santander Corporate & Investment Customers Online survey Banking (CIB, formerly Santander Global Focus group Corporate Banking), and includes Santander Collaborators senior management Face-to-face interviews Group’s corporate policies and 2019 global figures. Online survey Suppliers Online survey This report is available in a printed version and pdf format at www.santander.cl. Regulators and associations Online survey Civil society Online survey Media Online survey Annual Report 2019 173 Definition of topics and scope GRI [102-44] Excellence in Emerging Customers Collaborators Shareholders Society Execution theme E1. Corporate governance E E2. Ethical behaviour E E E3. Risk management E E E4. Regulatory adaptation and contribution to public debate ECONOMIC E E E5. Cybersecurity and data protection E E E6. Digital transformation E E E7. Customer satisfaction E E8. Products and transparency E E9. Sustainability of results E E A1. Sustainable finances ENVIRONMENT A A2. Indirect environmental impact A A3 Internal environmental footprint A S1. Reliable and committed internal culture S S2. Diversity S SOCIAL S3. Attraction and retention of talent S S4. Financial empowerment of people S S5. Commitment to social progress and development in communities S S6. Responsible management of suppliers S 174 Prioritization Priority Material Theme Definition of the material theme E5. Cybersecurity and data protection To have mechanisms and systems to safeguard information from loss, leaks or data corruption (physical safety and cybersecurity). To ensure the privacy of the information handled, implementing international practices, standards and regulations. S1. Reliable and committed internal To promote a robust “engagement” culture in which everything the Bank culture does is Simple, Personal and Fair, maintaining a healthy, safe and stimulating working environment that reconciles both professional and human development comprehensively. VERY E7. Customer satisfaction To understand customer needs, responding with innovative solutions, offering HIGH the best products and services in a simple and personal way (Santander Brand Experience, Work/Café, etc.), seeking to foster loyalty. E6. Digital transformation The promotion of technology to create new forms of business, to add value to the offer, improve efficiency and flexibility, and to improve the customer experience. E8. Products and transparency To build long-term relationships grounded on trust, transparency and fidelity, with clear, timely information and fair treatment. S3. Attraction and retention of talent Attracting, promoting and retaining talent, delivering tools and fostering essential skills, anticipating industry trends such as the incorporation of new knowledge, as well as job reconversion. E2. Ethical behaviour The entire business activity of the Bank and its employees’ actions are framed within clear ethical principles known to all. E3. Risk management To identify and manage emerging risks and trends at a local and global level (economic, demographic, social, environmental), being able to evolve and adapt in time. S5. Commitment to social progress and To contribute to the improvement and development of people through community development programs, with a focus on education and entrepreneurship support. E1. Corporate governance The Bank’s management is supported by strong corporate governance of the highest international standard, which fosters management that offers value and ensures market transparency, in line with a Responsible Banking Culture. HIGH E9. Sustainability of results Collection of consistent and predictable results that add value, which is obtained correctly and transparently. A2. Indirect environmental impact To recognize the growing importance of climate change as a potential source of risk in operations and for customers, taking appropriate measures to manage and divulge the Bank’s exposure to it. S2. Diversity To have a diverse and inclusive workforce that is paid fairly and transparently and whose composition seeks to incorporate society. A1 Sustainable finances To develop innovative financial solutions that promote the transition to a green and inclusive economy (green instruments/ESG); integrating socio-environmental risk management into lending, financing and investment practices. S6. Responsible supplier management To strengthen supplier management in order to continuously improve recruitment standards, prompt payment and behaviour supervision based on ESG criteria. S4. Financial empowerment of people To financially endorse people at various stages of their lives, through financial education, access to products and services, and funding. MEDIUM A3 Internal environmental footprint To promote eco-efficient technologies and cleaner energy within the Bank’s operations, reducing its emissions and ecological footprint. E4. Regulatory adaptation and To take an active role in the legal and regulatory discussion, adapting competitively contribution to the public debate to the new standards and expectations of the primary agents of the industry. Annual Report 2019 175 GRI Index Indicator Overview Chapter/ Section Page Omissions / Response Contents Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization General Information 183 102-2 Brands, products and most relevant Responsible Banking: Creating value for 39 services for the organization Customers 102-3 Headquarters of the organization Contact details 184 102-4 Location of operations Responsible Banking: Creating value for 35 Customers 102-5 Nature of the property regime and its legal General Information 183 form 102-6 Markets served Responsible Banking: Creating value for 35 Customers 102-7 Dimensions of the Organization Santander in figures 05 (employees, operations, sales, capitalization, products and services) 102-8 Employee breakdown (by type of contract, Responsible Banking: Creating value for 48 region and gender) Collaborators 102-9 Organization supply chain Responsible Banking: Creating value for 110 Collaborators 102-10 Significant changes during the period in Responsible Banking: creating Shareholder 73 terms of size, structure, ownership or value supply chain of the organization 102-11 How the organization addresses the Responsible Banking: Creating value for the 97, 165 precautionary principle society (Environment dimension) Risk Management: Emerging Risks 102-12 Letters, principles or other external Santander, a Responsible Bank 29 initiatives taken by the organization 102-13 National or international advocacy Santander, a Responsible Bank 29 associations and organizations to which the organization belongs Strategy 102-14 Statement by the primary responsible Letter from the President 10, 14 person 102-15 Description of the main effects, risks and Risk Management: Emerging Risks 165 opportunities Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards and Santander, a Responsible Bank 20 regulations of the organization 102-17 Internal and external advisory mechanisms Santander, a Responsible Bank 129 for ethical and lawful conduct Governance 102-18 Governance structure of the organization Corporate Governance: Banco Santander Chile 117 102-19 Delegation authority Corporate Governance: Banco Santander Chile 125 102-20 Responsibility at an executive level on Corporate Governance: Banco Santander Chile 117 economic, environmental and social matters. 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, Santander, a Responsible Bank 21 environmental and social issues. 102-22 Composition of the highest governing Corporate Governance: Banco Santander Chile 113, body and its committees. 117 102-23 Chairman of the highest governing body. Corporate Governance: Banco Santander Chile 113 102-24 Assignment and selection of the highest Corporate Governance: Banco Santander Chile 117 governing body. 102-25 Conflicts of interest Corporate Governance: Banco Santander Chile 117 102-26 Role of the highest governing body in Corporate Governance: Banco Santander Chile 117 the statement of purposes, values and strategies 176 Indicator Overview Chapter/ Section Page Omissions / Response 102-27 The collective knowledge of the highest Corporate Governance: Banco Santander Chile 123 governing body. 102-28 Evaluating the performance of the highest Corporate Governance: Banco Santander Chile 124 governing body. 102-29 Identify and manage economic, Corporate Governance: Banco Santander Chile 117 environmental and social impacts. 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management Corporate Governance: Banco Santander Chile 117 processes. 102-31 Review of economic, environmental and Corporate Governance: Banco Santander Chile 117 social issues. 102-32 The role of the senior governance body in The annual report is approved sustainability reports by the Board of Directors 102-33 Communicate critical concerns. Corporate Governance: Banco Santander Chile 117 102-34 Nature and total number of critical Corporate Governance: Banco Santander Chile 122 concerns. 102-35 Compensation policies. Corporate Governance: Banco Santander Chile 124 102-36 Process for determining compensation. Corporate Governance: Banco Santander Chile 124 Stakeholder participation 102-40 Interest groups linked to the organization Santander, a Responsible Bank 21 102-41 Percentage of employees covered by Responsible Banking: Creating value for 70 collective agreements Collaborators 102-42 Selection basis of the stakeholders to Santander, a Responsible Bank 21 work with 102-43 The organizational approach to Report profile 173 stakeholder engagement Report-making practices 102-44 Key issues and problems arising from About this Annual Report 174 stakeholder involvement 102-45 Entities listed in the organization’s Financial Statements 173 consolidated financial statements 102-46 Process for determining annual report About this Annual Report content and scope of each aspect 102-47 Material aspects identified during the Santander, a Responsible Bank / About this process of defining this report’s content Annual Report 102-48 Explanation of the effect of any reThe restatements made are statements of information provided in due to a % increase in the scope earlier reports, and the reasons for such and progress of estimates to re-statements more exact calculations. 102-49 Significant changes in the scope and A new materiality process was coverage of each aspect compared to carried out for the 2019 report. previous reports 102-50 Annual Report period About this Annual Report 173 102-51 Date of last Annual Report Annual Report 2018 102-52 Reporting cycle Annually 102-53 Contact to resolver any queries regarding Contact details 188 the contents of the annual report 102-54 Option of compliance to the guide chosen About this Annual Report by the organization 102-56 External Audit policies and practices of 173 Santander Chile’s Annual report the organization is not submitted to external verification. However, the data is delivered to the Group whose report is verified. Annual Report 2019 177 Indicator Overview Chapter/ Section Page Omissions / Response Management approaches [103-1] [103-2] [103-3] Dimension Material Theme Economic E1. Corporate governance Corporate Governance: Banco Santander Chile 112, 175 Economic E2. Ethical behaviour Corporate Governance: Compliance 128, 175 Economic E3. Risk management Risk management 156, 175 Economic E4. Regulatory adaptation and Corporate Governance: Compliance / Risk 130, 175 contribution to public debate Management Economic E5. Cybersecurity and data protection Responsible Banking: Creation of value for 38, 108, Customers 175 Economic E6. Digital transformation Responsible Banking: excellence in execution 38, 138, 175 Economic E7. Customer satisfaction Responsible Banking: Creation of value for 37, 175 Customers Economic E8. Products and transparency Responsible Banking: Creation of value for 39, 175 Customers Economic E9. Sustainability of results Economic and financial performance 143, 175 EnvironA1 Sustainable finances Responsible Banking: Creating value for 94, 175 mental Society (Environmental dimension) EnvironA2. Indirect environmental impact Responsible Banking: Creating value for 99, 175 mental Society (Environmental dimension) EnvironA3 Internal environmental footprint Responsible Banking: Creating value for 99, 175 mental Society (Environmental dimension) Social S1. Strong and committed internal Responsible Banking: Creating value for 46, 175 culture Collaborators Social S2. Diversity Responsible Banking: Creating value for 58, 175 Collaborators Social S3. Attraction and retention of talent Responsible Banking: Creating value for 54, 175 Collaborators Social S4. Financial empowerment of people Responsible Banking: Creating value for 87, 175 Society (Social dimension) Social S5. Commitment to social progress and Responsible Banking: Creating value for Society 79, 175 development in communities (Social dimension) Social S6. Responsible supplier management Responsible Banking: excellence in execution 109, 175 Specific Basic Contents Category: Economy Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and Economic and financial performance 154 distributed. 201-2 Financial effects and other risks and Responsible Banking: Creating value for Society 97, 165 opportunities related to climate change. Risk management: Emerging Risks 201-3 Delimited obligations of the benefit plan Responsible Banking: Creating value for 64 and other retirement plans Collaborators Market presence 202-1 Reasons for the standard entry-level wage Responsible Banking: Creating value for 62 by gender compared to the local minimum Collaborators wage 202-2 Proportion of senior managers recruited 63% of the Board are of Chilean from the local community nationality Indirect economic impacts 203-1 Investment in infrastructure and support 93 services 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts and 87 the scope of them Procurement practices 204-1 Proportion of expenditure to local suppliers Responsible Banking: excellence in execution 52 178 Indicator Overview Chapter/ Section Page Omissions / Response Combating corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for corruption-related Corporate Governance: Compliance 129 risks 205-2 Communication and training on antiCorporate Governance: Compliance 132 corruption policies and procedures 205-3 Confirmed cases of corruption and Corporate Governance: Compliance 132 measures taken Category: Environment Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Responsible Banking: Creating value for Society 102 301-2 Recycled supplies Currently, this is not measured, but the goal is to increase the percentage of both recycled and certified paper. 301-3 Reused products and packaging materials Not applicable due to the nature of the Bank’s financial activity Energy 302-1 Energy consumption Responsible Banking: Creating value for Society 101 (Environmental dimension) 302-2 Energy consumption outside the The external energy organization. consumption of the organization is not currently calculated. 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption. Responsible Banking: Creating value for Society 101 (Environmental dimension) 302-5 Reduction of energy requirements for The products offered by the products and services company have no energy requirements for use/ consumption. Water (2018) 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared Does not apply due to the resource. nature of the Bank’s financial activity materials. 303-2 Impact management related to water Does not apply due to the discharges. nature of the Bank’s financial activity materials. 303-3 Water extraction by source Does not apply due to the nature of the Bank’s financial activity materials. 303-4 Water discharge Does not apply due to the nature of the Bank’s financial activity materials. 303-5 Water consumption Responsible Banking: Creating value for Society 101 (Environmental dimension) Biodiversity 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed Not applicable due to the or adjacent to protected areas and areas of nature of the Bank’s financial high biodiversity value outside protected activity (non-material) areas 304-2 Significant impact of activities, products Not applicable due to the and services on biodiversity nature of the Bank’s financial activity (non-material) 304-3 Protected or restored habitats Not applicable due to the nature of the Bank’s financial activity (non-material) 304-4 Species within IUCN Red List and species Not applicable due to the within the national conservation list with nature of the Bank’s financial habitats in areas affected by operations activity (non-material) Annual Report 2019 179 Indicator Overview Chapter/ Section Page Omissions / Response Emissions 305-1 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) Responsible Banking: Creating value for Society 99 (Environmental dimension) 305-2 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions from Responsible Banking: Creating value for Society 99 energy generation (Scope 2) (Environmental dimension) 305-3 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions Responsible Banking: Creating value for 99 (Scope 3) Society (Environmental dimension) 305-4 Greenhouse gas emission intensity Responsible Banking: Creating value for 99 Society (Environmental dimension) Effluent and waste 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination. Not applicable due to the nature of the Bank’s financial activity. 306-2 Waste by type and method of disposal. Responsible Banking: Creating value for Society 103 (Environmental Area) 306-3 Significant spills Not applicable due to the nature of the Bank’s financial activity. 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste. Not applicable due to the nature of the Bank’s financial activity. 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges Not applicable due to the and/or runoff. nature of the Bank’s financial activity. Environmental Compliance 307-1 Failure to comply with environmental laws In 2019 there were no causal and regulations. events of infringement or fines related to non-compliance with environmental laws or regulations. Environmental Assessment of Suppliers 308-1 New suppliers selected using The Bank does not evaluate environmental criteria. new suppliers according to environmental criteria. 308-2 Negative environmental impacts on the Responsible Banking: Excellence in execution 111 supply chain and actions taken. (suppliers) Category: Social Performance Employment 401-1 Recruitment number and rate and average Responsible Banking: Creating value for 56 turnover of employees, by age group, Collaborators gender and region 401-2 Social benefits for full-time employees Responsible Banking: Creating value for 64 Collaborators 401-3 Parental leave Responsible Banking: Creating value for 64 Collaborators Worker-Company Relations 402-1 Minimum notice periods for operational Responsible Banking: Creating value for 70 changes Collaborators Health and safety at work (2018) 403-1 Occupational health and safety Responsible Banking: Creating value for 67 management system Collaborators 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment and Responsible Banking: Creating value for 67 incident Investigation Collaborators 403-3 Occupational health services Responsible Banking: Creating value for 67 Collaborators 180 Indicator Overview Chapter/ Section Page Omissions / Response 403-4 Worker participation, consultation and Responsible Banking: Creating value for 67 communication on health and safety at Collaborators work 403-5 Training of workers on health and safety Responsible Banking: Creating value for 67 at work Collaborators 403-6 Health promotion at work Responsible Banking: Creating value for 67 Collaborators 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational Responsible Banking: Creating value for 67 health and safety impacts directly linked to Collaborators business practices 403-8 Workers covered by occupational safety Responsible Banking: Creating value for 67 and health management system. Collaborators 403-9 Work-related injuries. Responsible Banking: Creating value for 67 Collaborators 403-10 Work-related health problems Responsible Banking: Creating value for 67 Collaborators Training and education 404-1 Average annual training hours per Responsible Banking: Creating value for 52 employee, by gender and by job category Collaborators 404-2 Skills management and further training Responsible Banking: Creating value for 52 programs that promote the employability Collaborators of workers and help them manage the end of their careers 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving Responsible Banking: Creating value for 57 regular performance and professional Collaborators development assessments, analysed by gender and by professional category Diversity and equal opportunities 405-1 Government bodies composition and staff Corporate governance/ Responsible Banking: 59, 113 breakdown by professional category and Creating value for Collaborators gender, age, minority status and other diversity indicators 405-2 The ratio of basic salary over Responsible Banking: Creating value for 63 compensations of women and men. Collaborators Discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective No incidents of discrimination actions taken. were recorded during 2019 Freedom of association and collective bargaining 407-1 Transactions and suppliers whose right Responsible Banking: Excellence in execution 111 to freedom of association and collective (suppliers) bargaining may be at risk. Child Labour 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk Santander, a Responsible Bank There are no operations or of child labour incidents. suppliers at risk of child labour. Forced or compulsory labour 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk Santander, a Responsible Bank There are no operations or of incidents of forced or compulsory labour. suppliers at risk of forced labour. Human rights assessment 412-1 Operations that have been reviewed Santander, a Responsible Bank 30 in terms of human rights or impact assessments. 412-2 Training of employees in human rights Santander, a Responsible Bank 30 policies or procedures. 412-3 Significant investment agreements and Santander, a Responsible Bank 30 contracts that include human rights clauses or that were subject to human rights review Annual Report 2019 181 Indicator Overview Chapter/ Section Page Omissions / Response Local communities 413-1 Percentage of centres where development Responsible Banking: creating value for society 79 programs, impact assessments and (Social dimension) local community participation have been implemented 413-2 Operations with significant, actual and The Bank’s operations have no potential negative impacts on local significant negative impacts on communities. local communities. Social evaluation of suppliers 414-1 New providers who were selected using Santander: A Responsible Bank / Responsible 30, 111 social criteria. Banking: Excellence in execution (suppliers) 414-2 Negative social impacts on the supply Santander: A Responsible Bank / Responsible 30, 111 chain and measures taken Banking: Excellence in execution (suppliers) Public Policy 415-1 Contribution to political parties and/or Responsible Banking: creating value for society 93 representatives (Social dimension) Customer health and safety 416-1 Assessment of health and safety impacts Not applicable due to the of product and service categories. nature of the Bank’s financial activity (non-material) 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance to the health Not applicable due to the and safety impacts of products and nature of the Bank’s financial services activity (non-material) Marketing and Labelling 417-1 Requirements for information and labelling Responsible Banking: Creating value for At the corporate level, the of products and services. Customers Marketing Committee assesses the potential impact of all products and services, before their release to the market. These effects include but are not restricted to, customer safety and compatibility with other products 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance with product During 2019 there were and service information and labelling. no incidents or sanctions related to breaches of Service information 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance with During 2019 there were no marketing communications. incidents or sanctions related to breaches in Marketing communications Customer privacy 418-1 Justified complaints about customer Responsible Banking: Creating value for 38 privacy violations and customer data loss Customers Prácticas de competencia desleal 419-1 The monetary value of significant fines and The company received no fines the number of non-monetary penalties or significant penalties due to for non-compliance with legislation and breaches in social or economic regulations matters during 2019 182 GRI [102-1][102-5][102-7] General information Identification of the company Banco Santander Chile was established the Official Gazette on August 1, 2002 and by public deed dated September 7, 1977 inscribed in page 19,992 number 16,346 of granted at the Notary Office of Alfredo the 2002 Commercial Register of Santiago’s Astaburuaga Gálvez in Santiago, under Real Estate Registry. the legal name Banco de Santiago, and Subsequently, an Extraordinary received its permission to incorporate and Shareholders’ Meeting held on April function as a bank by Resolution N° 118 of 24, 2007, with the Meeting’s Minute the Superintendence of Banks and Financial notarized to public deed on May 24, 2007 Institutions (SBIF) on October 27, 1977. in the Notary Office of Nancy de la Fuente The Bank’s by-laws were approved by Hernández, modified and established that, Resolution N° 103 of the SBIF on September in accordance with the Bank’s by-laws and 22, 1977. An excerpt of the by-laws the approvals of the SBIF, the legal names and the resolution that approved them Banco Santander Santiago or Santander were published in the Official Gazette on Santiago or Banco Santander or Santander September 28, 1977 and inscribed in page may also be used. This reform was approved 8,825 N° 5,017 in the 1977 Commercial by Resolution N° 61 of the SBIF on June 6, Register of Santiago’s Real Estate Registry. 2007. An excerpt of the minutes and the resolution were published in the Official The changes in the corporate name or Gazette on June 23, 2007 and inscribed in its legal form from Banco de Santiago to page 24,064 N° 17,563 of the register. Banco Santiago, together with the merger with former Banco O’Higgins, the legal In addition to the amendments of the dissolution of the latter, and the recognition by-laws previously mentioned, these have of Banco Santiago as its legal successor, all been amended in several opportunities appear in Resolution N° 6 of the SBIF dated with the last one being the agreed upon at January 9, 1997 and the legal publications the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting in the Official Gazette on January 11, 1997, held on January 9, 2017, with the Meeting’s which were duly notarized under N° 69 on Minute notarized to public deed on February January 13, 1997 at the Notary Office of 14, 2017 in the Notary Office of Nancy de Andrés Rubio Flores in Santiago. la Fuente Hernández. This amendment was approved by Resolution N° 17 of the On July 18, 2002, an Extraordinary SBIF on March 29, 2017. An excerpt of Shareholders’ Meeting of Banco Santiago the amendment and the resolution were was held, with the Meeting’s Minute being published in the Official Gazette on April 5, notarized into public deeds on July 19, 2002 2017 and were inscribed in page 27,594 at the Notary Office of Nancy de la Fuente number 12,254 of the 2017 Commercial in Santiago, in which the merger between Register of Santiago’s Real Estate Registry. Banco Santander Chile and Banco Santiago Through this last amendment, Banco were approved through the incorporation Santander Chile, in accordance with its of the former into the latter, Banco Santiago bylaws and the approvals of the SBIF, acquiring the assets and liabilities of Banco among others, reduced the number of Santander Chile, and an agreement for the regular Board members from 11 to 9 anticipated dissolution of Banco Santander (maintaining two alternate directors), Chile and the name change of Banco eliminated the possibility of using the Santiago to Banco Santander Chile. Said legal names Banco Santander Santiago or change was authorized by Resolution N° 79 Santander Santiago and defined an updated of the SBIF on July 26, 2002, published in version of its by-laws. Annual Report 2019 183 Financial statements All financial statements can be found at https://santandercl.gcs-web.com/ financials/quarterly-earnings-reports 184 Santiago, February 27, 2020 Independent Auditor’s Report To the Shareholders and AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITY management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated Directors Banco Santander Our responsibility is to express an opinion financial statements. Chile on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We conduct our We believe that the audit evidence we have We have audited the accompanying audits in accordance with Chilean obtained is sufficient and appropriate to consolidated financial statements of Banco generally accepted auditing standards. provide a basis for our opinion. Santander Chile and its subsidiaries, which Those standards require that we plan and comprise the consolidated statements of perform the audit to obtain reasonable financial position as of December 31, 2019 assurance about whether the consolidated OPINION and 2018, and the related consolidated financial statements are free of material statements of income, other comprehensive misstatement. In our opinion, the consolidated financial income, changes in equity and cash flows for statements referred to above present fairly, the years then ended, and the related notes An audit involves performing procedures to in all material respects, the financial position thereto. obtain audit evidence on the amounts and of Banco Santander Chile and its subsidiaries disclosures in the consolidated financial as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, and the statements. The procedures selected results of its operations and its cash flows depend on the auditor’s judgment, including for the years then ended, in conformity MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITY the assessment of the risks of material FOR THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL with accounting standards and instructions misstatement of the consolidated financial STATEMENTS issued by the Commission for the Financial statements whether due to fraud or error. In Market. Management is responsible for the making those risk assessments, the auditor preparation and fair presentation of these considers internal control relevant for the consolidated financial statements in preparation and fair presentation of the accordance with accounting standards and consolidated financial statements of the instructions issued by the Commission for entity in order to design audit procedures the Financial Market. This responsibility that are appropriate in the circumstances, includes designing, implementing and but not for the purpose of expressing an maintaining internal control relevant for opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s the preparation and fair presentation of internal control. Accordingly, we do not consolidated financial statements that are express such kind of opinion. An audit free from material misstatement, whether also includes evaluating the accounting due to fraud or error. policies used and the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by Annual Report 2019 185 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION BANCO SANTANDER-CHILE AND SUBSIDIARIES As of December 31, NOTE 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ ASSETS Cash and deposits in banks 5 3,554,520 2,065,441 Cash items in process of collection 5 355,062 353,757 Trading investments 6 270,204 77,041 Investments under resale agreements 7 Financial derivative contracts 8 8,148,608 3,100,635 Interbank loans, net 9 14,833 15,065 Loans and accounts receivables from customers, net 10 31,823,735 29,470,370 Available for sale investments 11 4,010,272 2,394,323 Held to maturity investments Investments in associates and other companies 12 10,467 32,293 Intangible assets 13 73,389 66,923 Property, plant, and equipment 14 197,833 253,586 Right of use assets 14 210,500 Current taxes 15 11,648 Deferred taxes 15 462,867 382,934 Other assets 16 1,434,308 984,988 TOTAL ACTIVOS 50,578,246 39,197,356 LIABILITIES Deposits and other demand liabilities 17 10,297,432 8,741,417 Cash items in process of being cleared 5 198,248 163,043 Obligations under repurchase agreements 7 380,055 48,545 Time deposits and other time liabilities 17 13,192,817 13,067,819 Financial derivative contracts 8 7,390,654 2,517,728 Interbank borrowing 18 2,519,818 1,788,626 Issued debt instruments 19 9,500,723 8,115,233 Other financial liabilities 19 226,358 215,400 Lease liabilities 14 158,494 Current taxes 15 8,093 Deferred taxes 15 99,608 15,395 Provisions 21 337,397 329,940 Other liabilities 22 2,806,325 900,408 TOTAL LIABILITIES 47,107,929 35,911,647 EQUITY Attributable to the equity holders of the Bank 3,390,823 3,239,546 Capital 24 891,303 891,303 Reserves 24 2,121,148 1,923,022 Valuation adjustments 24 (8,093) 10,890 Retained earnings 386,465 414,331 Retained earnings from prior years Income for the year 552,093 591,902 Minus: Provision for mandatory dividends 21 (165,628) (177,571) Non-controlling interest 26 79,494 46,163 TOTAL EQUITY 3,470,317 3,285,709 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 50,578,246 39,197,356 The accompanying notes form integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 186 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME BANCO SANTANDER-CHILE AND SUBSIDIARIES December 31, NOTA 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ OPERATING INCOME Interest income 27 2,321,268 2,244,317 Interest expense 27 (904,417) (829,949) Net interest income 1,416,851 1,414,368 Fee and commission income 28 498,658 484,463 Fee and commission expense 28 (211,572) (193,578) Net fee and commission income 287,086 290,885 Net income (expense) from financial operations 29 (78,165) 53,174 Net foreign exchange gain 30 285,184 51,908 Other operating income 35 24,598 39,526 Net operating profit before provision for loan losses 1,935,554 1,849,861 Provision for loan losses 31 (420,447) (325,085) NET OPERATING PROFIT 1,515,107 1,524,776 Personnel salaries and expenses 32 (410,157) (397,564) Administrative expenses 33 (233,612) (245,089) Depreciation and amortization 34 (106,092) (79,280) Impairment of property, plant, and equipment 34 (2,726) (39) Other operating expenses 35 (61,021) (45,740) TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES (813,608) (767,712) OPERATING INCOME 701,499 757,064 Income from investments in associates and other companies 12 1,146 1,325 Income before tax 702,645 758,389 Income before tax 15 (150,168) (165,897) Result of continuing operations 552,477 592,492 Result of discontinued operations 40 1,699 3,770 NET INCOME FOR THE YEAR 554,176 596,262 Attributable to: Equity holders of the Bank 552,093 591,902 Non-controlling interest 26 2,083 4,360 Earnings per share from continued operations attributable to shareholders of the Bank (expressed in Chilean pesos): Basic earnings 24 2,921 3,121 Diluted earnings 24 2,921 3,121 Earnings per share attributable to Equity holders of the Bank (expressed in Chilean pesos): Basic earnings 24 2,930 3,141 Diluted earnings 24 2,930 3,141 The accompanying notes form integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Annual Report 2019 187 Contact information ROBERTO SAPAG Manager of Corporate Communications ans Sustainability roberto.sapag@santander.cl ROBERT MORENO Manager of Investor Relations irelations@santander.cl CONSUELO ALVEAR Head of Sustainability consuelo.alvear@santander.cl PEDRO GALLARDO Head of Shareholder Relations accionistas@santander.cl SHAREHOLDER SERVICES From Chile: (2) 2 320 2222 From abroad: (56 2) 2 320 2222 Client service through Vox (600) 320 3000 CUSTOMER ADVOCACY www.defensoriadelclientedeabif.cl BANCO SANTANDER CHILE 97.036.000-K Bandera 140, Santiago, Chile www.santander.cl Production CONTENT AND EDITORIAL Content and editorial Sustainability and Climate Change dfalcon@deloitte.com DESIGN dioslascria.cl CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2019 For the years ended december 31,2019 and 2018 1 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (A free translation from the original in Spanish) Santiago, February 27, 2020 To the Shareholders and Directors Banco Santander Chile We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Banco Santander Chile and its subsidiaries, which comprise the consolidated statements of financial position as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, and the related consolidated statements of income, other comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows for the years then ended, and the related notes thereto. Management's Responsibility for the consolidated financial statements Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting standards and instructions issued by the Commission for the Financial Market. This responsibility includes designing, implementing and maintaining internal control relevant for the preparation and fair presentation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Auditor's Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We conduct our audits in accordance with Chilean generally accepted auditing standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence on the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor's judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant for the preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements of the entity in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity's internal control. Accordingly, we do not express such kind of opinion. An audit also includes evaluating the accounting policies used and the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Santiago, February 27, 2020 Banco Santander Chile 2 Opinion In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Banco Santander Chile and its subsidiaries as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for the years then ended, in conformity with accounting standards and instructions issued by the Commission for the Financial Market. Digitally signed by Claudio Hernán Gerdtzen Sepúlveda RUT: 12.264.594-0. The digital certificate is embedded in the electronic version of this document. CONTENT Consolidated Financial Statements CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION............................................................................................................................................................................................... 3 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME .......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 4 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME ................................................................................................................................................................................... 5 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY ................................................................................................................................................................................................ 6 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS ................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 7 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements NOTE 01 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES .............................................................................................................................................................................. 09 NOTE 02 ACCOUNTING CHANGES ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 38 NOTE 03 SIGNIFICANT EVENTS ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 39 NOTE 04 REPORTING SEGMENTS ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 42 NOTE 05 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 45 NOTE 06 TRADING INVESTMENTS ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 46 NOTE 07 INVESTMENTS UNDER RESALE AGREEMENTS AND OBLIGATIONS UNDER REPURCHASE AGREEMENTS ....................................................................... 47 NOTE 08 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGE ACCOUNTING ..............................................................................................................................50 NOTE 09 INTERBANK LOANS ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 57 NOTE 10 LOANS AND ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE FROM CUSTOMERS ................................................................................................................................................................... 58 NOTE 11 AVAILABLE FOR SALE INVESTMENTS ................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 66 NOTE 12 INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES AND OTHER COMPANIES ..................................................................................................................................................................... 69 NOTE 13 INTANGIBLE ASSETS .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 71 NOTE 14 FIXED ASSETS AND RIGHT OF USE ASSETS AND OBLIGATION FOR LEASE CONTRACT ........................................................................................................... 73 NOTE 15 CURRENT AND DEFERRED TAXES ....................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 78 NOTE 16 OTHER ASSETS ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 83 NOTE 17 TIME DEPOSITS AND OTHER TIME LIABILITIES ............................................................................................................................................................................................. 84 NOTE 18 INTERBANK BORROWINGS ........................................................................................................................................................................................................85 NOTE 19 ISSUED DEBT INSTRUMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES .................................................................................................................................................... 88 NOTE 20 MATURITY OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES .................................................................................................................................................................................. 96 NOTE 21 PROVISIONS.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 98 NOTE 22 OTHER LIABILITIES .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 100 NOTE 23 CONTINGENCIES AND COMMITMENTS ........................................................................................................................................................................................................ 101 NOTE 24 EQUITY ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 104 NOTE 25 CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS (BASEL) .................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 108 NOTE 26 NON-CONTROLLING INTEREST ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 109 NOTE 27 INTEREST INCOME ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 111 NOTE 28 FEES AND COMMISSIONS .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 113 NOTE 29 NET INCOME (EXPENSE) FROM FINANCIAL OPERATIONS ................................................................................................................................................................... 116 NOTE 30 NET FOREIGN EXCHANGE INCOME ................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 117 NOTE 31 PROVISIONS FOR LOAN LOSSES....................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 118 NOTE 32 PERSONNEL SALARIES AND EXPENSES ......................................................................................................................................................................................................... 119 NOTE 33 ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 120 NOTE 34 DEPRECIATION, AMORTIZATION AND IMPAIRMENT ............................................................................................................................................................................ 121 NOTE 35 OTHER OPERATING INCOME AND EXPENSES ............................................................................................................................................................................................ 122 NOTE 36 TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES ..................................................................................................................................................................................................... 123 NOTE 37 PENSION PLANS........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 127 NOTE 38 FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES .............................................................................................................................................................................. 130 NOTE 39 RISK MANAGEMENT ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 138 NOTE 40 NON-CURRENT ASSETS HELD FOR SALE ...................................................................................................................................................................................................... 153 NOTE 41 SUBSEQUENT EVENTS ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 154 2 Banco Santander-Chile and Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION As of December 31, 2019 2018 Note MCh$ MCh$ ASSETS Cash and deposits in banks 5 3,554,520 2,065,441 Cash items in process of collection 5 355,062 353,757 Trading investments 6 270,204 77,041 Investments under resale agreements 7 Financial derivative contracts 8 8,148,608 3,100,635 Interbank loans, net 9 14,833 15,065 Loans and accounts receivables from customers, net 10 31,823,735 29,470,270 Available for sale investments 11 4,010,272 2,394,323 Held to maturity investments Investments in associates and other companies 12 10,467 32,293 Intangible assets 13 73,389 66,923 Property, plant, and equipment 14 197,833 253,586 Right of use assets 14 210,500 Current taxes 15 11,648 Deferred taxes 15 462,867 382,934 Other assets 16 1,434,308 984,988 TOTAL ASSETS 50,578,246 39,197,356 LIABILITIES Deposits and other demand liabilities 17 10,297,432 8,741,417 Cash items in process of being cleared 5 198,248 163,043 Obligations under repurchase agreements 7 380,055 48,545 Time deposits and other time liabilities 17 13,192,817 13,067,819 Financial derivative contracts 8 7,390,654 2,517,728 Interbank borrowing 18 2,519,818 1,788,626 Issued debt instruments 19 9,500,723 8,115,233 Other financial liabilities 19 226,358 215,400 Lease liabilities 14 158,494 Current taxes 15 8,093 Deferred taxes 15 99,608 15,395 Provisions 21 337,397 329,940 Other liabilities 22 2,806,325 900,408 TOTAL LIABILITIES 47,107,929 35,911,647 EQUITY Attributable to the equity holders of the Bank 3,390,823 3,239,546 Capital 24 891,303 891,303 Reserves 24 2,121,148 1,923,022 Valuation adjustments 24 (8,093) 10,890 Retained earnings 386,465 414,331 Retained earnings from prior years Income for the year 552,093 591,902 Minus: Provision for mandatory dividends 21 (165,628) (177,571) Non-controlling interest 26 79,494 46,163 TOTAL EQUITY 3,470,317 3,285,709 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 50,578,246 39,197,356 The accompanying notes form integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 3 Banco Santander-Chile and Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME For the years ended December 31, 2019 2018 NOTE MCh$ MCh$ OPERATING INCOME Interest income 27 2,321,268 2,244,317 Interest expense 27 (904,417) (829,949) Net interest income 1,416,851 1,414,368 Fee and commission income 28 498,658 484,463 Fee and commission expense 28 (211,572) (193,578) Net fee and commission income 287,086 290,885 Net income (expense) from financial 53,174 29 (78,165) operations Net foreign exchange gain 30 285,184 51,908 Other operating income 35 24,598 39,526 Net operating profit before provision for loan losses 1,935,554 1,849,861 Provision for loan losses 31 (420,447) (325,085) NET OPERATING PROFIT 1,515,107 1,524,776 Personnel salaries and expenses 32 (410,157) (397,564) Administrative expenses 33 (233,612) (245,089) Depreciation and amortization 34 (106,092) (79,280) Impairment of property, plant, and equipment 34 (2,726) (39) Other operating expenses 35 (61,021) (45,740) Total operating expenses (813,608) (767,712) OPERATING INCOME 701,499 757,064 Income from investments in associates and 12 other companies 1,146 1,325 Income before tax 702,645 758,389 Income tax expense 15 (150,168) (165,897) Result of continuing operations 552,477 592,492 Result of discontinued operations 40 1,699 3,770 NET INCOME FOR THE YEAR 554,176 596,262 Attributable to: Equity holders of the Bank 552,093 591,902 Non-controlling interest 26 2,083 4,360 Earnings per share from continued operations attributable to shareholders of the Bank (expressed in Chilean pesos): Basic earnings 24 2,921 3.121 Diluted earnings 24 2,921 3.121 Earnings per share attributable to Equity holders of the Bank (expressed in Chilean pesos): Basic earnings 24 2,930 3.141 Diluted earnings 24 2,930 3.141 The accompanying notes form integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 4 Banco Santander-Chile and Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME For the years ended December 31, 2019 2018 NOTE MCh$ MCh$ NET INCOME FOR THE YEAR 554,176 596,262 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME ITEMS WHICH MAY BE RECLASSIFIED SUBSEQUENTLY TO PROFIT OR LOSS Availablefor sale investments 24 23,974 4,569 Cash flow hedge 24 (50,238) 13,365 Other comprehensive income which may be reclassified subsequently (26,624) 17,934 to profit or loss, before tax Income tax related to items which may be reclassified subsequently to 7,092 (4,816) profit or loss Other comprehensive income for the period which may be (19,172) 13,118 reclassified subsequently to profit or loss, net of tax OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME THAT WILL NOT BE RECASSIFIED SUBSEQUENTLY TO PROFIT OR LOSS TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR 535,004 609,380 Attributable to: Equity holders of the Bank 533,110 605,104 Non-controlling interest 26 1,894 4,276 Attributable to Equity holders of the Bank: Continuing operations 531,411 601,334 Discontinued operations 1,699 3,770 The accompanying notes form integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 5 Banco Santander-Chile and Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY For the years ended RESERVES VALUATION ADJUSTMENTS RETAINED EARNINGS Reserves Effects of merger Provision and other of companies Available for Cash Retained for Attributable to Nonretained under common sale flow Income tax earnings of Income for mandatory equity holders controlling Capital earnings control investments hedge effects prior years the year dividends of the Bank interest (*) Total Equity MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Equity as of December 31, 2017 891,303 1,784,042 (2,224) 459 (3,562) 791 564,815 (169,444) 3,066,180 41,883 3,108,063 Distribution of income from previous period 564,815 (564,815) Equity as of January 1, 2018 891,303 1,784,042 (2,224) 459 (3,562) 791 564,815 (169,444) 3,066,180 41,883 3,108,063 Increase or decrease of capital and reserves Dividends distributions/ withdrawals made (423,611) (423,611) (423,611) Transfer of retained earnings to reserves 141,204 (141,204) 4 4 Provision for mandatory dividends (8,127) (8,127) (8,127) Subtotals 141,204 (564,815 ) (8,127) (431,738) 4 (431,734) Other comprehensive income 4,655 13,365 (4,818) 13,202 (84) 13,118 Result of continuing operations 588,132 588,132 4,360 592,492 Result of discontinued operations 3,770 3,770 3,770 Subtotals 4,655 13,365 (4,818) 591,902 605,104 4,276 609,380 Equity as of December 31, 2018 891,303 1,925,246 (2,224) 5,114 9,803 (4,027) 591,902 (177,571) 3,239,546 46,163 3,285,709 Distribution of income from previous period 591,902 (591,902) Equity as of January 1, 2019 891,303 1,925,246 (2,224) 5,114 9,803 (4,027) 591,902 (177,571) 3,239,546 46,163 3,285,709 Increase or decrease of capital and reserves (**) (38,635) (38,635) 31,437 (7,198) Dividends distributions/ withdrawals made (355,141) (355,141) (355,141) Transfer of retained earnings to reserves 236,761 (236,761) Provision for mandatory dividends 11,493 11,943 11,943 Subtotals 198,126 (591,902) 11,943 (381,833) 31,437 350,396 Other comprehensive income 24,235 (50,238) 7,020 (18,983) (189) (19,172) Result of continuing operations 550,394 550,394 2,083 552,477 Result of discontinued operations 1,699 1,699 1,699 Subtotals 24,235 (50,238) 7,020 552,093 533,110 1,894 535,004 Equity as of December 31, 2019 891,303 2,123,372 (2,224) 29,349 (40,435) 2,993 552,093 (165,628) 3,390,823 79,494 3,470,317 (*) See Note No. 01 letter b). (**) See Note No. 03. Total attributable to Allocated to Allocated to Percentage Number of Dividend per share Period equity holders of the Bank reserves dividends distributed shares (in chilean pesos) MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ % Year 2018 (Shareholders Meeting April 2019) 591,902 236,761 355,141 60 188,446,126,794 1.885 Year 2017 (Shareholders Meeting April 2018) 472,351 141,204 423,611 75 188,446,126,794 2.248 The accompanying notes form integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Consolidated Financial Statements December 2018 / Banco Santander Chile 6 Banco Santander-Chile and Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS For the years ended December 31, 2019 2018 NOTE MCh$ MCh$ A – CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES: NET INCOME FOR THE YEAR 554,176 596,262 Debits (credits) to income that do not represent cash flows (1,041,896) (1,234,617) Depreciation and amortization 34 106,092 79,280 Impairments of property, plant, and equipment 34 2,726 39 Provision for loan losses 31 503,160 413,566 Mark to market of trading investments 39,997 1,438 Income from investments in associates and other companies 12 (1,146) (5,095) Net gain on sale of assets received in lieu of payment 35 (17,210) (23,503) Provision on assets received in lieu of payment 35 1,809 816 Loss on sale of associate 126 Net gain on sale of property, plant, and equipment 35 (2,456) (2,490) Charge off of assets received in lieu of payment 35 17,638 15,037 Net interest income 27 (1,416,851) (1,414,368) Net fee and commission income 28 (287,086) (290,885) Other debits (credits) to income that do not represent cash flows (67) (8,271) Changes in deferred taxes 15 11,372 (181) Increase/decrease in operating assets and liabilities 2,308,784 1,660,877 (Increase) decrease of loans and accounts receivables from customers, net (2,449,954) (2,703,700) (Increase) decrease of financial investments (1,809,112) 588,918 Decrease (increase) of interbank loans 232 147,534 (Increase) decrease of assets received or awarded in lieu of payment (1,743) 3,656 Increase (decrease) of debits in customers checking accounts 1,298,976 521,476 Increase (decrease) of time deposits and other time liabilities 124,998 1,153,874 Increase (decrease) of obligations with domestic banks 271,620 (480) Increase (decrease) of other demand liabilities or time obligations 257,039 451,775 Increase (decrease) of obligations with foreign banks 459,572 90,754 Increase (decrease) of obligations with Central Bank of Chile (5) Increase (decrease) of obligations under repurchase agreements 331,510 (219,516) Increase (decrease) in other financial liabilities 10,958 (26,630) Increase (decrease) net lease (52,006) Net increase of other assets and liabilities 1,014,787 (903,390) Redemption of letters of credit (6,988) (8,989) Senior bond issuances 1,893,552 1,156,057 Redemption mortgage bonds and payments of interest (6,109) (5,911) Redemption and maturity of of senior bonds and payments of interest (822,615) (289,837) Interest received 2,321,268 2,244,317 Interest paid (904,417) (829,949) Dividends received from investments in other companies 12 130 38 Fees and commissions received 28 498,658 484,463 Fees and commissions paid 28 (211,572) (193,578) Total cash flow provided by (used in) operating activities 1,821,064 1,022,522 The accompanying notes 1 to 40 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 7 Banco Santander-Chile and Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS For the years ended December 31, 2019 2018 NOTE MCh$ MCh$ B – CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES: Purchases of property, plant, and equipment 14 (50,377) (68,329) Sales of property, plant, and equipment 6,030 6,297 Purchases of investments in associates and other companies (62,136) Disposals of investments in companies 1,930 Purchases of intangible assets 13 (32,860) (29,563) Total cash flow provided by (used in) investment activities (137,413) (91,595) C – CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES: From shareholder´s financing activities (355,141) 423,611 Increase in other obligations Placement of subordinated bonds Redemption of subordinated bonds and payments of interest Dividends paid (355,141) (423,611) From non-controlling interest financing activities Dividends and/or withdrawals paid Total cash flow used in financing activities (355,141) (423,611) D – NET INCREASE (DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS DURING THE PERIOD 1,328,510 507,316 E – EFFECTS OF FOREIGN EXCHANGE RATE FLUCTUATIONS 126,669 114,498 F – INITIAL BALANCE OF CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 2,256,155 1,634,341 FINAL BALANCE OF CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 5 3,711,334 2,256,155 December 31, Reconciliation of provisions for the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the periods 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Provision for loan losses for cash flow purposes 503,161 413,566 Recovery of loans previously charged off (82,714) (88,481) Provision for loan losses net 31 420,447 325,085 Changes other than cash Foreign Reconciliation of liabilities December, 31 Currency Fair Value December, 31 arising from financing activities 2018 Cash Flow Acquisition Movement UF Movement Changes 2019 MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ 22,127 818,084 Subordinated Bonds 795,957 Dividends paid (423,611) 423,611 Other Total liabilities from financing 372,346 423,611 22,127 818,084 activities The accompanying notes form integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 8 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 01 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CORPORATE INFORMATION Banco Santander Chile is a banking corporation (limited company) operating under the laws of the Republic of Chile, headquartered at Bandera N°140, Santiago. The corporation provides a broad range of general banking services to its customers, ranging from individuals to major corporations. Banco Santander Chile and its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the “Bank” or “Banco Santander Chile”) offers commercial and consumer banking services, including (but not limited to) factoring, collection, leasing, securities and insurance brokering, mutual and investment fund management, and investment banking. Banco Santander Spain controls Banco Santander Chile through its holdings in Teatinos Siglo XXI Inversiones Ltda. and Santander Chile Holding S.A., which are controlled subsidiaries of Banco Santander Spain. As of December 31, 2019, Banco Santander Spain owns or controls directly and indirectly 99.5% of Santander Chile Holding S.A. and 100% of Teatinos Siglo XXI Inversiones Ltda. This makes Banco Santander Spain have control over 67.18% of the Bank’s shares. a) Basis of preparation These Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the Compendium of Accounting Standards issued by the Superintendency of Banks and Financial Institutions (SBIF), the Chilean regulatory agency. Article 15 of the General Banking Law states that banks must apply accounting standards established by SBIF. For those issues not covered by the SBIF, the Bank must apply generally accepted standards issued by the Colegio de Contadores de Chile A.G (Association of Chilean Accountants), which conform with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). In the event that any discrepancies exist between IFRS and accounting standards issued by the SBIF (Compendium of Accounting Standards and Instructions), the latter shall prevail. For purposes of these financial statements the Bank uses certain terms and conventions. References to “US$”, “U.S. dollars” and “dollars” are to United States dollars, references to “EUR” are to European Economic Community Euro, references to “CNY” are to Chinese Yuan, references to “JPY” are to “Japanese Yen”, references to “CHF” are to Swiss franc, references to “Chilean pesos”, “pesos” or “Ch$” are to Chilean pesos, and references to “UF” are to Unidades de Fomento. The UF is an inflation-indexed Chilean monetary unit with a value in Chilean pesos that changes daily to reflect changes in the official Consumer Price Index (“CPI”) of the Instituto Nacional de Estadísticas (the Chilean National Institute of Statistics) for the previous month. The Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements contain additional information to support the figures submitted in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, Consolidated Statement of Income, Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year. These contain narrative descriptions and details of these statements in a clear, relevant, reliable and comparable manner. b) Basis of preparation for the Consolidated Financial Statements The Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, incorporate the financial statements of the Bank entities over which the Bank has control (including structured entities); and includes the adjustments, reclassifications and eliminations needed to comply with the accounting and valuation criteria established by IFRS. Control is achieved when the Bank: I. Has power over the investee (i.e., it has rights that grant the current capacity of managing the relevant activities of the investee) II. is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee; and III. has the ability to use its power to affect its returns. The Bank reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the three elements of control listed above. When the Bank has less than a majority of the voting rights of an investee, it has power over the investee when the voting rights are sufficient to give it the practical ability to direct the relevant activities over the investee unilaterally. The Bank considers all relevant facts and circumstances in assessing whether or not the Bank’s voting rights in an investee are sufficient to give it power, including: • The size of the Bank’s holding of voting rights relative to the size and dispersion of holdings of the other vote holders; • The potential voting rights held by the Bank, other vote holders or other parties; • The rights arising from other agreements; and any additional facts and circumstances that indicate that the Bank has, or does not have, the current ability to direct the relevant activities at the time that decisions need to be made, including voting patterns at previous shareholders’ meetings. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 9 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 01 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES, continued Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Bank obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when the Bank loses control over the subsidiary. Specifically, income and expenses of a subsidiary acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the Consolidated Statement of Income and in the Consolidated Financial Statementof Comprehensive Income from the date the Bank gains control until the date when the Bank ceases to control the subsidiary. Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive income are attributed to the owners of the Bank and to the non-controlling interests. Total comprehensive income of subsidiaries is attributed to the owners of the Bank and to the non-controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit in certain circumstances. When is necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of the subsidiaries to ensure their accounting policies are consi stent with the Bank’s accounting policies. All balances and transacctions between consolidated entities are eliminated. Changes in the consolidated entities ownership interests in subsidiaries that do not result in a loss of control over the subsidiaries are accounted for as equity transactions. The carrying values of the Bank’s equity and the non-controlling interests’ equity are adjusted to reflect the changes to their relative interests in the subsidiaries. Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognized directly in equity and attributed to owners of the Bank. In addition, third parties’ shares in the Bank’s consolidated equity are presented as “Non-controlling interests” in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity. Their share in the income for the year is presented as “Attributable to non-controlling interest” in the Consolidated Statement of Income. The following companies are considered entities controlled by the Bank and are therefore within the scope of consolidation: i. Entities controlled by the Bank through participation in equity Percent ownership share December 31, Place of 2019 2018 Incorporation Direct Indirect Total Direct Indirect Total and Name of the Subsidiary Main Activity operation % % % % % % Santander Corredora de Insurance brokerage Santiago, Chile 99.75 0.01 99.76 99.75 0.01 99.76 Seguros Limitada Santander Corredores de Bolsa Financial instruments Santiago, Chile 50.59 0.41 51.00 50.59 0.41 51.00 Limitada brokerage Santander Asesorias Financieras Securities brokerage Santiago, Chile 99.03 99.03 99.03 99.03 Limitada (1) Purchase of credits and Santander S.A. Sociedad issuance of debt Santiago, Chile 99.64 99.64 99.64 99.64 Securitizadora instruments Klare Corredora de Seguros S.A. Insurance brokerage Santiago, Chile 50.10 50.10 (2) Santander Consumer Chile S.A. Financing Santiago, Chile 51.00 51.00 (3) The details of non-controlling interest in all the subsidiaries can be seen in Note 26 – Non-controlling interest (minority). (1) On December 18, 2019, Santander Agente de Valores Limitada changes its business name and the company’s object, to Santander Asesorías Financieras Limitada, and offering financial advice. (2) On October 19, 2019 Klare Corredora de Seguros S.A. was created as a digital insurance brokerage, and supporting banking business company and thus subject to banking regulations. The Banks owns the 50,10% of the company's capital share. (3) On November 15, 2019, Financial Market Commission (FMC) authorized Banco Santander to acquire the 51% of the Santander Consumer Chile S.A. capital share from SK Berge (49%) and Banco Santander S.A. (2%). The sale was completed on November 27, 2019 (Note 03). Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 10 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 01 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES, continued ii. Entities controlled by the Bank through other considerations The following companies have been consolidated as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 based on the fact that the activities relevant on them are determined by the Bank (companies complementary to the banking sector) and therefore the Bank exercises control: Santander Gestión de Recaudación y Cobranza Limitada (collection services) Bansa Santander S.A. (management of repossessed assets and leasing of properties) Multiplica SpA (Development card incentive programs). iii. Associates An associate is an entity over which the Bank has the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control or joint control. This ability is usually represented by a share equal to or higher than 20% of the voting rights of the Company and is accounted for using the equity method. The following companies are considered “Associates” in which the Bank accounts for its participation using the equity method: Percentage of ownership share As of December 31, Place of 2019 2018 Incorporation Associates Main activity and % % operation Santiago, Redbanc S.A.(*) ATM services 33.43 Chile Santiago, Transbank S.A. (*) Debit and credit card services 25.00 Chile Centro de Compensación Automatizado Electronic fund transfer and compensation Santiago, 33.33 33.33 S.A. services Chile Sociedad Interbancaria de Depósito de Santiago, Repository of publically offered securities 29.29 29.29 Valores S.A. Chile Cámara de Compensación de Pagos de Santiago, Payments clearing 15.00 15.00 Alto Valor S.A. Chile Administrador Financiero del Administration of boarding passes to public Santiago, 20.00 20.00 Transantiago S.A. transportation Chile Santiago, Sociedad Nexus S.A. (*) Credit card processor 12.90 Chile Servicios de Infraestructura de Mercado Administration of the infrastructure for the Santiago, 12.48 12.48 OTC S.A. financial market of derivative instruments Chile (*) The Bank is in process to sell its share participation on Redbanc S.A., Transbank S.A. and Nexus S.A., therefore it has applied IFRS 5 Noncurrent Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations over its participations share. As of December 31, 2019, the Bank has sold 85% of its share participation in Nexus S.A. (Notes 01 and 40). In the case of Cámara Compensación de Pagos Alto Valor S.A., Banco Santander-Chile has a representative on the Board of Directors. As per the definition of associates, the Bank has concluded that it exerts significant influence over those entities. In the case of Servicios de Infraestructura de Mercado OTC S.A.The Bank participates, through its executives, actively in the administration and in the process of organization, which is why the Administration has concluded that it exerts significant influence on it. iv. Share or rights in other companies Entities over which the Bank has no control or significant influences are presented in this category. These holdings are shown at acquisition value (historical cost) less impairment, if any. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 11 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 01 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES, continued c) Non-controlling interest Non-controlling interest represents the portion of gains or losses and net assets which the Bank does not own, either directly or indirectly. It is presented separately in the Consolidated Statement of Income, and separately from shareholders’ equity in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. In the case of entities controlled by the Bank through other considerations, income and equity are presented in full as non -controlling interest, since the Bank controls them, but does not have any ownership. d) Reporting segments Operating segments with similar economic characteristics often exhibit similar long-term financial performance. Two or more segments can be combined only if aggregation is consistent with International Financial Reporting Standard 8 “Operating Segments” (IFRS 8) and the segments have similar economic characteristics and are similar in each of the following respects: i. the nature of the products and services; ii. the nature of the production processes; iii. the type or class of customers that use their products and services; iv. the methods used to distribute their products or services; and v. if applicable, the nature of the regulatory environment, for example, banking, insurance, or public utilities. The Bank reports separately on each operating segment that exceeds any of the following quantitative thresholds: i. its reported revenue, from both external customers and intersegment sales or transfers, is 10% or more of the combined internal and external revenue of all the operating segments. ii. the absolute amount of its reported profit or loss is equal to or greater than 10% : (i) the combined reported profit of all the operating segments that did not report a loss; (ii) the combined reported loss of all the operating segments that reported a loss. iii. its assets represent 10% or more of the combined assets of all the operating segments. Operating segments that do not meet any of the quantitative threshold may be treated as segments to be reported, in which case the information must be disclosed separately if management believes it could be useful for the users of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Information about other business activities of the segments not separately reported is combined and disclosed in the Corporate Activities (“others”) category. According to the information presented, the Bank’s segments were selected based on an operating segment being a component of an entity that: i. engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses (including revenues and expenses from transactions with other components of the same entity); ii. whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the entity’s chief executive officer, who makes decisions about resources allocated to the segment and assess its performance; and iii. for which discrete financial information is available. e) Functional and presentation currency The Bank, in accordance with IAS 21 Effects of Variations in Exchange Rates of the Foreign Currency , has defined as functional and presentation currency the Chilean Peso, which is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Bank operates, it also obeys the currency that influences the structure of costs and revenues. Therefore, all balances and transactions denominated in currencies other than the Chilean Peso are considered as Foreign currency . f) Foreign currency transactions The Bank performs transactions in foreign currencies, mainly the U.S. dollar. Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies and held by the Bank are translated to Chilean pesos based on the representative market rate published by Reuters at 1:30 p.m. on the month end date. The rate used was Ch$747,37 per US$1 for December, 2019 (Ch$697,76 per US$1 for December, 2018). The amount of net foreign exchange gains and losses include recognition of the effects that exchange rate variations have on assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies and the profits and losses on foreign exchange spot and forward transactions undertaken by the Bank. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 12 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 01 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES, continued g) Definitions and classification of financial instruments i. Definitions A “financial instrument” is any contract that gives rise to a financial asset of an entity, and a financial liability or equity instrument of another entity. An “equity instrument” is a legal transaction that evidences a residual interest on the assets of an entity deducting all of its liabilities. A “financial derivative” is a financial instrument whose value changes in response to changes with regard to an observed market variable (such as an interest rate, a foreign exchange rate, a financial instrument’s price, or a market index, including credit ratings), whose initial investment is very small compared with other financial instruments having a similar response to changes in market factors, and which is generally settled at a future date. “Hybrid financial instruments” are contracts that simultaneously include a non-derivative host contract together with a financial derivative, known as an embedded derivative, which is not separately transferable and has the effect that some of the cash flows of the hybrid contract vary in a way similar to a stand-alone derivative. Durong the year 2019 and 2018, Banco Santander did not keep implicit derivatives in its portfolio. ii. Classification of financial assets for measurement purposes Financial assets are classified into the following specified categories: financial assets trading investments at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL), ‘held to maturity investments’, ‘available for sale investments’ (AFS) financial assets and ‘loans and accounts receivable from customers'. The classification depends on the nature and purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition. Regular way purchases or sales of financial assets require delivery of the asset within the time frame established by regulation or convention in the marketplace. Financial assets are initially recognized at fair value plus, in the case of financial assets that aren’t accounted for at fair value with changes in profit or loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue. Effective interest method The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a debt instrument and of allocating interest income over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts (including all fees and points paid or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts) through the expected life of the debt instrument, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount on initial recognition. Income is recognised on an effective interest basis for loans and accounts receivables other than those financial assets classified at fair value through profit or loss. Financial assets FVTPL – (Trading investments) Financial assets are classified as FVTPL when the financial asset is either held for trading or it is designated as fair value through profit or loss. A financial asset is classified as held for trading if:  it has been acquired with the purpose of selling it in the short term; or  on initial recognition it is part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that the Bank manages together and has a recent actual pattern of short-term profit-taking; or  it is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a hedging instrument A financial asset other than a financial asset held for trading may be designated as FVTPL upon initial recognition if: · such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise; or · the financial asset forms part of a group of financial assets or financial liabilities or both, which is managed and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Bank's documented risk management or investment strategy, and information about the grouping is provided internally on that basis; or · it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives, and IAS 39 permits the entire combined contract to be designated as FVTPL. Financial assets FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any gains or losses arising on remeasurement recognised in profit or loss. The net gain or loss recognised incorporates any dividend or interest earned on the financial asset and is included in the ‘net income (expense) from financial operations' line item. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 13 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 01 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES, continued Held to maturity investments Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturity dates that the Bank has the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity. Subsequent to initial recognition, held-to-maturity investments are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method less impairment. Available for sale investments (AFS investments) AFS investments are non-derivatives that are either designated as AFS or are not classified as (a) loans and accounts receivable from customers, (b) held-to-maturity investments or (c) financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (trading investments). Financial instruments held by the Bank that are traded in an active market are classified as AFS and are stated at fair value at the end of each reporting period. The Bank also has investments in financial instruments that are not traded in an active market but that are also classified as AFS investments and stated at fair value at the end of each reporting period (because the directors consider that fair value can be reliably measured). Changes in the carrying amount of AFS monetary financial assets relating to changes in foreign currency rates, int erest income calculated using the effective interest method and dividends on AFS equity investments are recognised in profit or loss. Other changes in the carrying amount of available for sale investments are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated under the heading of “Valuation Adjustment”. When the investment is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, the cumulative gain or loss previously accumulated in the investments revaluation reserve is reclassified to profit or loss. Dividends on AFS equity instruments are recognised in profit or loss when the Bank's right to receive the dividends is established. The fair value of AFS monetary financial assets denominated in a foreign currency is determined in that foreign currency and translated as the described in f) above. The foreign exchange gains and losses that are recognised in profit or loss are determined based on the amortised cost of the monetary asset. Loans and accounts receivables from customers Loans and accounts receivable from customers are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. Loans and accounts receivables from customers (including loans and accounts receivable from customers and owed by banks) are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment. Interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables where discounting effects are immaterial. iii. Classification of financial assets for presentation purposes For presentation purposes, the financial assets are classified by their nature into the following line items in the Consolida ted Financial Statements: Cash and deposits in banks: this line includes cash balances, checking accounts and on-demand deposits with the Central Bank of Chile and other domestic and foreign financial institutions. Amounts invested as overnight deposits are included in this item and in the corresponding items. Cash items in process of collection: this item includes values of documents in process of transfer and balances from operations that, as agreed, are not settled the same day, and purchase of currencies not yet received. Trading investments: this item includes financial instruments held-for-trading and investments in mutual funds which must be adjusted to their fair value. Financial derivative contracts: financial derivative contracts with positive fair values are presented in this item. It includes both independent contracts as well as derivatives that should and can be separated from a host contract, whether they are for trading or accou nted for as derivatives held for hedging, as shown in Note 8. • Trading derivatives: includes the fair value of derivatives which do not qualify for hedge accounting, including embedded derivatives separated from hybrid financial instruments. • Hedging derivatives: includes the fair value of derivatives designated as being in a hedging relationship, including the embedded derivatives separated from the hybrid financial instruments. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 14 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 01 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES, continued Interbank loans: this item includes the balances of transactions with domestic and foreign banks, including the Central Bank of Chile, other than those reflected in certain other financial asset classifications listed above. Loans and accounts receivables from placements: these loans are non-derivative financial assets for which fixed or determined amounts are charged, that are not listed on an active market and which the Bank does not intend to sell immediately or in the short term. When the Bank is the lessor in a lease, and it substantially transfers the risks and rewards incidental to the leased asset, the transaction is presented in loans and accounts receivable from customers while the leased asset is removed from the Bank´s financial statements. Investment instruments: are classified into two categories: held-to-maturity investments, and available-for-sale investments. The held-tomaturity investment classification includes only those instruments for which the Bank has the ability and intent to hold to maturity. The remaining investments are treated as available for sale. iv. Classification of financial liabilities for measurement purposes Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities FVTPL or other financial liabilities: Financial liabilities FVTPL As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the Bank does not have financial liabilities with changes in results. Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities (including loans and accounts payable) are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. v. Classification of financial liabilities for presentation purposes Financial liabilities are classified by their nature into the following items in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position: Deposits and other on-demand liabilities: this includes all on-demand obligations except for term savings accounts, which are not considered on-demand instruments in view of their special characteristics. Obligations whose payment may be required during the period are deemed to be on-demand obligations. Operations which become callable the day after the closing date are not treated as on-demand obligations. Cash items in process of collection: this item includes balances from asset purchase operations that are not settled the same day, and sale of currencies not yet delivered. Obligations under repurchase agreements: this includes the balances of sales of financial instruments under securities repurchase and loan agreements. The Bank does not record as own portfolio instruments acquired under repurchase agreements. Time deposits and other time liabilities: this shows the balances of deposit transactions in which a term at the end of which they become callable has been stipulated. Financial derivative contracts: this includes financial derivative contracts with negative fair values, whether they are for trading or for hedge accounting, as set forth in Note 8. • Trading derivatives: includes the fair value of derivatives which do not qualify for hedge accounting, including embedded derivatives separated from hybrid financial instruments. • Hedging derivatives: includes the fair value of derivatives designated as being in a hedging relationship, including the embe dded derivativees separated from the hybrid financial instruments. Interbank borrowings: this includes obligations due to other domestic banks, foreign banks, or the Central Bank of Chile, oth er than those reflected in certain other financial liability classifications listed above. Issued debt instruments: there are four types of instruments issued by the Bank: obligations under letters of credit, subordinated bonds, mortgage bonds and senior bonds placed in the local and foreign market. Other financial liabilities: this item includes credit obligations to persons other than domestic banks, foreign banks, or the Central Bank of Chile, for financing purposes or operations in the normal course of business. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 15 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 01 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES, continued h) Valuation of financial instruments and recognition of fair value changes Generally, financial assets and liabilities are initially recognized at fair value, which, in the absence of evidence against it, is deemed to be the transaction price. Financial instruments, other than those measured at fair value through profit or loss, are initially recognized at fair value plus transaction costs. Subsequently, and at the end of each reporting period, financial instruments are measured with the following criteria: i. Valuation of financial instruments Financial assets are measured according to their fair value, gross of any transaction costs that may be incurred in the course of a sale, except for credit investments and held to maturity investments. According to IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement, “fair value” is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction in the principal (or most advantageous) market at the measurement date under current mark et conditions (i.e. an exit price) regardless of whether that price is directly observable or estimated using another valuation technique. When m easuring fair value an entity shall take into account the characteristics of the asset or liability if market participants would take those characteristics into account when pricing the asset or liability at the measurement date. The fair value measurement assumes that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either: (a) in the principal market for the asset or liability, or (b) in the absence of a principal market, the most advantageous market for the asset or liability. Even when there is no observable market to provide pricing information in connection with the sale of an asset or the transfer of a liability at the measurement date, the fair value measurement shall assume that the transaction takes place, considered from the perspective of a potential market participant who intends to maximize value associated with the asset or liability. When using valuation techniques, the Bank shall maximize the use of relevant observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs as available. If an asset or a liability measured at fair value has a bid price and an ask price, the price within the bid-ask spread that is most representative of fair value in the circumstances shall be used to measure fair value regardless of where the input is categorized within the fair value hierarchy (i.e. Level 1, 2 or 3). IFRS 13 establishes a fair value hierarchy that categorizes into three levels the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices (unadjusted) in active marke ts for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1 inputs) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3 inputs). Every derivative is recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position at fair value as previously described. This value is compared to the valuation at the trade date. If the fair value is subsequently measured positive, this is recorded as an asset, if the fair value is subsequently measured negative, this is recorded as a liability. The fair value on the trade date is deemed, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, to be the transaction price. The changes in the fair value of derivatives from the trade date are recorded in “Net income (expense) from financial operations” in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Specifically, the fair value of financial derivatives included in the portfolios of financial assets or liabilities held for trading is deemed to be their daily quoted price. If, for exceptional reasons, the quoted price cannot be determined on a given date, the fair value is determined using similar methods to those used to measure over the counter (OTC) derivatives. The fair value of OTC derivatives is the sum of the future cash flows resulting from the instrument, discounted to present value at the date of valuation (“present value” or “theoretical close”) using valuation techniques commonly used by the financial markets: “net present value” (NPV) and option pricing models, among other methods. Also, within the fair value of derivatives are included Credit Valuation Adjustment (CVA) and Debit Valuation Adjustment (DVA), all with the objective that the fair value of each instrument includes the credit risk of its counterparty and Bank´s own risk. Counterparty Credit Risk (CVA) is a valuation adjustment to derivatives contracted in non-organized markets as a result of exposure to counterparty credit risk. The CVA is calculated considering the potential exposure to each counterparty in future periods. Own-credit risk (DVA) is a valuation adjustment similar to the CVA, but generated by the Bank's credit risk assumed by our counterparties. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 16 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 01 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES, continued “Loans and accounts receivable from customers” and Held-to-maturity instrument portfolio are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. Amortized cost is the acquisition cost of a financial asset or liability, plus or minus, as appropriate, prepayments of principal and the cumulative amortization (recorded in the consolidated income statement) of the difference between the initial cost and the maturity amount as calculated under the effective interest method. For financial assets, amortized cost also includes any reductions for impairment or uncollectibility. For loans and accounts receivable designated as hedged items in fair value hedges, the changes in their fair value related to the risk or risks being hedged are recorded in “Net income (expense) from financial operations”. The “effective interest rate” is the discount rate that exactly matches the initial amount of a financial instrument to all i ts estimated cash flows over its remaining life. For fixed-rate financial instruments, the effective interest rate incorporates the contractual interest rate established on the acquisition date. Where applicable, the fees and transaction costs that are a part of the financial return are included. For floating-rate financial instruments, the effective interest rate matches the current rate of return until the date of the next review of interest rates. The amounts at which the financial assets are recorded represent the Bank’s maximum exposure to credit risk as at the reporting date. The Bank has also received collateral and other credit enhancements to mitigate its exposure to credit risk, which consist mainly of mortgage guarantees, equity instruments and personal securities, assets under leasing agreements, assets acquired under repurchase agreements, securities loans and derivatives. ii. Valuation techniques Financial instruments at fair value, determined on the basis of price quotations in active markets, include government debt securities, private sector debt securities, equity shares, short positions, and fixed-income securities issued. In cases where price quotations cannot be observed in available markets, the Bank’s management determines a best estimate of the price that the market would set using its own internal models. In most cases, these models use data based on observable market parameters as significant inputs however for some valuations of financial instruments, significant inputs are unobservable in the market. To determine a value for those instruments, various techniques are employed to make these estimates, including the extrapolation of observable market data. The most reliable evidence of the fair value of a financial instrument on initial recognition usually is the transaction price, however due to lack of availability of market information, the value of the instrument may be derived from other market transactions performed with the same or similar instruments or may be measured by using a valuation technique in which the variables used include only observable market data, mainly interest rates. The main techniques used as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 by the Bank’s internal models to determine the fair value of the financial instruments are as follows: i. In the valuation of financial instruments permitting static hedging (mainly forwards and swaps), the present value method is used. Estimated future cash flows are discounted using the interest rate curves of the related currencies. The interest rate curves are generally observable market data. ii. In the valuation of financial instruments requiring dynamic hedging (mainly structured options and other structured instruments), the Black-Scholes model is normally used. Where appropriate, observable market inputs are used to obtain factors such as the bid-offer spread, exchange rates, volatility, correlation indexes and market liquidity. iii. In the valuation of certain financial instruments exposed to interest rate risk, such as interest rate futures, caps and floors, the present value method (futures) and the Black-Scholes model (plain vanilla options) are used. The main inputs used in these models are observable market data, including the related interest rate curves, volatilities, correlations and exchange rates. The fair value of the financial instruments calculated by the aforementioned internal models considers contractual terms and observable market data, which include interest rates, credit risk, exchange rates, quoted market price of shares and raw materials, volatility, prepayments and liquidity. The Bank’s management considers that its valuation models are not significantly subjective, since these methodologies can be adjusted and evaluated, as appropriate, through the internal calculation of fair value and the subsequent comparison with the related actively traded price. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 17 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 01 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES, continued iii. Hedging transactions and macro hedge The Bank uses financial derivatives for the following purposes: i. to sell to customers who request these instruments in the management of their market and credit risks; ii. to use these derivatives in the management of the risks of the Bank entities’ own positions and assets and liabilities (“hedging derivatives”), and iii. to obtain profits from changes in the price of these derivatives (trading derivatives). All financial derivatives that are not held for hedging purposes are accounted for as trading derivatives. A derivative qualifies for hedge accounting if all the following conditions are met: 1. The derivative hedges one of the following three types of exposure: a. Changes in the value of assets and liabilities due to fluctuations, among others, in inflation (UF), the interest rate and/or exchange rate to which the position or balance to be hedged is subject (“fair value hedge”); b. Changes in the estimated cash flows arising from financial assets and liabilities, commitments and highly probable forecasted transactions (“cash flow hedge”); c. The net investment in a foreign operation (“hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation”). 2. It is effective in offsetting exposure inherent in the hedged item or position throughout the expected term of the hedge, which means that: a. At the date of arrangement the hedge is expected, under normal conditions, to be highly effective (“prospective effectiveness ”). b. There is sufficient evidence that the hedge was actually effective during the life of the hedged item or position (“retrospective effectiveness”). 3. There must be adequate documentation evidencing the specific designation of the financial derivative to hedge certain balance s or transactions and how this effective hedge was expected to be achieved and measured, provided that this is consistent with the Bank’s management of own risks. The changes in the value of financial instruments qualifying for hedge accounting are recorded as follows: a. For fair value hedges, the gains or losses arising on both hedging instruments and the hedged items (attributable to the type of risk being hedged) are included as “Net income (expense) from financial operations” in the Consolidated Statement of Income. b. For fair value hedges of interest rate risk on a portfolio of financial instruments, gains or losses that arise in measuring hedging instruments and other gains or losses due to changes in fair value of the underlying hedged item (attributable to the hedge d risk) are recorded in the Consolidated Financial Statement of Income under “Net income (expense) from financial operations”. c. For cash flow hedges, the change in fair value of the hedging instrument is included as “Cash flow hedge” in “Other comprehensive income”, until the hedged transaction occurs, thereafter being reclassified to the Consolidated Statement of Income, unless the hedged transaction results in the recognition of non–financial assets or liabilities, in which case it is included in the cost of the non-financial asset or liability. d. The differences in valuation of the hedging instrument corresponding to the ineffective portion of the cash flow hedging tran sactions are recorded directly in the Consolidated Statement of Income under “Net income (expense) from financial operations”. If a derivative designated as a hedging instrument no longer meets the requirements described above due to expiration, ineffe ctiveness or for any other reason, hedge accounting treatment is discontinued. When “fair value hedging” is discontinued, the fair value adjustments to the carrying amount of the hedged item arising from the hedged risk are amortized to gain or loss from that date, when applicable. When cash flow hedges are discontinued, any cumulative gain or loss of the hedging instrument recognized under “Other comprehensive income” (from the period when the hedge was effective) remains recorded in equity until the hedged transaction occurs, at which time it is recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Income, unless the transaction is no longer expected to occur, in which case any cumulative gain or loss is recorded immediately in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 18 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 01 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES, continued iv. Derivatives embedded in hybrid financial instruments Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or in other host contracts are accounted for separately as derivatives if 1) their risks and characteristics are not closely related to the host contracts, 2) a separate instrument with the same terms as the embedded derivative would meet the definition of a derivative, and 3) provided that the host contracts are not classified as “Trading investments” or as other financial assets (liabilities) at fair value through profit or loss. v. Offsetting of financial instruments Financial asset and liability balances are offset, i.e., reported in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position at their net amount, only if there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recorded amounts and the Bank intends either to settle them on a net basis or to realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. vi. Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities The accounting treatment of transfers of financial assets is determined by the extent and the manner in which the risks and r ewards associated with the transferred assets are transferred to third parties: i. If the Bank transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to third parties, as in the case of unconditional sales of financial assets, sales under repurchase agreements at fair value at the date of repurchase, sales of financial assets with a purchased call option or written put option deeply out of the money, utilization of assets in which the transferor does not retain subordinated debt nor grants any credit enhancement to the new holders, and other similar cases, the transferred financial asset is derecognized from the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and any rights or obligations retained or created in the transfer are simultaneously recorded. ii. If the Bank retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership associated with the transferred financial asset, as in the case of sales of financial assets under repurchase agreements at a fixed price or at the sale price plus interest, securities lending agreements under which the borrower undertakes to return the same or similar assets, and other similar cases, the transferred financial asset is not derecognized from the Consolidated Financial Statement of Financial Position and continues to be measured by the same criteria as those used before the transfer. However, the following items are recorded: An associated financial liability for an amount equal to the consideration received; this liability is subsequently measured at amortized cost. Both the income from the transferred (but not removed) financial asset as well as any expenses incurred due to the new financial liability. iii. If the Bank neither transfers nor substantially retains all the risks and rewards of ownership associated with the transferred financial asset—as in the case of sales of financial assets with a purchased call option or written put option that is not deeply in or out of the money, securitization of assets in which the transferor retains a subordinated debt or other type of credit enhancement for a portion of the transferred asset, and other similar cases, the following distinction is made: a. If the transferor does not retain control of the transferred financial asset: the asset is derecognized from the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and any rights or obligations retained or created in the transfer are recognized. b. If the transferor retains control of the transferred financial asset: it continues to be recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position for an amount equal to its exposure to changes in value and a financial liability associated with the transferred financial asset is recorded. The net carrying amount of the transferred asset and the associated liability is the amortized cost of the rights and obligations retained, if the transferred asset is measured at amortized cost, or the fair value of the rights and obligations retained, if the transferred asset is measured at fair value. Accordingly, financial assets are only derecognized from the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position when the rights over the cash flows they generate have terminated or when all the inherent risks and rewards of ownership have been substantially transferred to third parties. Similarly, financial liabilities are only derecognized from the Consolidated Financial Statement Financial Position when the obligations specified in the contract are discharged or cancelled or the contract has matured. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 19 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 01 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES, continued i) Recognizing income and expenses The most significant criteria used by the Bank to recognize its revenues and expenses are summarized as follows: i. Interest revenue, interest expense, and similar items Interest revenue, expense and similar items are recorded on an accrual basis using the effective interest method. However, when a given operation or transaction is past due by 90 days or more, when it originated from a refinancing or renegotiation, or when the Bank believes that the debtor poses a high risk of default, the interest and adjustments pertaining to these transactions are not recorded directly in the Consolidated Statement of Income unless they have been actually received. This interest and adjustments are generally referred to as “suspended” and are recorded in they are reported as part of the complementary information thereto and as memorandum accounts (Note 27). This interest is recognized as income, when collected. The resumption of interest income recognition of previously impaired loans only occurs when such loans become current (i.e. payments were received such that the loans are contractually past-due for less than 90 days) or they are no longer classified under the C3, C4, C5, or C6 risk categories (for loans individually evaluated for impairment). ii. Commissions, fees, and similar items Fee and commission income and expenses are recognized in the Consolidated Interim Statement of Income using criteria stablish ed in IFRS 15 “Revenue from contracts with customers”. Under IFRS 15, the Bank recognize revenue when (or as) satisfied a performance obligations by transferring a service (ie an asset) to a customer; under this definition an asset is transferred when (or as) the customer obtains control of that asset. The Bank considers the terms of the contract and its customary business practices to determine the transaction price. The transaction price is the amount of consideration to which an entity expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring promised goods or services to a customer, excluding amounts collected on behalf of third parties. The Bank transfers control of a good or service over time and, therefore, satisfies a performance obligation and recognises revenue over time, and/or the Bank satisfies the performance obligation at a point in time. The main income arising from commissions, fees and similar items correspond to: Fees and commissions for lines of credits and overdrafts:includes accrued fees related to granting lines of credit and overdrafts in checking accounts. Fees and commissions for guarantees and letters of credit:includes accrued fees in the period relating to granting of guarantee payment for current and contingent third party obligations. Fees and commissions for card services:includes accrued and earned commissions in the period related to use of credit cards, debit cards and other cards Fees and commissions for management of accounts:includes accrued commissions for the maintenance of checking, savings and oth er accounts Fees and commissions for collections and payments:includes income arising from collections and payments services provided by the Bank. Fees and commissions for intermediation and management of securities:includes income from brokerage, placements, administrati on and securitie's custody services. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 20 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 01 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES, continued Fees and commissions for insurance brokerage fees: includes income arising for insurances distribution. Other fees and commissions:includes income arising from currency changes,financial advisory, cashier check issuance, placement of financial products and onlilne banking services. The main expense arising from commissions, fees and similar items correspond to: Compensation for card operation:includes commission expenses for credit and debit card operations related to income commissions card services. Fees and commissions for securities transactions:includes commissions expense for deposits, securities custody service and securitie's brokerage. Other fees and commissions:includes mainly expenses generayed from online services. The Bank has incorporated disaggregated revenue disclosure and reportable segment relationship in Note 28. Additionaly, the Bank maintains certain loyalty programs associated to its credit cards services, for which it has deferred a percentage of the consideration received in the statement of financial position to comply with its related performance obligation, or has liquidated on a monthly basis as far they arise. iii. Non-financial income and expenses Non-financial income and expenses are recognized for accounting purposes on an accrual basis. iv.Commissions in the formalization of loans The financial commissions that arise in the formalization of loans, fundamentally the opening or study and information commissions, are periodized and recorded in the consolidated long-term result of the life of the loan. j) Impairment i. Financial assets: A financial asset, other than that at fair value through profit and loss, is evaluated on each consolidated financial statement filing date to determine whether objective evidence of impairment exists. A financial asset or group of financial assets will be impaired if, and only if, objective evidence of impairment exists as a result of one or more events that occurred after initial recognition of the asset (“event causing the loss”), and this event or events causing the loss have an impact on the estimated future cash flows of a financial asset or group of financial assets. An impairment loss relating to financial assets recorded at amortized cost is calculated as the difference between the recorded amount of the asset and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate. Individually significant financial assets are individually tested to determine their impairment. The remaining financial assets are evaluated collectively in groups that share similar credit risk characteristics. All impairment losses are recorded in the consolidated statement of income in the caption provisions for credit risk . Any impairment loss related to a financial asset available for sale previously recorded in equity is transferred to income. The reversal of an impairment loss occurs only if it can be objectively related to an event occurring after the initial impairment loss was recorded. The reversal of an impairment loss shall not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined if no impairment loss has been recognized for the asset in prior years. The reversal is recorded in income with the exception of available for sale equity financial assets, in which case it is recorded in other comprehensive income. ii. Non-financial assets: The Bank’s non-financial assets, excluding investment properties, are reviewed at the reporting date to determine whether they show signs of impairment (i.e. its carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount). If any such evidence exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated, in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss. Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 21 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 01 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES, continued If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognized immediately in profit or loss. In connection with other assets, impairment losses recorded in prior periods are assessed at each reporting date to determine whether the loss has decreased and should be reversed. The increased carrying amount of an asset other than goodwill attributable to a reversal of an impairment loss shall not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined (net of amortization or depreciation) had no impair ment loss been recognized for the asset in prior years. Losses for goodwill impairment recognized through capital gains are not reversed. k) Property, plant, and equipment This category includes the amount of buildings, land, furniture, vehicles, computer hardware and other fixed assets owned by the consolidated entities or acquired under finance leases. Assets are classified according to their use as follows: i. Property, plant and equipment for own use Property, plant and equipment for own use includes but is not limited to tangible assets received by the consolidated entitie s in full or partial satisfaction of financial assets representing accounts receivable from third parties which are intended to be held for continuing own use and tangible assets acquired under finance leases. These assets are presented at acquisition cost less the related accumulated depreciation and, if applicable, any impairment losses resulting from comparing the net value of each item to the respective recoverable amount. Depreciation is calculated using the straight line method over the acquisition cost of assets less their residual value, assu ming that the land on which buildings and other structures stand has an indefinite life and, therefore, is not subject to depreciation. The Bank applies the following useful lives for the tangible assets that comprise its assets: Useful life ITEM (in months) Land Paintings and works of art Carpets and curtains 36 Computers and hardware 36 Vehicles 36 IT systems and software 36 ATMs 60 Other machines and equipment 60 Office furniture 60 Telephone and communication systems 60 Security systems 60 Rights over telephone lines 60 Air conditioning systems 84 Other installations 120 Buildings 1.200 The consolidated entities assess at each reporting date whether there is any indication that the carrying amount of any tangible asset exceeds its recoverable amount. If this is the case, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable amount and future depreciation charges are adjusted in accordance with the revised carrying amount and to the new remaining useful life. The estimated useful lives of the items of property, plant and equipment held for own use are reviewed at the end of each reporting period to detect significant changes. If changes are detected, the useful lives of the assets are adjusted by correcting the depreciati on charge to be recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Income in future years on the basis of the new useful lives. Maintenance expenses relating to tangible assets held for own use are recorded as an expense in the period in which they are incurred. ii. Assets leased out under operating leases The criteria used to record the acquisition cost of assets leased out under operating leases, to calculate their depreciation and their respective estimated useful lives, and to record their impairment losses, are the same as those for property, plant and equipment held for own use. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 22 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 01 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES, continued l) Leasing As of January 1, 2019 the Bank has started to apply IFRS 16 “Leases”, using the modified retrospective method and therefore, no comparative information is required, and 2018 balances continue to be reported under IAS 17 “Leases”. Policy applicable from January 1, 2019 At inception of a contract the Bank assesses whether a contract contains a lease. A contract contains a lease if the contracts conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration. To assess whether a contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset, the Bank assesses whether: ● the contract involves the use of an identified asset – this may be specified explicitly or implicitly and should be physically distinct. If the supplier has a substantive substitution right, then the asset is not identified. ● the Bank has the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from use of the asset throughout the period of use, and ● the Bank has the right to direct the use of the asset – this is decision-making purpose for which asset is use a. As a Lessee The Bank recognises a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at the lease commencement date in accordance within IFRS 16 “Leases”. The main contracts that the Bank has are offices and branches related, which are necessary to carry out its activities. At the beginning, the right-of-use asset is equal to the lease liability and is calculated as the present value of the lease payments discounted using the incremental interest rate at the commencement date, considering the lease term of each contract. The average incremental interest rate as of December 31, 2019 is 1.7%. After initial recognition, the right-of-use is subsequently depreciated using the straight-line method in accordance with the lease term of the contract, and the lease liability is amortised in accordance with the effective interest method. Financial interest is accounted as interest expense, and depreciation as depreciation expense in each period. The term of the lease comprises non-cancelable periods established within each contract, while for lease contracts with an indefinite useful life, the Bank has determined to assign a useful life equal to the longer non-cancelable period of its lease agreements. The Bank has elected not to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short term leases that have a lease term of 12 months or less and leases of low-value assets. The Bank recognises lease payments associated with these leases as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Any modification in the terms or lease should be treated as a new measurement. Initially, the Bank measures the right-of-use asset at cost. The rent of the lease agreements is agreed in UF and paid in pesos. According to that, monthly variation in UF should be treated as a new measurement, and therefore, readjustments should be recognized as a modification to the obligation and the right-of-use asset. The Bank has not entered into lease agreements with residual value guarantee or variable lease payments. In applying IFRS 16 for the first time, the Bank has used the following practical expedients permitted by the standard: · accounting for operating leases with a remaining lease term of less than 12 months as at 1 January 2019 as short-term leases · excluding initial direct costs for the measurement of the right-of-use asset at the date of initial application. The Bank has also elected not to reassess whether a contract is, or contains a lease at the date of initial application. Instead, for contracts entered into before the transition date the Bank relied on its assessment made applying IAS 17 and Interpretation 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease. b. As a lessor When the Bank acts as a lessor, it determines at the beginning if it corresponds to a financial or operating lease. To do this, it evaluates whether it has substantially transferred all the risks and benefits of the asset. In the affirmative case, it corresponds to a financial lease, otherwise it is a financial lease. The Bank recognizes the lease income on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 23 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 01 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES, continued c. Third party financing The Bank recognises the loans with third parties within “Loans and accounts receivable from customers” in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position, the sum of the present value of the lease payments receivable from the lessee, including the exercise price of the lessee’s purchase option at the end of the lease term, when at the inception of the lease it is reasonably certain that the lessee will exercise the option. The finance income and expenses arising from these contracts are recorded under “Interest income” and “Interest expense” respectively, in Consolidated Statements of Income to achieve constant return rate over the lease term. Policy applicable prior to January 1, 2019 Prior to effective date of IFRS 16, the Bank applied IAS 17 Leases. i. Finance leases Finance leases are leases that substantially transfer all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the leased asset to the lessee. The Bank recognised as lending to third parties under “Loans and accounts receivable from customers” in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position, the sum of the present value of the lease payments receivable from the lessee, including the exercise price of the lessee’s purchase option at the end of the lease term, when at the inception of the lease it is reasonably certain that the lessee will exercis e the option. When consolidated entities acts as lessees, the leased assets are classified based on their nature in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position, and recognising an asset and liability at the same amount (the lower between the fair value of the leased property and the present value of the minimum lease payments, plus purchase option). These assets are depreciated in accordance with property, plant and equipment for own use criterion. In both cases, the finance income and expenses arising from these contracts are recorded under “Interest income” and “Interest expense” respectively, in Consolidated Statements of Income to achieve constant return rate over the lease term. ii. Operating leases In operating leases, the ownership of the leased asset and substantially all the risks and rewards incidental thereto remain with the lessor. When the consolidated entities act as a lessor, the leased assets are classified at their acquisition cost under “Property, plant and equipment”. The depreciation criterion for these assets is consistent with that for similar items of property, plant and equipment held for own use and revenues from operating leases are recorded on a straight-line basis under “Other operating income” in the Consolidated Statements of Income. When the consolidated entities act as the lessees, the lease expenses, including any incentives granted by the lessor, are charged on a straightline basis to “Administrative expenses” in the Consolidated Statements of Income. iii. Sale and leaseback transactions For sale at fair value and operating leasebacks, the profit or loss generated is recorded at the time of the sale except in the case of excess of proceeds over fair value, which is amortised over the period of use of the asset. In the case of finance leasebacks, the profit or loss generated is amortised over the lease term. m) Factored receivables Factored receivables are valued at the amount disbursed by the Bank in exchange of invoices or other commercial instruments representing the credit which the transferor assigns to the Bank. The price difference between the amounts disbursed and the actual face value of the credits is recorded as interest income and adjustments in the Consolidated Statement of Income using the effective interest method over the financing period. When the assignment of these instruments involves no liability on the part of the assignee, the Bank assumes the risks of insolvency of the parties responsible for payment. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 24 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 01 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES, continued n) Intangible assets Intangible assets are identified as non-monetary assets (separately identifiable from other assets) without physical substance which arise as a result of legal or contractual rights. The Bank recognizes an intangible asset, whether purchased or self-created (at cost), when the cost of the asset can be measured reliably, and it is probable that the future economic benefits that are attributable to the asset will flow to the Bank. Intangible assets are recorded initially at acquisition or production cost and are subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated amortization and any accumulated impairment losses. Internally developed computer software is recorded as an intangible asset if, among other requirements (basically the Bank’s ability to use or sell it), it can be identified and its ability to generate future economic benefits can be demonstrated. Intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis using the estimated useful life, which has been defined by default in 36 months, and can be modified to the extent that it is demonstrated that the Bank will benefit from the use of the intangible for a different period mentioned above. Expenditure on research activities is recorded as an expense in the year in which it is incurred and cannot be subsequently capitalized. o) Cash and cash equivalents The indirect method is used to prepare the consolidated cash flow statement, starting with the Bank’s consolidated pre-tax income and incorporating non-cash transactions, as well as income and expenses associated with cash flows, which are classified as investing or financing activities. The cash flow statement was prepared considering the following definitions: i. Cash flows: Inflows and outflows of cash and cash equivalents, such as deposits with the Central Bank of Chile, deposits in domestic banks, and deposits in foreign banks. ii. Operating activities: Principal revenue-producing activities performed by banks and other activities that cannot be classified as investing or financing activities. iii. Investing activities: The acquisition and disposal of long-term assets and other investments not included in cash and cash equivalents. iv. Financing Activities: Activities that result in changes in the size and composition of equity and liabilities that are not operating or investing activities. p) Allowances for loan losses The Bank continuously evaluates the entire loan portfolio and contingent loans, as it is established by the FMC, to timely provide the necessary and sufficient provisions to cover expected losses associated with the characteristics of the debtors and their loans, which determine payment behavior and recovery. The Bank has established allowances to cover probable losses on loans and account receivables in accordance with instructions issued by Financial Market Commission (FMC) and models of credit risk rating and assessment approved by the Board’s Committee, including the amendments introduced by Circular No. 3.573 (and its further modifications) applicable as of January 1, 2016 which establishes a standard method for residential mortgage loans and complements and specifies instructions on provisions and loans classified in the impaired portfolio, and subsequent amendments. The Bank uses the following models established by the FMC, to evaluate its loan portfolio and credit risk: Individual assessment where the Bank assesses a debtor as individually significant when their loans are significant, or when the debtor cannot be classified within a group of financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics, due to its size, complexity or level of exposure. Group assessment a group assessment is relevant for analyzing a large number of transactions with small individual balances due from individuals or small companies. The Bank groups debtors with similar credit risk characteristics giving to each group a default probability and recovery rate based on a historical analysis. The Bank has implemented standard models for mortgage loans, established in Circular No. 3.573 (modified by Circular No. 3.584) and commercial circular No. 3.638 and 3.647, and internal models for consumer loans. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 25 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 01 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES, continue I. Allowances for individual assessment An individual assessment of commercial debtors is necessary according to the FMC, in the case of companies which, due to their size, complexity or level of exposure, must be known and analyzed in detail. The analysis of the debtor is primarily focused on their credit quality and their risk category classification of the debtor and of their respective contingent loans and loans These are assigned to one of the following portfolio categories: Normal, Substandard and Impaired. The risk factors considered are: industry or economic sector, owners or managers, financial situation and payment ability, and payment behavior. The portfolio categories and their definitions are as follows: i. Normal Portfolio includes debtors with a payment ability that allows them to meet their obligations and commitments. Evaluations of the current economic and financial environment do not indicate that this will change. The classifications assigned to this portfolio are categories from A1 to A6. ii. Substandard Portfolio includes debtors with financial difficulties or a significant deterioration of their payment ability. There is reasonable doubt concerning the future reimbursement of the capital and interest within the contractual terms, with limited ability to meet short-term financial obligations. The classifications assigned to this portfolio are categories from B1 to B4. iii. Impaired Portfolio includes debtors and their loans where repayment is considered remote, with a reduced or no likelihood of repayment. This portfolio includes debtors who have stopped paying their loans or that indicate that they will stop paying, as well as those who require forced debt restructuration, reducing the obligation or delaying the term of the capital or interest, and any other debtor who is over 90 days overdue in his payment of interest or capital. The classifications assigned to this portfolio are categories from C1 to C6. Normal and Substandard Compliance Portfolio As part of individual assessment, the Bank classifies debtors into the following categories, assigning them a probability of non-performance (PNP) and severity (SEV), which result in the expected loss percentages. Debtor’s Probability of Portfolio Severity (%) Expected Loss (%) Category Non-Performance (%) A1 0.04 90.0 0.03600 A2 0.10 82.5 0.08250 Normal A3 0.25 87.5 0.21875 portfolio A4 2.00 87.5 1.75000 A5 4.75 90.0 4.27500 A6 10.00 90.0 9.00000 B1 15.00 92.5 13.87500 Substandard portfolio B2 22.00 92.5 20.35000 B3 33.00 97.5 32.17500 B4 45.00 97.5 43.87500 The Bank first determines all credit exposures, which includes the accounting balances of loans and accounts receivable from customers plus contingent loans, less any amount recovered through executing the financial guarantees or collateral covering the operations. The percentages of expected loss are applied to this exposure. In the case of collateral, the Bank must demonstrate that the value assigned reasonably reflects the value obtainable on disposal of the assets or equity instruments. When the credit risk of the debtor is substituted for the credit quality of the collateral or guarantor, this methodology is applicable only when the guarantor or surety is an entity qualified in a assimilable investment grade by a local or international company rating agency recognized by the FMC. Guaranteed securities cannot be deducted from the exposure amount, only financial guarantees and collateral can be considered. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Bank must maintain a minimum provision of 0.5% over loans and contingent loans in the normal portfolio. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 26 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 01 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES, continued Impaired Portfolio The impaired portfolio includes all loans and the entire value of contingent loans of the debtors that are over 90 days overdue on the payment of interest or principal of any loan at the end of the month. It also includes debtors who have been granted a loan to refinance loans over 60 days overdue, as well as debtors who have undergone forced restructuration or partial debt condonation. The impaired portfolio excludes: a) residential mortgage loans, with payments less than 90 days overdue; and, b) loans to finance higher education according to Law 20.027, provided the breach conditions outlined in Circular No. 3.454 of December 10, 2008 are not fulfilled. The provision for an impaired portfolio is calculated by determining the expected loss rate for the exposure, adjusting for amounts recoverable through available financial guarantees and deducting the present value of recoveries made through collection services after the related expenses. Once the expected loss range is determined, the related provision percentage is applied over the exposure amount, which includes loans and contingent loans related to the debtor. The allowance rates applied over the calculated exposure are as follows: Classification Expected range of loss Allowance C1 Up to 3% 2% C2 Greater than 3% and less than 20% 10% C3 Greater than 20% and less than 30% 25% C4 Greater than 30% and less than 50% 40% C5 Greater than 50% and less than 80% 65% C6 Greater than 80% 90% Loans are maintained in the impaired portfolio until their payment ability is normal, notwithstanding the write off of each particular credit that meets conditions of Title II of Chapter B-2 CNC of the FMC. Once the circumstances that led to classification in the Impaired Portfolio have been overcome, the debtor can be removed from this portfolio once all the following conditions are met: i. the debtor has no obligations of the debtor with the Bank more than 30 days overdue; ii. the debtor has not been granted loans to pay its obligations; iii. at least one of the payments include the amortization of capital; Asignaciones para evaluaciones grupales iv. if the debtor has made partial loan payments in the last six months, two payments have already been made; v. if the debtor must pay monthly installments for one or more loans, four consecutive installments have been made; vi. the debtor does not appear to have bad debts in the information provided by the FMC, except for insignificant amounts. II. Allowances for group assessments Group assessments are used to estimate allowances required for loans with low balances related to individuals or small companies. Group assessments require the formation of groups of loans with similar characteristics by type of debtor and loan conditions, in order to establish both the group payment behavior and the recoveries of their defaulted loans, using technically substantiated estimates and prudential criteria. The model used is based on the characteristics of the debtor, payment history, outstanding loans and default among other relevant factors. The Bank uses methodologies to establish credit risk, based on internal models to estimate the allowances for the group-evaluated portfolio. This portfolio includes commercial loans with debtors that are not assessed individually, mortgage and consumer loans (including installment loans, credit cards and overdraft lines). These methods allow the Bank to independently identify the portfolio behavior and establish the provision required to cover losses arising during the year. The customers are classified according to their internal and external characteristics into profiles, using a customer-portfolio model to differentiate each portfolio’s risk in an appropriate manner. This is known as the profile allocation method. The profile allocation method is based on a statistical construction model that establishes a relationship through logistic regression between variables (for example default, payment behavior outside the Bank, socio-demographic data) and a response variable which determines the client’s risk, which in this case is over 90 days overdue. Hence, common profiles are established and assigned a Probability of Non-Performance (PNP) and a recovery rate based on a historical analysis known as Severity (SEV). Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 27 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 01 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES, continued Therefore, once the customers have been profiled, and the loan’s profile assigned a PNP and a SEV, the exposure at default (EXP) is calculated. This exposure includes the book value of the loans and accounts receivable from the customer, plus contingent loans, less any amount that can be recovered by executing guarantees (for credits other than consumer loans). Notwithstanding the above, on establishing provisions associated with housing loans, the Bank must recognize minimum provisions according to standard methods established by the FMC for this type of loan. While this is considered to be a prudent minimum base, it does not relieve the Bank of its responsibility to have its own methodologies of determining adequate provisions to protect the credit risk of the portfolio. Standard method of residential mortgage loan provisions As of January 1, 2016 and in accordance with Circular No. 3.573 issued by the FMC, the Bank began applying the standard method of provisions for residential mortgage loans. According to this method, the expected loss factor applicable to residential mortgage loans will depend on the default of each loan and the relationship between the outstanding principal of each loan and the value of the associated mortgage guarantee (Loans to Value, LTV) at the end of each month. The allowance rates applied according to default and LTV are the following: Days overdue at Impaired LTV Range 0 1-29 30-59 60-89 month end portfolio PNP(%) 1.0916 21.3407 46.0536 75.1614 100 LTV≤40% Severity (%) 0.0225 0.0441 0.0482 0.0482 0.0537 Expected Loss (%) 0.0002 0.0094 0.0222 0.0362 0.0537 PNP(%) 1.9158 27.4332 52.0824 78.9511 100 40%< LTV ≤80% Severity (%) 2.1955 2.8233 2.9192 2.9192 3.0413 Expected Loss (%) 0.0421 0.7745 1.5204 2.3047 3.0413 PNP(%) 2.5150 27.9300 52.5800 79.6952 100 80%< LTV ≤90% Severity (%) 21.5527 21.6600 21.9200 22.1331 22.2310 Expected Loss (%) 0.5421 6.0496 11.5255 17.6390 22.2310 PNP(%) 2.7400 28.4300 53.0800 80.3677 100 LTV >90% Severity (%) 27.2000 29.0300 29.5900 30.1558 30.2436 Expected Loss (%) 0.7453 8.2532 15.7064 24.2355 30.2436 LTV =Loan capital/Value of guarantee If the same debtor has more than one residential mortgage loan with the Bank and one of them over 90 days overdue, all their loans shall be allocated to the impaired portfolio, calculating provisions for each them in accordance with their respective LTV. For residential mortgage loans related to housing programs and grants from the Chilean government, the allowance rate may be weighted by a factor of loss mitigation (LM), which depends on the LTV percentage and the price of the property in the deed of sale (S), as long as the debtor has contracted auction insurance provided by the Chilean government. III. Additional provisions According to FMC regulation, banks are allowed to establish provisions over the limits already described, to protect themselves from the risk of non-predictable economical fluctuations that could affect the macro-economic environment or a specific economic sector. According to No. 9 of Chapter B-1 from the FMC Compendium of Accounting Standards, these provisions will be recorded in liabilities, similar to provisions for contingent loans. The bank has set up additional provisions at the end of the third quarter of 2018 for an amount of MCh $ 20,000, associated with the Bank's consumer portfolio, which have been approved by the bank's board of directors (Note 31). IV. Charge-offs As a general rule, charge-offs should be done when the contract rights over cash flow expire. In the case of loans, even if the above does not happen, the Bank will charge-off these amounts in accordance with Title II of Chapter B-2 of the Compendium of Accounting Standards (SBIF). These charge-offs refer to the derecognition from the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position of the respective loan, including any not yet due future payments in the case of installment loans or leasing transactions (for which partial charge-offs do not exist). Charge-offs are always recorded as a charge to loan risk allowances according to Chapter B-2 of the Compendium of Accounting Regulations, no matter the reason for the charge-off. Any payment received related to a loan previously charged-off will be recognized as recovery of loan previously charged-off at the Consolidated Statement of Income. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 28 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 01 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES, continued Loan and accounts receivable charge-offs are recorded for overdue, past due, and current installments when they exceed the time periods described below since reaching overdue status: Type of loan Term Consumer loans with or without collateral 6 months Other transactions without collateral 24 months Commercial loans with collateral 36 months Mortgage loans 48 months Consumer leasing 6 months Other non-mortgage leasing transactions 12 months Mortgage leasing (household and business) 36 months V. Recovery of loans previously charged off and accounts receivable from customers Any recovery on “Loans and accounts receivable from customers” previously charged-off will be recognized as a reduction in the credit risk provisons in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Any renegotiation of a loan previously charged-off will not give rise to income, as long as the operation continues being considered as impaired. The cash payments received must be treated as recoveries of charged-off loans. The renegotiated loan can only be included again in assets if it is no longer considered as impaired, also recognizing the capitalization income as recovery of charged-off loans. q) Provisions, contingent assets, and contingent liabilities Provisions are liabilities of uncertain timing or amount. Provisions are recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position when the Bank: i. has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of past events, and ii. it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle these obligations and the amount of these resources can be reliably measured. Contingent assets or contingent liabilities are any potential rights or obligations arising from past events whose existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence if one or more uncertain future events that are not wholly within control of the Bank. The Consolidated Financial Statements reflect all significant provisions for which it is estimated that the probability of having to meet the obligation is more than likely than not. Provisions are quantified using the best available information regarding the consequences of the event giving rise to them and are reviewed and adjusted at the end of accounting period. Provisions are used when the liabilities for which they were originally recognized are settled. Partial or total reversals are recognized when such liabilities cease to exist or are reduced. Provisions are classified according to the obligation covered as follows: Provision for employee salaries and expenses Provision for mandatory dividends Provision for contingent loan risks Provisions for contingencies r) Income taxes and deferred taxes The Bank records, when appropriate, deferred tax assets and liabilities for the estimated future tax effects attributable to differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities and their tax bases. The measurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities is based on the tax rate, in accordance with the applicable tax laws, using the tax rate that applies to the period when the deferred asset and liability will be recovered or settled. The future effects of changes in tax legislation or tax rates are recorded in deferred taxes from the date on which the law is enacted or substantially enacted. s) Use of estimates The preparation of the financial statements requires the Bank’s management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the application of the accounting policies and the reported values of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 29 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 01 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES, continued In certain cases, International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) require that assets or liabilities be recorded or disclosed at their fair values. The fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between informed market participants at the measurement date. When available, quoted market prices in active markets have been used as the basis for measurement. When quoted market prices in active markets are not available, the Bank has estimated such values based on the best information available, including the use of internal modeling and other valuation techniques. The Bank has established allowances to cover cover probable losses, to estimate allowances. These allowances must be regularly reviewed taking into consideration factors such as changes in the nature and volume of the loan portfolio, trends in forecasted portfolio quality, credit quality and economic conditions that may adversely affect the borrowers’ ability to pay. Increases in the allowances for loan losses are reflected as “Provision for loan losses” in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Loans are charged-off when the contractual rights for the cash flows expire, however, for loans and accounts receivable from customers the bank will charge-off in accordance with Title II of Chapter B-2 of the Compendium of Accounting Standards issued by the FMC. Charge-offs are recorded as a reduction of the allowance for loan losses. The relevant estimates and assumptions made to calculate provisions are regularly reviewed by the Bank’s Management to quantify certain assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses, and commitments. Revised accounting estimates are recorded in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any affected future period. These estimates are based on the best available information and mainly refer to: Allowances for loan losses (Notes 9, 10, and 31) Impairment losses of certain assets (Notes 8, 9, 10, 11, and 34) The useful lives of tangible and intangible assets (Notes 13, 14 and 34) The fair value of assets and liabilities (Notes 6, 7, 8, 11 and 38) Commitments and contingencies (Note 23) Current and deferred taxes (Note 15) t) Non-current assets held for sale The Bank classified its investment held on Redbanc, Transbank and Nexus, previously classifed as associated, as assets held for sale in Other Assets, in accordance with IFRS 5 “Non-current Assets held for sale and discontinued operations”, since its carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather through continuing use. To apply the mentioned treatment, the Bank has ensured to comply with related requirement established in IFRS 5, which include: · the assets are available for immediate sale in its present conditions and its sale must be highly probable. · for the sale to be highly probable, the appropriate level of management is committed to a plan to sell the asset, and an active program to locate a buyer and complete the plan. · In addition, the sale should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification. The Bank has measured their investment on the mentioned associated investment at their carrying amount since it represents the lower between carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell. Additionally, the Bank will recognise an impairment loss for any initial or subsequent write-down of the asset to fair value less costs to sell, to the extent that it has not been recognized. As of December 31, 2019, the Bank still maintains its investment on Transbank and Redbanc (classified as held for sale), while a main portion of Nexus was sold on October 2019, and we expect to complete the sale on January 2020 (Note 40). Assets received or awarded in lieu of payment Assets received or awarded in lieu of payment of loans and accounts receivable from clients are recognised at their fair value (as determined by an independent appraisal). A price is agreed upon by the parties through negotiation or, when the parties do not reach an agreement, at the amount at which the Bank is awarded those assets at a judicial auction. In the both cases, an independent appraisal is perfor med. The excess of the outstanding loan balance over the fair value is charged to net income for the period, under “Provision for loan losses”. Any excess of the fair value over the outstanding loan balance, less costs to sell of the collateral, is returned to the client. These assets are su bsequently adjusted to their net realizable value less cost to sale (assuming a forced sale). The difference between the carrying value of the asset and the estimated fair value less costs to sell is charged to net income for the period, under “Other operating expenses”. The result obtained in the sale of the asset is subsequently recorded under “Other operating income”. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 30 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 01 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES, continued Independent appraisals are obtained at least every 18 months and fair values are adjusted accordingly. No adjustments have be en made between appraisals with respect to the period covered by these financial statements considering the stability of the real estate market in Chile during past years and expected stability of the real estate market in the coming years. At least once a year, the Bank performs the necessary analysis to update the “cost to sale” of assets received or awarded in lieu of payments. According to the Bank’s survey, as of December 31, 2019 the average cost to sale was estimated at 3.1% of the appraisal value (2.2% as of December 31, 2018). u) Earnings per share Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the net income attributable to the equity holders of the Bank by the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the reported period. Diluted earnings per share are calculated in a similar manner to basic earnings, but the weighted average number of outstanding shares is adjusted to take into consideration the potential diluting effect of stock options, warrants, and convertible debt. As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the Bank did not have any instruments that generated dilution. v) Temporary acquisition (assignment) of assets and liabilities Purchases or sales of financial assets under non-optional repurchase agreements at a fixed price (repos) are recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as an financial assignment based on the nature of the debtor (creditor) under “Deposits in the Central Bank of Chile,” “Deposits in financial institutions” or “Loans and accounts receivable from customers” (“Central Bank of Chile deposits,” “Deposits from financial institutions” or “Customer deposits”). Differences between the purchase and sale prices are recorded as financial interest over the term of the contract. w) Assets under management and investment funds managed by the Bank Assets owned by third parties and managed by certain companies that are within the Bank’s scope of consolidation (Santander S.A. Sociedad Securitizadora), are not included in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. Management fees are included in “Fee and commission income” in the Consolidated Statement of Income. x) Provision for mandatory dividends As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the Bank recorded a provision for minimum mandatory dividends. This provision is made pursuant to Article 79 of the Corporations Act, which is in accordance with the Bank’s internal policy, which requires at least 30% of net income for the period is distributed, except in the case of a contrary resolution adopted at the respective shareholders’ meeting by unanimous vote of the outstanding shares. This provision is recorded as a deduction from “Retained earnings” – “Provision for mandatory dividends” in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity with offset to Provisions. y) Employee benefits i. Post-employment benefits – Defined Benefit Plan: According to current collective labor agreements and other agreements, the Bank has an additional benefit available to its pr incipal executives, consisting of a pension plan, whose purpose is to endow them with funds for a better supplementary pension upon their retirement. Features of the Plan: The main features of the Post-Employment Benefits Plan promoted by the Banco Santander Chile are: I. Aimed at the Bank’s management. II. The general requirement is that the beneficiary must still be employed by the Bank when reaching 60 years old. III. The Bank will mixed collective life and savings insurance policy for each beneficiary in the plan. Regular voluntary installments will be paid into this fund by the beneficiary and matched by the Bank. IV. The Bank will be responsible for granting the benefits directly. The projected unit credit method is used to calculate the present value of the defined benefit obligation and the current service cost. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 31 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 01 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES, continued Components of defined benefit cost include: current service cost and any past service cost, which are recognized in profit or loss for the period; net interest on the liability (asset) for net defined benefit, which is recognized in profit or loss for the period; new liability (asset) remeasurements for net defined benefit include: (a) actuarial gains and losses; (b) the performance of plan assets, and; (c) changes in the effect of the asset ceiling which are recognized in other comprehensive income. The liability (asset) for net defined benefit is the deficit or surplus, calculated as the difference between the present value of the defined benefit obligation less the fair value of plan assets. Plan assets comprise the pension fund taken out by the Group with a third party that is not a related party. These assets are held by an entity legally separated from the Bank and exist solely to pay benefits to employees. The Bank recognizes the present service cost and the net interest of the Personnel wages and expenses on the Consolidated Statement of Income. Given the plan’s structure, it does not generate actuarial gains or losses. The plan’s performance is established and fices during the period; consequently, there are no changes in the asset’s cap. Accordingly, there are no amounts recognized in other comprehensive income. The post-employment benefits liability, recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, represents the deficit or surplus in the defined benefit plans of the Bank. Any surplus resulting from the calculation is limited to the present value of any economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions. When employees leave the plan before meeting the requirements to be eligible for the benefit, contributions made by the Bank are reduced. ii. Severance provision: Severance provision for years of employment are recorded only when they actually occur or upon the availability of a formal and detailed plan in which the fundamental modifications to be made are identified, provided that such plan has already started to be implemented or its principal features have been publicly announced, or objective facts about its execution are known. iii. Cash-settled share based compensation The Bank allocates cash-settled share based compensation to executives of the Bank and its Subsidiaries in accordance with IFRS 2. The Bank measures the services received and the obligation incurred at fair value. Until the obligation is settled, the Bank calculates the fair value at the end of each reporting period, as well as at the date of settlement, recognizing any change in fair value in the income statement for the period. z) New accounting pronouncements i. Adoption of new accounting standards and nstructions issued by both the current Commission for the Financial Market (CMF) and the International Accounting Standards Board: At the date of issuance of these Consolidated Interim Financial Statements, the new accounting pronouncements issued by both the current CMF (ex SBIF) and the International Accounting Standards Board, which have been fully adopted by the Bank, are detailed below. 1. Accounting Standards issued by the current Financial Market Commission (CMF), exSuperintendency of Banks and Financial Institutions Circular N ° 3,638 Establishes standard method of provisions for commercial loans of the group portfolio On July 6, 2018 the CMF (ex SBIF) issued this circular that establishes the standard methods that must be used by banking entities to estimate provisions for risk of credit of the commercial portfolio of group analysis, which will be incorporated into Chapter B-1 of the Compendium of Accounting Standards. • Method for the Commercial Leasing portfolio: it considers the delinquency, the type of asset in leasing (real estate or non-real estate) and the current value over value of the asset (PVB) of the operation. • Method for the Student portfolio: it considers the type of loan granted (whether it is CAE or not), the enforceability of the payment and the delinquency that it presents, in case the loan is required. • Method for the Commercial Generic portfolio: considers delinquency and the existence of real guarantees that guarantee the placement. In the case of mediating guarantees, the relationship between the placement and the value of the collateral that covers it is considered. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 32 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 01 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES, continued Circular N ° 3.647 Standard method of provisions for commercial loans of the group portfolio. Complements instructions on factoring operations, Chapter B-1 of the Compendium of Accounting Standards On January 31, 2019 the CMF (ex SBIF) issued this circular with the purpose of recognizing the mitigating effect of the credit risk represented by the assignor's responsibility in the operations of factoring, for this it has been considered necessary to introduce a particular factor in the component Loss Given Default (PDI) of the standard method for the commercial portfolio of group analysis, which must be considered for the calculation of provisions of said operations, as provided in Chapter B1 of the Compendium of Accounting Standards. The Bank Administration implemented the modifications to the commercial group models since July 1, 2019, while the accounting effects of first application should be considered as a change in an accounting estimate according to IAS 8 , and therefore, register in results. The impact of implementing this standard resulted in an increase of approximately 4% of the total of provisions for credit risk. Circular No. 3,645 Leases according to IFRS 16. Modifies and complements Compendium of Accounting Standards. Chapters A 2, B-1, C-1 and C-3On January 11, 2019, the CMF (ex SBIF) issued this circular in order to clarify how banks should apply the criteria defined in the International Financial Reporting Standard No. 16 (IFRS 16). Detailing the changes in the statement of financial position and statement of income and notes. These modifications are applicable as of January 2019. The Administration made the necessary adjustments to comply with this requirement in a timely manner, see Note 02. Circular No. 3,649 Leases according to IFRS 16. Complements instructions. Chapters C-3 On May 6, 2019, the CMF (ex SBIF) issued this circular to establish the treatment of the lease agreements expressed in the Development Unit and the consequences of the adjustment experienced by the liability, within the framework of the criteria established by IFRS 16, establishing that the variation in the UF should be treated as a new measurement, and therefore the readjustments that result in changes in lease payments should be recognized as a modification of the amount of the obligation and in parallel, the amount of the asset for the right to use leased assets for this purpose. These modifications are applicable as of May 2019. The Administration made the necessary adjustments to comply with this requirement in a timely manner. Circular No. 3,651 Modifications introduced to the General Banking Law by Law No. 21,130, which Modernizes the Banking Legislation; and date on which the Financial Market will assume the powers of the Superintendence of Banks and Financial Institutions, the latter being abolished On May 29, 2019 the CMF (ex SBIF) issued this circular stating that as of June 1, 2019, the Financial Market Commission (CMF) will assume the role of theformer SBIF. Additionally, it communicates some more immediate operational scopes as a result of the aforementioned legal modification, particularly regarding its practical aspects for the institutions that are currently related to the CMF. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 33 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 01 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES, continued 2. Accounting Standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IFRS 16 Leases On January 13, 2016, the IASB issued this new regulation which replaces IAS 17 Leases, IFRIC 4 Determination of whether an agreement contains a lease, SIC 15 Operating leases incentives and SIC 27 Evacuation of the essence of Transactions that take the legal form of a lease. The main effects of this rule apply to tenant accounting, mainly because it eliminates the dual accounting model: operational or financial leasing, this means that tenants must recognize a right to use an asset and a liability for Lease (the present value of lease futures payments). In the case of the landlord the current practice is maintained that is, lessors continue to classify leases as financial and operating leases. This regulation is applicable as of January 1, 2019. The Administration carried out an implementation process during the year 2018, which culminated successfully with the application as of January 1, 2019, using the modified retrospective method, this means that At the date of initial application, the right-of-use asset is equal to the financial liability, and in addition it has been chosen not to restate the balances of the previous year, for more information see related accounting policies and Note 02 of accounting changes. FRIC 23 Uncertainty about the treatment of income tax This interpretation issued on June 7, 2017 clarifies the accounting for tax uncertainties, which applies to the determination of taxable income, tax base, tax losses and unused credits, when there is an uncertainty about the treatment according to IAS 12 Income Tax . This standard covers four points: (a) If an entity considers tax uncertainties individually or together, (b) The assumptions that an entity makes about the tax treatment review established by the tax authority, (c) As an entity determines the taxable profit (or loss), the tax base, tax loss and unused credits and tax rates, and (d) How an entity considers changes in facts and circumstances. This interpretation is effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2019. Early application is permitted. Management has assessed that the implementation of this interpretation has not had a material impact on the Bank's consolidated financial statements. Amendment to IAS 28 Long-Term Participations in Associates and Joint Ventures On October 12, 2017 the IASB published this amendment to clarify that an entity would also apply IFRS 9 to a long-term participation in an associate or joint venture to which the participation method does not apply. When applying IFRS 9, the adjustments of the long-term interests that arise from the application of this Standard will not be taken into account. This amendment is effective prospective in accordance with IAS 8 to annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2019. Man agement has assessed that the implementation of this amendment has not had a material impact on the Consolidated Interim Financial Statements. from the bank. Annual Improvements, cycle 2015-2017 This amendment published on December 12, 2017 introduces the following improvements: IFRS 3 Business Combinations / IFRS 11 Joint Agreements: deals with the prior interest in a joint operation, as a business combination in stages. IAS 12 Income Tax: deals with the consequences in income tax of payments of financial instruments classified as equity. IAS 23 Loan costs: deals with the eligible costs for capitalization. This amendment is effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2019. Management has assessed that the implementation of these amendments has not had a material impact on the Bank's consolidated financial statements. Amendment IAS 19 Modification, reduction or liquidation of pension plans This amendment issued on February 7, 2018 introduces the following modifications: 1. If a modification, reduction or liquidation of a plan occurs, it is now mandatory that the current service cost and the net interest for the period subsequent to the new measurement be determined using the assumptions used for the new measurement. 2. In addition, amendments have been included to clarify the effect of a modification, reduction or liquidation of a plan on the requirements with respect to the asset's ceiling. An entity applies these amendments on or after January 1, 2019. Early application is allowed, but must be disclosed. Management has assessed that the implementation of these amendments has not had a material impact on the Bank's consolidated financial statements. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 34 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 01 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES, continued II. New accounting standards and instructions issued by both the Financial Market Commission (CMF) and by the International Accounting Standards Board that have not come into effect as of December 31, 2018 As of the closing date of these financial statements, new International Financial Reporting Standards had been published as well as interpretations of them and SBIF rules, which were not mandatory as of December 31, 2018. Although in some cases the application is permitted by the IASB, the Bank has not made its application on that date. 1. Accounting Standards issued by the Financial Market Commission (CMF) Circular No. 2,243 Compendium of Accounting Standards for Banks. On December 20, 2019, the CMF issued the updated version of the compendium of accounting standards for banks (CNCB) that mainly incorporates the new modifications introduced by International Accounting Standards to international financial reporting standards (IFRS) in recent years, particularly IFRS 9, 15 and 16, also establishes new limitations or clarifications due to the need to follow more prudential criteria (ie chapter 5 of impairment of IFRS 9) detailed in Chapter A-2 The amendments seek greater convergence with IFRS, improvement in the disclosure of financial information and contribute to the transparency of the banking system. The new CNCB is applicable as of January 1, 2021, with 2020 as the transition year, for purposes of comparative financial statements to March 2021. The Bank has currently evaluated the effects of said regulations and is in the process of implementing the necessary changes derived from the new CNCB. 2. Accounting Standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IFRS 9, Financial Instruments On November 12, 2009, the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) issued IFRS 9, Financial Instruments. This Standard introduces new requirements for the classification and measurement of financial assets. IFRS 9 specifies how an entity should classify and measure its financial assets. Requires that all financial assets are classified in their entirety on the basis of the entity's business model for the management of financial assets and the characteristics of the contractual cash flows of financial assets. On October 28, 2010, the IASB published a revised version of IFRS 9, Financial Instruments. The revised Standard retains the requirements for the classification and measurement of financial assets that was published in November 2009, but adds guidelines on the classification and measurement of financial liabilities. Likewise, it has replicated the guidelines on the recognition of financial instruments and the implementation guides related from IAS 39 to IFRS 9. These new guidelines conclude the first phase of the IASB project to replace IAS 39. The other phases, impairment and hedge accounting, have not yet been finalized. The guidance included in IFRS 9 on the classification and measurement of financial assets has not changed from those established in IAS 39. In other words, financial liabilities will continue to be measured either at amortized cost or at fair value with changes in results. The concept of bifurcation of derivatives incorporated in a contract for a financial asset has not changed Financial liabilities held for trading will continue to be measured at fair value with changes in results, and all other financial assets will be measured at amortized cost unless the value option is applied reasonable using the criteria currently in IAS 39. Notwithstanding the foregoing, there are two differences with respect to IAS 39: The presentation of the effects of changes in fair value attributable to the credit risk of a liability; and The elimination of the cost exemption for liabilities derivatives to be settled through the delivery of non-traded equity instruments. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 35 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 01 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES, continued On December 16, 2011, the IASB issued Mandatory Application Date of IFRS 9 and Disclosures of the Transition, deferring the effective date of both the 2009 and 2010 versions to annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2015 . Prior to the amendments, the application of IFRS 9 was mandatory for annual periods beginning on or after 2013. The amendments change the requirements for the transition from I AS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement to IFRS 9. In addition, they also modify IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures to add certain requirements in the reporting period in which the date of application of IFRS 9 is included. Finally, on July 24, 2014, it is established that the date Effective application of this rule will be for annual periods beginning on January 1, 2018. On November 19, 2013 ASB issued Amendment to IFRS 9: hedge accounting and amendments to IFRS 9, IFRS 7 and IAS 39 , which in cludes a new general hedge accounting model, which is more closely aligned with risk management, providing more useful information to the users of the financial statements. On the other hand, the requirements relating to the fair value option for financial liabilities were changed to address the credit risk itself, this improvement establishes that the effects of changes in the credit risk of a liability should not affect the result of the period a unless the liabilities remain to negotiate; the early adoption of this modification is permitted without the application of the other requirements of IFRS 9. In addition, it conditions the effective date of entry into force upon completion of the IFRS 9 project, allowing its adoption in the same way. On July 24, 2014, the IASB published the final version of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, including the regulations already issued together with a new expected loss model and minor modifications to the classification and measurement requirements for financial assets, adding a new category of financial instruments: assets at fair value with changes in other comprehensive result for certain debt instruments. It also includes an additional guide on how to apply the business model and testing of contractual cash flow characteristics. On October 12, 2017, Amendment to IFRS 9: Characteristics of Anticipated Cancellation with Negative Compensation was published, which clarifies that according to the current requirements of IFRS 9, the conditions established in Test SPPI are not met if the Bank should make a settlement payment when the client decides to terminate the credit. With the introduction of this modification, in relation to termination rights, it is allowed to measure at amortized cost (or FVOCI) in the case of negative compensation. This regulation was effective as of January 1, 2018. Early application is allowed. The Administration in accordance with the Superintendency of Banks and Financial Institutions pronouncement, will not apply this standard meantime SBIF does not provide it as a mandatory stand ard for all Chilean banks. Sale or Contributions of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture (Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28) Issued on September 11, 2014, the IASB has published 'Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture (Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28)'. The amendments address a conflict between the requirements of IAS 28 'Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures' and IFRS 10 'Consolidated Financial Statements' and clarifies the treatment of the sale or contribution of assets from an investor to its associate or joint venture, as follows: requires full recognition in the investor's financial statements of gains and losses arising on the sale or contribution of assets that constitute a business (as defined in IFRS 3 Business Combinations); requires the partial recognition of gains and losses where the assets do not constitute a business, i.e. a gain or loss is recognized only to the extent of the unrelated investors’ interests in that associate or joint venture. On December 17, 2015 the IASB has published final amendments to “Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture”. The amendments defer the effective date of the September 2014 amendments to these standards indefinitely until the research project on the equity method has been concluded. The Administration will be waiting for the new validity to evaluate the potential effects of this modification. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 36 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 01 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES, continued IFRS 17 Insurance contracts – This standard issued on May 18, 2017 replaces the current IFRS 4. IFRS 17 will mainly change accounting for all entities that issue insurance contracts and investment contracts with discretionary participation characteristics. The standard applies to annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2021, with early application permitted provided IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers and IFRS 9, Financial instruments is applied. This norm does not apply directly to the bank, but, the Bank participates in the insurance business and will make sure that this norm is correctly applied. Conceptual framework for financial reporting Issued on March 29, 2018, the purpose of the Conceptual Framework is to: (a) assist the International Accounting Standards Board to develop IFRS Standards that are based on consistent concepts; (b) assist preparers to develop consistent accounting policies when no Standard applies to a particular transaction or other event, or when a Standard allows a choice of accounting policy; and (c) assist all parties to understand and interpret the Standards The Conceptual Framework is not a Standard and not overrides any Standard or any requirement in a Standard. The revised Conceptual framework introduces the following main improvements: Measurement: concepts on measurement, including factors to be considered when selecting a measurement basis. Presentation and disclosure: concepts on presentation and disclosure, including when to classify income and expenses in other comprehens ive income. Derecognition: guidance on when assets and liabilities are removed from financial statements. This framework is effective for periods beginning on or after January 1, 2020. The The Bank’s management is evaluating if this conceptual framework will have material impact on the Bank's consolidated financial statements. Amendments to IFRS 3 Definition of a business On October 22, 2018, the IASB published this amendment, which clarifies the business definition, with the objective of helping entities determine whether a transaction should be accounted for as a business combination. or as the acquisition of an asset. The modifications: (a) Clarify that, to be considered a business, an acquired set of activities and assets must include, as a minimum, an input and a substantive process that together contribute significantly to the ability to produce products; (b) eliminate the evaluation of whether market participants can replace the missing processes or supplies and continue with the production of products; (c) add guides and illustrative examples to help entities assess whether a substantial process has been acquired; (d) restrict the definitions of a business or products focusing on goods and services provided to customers and eliminate the reference to the ability to reduce costs; and (e) they add an optional concentration test that allows a simplified evaluation of whether a set of activities and businesses acquired is not a business. Entities are required to apply the amendments to transactions whose acquisition date is from the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after January 1, 2020. Early application is permitted. The Administration does not initially see an effect until a business combination is made. Modifications to IAS 1 and IAS 8 Definition of material or materiality On October 31, 2019, the IASB published these amendments, whose objective is to improve the understanding of the definition of material or with relative importance, coordinating the wording of the definition in the IFRS Standards and the Conceptual Framework to avoid the possibility of confusion arising from different definitions; incorporating support requirements in IAS 1 in the definition to give them more prominence and clarify their applicability; and supplying the existing guides on the definition of material or with relative importance in one place, together with the definition. This amendment primarily affects paragraph 7 of IAS 1, paragraph 5 of IAS 8, and eliminates paragraph 6 of IAS 8, and is applicable prospectively to annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2020. Permit your anticipate app. The Bank's Administration is evaluating the potential impact of this modification. Modifications to IFRS 9, IAS 39 and IFRS 7 – Reference interest rate reform – On September 26, 2019, IASB published this modification that requires additional disclosures regarding the uncertainty generated by the reform at a reference interest rate, this publication constitutes the first reaction to the potential effects that the reform would generate to the IBOR in the states financial and modifies the specific accounting requirements of cash flow hedge coverage assuming that the reference interest rate is not modified as a result of its reform. These modifications are effective as of January 1, 2020 with retroactive effect, and early application allowed. The Bank Administration is evaluating the potential impact of this modification. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 37 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 02 ACCOUNTING CHANGES 1. IFRS 16 implementation On January 1, 2019, IFRS 16 Leases has become effective; this standard sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases. The objective is to ensure that lessees and lessors provide relevant information in a manner that faithfully represents those transactions. IFRS 16 introduces a single lessee accounting model and requires a lessee to recognise assets and liabilities for all leases with a term of more than 12 months, thus a lessee is required to recognise a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying leased asset and a lease liability representing its obligation to make lease payments. IFRS 16 supersedes IAS 17 Leases, IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease, SIC-15 Operating Leases—Incentives and SIC27 Evaluating the Substance of Transactions Involving the Legal Form of a Lease. The Bank has elected to adopt IFRS 16 using a modified retrospective approach at the date of initial application, therefore, it has recognise a right-of-use asset for an amount equal to the lease liability, which amounted MCh$154,284. Below is the detail of impacts and reclassifications as of January 1, 2019: Balance as Balance as of December 31, Additions Reclassifications (*) of January 01, 2018 2019 MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Assets for the right to use leased assets 154,284 54,513 208,797 Fixed Assets 253,586 (54,513) 199,073 Subtotals Assets 253,586 154,284 407,870 Obligations for lease contract 154,284 154,284 Subtotals Liabilities 154,284 154,284 (*) Corresponds to improvements in leased properties which have been reclassified to assets for the right to use leased assets as a result of the adoption of IFRS 16 Leases and in accordance with Circular N° 3,645 of January 11, 2019 issued by the current CMF (ex SBIF). For more details, see Note 14. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 38 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 03 SIGNIFICANT EVENTS I.As of December 31, 2019, the following significant events have occurred and affected the Bank’s operations and Consolidated Financial Statements. a) The Board During the ordinary session of the Board of Directors of Banco Santander-Chile, held on February 28, 2019, it was agreed to propose to the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting on April 23, 2019, a dividend of $ 1.88457837 per share, corresponding 60% of the profits for the 2018 fiscal year. Likewise, the board will propose that the remaining 40% of the profits be used to increase the Bank’s reserves. During the ordinary session of the Board of Directors of Banco Santander-Chile, held on March 26, 2019, the following matters were agreed: Due to the resignation of the Director Mr. Andreu Plaza López, the Board of Directors of the Bank has appointed Mr. Rodrigo Echenique Gordillo to replace him as Director. It was agreed to subscribe an agreement with SKBergé S.A., whereby the Bank would acquire the ownership held by SKBergé Finan ciamiento S.A. in Santander Consumer Chile S.A., representing 49% of the capital stock of Santander Consumer Chile S.A., for a total of $59,063,470,000. During the ordinary session of the Board of Directors of Banco Santander-Chile, held on July 30, 2019, it was agreed to call an Extraordinary Shareholders Meeting for August 27, 2019, in order to submit for the shareholder’s consideration the acquisition of 51% of the shares issued by Santander Consumer Chile S.A. On August 13, 2019, the favorable opinions of the members of the Board of Directors of Banco Santander-Chile were communicated to the market, regarding the 51% acquisition of the shares of Santander Consumer Chile S.A. At the Extraordinary Shareholders Meeting of Banco Santander-Chile held on August 27, 2019, it was agreed to approve the operation to acquire 51% of the shares issued by Santander Consumer Chile S.A. The transactions were approved by the Financial Market Commission (FMC) on November 15, 2019, and executed on November 21, 2019. b) New subsidiaries and corporate modifications On October 19, 2019, Klare Corredora de Seguros S.A. was created as a digital insurance broker. With prior FMC (former SBIF) authorization by resolution No. 6780 of September 26, 2019, Banco Santander-Chile subscribed to 50.10% of the subsidiary. On November 27, 2019, the Bank acquired 51% of Santander Consumer S.A., an automobile financing non-banking company, which became a subsidiary of the Bank and a supporting banking business company from SK Berge (49%) and Banco Santander S.A. (2%) for a tota l amount MCh$62,136. The purchase generated a negative equity effect of MCh$37,041, since it was considered a transaction between entities under common control, the Bank used “predecessor accounting method”. On December 18, 2019, Santander Agencia de Valores Limitada modified its corporate name and business objective, becoming Santander Asesorias Financieras Limitada and having the following object: i) search for alternative sources of financing; ii) restructuring of its liabilities; iii) negotiations to acquire, sell or merge companies; iv) issuance and placement of bonds; v) placement of funds in the capital market; vi) credit or market risk analysis; vii) evaluation of new businesses; viii) knowledge of banking matters; ix) any other activity directly linked to financial advice. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 39 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 03 SIGNIFICANT EVENTS, continued c) Issuance of bonds – As of December 31, 2019 c.1) Senior bonds year 2019 During the year ended December 31, 2019 the Bank has issued senior bonds in the amount of AUD 185,000,000, EUR 65,000,000 and CHF 250,000,000, debt issuance information is included in Note 19. Term Issuance Issuance Maturity Serie Currency Term Original date amount date (anual) EUR EUR 7 years 1,09 01-02-2019 40,000,000 07-02-2026 EUR EUR 15 years 1,25% 26-11-2019 25,000,000 01-03-2022 Total EUR 65,000,000 AUD AUD 15 years 3,66 13-05-2019 22,000,000 20-05-2034 AUD AUD 5 years 1,13 11-07-2019 20,000,000 11-07-2024 AUD AUD 5 years 1,13 17-07-2019 28,000,000 17-07-2024 AUD AUD 5 years 1,13 17-07-2019 15,000,000 17-07-2024 AUD AUD 20 years 3,05 30-08-2019 75,000,000 28-02-2039 AUD AUD 15 years 3,16% 12-11-2019 12,000,000 20-11-2034 AUD AUD 15 years 2,91% 21-11-2019 13,000,000 27-11-2034 Total AUD 185,000,000 CHF CHF 5 years 0,38 12-03-2019 150,000,000 27-09-2024 CHF CHF 10 years 0,14 29-08-2019 100,000,000 29-08-2029 Total CHF 250,000,000 c.2) Subordinated bonds year 2019 As of December 2019, the Bank did not issue subordinated bonds. c.3) Mortgage bonds year 2019 As of December 2019, the Bank did not issue mortgage bonds. c.4) Repurchased bonds year 2019 In the nine months ended December 31, 2018 the Bank has repurchased the following bonds: Date Type Currency Amount 12-02-2019 Senior CLP 10,000,000,000 14-02-2019 Senior CLP 30,000,000,000 19-02-2019 Senior CLP 4,200,000,000 22-02-2019 Senior CLP 14,240,000,000 22-02-2019 Senior CLP 30,000,000 22-02-2019 Senior CLP 10,000,000 01-03-2019 Senior CLP 11,800,000,000 04-03-2019 Senior CLP 40,080,000,000 05-03-2019 Senior CLP 20,000,000,000 15-03-2019 Senior UF 156,000 19-03-2019 Senior UF 418,000 20-03-2019 Senior CLP 6,710,000,000 20-03-2019 Senior UF 154,000 21-03-2019 Senior UF 100,000 25-03-2019 Senior UF 100,000 26-03-2019 Senior UF 90,000 08-04-2019 Senior CLP 3,950,000,000 10-04-2019 Senior UF 409,000 16-04-2019 Senior UF 55,000 17-04-2019 Senior CLP 130,000,000 18-04-2019 Senior CLP 330,000,000 16-05-2019 Senior CLP 14,880,000,000 16-05-2019 Senior UF 9,000 13-06-2019 Senior UF 1,000 01-10-2019 Senior CLP 10,960,000,000 02-10-2019 Senior CLP 100,000,000 04-10-2019 Senior CLP 60,000,000 05-11-2019 Senior CLP 15,220,000,000 07-11-2019 Senior CLP 3,620,000,000 13-11-2019 Senior CLP 5,320,000,000 14-11-2019 Senior UF 2,977,000 28-11-2019 Senior UF 340,000 02-12-2019 Senior UF 105,000 Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 40 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 03 SIGNIFICANT EVENTS, continued d) Others Normative On January 12, 2019, was published in the “Diario Oficial” Law 21,130 that modernizes Banking Legislation. This law introduces modifications, among other regulatory bodies, to the General Bank Law (LGB), to Law 21,000 creating the Financial Market Commission (“FMC” which replaces former SBIF), to the Organic Law of the State Bank of Chile and to the Tax Code. The main changes introduced by this law are the integration of the SBIF within the Financial Market Commission (FMC), new capital requirements in accordance with the international standards established by Basel III, in addition to new limits for credit operations. The new law adopts the highest international standards in banking regulation and supervision, strengthening international com petitiveness and contributing to the financial stability of Chile. The FMC has issued three standards drafts for comment of a total of 16 that are required for the full fulfillment of the new capital requirements: Identification of banks with systemic importance. New standardized methodology to determine risk-weighted assets operational risk. Methodology for computing regulatory capital. On December 20, 2019, the FMC issued Circular N°2,243 Compendium of Accounting Standards for banks, which incorporates the modifications introduced by the IASB through new standards such as IFRS 9 Financial Instruments (excluding impairment chapter), IFRS 16 Leases, IFRS15 Revenue from Contracts with customers and disclosures required by IFRS 7 Financial Instruments:Disclosures. The modifications pursue greater convergence to IFRS, improving disclosures and contributing to the transparency of the Chilean banking system. The new compendium (CNCB) is applicable from January 1, 2021, and for the purposes of comparative financial statement as of March 2021, 2020 will be a transition year. Sale of associates The Bank completed the sale of a significant part of its participation in Sociedad Nexus S.A., which reached 12.9% investment that was registered as an asset held for sale (Note No. 40). Social unrest During October 2019, growing public concern over perceived social inequality led to a rise in social unrest. As a results, certain Bank’s branches suffered different level of damages. As of December 31, 2019, the Bank recorded an impairment for an amount of MCh$2,726 (Note 34), and expenses for MCh$1,823 as other operational expenses (Note 35) . Most of this damage was insured. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 41 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 04 REPORTING SEGMENTS The Bank manages and measures the performance of its operations by business segments. The information disclosed in this note is not necessarily comparable to that of other financial institutions, since it is based on management’s internal information system by segment. Inter-segment transactions a re conducted under normal arm’s length commercial terms and conditions. Each segment’s assets, liabilities, and income include items directly attributable to the segment to which they can be allocated on a reasonable basis. In order to achieve compliance with the strategic objectives established by senior management and adapt to changing market conditions, from time to time, the Bank makes adjustments in its organization, modifications that in turn impact to a greater or lesser extent, in the way in which it is managed or managed. Thus, the present disclosure provides information on how the Bank is managed as of December 31, 2019. Regarding the information corresponding to the year 2018, it has been prepared with the current criteria at the closing of these financial statements in order to achieve the duecomparability of the figures. The Bank has the reportable segments noted below: Retail Banking Consists of individuals and small to middle-sized entities (PYMEs) with annual income less than Ch$2,000 million. This segment gives customers a variety of services, including consumer loans, credit cards, auto loans, commercial loans, foreign exchange, mortgage loans, debit cards, checking accounts, savings products, mutual funds, stockbrokerage, and insurance brokerage. Additionally the PYMEs clients are offered governmentguaranteed loans, leasing and factoring. Middle-market This segment is made up of companies and large corporations with annual sales exceeding Ch$2,000 million. It serves institutions such as universities, government entities, local and regional governments and companies engaged in the real estate industry who carry out projects to sell properties to third parties and annual sales exceeding Ch$800 million with no upper limit. The companies within this segment have access to many products including commercial loans, leasing, factoring, foreign trade, credit cards, mortgage loans, checking accounts, transactional services, treasury services, financial consulting, savings products, mutual funds, and insurance brokerage. Also companies in the real estate industry are offered specialized services to finance residential projects, with the aim of expanding sales of mortgage loans. Global Corporate Banking This segment consists of foreign and domestic multinational companies with sales over Ch$10,000 million. The companies within this segment have access to many products including commercial loans, leasing, factoring, foreign trade, credit cards, mortgage loans, checking accounts, transactional services, treasury services, financial consulting, investments, savings products, mutual funds and insurance brokerage. This segment also consists of a Treasury Division which provides sophisticated financial products, mainly to companies in the Middle-market and Global Corporate Banking segments. These include products such as short-term financing and fund raising, brokerage services, derivatives, securitization, and other tailor-made products. The Treasury area may act as brokers to transactions and also manages the Bank’s investment portfolio. Corporate Activities (“Other”) This segment mainly includes the results of our Financial Management Division, which develops global management functions, in cluding managing inflation rate risk, foreign currency gaps, interest rate risk and liquidity risk. Liquidity risk is managed mainly through wholesale deposits, debt issuances and the Bank’s available for sale portfolio. This segment also manages capital allocation by unit. These activities usually result in a negative contribution to income. In addition, this segment encompasses all the intra-segment income and all the activities not assigned to a given segment or product with customers. The segments’ accounting policies are those described in the summary of accounting policies. The Bank earns most of its income in the form of interest income, fee and commission income and income from financial operations. To evaluate a segment’s financial performan ce and make decisions regarding the resources to be assigned to segments, the Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM) bases his assessment on the segment's interest income, fee and commission income, and expenses. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 42 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 04 REPORTING SEGMENTS, continued Below are the tables showing the Bank’s results by business segment, for the periods ending as of December 31, 2019 and 2018: December 31, 2019 Loans and accounts receivable Net fee and Financial Provision from Net interest commission transactions for loan Support Segment`s customers income income net losses expenses net (1) (2) (3) contribution MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Retail Banking 22,918,568 960,248 230,627 30,097 (374,642) (575,511) 270,819 Middle-market 8,093,496 298,587 38,712 17,178 (42,812) (97,054) 214,611 Commercial Banking 31,012,064 1,258,835 269,339 47,275 (417,454) (672,565) 485,430 Global Corporate Banking 1,671,662 98,154 29,103 94,761 (758) (65,343) 155,917 Corporate Activities (“others”) 48,009 59,862 (11,356) 64,983 (2,235) (11,953) 99,301 Total 32,731,735 1,416,851 287,086 207,019 (420,447) (749,861) 740,648 Other operating income 24,598 Other operating expenses (63,747) Income from investments in associates and other 1,146 companies Income tax expense (150,168) Result of continuing operations 552,477 Result of discontinued operations 1,699 Net income for the year 554,176 (1) Loans receivable from customers plus the balance indebted by banks, without deducting their allowances for loan losses. (2) The sum of net income (expense) from financial operations and foreign exchange gains or losses. (3) The sum of personnel salaries and expenses, administrative expenses, depreciation and amortization. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 43 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 04 REPORTING SEGMENTS, continued December 31, 2018 Loans and accounts Net fee and Financial receivable from Net interest commission transactions, Provision for Support Segment`s customers income income net loan losses expenses net (1) (2) (3) contribution MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Retail Banking 20,786,637 949,764 220,532 19,694 (275,351) (553,157) 361,482 Middle-market 7,690,380 272,912 36,746 16,848 (26,314) (92,377) 207,815 Commercial Banking 28,477,017 1,222,676 257,278 36,542 (301,665) (645,534) 569,297 Global Corporate Banking 1,681,697 96,722 35,064 57,340 2,339 (64,913) 126,552 Corporate Activities 123,309 94,970 (1,457) 11,200 (25,759) (11,486) 67,468 (“others”) Total 30,282,023 1,414,368 290,885 105,082 (325,085) (721,933) 763,317 Other operating income 39,526 Other operating expenses (45,779) Income from investments in associates and other companies 1,325 Income tax expense (165,897) Result of continuing operations 592,492 Result of discontinued operations 3,770 Net income for the period 596,262 (1) Loans receivable from customers plus the balance indebted by banks, without deducting their allowances for loan losses. (2) The sum of net income (expense) from financial operations and foreign exchange gains or losses. (3) The sum of personnel salaries and expenses, administrative expenses, depreciation and amortization. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 44 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 05 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS a) The detail of the balances included under cash and cash equivalents is as follows: As of December 31, 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Cash and deposit in banks Cash 861,178 824,863 Deposit in the Central Bank of Chile 1,731,079 953,016 Deposit in domestic banks 948 664 Deposit in foreign banks 961,315 286,898 Subtotal 3,554,520 2,065,441 Cash in process of collection, net 156,814 190,714 Cash and cash equivalents 3,711,334 2,256,155 The balance of funds held in cash and deposits in the Central Bank of Chile reflects the reserves that the Bank must maintain on average each month. b) Operations in process of settlement: Operations in process of settlement are transactions with only settlement pending, which will increase or decrease the funds of the Central Bank of Chile or of banks abread, usually within the next 24 or 48 working hours to each end of period. These operations are as follows: As of December 31, 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Assets Documents held by other banks (document to be cleared) 217,394 210,546 Funds receivable 137,668 143,211 Subtotal 355.062 353,757 Liabilities Funds payable 198,248 163,043 Subtotal 198,248 163,043 Cash in process of collection, net 156,814 190,714 Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 45 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 06 TRADING INVESTMENTS The detail of instruments deemed as financial trading investments is as follows: As of December 31, 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Chilean Central Bank and Government securities Chilean Central Bank Bonds 1,952 22,947 Chilean Central Bank Notes Other Chilean Central Bank and Government securities 268,252 48,211 Subtotal 270,204 71,158 Other Chilean securities Time deposits in Chilean financial institutions Mortgage finance bonds of Chilean financial institutions Chilean financial institutions bonds Chilean corporate bonds Other Chilean securities Subtotal Foreign financial securities Foreign Central Banks and Government securities Other foreign financial instruments 5,883 Subtotal 5,883 Investments in mutual funds Funds managed by related entities Funds managed by third parties Subtotal Total 270,204 77,041 As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, there were no trading investments sold under contracts to resell to clients and financial institutions. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 46 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 07 INVESTMENTS UNDER RESALE AGREEMENTS AND OBLIGATIONS UNDER REPURCHASE AGREEMENTS a) Rights arising from agreements The Bank purchases financial instruments agreeing to resell them at a future date, As December 31, 2019 and 2018, rights associated with instruments acquired under contracts to resell are as follows. As December 31, 2019 2018 More More tan than 3 3 months months From 1 day and less More From 1 day and less More and less tan than 1 than and less than3 than 1 than 1 3 month year 1year Total month year year Total MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Securities from the Chilean Govemment and the Chilean Central Bank: Chilean Central Bank Bonds 48,307 48,307 Chilean Central Bank Notes Other securities from the Govemment and the 379,891 33 379,924 110 110 Chilean Central Bank Subtotal 379,891 33 379,924 48,417 48,417 Instruments from other domestic institutions: Timedeposits in Chilean fiancial institutions 127 4 131 128 128 Mortgage finance bonds of Chilean financial institutions Chilean financial institutions bonds Chilean corporate bonds Other Chilean securities Subtotal 127 4 131 128 128 Foreign financial securities: Foreign govemment or central bank securities Other Chilean securities Subtotal Investments in mutual funds: Funds managed by related entities Funds managed by other Subtotal Total 380,018 37 380,055 48,545 48,545 Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 47 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE N°07 INVESTMENTS UNDER RESALE AGREEMENTS AND OBLIGATION UNDER REPURCHASE AGREEMENTS, continued b) Obligations arising from repurchase agreements The bank raisesfunds by selling financial intruments and committing its elf to buy them back at future dates, plus interest at a predetermined rate. As of December 31, 2019 and 2018,obligation related to intrumend sold under repurchase agreements are as follow: As of December 31, 2019 2018 More than 3 More tan 3 months From 1 day months More From 1 day and less More and less tan 3 and less than and less than 1 than 1 month than 1 year 1year Total than3 month year year Total MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Securities from the Chilean Govemment and the Chilean Central Bank: Chilean Central Bank Bonds 48,307 48,307 Chilean Central Bank Notes Other securities from the Govemment and 379,891 33 379,924 110 110 the Chilean Central Bank Subtotal 379,891 33 379,92 48,417 48,417 Instruments from other domestic institutions: Timedeposits in Chilean fiancial institutions 127 4 131 128 128 Mortgage finance bonds of Chilean financial institutions Chilean financial institutions bonds Chilean corporate bonds Other Chilean securities Subtotal 127 4 131 128 128 Foreign financial securities: Foreign govemment or central bank securities Other foreign Chilean securities Subtotal Investments in mutual funds: Funds managed by related entities Funds managed by other Subtotal Total 380,018 37 380,055 48,545 48,545 Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 48 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE N°07 INVESTMENTS UNDER RESALE AGREEMENTS AND OBLIGATION UNDER REPURCHASE AGREEMENTS, continued c) Below is the detail by portfolio of collateral associated with repurchase agreements as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, value at fair value: As of December 31, 2019 2018 Available for Available for Trading sale Trading for sale portfolio portfolio Total portfolio sale portfolio Total MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Securities from the Chilean Govemment and the Chilean Central Bank: Chilean Central Bank Bonds 49,040 49,040 Chilean Central Bank Notes Other securities from the Govemment and 379,924 379,924 109 109 the Chilean Central Bank Subtotal 379,924 379,924 49,149 49,109 Other Chilean securites: Time deposits in Chilean financial institutions 131 131 131 131 mortgage finance bond of Chilean financial institutions 1 1 Chilean financial institution bonds Chilean corporate bonds Other Chilean securities Subtotal 131 131 132 132 Foreign financial securities: Foreign Central Bank and Government securities Other Foreign financial instruments Subtotal Investment in mutual funds: Fondos administrados por entidades relacionadas Fondos administrados por terceros Subtotal Total 380,055 380,055 49,281 49,281 Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 49 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 08 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGE ACCOUNTING a) As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the Bank holds the following portfolio of derivative instruments: As of December 31, 2019 Notional amount Fair value More than 3 Up to 3 months to More than Months 1 year 1 year Total Assets Liabilities MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Fair value hedge derivatives Currency forwards Interest rate swaps 381,638 317,610 1,847,138 2,546,386 39,460 34,264 Cross currency swaps 407,008 863,984 13,357,058 14,628,050 226,870 295,281 Call currency options Call interest rate options Put currency options Put interest rate options Interest rate futures Other derivatives Subtotal 788,646 1,181,594 15,204,196 17,174,436 266,330 329,545 Cash flow hedge derivatives Currency forwards 99,105 1,018,656 768,256 1,886,017 4,131 3,505 Interest rate swaps Cross currency swaps 2,266,907 1,938,222 10,848,233 15,053,362 106,413 43,183 Call currency options Call interest rate options Put currency options Put interest rate options Interest rate futures Other derivatives Subtotal 2,366,012 2,956,878 11,616,489 16,939,379 110,544 46,688 Trading derivatives Currency forwards 28,472,586 18,508,702 7,679,464 54,660,752 1,023,683 1,137,496 Interest rate swaps 16,678,487 40,892,909 89,109,046 146,680,442 2,465,235 2,270,686 Cross currency swaps 7,726,724 20,457,463 113,206,678 141,390,865 4,277,450 3,605,516 Call currency options 17,971 47,012 81,804 146,787 5,176 240 Call interest rate options Put currency options 16,409 41,872 80,655 138,936 190 483 Put interest rate options Interest rate futures Other derivatives Subtotal 52,912,177 79,947,958 210,157,647 343,017,782 7,771,734 7,014,421 Total 56,066,835 84,086,430 236,978,332 377,131,597 8,148,608 7,390,654 Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 50 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 08 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGE ACCOUNTING, continued As of December 31, 2018 Notional amount Fair value More than 3 Up to 3 months to More than months 1 year 1 year Total Assets Liabilities MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Fair value hedge derivatives Currency forwards Interest rate swaps 80,000 491,600 1,191,012 1,762,612 14,789 9,188 Cross currency swaps 1,276,909 6,706,197 7,983,106 96,357 36,708 Call currency options Call interest rate options Put currency options Put interest rate options Interest rate futures Other derivatives Subtotal 80,000 1,768,509 7,897,209 9,745,718 111,146 45,896 Cash flow hedge derivatives Currency forwards 205,750 168,151 373,901 8,013 Interest rate swaps Cross currency swaps 1,920,900 1,970,412 9,191,209 13,082,521 79,859 32,712 Call currency options Call interest rate options Put currency options Put interest rate options Interest rate futures Other derivatives Subtotal 2,126,650 2,138,563 9,191,209 13,456,422 79,859 40,725 Trading derivatives Currency forwards 15,301,943 13,080,875 6,062,183 34,445,001 613,063 466,741 Interest rate swaps 12,024,095 22,064,681 69,453,618 103,542,394 723,870 577,835 Cross currency swaps 2,173,111 8,853,306 68,976,339 80,002,756 1,568,365 1,385,314 Call currency options 26,731 60,235 57,579 144,545 4,332 854 Call interest rate options Put currency options 23,411 50,445 56,392 130,248 363 Put interest rate options Interest rate futures Other derivatives Subtotal 29,549,291 44,109,542 144,606,111 218,264,944 2,909,630 2,431,107 Total 31,755,941 48,016,614 161,694,529 241,467,084 3,100,635 2,517,728 Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 51 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 08 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGE ACCOUNTING, continued b) Hedge accounting Fair value hedge The Bank uses cross-currency swaps, interest rate swaps and call money swaps to hedge its exposure to changes in fair value of hedged items attributable to interest rates. The aforementioned hedging instruments change the effective cost of long-term issuances from a fixed interest rate to a variable interest rate. The hedged items and hedge instruments under fair value hedges as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, classified by term to maturity are as follows: Notional Amount Within 1 year Between 1 and 3 Between 3 and 6 Over 6 years Total As of December 31, 2019 years years MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Hedged item Credits and accounts receivable from customers Mortgage loan 633,300 1,189,036 1,545,240 3,466,874 6,834,450 Available for sale investments Yankee bonds 5,605 394,691 400,296 Mortgage financing bonds 2,728 2,728 American treasury bonds 149,474 37,369 186,843 Chilean General treasury bonds 149,474 37,369 186,843 Central bank bonds (BCP) 254,685 254,685 Time deposits and other demand liabilities Time deposits 685,259 281,921 225,515 1,192,695 Issued debt instruments Senior bonds 651,681 1,133,698 2,253,892 3,324,099 7,363,370 Subordinated bonds Obligations with Banks: Interbank loans Total 1,970,240 3,751,437 4,229,726 7,223,033 17,174,436 Hedging instrument Cross currency swaps 1,270,992 2,791,437 3,774,647 6,790,974 14,628,050 Interest rate swaps 699,248 960,000 455,079 432,059 2,546,386 Total 1,970,240 3,751,437 4,229,726 7,223,033 17,174,436 Notional Amount Within 1 year Between 1 and 3 Between 3 and 6 Over 6 years Total As of December 31, 2018 years years MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Hedged item Credits and accounts receivable from customers Mortgage loan 653,872 1,272,382 276,590 603,818 2,806,662 Available for sale investments Yankee bond 172,072 172,072 Mortgage finance bonds 3,779 3,779 American treasury bonds 174,440 174,440 Chilean General treasury bonds 304,818 220,041 524,859 Central bank bonds (BCP) 449,730 449,730 Time deposits and other demand liabilities Time deposits 486,013 486,013 Issued debt instruments Senior bonds 708,624 1,117,779 1,298,471 2,003,289 5,128,163 Subordinated bonds Obligations with Banks: Interbank loans Total 1,848,509 3,144,709 1,578,840 3,173,660 9,745,718 Hedging instrument Cross currency swaps 1,276,909 2,794,709 1,228,840 2,682,648 7,983,106 Interest rate swaps 571,600 350,000 350,000 491,012 1,762,612 Total 1,848,509 3,144,709 1,578,840 3,173,660 9,745,718 Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 52 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 08 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGE ACCOUNTING, continued Cash flow hedges The Bank uses cross currency swaps to hedge the risk from variability of cash flows attributable to changes in the interest r ates of mortgages, bonds and interbank loans at a variable rate. To cover the inflation risk in some items, both forwards as well as currency swaps are used. The notional values of the hedged items as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, and the period when the cash flows will be generated are as follows: As of December 31, 2019 Within 1 year Between 1 and 3 Between 3 and 6 Over 6 years Total years years MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Hedged item Loans and accounts receivables from customers Mortgage loan 3,334,734 1,505,595 1,995,156 3,136,962 9,972,447 Commercial loans Available for sale investments Time deposits (ASI) Yankee bond 82,727 82,727 Chilean Central Bank bonds 267,286 225,981 493,267 Time deposits and other time liabilities Time deposits Issued debt instruments Senior bonds (variable rate) 358,118 341,283 699,401 Senior bonds (fixed rate) 803,596 1,696,595 1,152,461 1,069,511 4,722,163 Interbank borrowings Interbank loans 826,442 142,932 969,374 Total 5,322,890 3,686,405 3,497,630 4,432,454 16,939,379 Hedging instrument Cross currency swaps 4,205,129 2,918,149 3,497,630 4,432,454 15,053,362 Currency forwards 1,117,761 768,256 1,886,017 Total 5,322,890 3,686,405 3,497,630 4,432,454 16,939,379 As of December 31, 2018 Within 1 year Between 1 and 3 Between 3 and 6 Over 6 years Total years years MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Hedged item Loans and accounts receivables from customers Mortgage loan 1,890,696 3,026,824 1,459,389 2,467,090 8,843,999 Commercial loans 109,585 109,585 Available for sale investments Time deposits (ASI) Yankee bond 246,306 246,306 Chilean Central Bank bonds 166,628 166,628 Time deposits and other time liabilities Time deposits Issued debt instruments Senior bonds (variable rate) 666,823 666,823 Senior bonds (fixed rate) 500,583 52,790 601,639 503,721 1,658,733 Interbank borrowings Interbank loans 1,764,348 1,764,348 Total 4,265,212 3,746,437 2,473,962 2,970,811 13,456,422 Hedging instrument Cross currency swaps 3,891,311 3,746,437 2,473,962 2,970,811 13,082,521 Currency forwards 373,901 373,901 Total 4,265,212 3,746,437 2,473,962 2,970,811 13,456,422 Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 53 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 08 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGE ACCOUNTING, continued An estimate of the periods in which flows are expected to be produced is as follows: b.1) Forecasted cash flows for interest rate risk: As of December 31, 2019 Within 1 Between 1 and 3 Between 3 and 6 Over 6 years Total year years years MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Hedged item Inflows 25,328 10,220 217 35,765 Outflows (356,683) (245,480) (154,689) (163,151) (920,003) Net flows (331,355) (235,260) (154,472) (163,151) (884,238) Hedging instrument Inflows 356,683 245,480 154,689 163,151 920,003 Outflows (*) (25,328) (10,220) (217) (35,765) Net flows 331,355 235,260 154,472 163,151 884,238 (*) Only includes cash flow forecast portion of the hedge instruments used to cover interest rate risk. As of December 31, 2018 Within 1 Between 1 and 3 Between 3 and 6 Over 6 years Total year years years MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Hedged item Inflows 76,736 35,994 3,062 2,401 118,193 Outflows (125,747) (46,372) (13,311) (4,701) (190,131) Net flows (49,011) (10,378) (10,249) (2,300) (71,938) Hedging instrument Inflows (76,736) (35,994) (3,062) (2,401) (118,193) Outflows (*) 125,747 46,372 13,311 4,701 190,131 Net flows 49,011 10,378 10,249 2,300 71,938 (*) Only includes cash flow forecast portion of the hedge instruments used to cover interest rate risk. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 54 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 08 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGE ACCOUNTING, continued b.2) Forecasted cash flows for inflation risk: As of December 31, 2019 Within 1 Between 1 and 3 Between 3 and 6 Over 6 years Total year years years MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Hedged item Inflows 74,574 109,486 216,972 422,362 823,394 Outflows (19,466) (50,151) (33,140) (52,880) (155,637) Net flows 55,108 59,335 183,832 369,482 667,757 Hedging instrument Inflows 19,466 50,151 33,140 52,880 155,637 Outflows (74,574) (109,486) (216,972) (422,362) (823,394) Net flows (55,108) (59,335) (183,832) (369,482) (667,757) As of December 31, 2018 Within 1 Between 1 and 3 Between 3 and 6 years Over 6 years Total year years MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Hedged item Inflows 37,086 73,576 166,516 310,293 587,471 Outflows (14,036) (14,036) Net flows 23,050 73,576 166,516 310,293 573,435 Hedging instrument Inflows 14,036 14,036 Outflows (37,086) (73,576) (166,516) (310,293) (587,471) Net flows (23,050) (73,576) (166,516) (310,293) (573,435) b,3) Forecasted cash flows for exchange rate risk: As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the Bank did not have cash flow hedges for exchange rate risk. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 55 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 08 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGE ACCOUNTING, continued c) The accumulated effect of the mark to market adjustment of cash flow hedges produced by hedge instruments used in hedged cash flow was recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, specifically within the account of valuation accounts, Cash flow hedge, as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, and is as follows: As of December 31, Hedged item 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Interbank loans (1,872) 309 Issued debt instruments (16,345) (10,893) Available for sale investments (2,905) (1,392) Loans and accounts receivable from customers (19,313) 21,779 Net flows (40,435) 9,803 Since the inflows and outflows for both the hedged element and the hedging instrument mirror each other, the hedges are nearly 100% effective, which means that the fluctuations of fair value attributable to risk components are almost completely offset, During the year, the bank did not have any cash flow hedges of forecast transactions. During the period, the bank did not record anticipated future transactions within its portfolio of cash flow accounting hedges. d) Below is a presentation of income generated by cash flow hedges amount that were reclassified from other comprehensive income to income for the year: As of December 31, 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Bond hedging derivatives (120) Interbank loans hedging derivatives (955) (683) Cash flow hedge net income (1,075) (683) Note 24Equity, letter e). e) Net investment hedges in Foreign operation: As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the Bank does not have any Foreign net investment hedges in its hedge accounting portfolio. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 56 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 09 INTERBANK LOANS a) As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, balances of “Interbank loans” are as follows: As of December 31, 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Domestic banks Loans and advances to banks Deposits in the Central Bank of Chile not available Non-transferable Chilean Central Bank Bonds Other Central Bank of Chile loans Interbank loans Overdrafts in checking accounts Non-transferable domestic bank loans Other domestic bank loans 1 Allowances and impairment for domestic bank loans Foreign interbank loans Interbank loans – Foreign 14,852 15,093 Overdrafts in checking accounts Non-transferable foreign bank deposits Other foreign bank loans Provisions and impairment for foreign bank loans (19) (29) 14,852 Total 14,833 15,065 b) The amount of provisions and impairment of interbank loans in each period is shown below: As of December 31, 2019 2018 Domestic Foreign Domestic Foreign banks banks Total banks banks Total MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Balance as of January 1 29 29 86 86 Charge-offs Provisions established 55 55 45 45 Provisions released (65) (65) (102) (102) Total 19 19 29 29 Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 57 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 10 LOANS AND ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE FROM CUSTOMERS a) Loans and accounts receivable from customers As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the composition of the loan portfolio is as follows: Assets before allowances Allowances established As of December 31, 2019 Normal Substandard Impaired Individual Group Assets portfolio portfolio portfolio Total allowances allowances Total net balance MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Commercial loans Commercial loans 10,469,840 608,266 698,110 11,776,216 (154,666) (229,722) (384,388) 11,391,828 Foreign trade loans 1,520,321 152,811 40,501 1,713,633 (48,055) (5,081) (53,136) 1,660,497 Checking accounts debtors 169,328 12,956 14,609 196,893 (3,686) (9,464) (13,150) 183,743 Factoring transactions 479,240 6,927 3,233 489,400 (5,134) (1,104) (6,238) 483,162 Student Loans 62,308 8,965 71,273 (4,858) (4,858) 66,415 Leasing transactions 1,210,854 123,645 90,363 1,424,862 (18,247) (9,345) (27,592) 1,397,270 Other loans and account receivable 211,470 1,490 29,594 242,554 (6,761) (16,319) (23,080) 219,474 Subtotal 14,123,361 906,095 885,375 15,914,831 (236,549) (275,893) (512,442) 15,402,389 Mortgage loans Loans with mortgage finance bonds 11,391 907 12,298 (92) (92) 12,206 Mortgage mutual loans 96,014 4,138 100,152 (516) (516) 99,636 Other mortgage mutual loans 10,626,466 524,079 11,150,545 (67,853) (67,853) 11,082,692 Subtotal 10,733,871 529,124 11,262,995 (68,461) (68,461) 11,194,534 Consumer loans Installment consumer loans 3,653,345 257,053 3,910,398 (260,129) (260,129) 3,650,269 Credit card balances 1,357,770 19,940 1,377,710 (41,315) (41,315) 1,336,395 Leasing transactions 3,866 86 3,952 (114) (114) 3,838 Other consumer loans 243,156 3,841 246,997 (10,687) (10,687) 236,310 Subtotal 5,258,137 280,920 5,539,057 (312,245) (312,245) 5,226,812 Total 30,115,369 906,095 1,695,419 32,716,883 (236,549) (656,599) (893,148) 31,823,735 Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 58 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 10 LOANS AND ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE FROM CUSTOMERS, continued Assets before allowances Allowances established As of December 31, 2018 Normal Substandard Impaired Individual Group Assets portfolio Portfolio portfolio Total allowances allowances Total net balance MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Commercial loans Commercial loans 9,988,841 552,460 661,073 11,202,374 151,769 179,318 331,087 10,871,287 Foreign trade loans 1,648,616 53,127 50,694 1,752,437 52,696 1,668 54,364 1,698,073 Checking accounts debtors 187,273 11,984 15,905 215,162 3,566 13,375 16,941 198,221 Factoring transactions 370,851 5,532 4,600 380,983 5,843 834 6,677 374,306 Student Loans 69,599 10,317 79,916 5,835 5,835 74,081 Leasing transactions 1,240,081 113,313 90,330 1,443,724 17,339 10,833 28,172 1,415,552 126,643 1,635 36,785 165,063 11,384 18,416 29,800 135,263 Other loans and account receivable Subtotal 13,631,904 738,051 869,704 15,239,659 242,597 230,279 472,876 14,766,783 Mortgage loans Loans with mortgage finance bonds 16,153 1,273 17,426 97 97 17,329 Mortgage mutual loans 104,131 4,405 108,536 498 498 108,038 Other mortgage mutual loans 9,558,032 466,987 10,025,019 63,646 63,646 9,961,373 Subtotal 9,678,316 472,665 10,150,981 64,241 64,241 10,086,740 Consumer loans Installment consumer loans 2,937,309 252,361 3,189,670 223,948 223,948 2,965,722 1,399,112 -18,040 1,417,152 26,673 26,673 1,390,479 Credit card balances -Leasing transactions 4,071 86 4,157 72 72 4,085 -Other consumer loans 261,202 4,108 265,310 8,749 8,749 256,561 Subtotal 4,601,694 274,595 4,876,289 259,442 259,442 4,616,847 Total 27,911,914 738,051 1,616,964 30,266,929 242,597 553,962 796,559 29,470,370 Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 59 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 10 LOANS AND ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE FROM CUSTOMERS, continued b) Portfolio characteristics As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the portfolio before allowances is as follows, by customer’s economic activity: Domestic loans (*) Foreign interbank loans (**) Total loans Distribution percentage 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ % % Commercial loans Manufacturing 1,285,814 1,139,766 1,285,814 1,139,766 3,93 3,76 Mining 407,042 208,748 407,042 208,748 1,24 0,69 Electricity, gas, and water 356,410 408,932 356,410 408,932 1,09 1,35 Agriculture and livestock 1,287,282 1,206,197 1,287,282 1,206,197 3,93 3,98 Forest 165,208 143,888 165,208 143,888 0,50 0,48 Fishing 256,553 253,021 256,553 253,021 0,78 0,84 Transport 763,877 809,306 763,877 809,306 2,33 2,67 Communications 240,950 215,844 240,950 215,844 0,74 0,71 Construction 995,435 906,038 995,435 906,038 3,04 2,99 Commerce 3,351,279 3,386,806 14,852 15,093 3,366,131 3,401,899 10,28 11,23 Services 2,796,415 1,865,669 2,796,415 1,865,669 8,54 6,16 Other 4,008,566 4,695,445 4,008,566 4,695,445 12,25 15,52 Subtotal 15,914,831 15,239,660 14,852 15,093 15,929,683 15,254,753 48,65 50,38 Mortgage loans 11,262,995 10,150,981 11,262,995 10,150,981 34,43 33,52 Consumer loans 5,539,057 4,876,289 5,539,057 4,876,289 16,92 16,10 Total 32,716,883 30,266,930 14,852 15,093 32,731,735 30,282,023 100,00 100,00 (*) Includes domestic interbank loans for Ch$0 million as of December 31, 2019 (Ch$1 million as of December 31, 2018), Note 9. (**) Includes foreign interbank loans for Ch$14,852 million as of December 31, 2019 (Ch$15.903 million as of December 31, 2018), Note 9. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 60 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 10 LOANS AND ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE FROM CUSTOMERS, continued c) Impaired portfolio (*) i. As of Diciembre 31, 2019 and 2018, the impaired portfolio is as follows: As of December 31, 2019 2018 Commercia l Mortgage Consumer Total Commercial Mortgage Consumer Total MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Individually impaired 397,978 397,978 487,760 487,760 portfolio Non-performing loans 409,451 133,880 88,318 631,649 400,209 179,863 91,264 671,336 (collectively evaluated) Other impaired portfolio 218,596 349,261 189,656 757,513 224,750 338,785 186,277 749,812 Total 1,106,565 529,124 280,920 1,916,609 1,032,179 472,665 274,595 1,779,439 (*) The impaired portfolio corresponds to the sum of the loans classified as substandard in categories B3 and B4, and the portfolio in default, (C1-C6). ii) The impaired portfolio with or without guarantee as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 is as follows: As of December 31, 2019 2018 Commercial Mortgage Consumer Total Commercial Mortgage Consumer Total MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Secured debt 700,331 487,729 30,189 1,218,249 604,545 430,011 29,201 1,063,757 Unsecured debt 406,234 41,395 250,731 698,360 427,634 42,654 245,394 715,682 Total 1,106,565 529,124 280,920 1,916,609 1,032,179 472,665 274,595 1,779,439 iii) The portfolio of non-performing loans (due for 90 days or longer) with or without a guarantee as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 is as follows: As of December 31, 2019 2018 Commercial Mortgage Consumer Total Commercial Mortgage Consumer Total MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Secured debt 204,195 164,200 6,657 375,052 192,889 121,690 8,516 323,095 Unsecured debt 196,014 15,663 84,607 296,284 216,562 12,190 79,802 308,554 Total 400,209 179,863 91,264 671,336 409,451 133,880 88,318 631,649 iv) Reconciliation of non-performing loans, with past due loans as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, is as follows: As of December 31, 2019 2018 Commercial Mortgage Consumer Total Commercial Mortgage Consumer Total MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ with arrears equal to or greater than 90 days 399,683 177,730 91,023 668,436 399,382 130,716 85,137 615,235 with arrears up to 89 days, classified in past due portfolio 526 2,133 241 2,900 10,069 3,164 3,181 16,414 Total 400,209 179,863 91,264 671,336 409,451 133,880 88,318 631,649 Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 61 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 10 LOANS AND ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE FROM CUSTOMERS, continued d) Allowances The changes in allowances balances during 2019 and 2018 are as follows: Commercial Mortgage Consumer Interbank Activity during 2019 loans loans loans loans Individual Group Group Group Total MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Balance as of January , 2019 242,597 230,866 64,241 272,681 29 810,414 Allowances established 93,556 118,187 17,462 246,530 55 475,790 Allowances released (58,084) (12,100) (8,263) (49,576) (65) (128,088) Allowances released due to charge-off (41,520) (61,060) (4,979) (157,390) (264,949) Balance as of December 31, 2019 236,549 275,893 68,461 312,245 19 893,167 Commercial Mortgage Consumer Interbank Activity during 2018 loans loans loans loans Individual Group Group Group Total MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Balance as of January, 2018 243,792 219,073 69,066 283,756 86 815,773 Allowances established 68,302 83,979 22,683 190,868 45 365,877 Allowances released (35,301) (8,764) (8,446) (45,031) (102) (97,644) Allowances released due to charge-off (34,196) (64,009) (19,062) (170,151) (287,418) Balance as of December 31, 2018 242,597 230,279 64,241 259,442 29 796,588 In addition to credit risk allowances, there are other allowances held for: i) Country risk to cover the risk taken when holding or committing resources with any foreign country, These allowances are established according to country risk classifications as set forth in Chapter 7-13 of the Updated Compilation of Rules, issued by the FMC. The balances of allowances as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 are Ch$552 million and Ch$620 million, respectively, which are presented in liabilities of the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. ii) According to FMC regulations (compendium of Accounting Standards), the Bank has established allowances related to the undrawn available credit lines and contingent loans. The balances of allowances as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 are Ch$21,411 million and Ch$14,666 million, respectively, and are presented in liabilities of the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position (Note 21) Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 62 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018 AND 2017 NOTE 10 LOANS AND ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE FROM CUSTOMERS, continued e) Portfolio by its impaired and non-impaired status As of December 31, 2019 Non-impaired Impaired Total portfolio Total nonMortgag Total Total Commercial Mortgage Consumer impaired Commercial e Consumer impaired Commercial Mortgage Consumer portfolio MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Current portfolio 14,608,386 10,421,161 5,068,619 30,098,166 554,860 187,144 110,475 852,479 15,163,246 10,608,305 5,179,094 30,950,645 Overdue for 1-29 days 92,748 47,417 110,679 250,844 38,417 11,213 29,265 78,895 131,165 58,630 139,944 329,739 Overdue for 30-89 days 107,132 265,293 78,839 451,264 113,605 153,037 50,157 316,799 220,737 418,330 128,996 768,063 Overdue for 90 days or more 399,683 177,730 91,023 668,436 399,683 177,730 91,023 668,436 Total portfolio before allowances 14,808,266 10,733,871 5,258,137 30,800,274 1,106,565 529,124 280,920 1,916,609 15,914,831 11,262,995 5,539,057 32,716,883 Overdue loans (less than 90 days) 1.35% 2.91% 3.60% 2.28% 13.74% 31.04% 28.27% 20.65% 2.21% 4.23% 4.86% 3.36% presented as portfolio percentage Overdue loans (90 days or more) 36.12% 33.59% 32.40% 34.88% 2.51% 1.58% 1.64% 2.04% presented as portfolio percentage Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2018 / B anc o S antander Chile 63 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018 AND 2017 NOTE 10 LOANS AND ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE FROM CUSTOMERS, continued e) Portfolio by its impaired and non-impaired status, continuation. As of December 31, 2018 Non-impaired Impaired Total portfolio Total nonTotal Total Commercial Mortgage Consumer impaired Commercial Mortgage Consumer impaired Commercial Mortgage Consumer portfolio MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Current portfolio 14,016,945 9,360,102 4,379,507 27,756,554 446,423 156,546 95,220 698,189 14,463,368 9,516,648 4,474,727 28,454,743 Overdue for 1-29 days 120,376 194,334 131,550 446,260 72,964 78,537 34,501 186,002 193,340 272,871 166,051 632,262 Overdue for 30-89 days 70,159 123,880 90,637 284,676 113,410 106,866 59,737 280,013 183,569 230,746 150,374 564,689 Overdue for 90 days or more 399,382 130,716 85,137 615,235 399,382 130,716 85,137 615,235 Total portfolio before allowances 14,207,480 9,678,316 4,601,694 28,487,490 1,032,179 472,665 274,595 1,779,439 15,239,659 10,150,981 4,876,289 30,266,929 Overdue loans (less than 90 days) 1.34% 3.29% 4.83% 2.57% 18.06% 39.23% 34.32% 26.19% 2.47% 4.96% 6.49% 3.95% presented as portfolio percentage Overdue loans (90 days or more) 38.69% 27.66% 31.00% 34.57% 2.62% 1.29% 1.75% 2.03% presented as portfolio percentage Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2018 / B anc o S antander Chile 64 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 11 AVAILABLE FOR SALE INVESTMENTS As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, details of instruments defined as available for sale investments are as follows: As of December 31 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Chilean Central Bank and Government securities Chilean Central Bank Bonds 272,802 657,096 Chilean Central Bank Notes 1,186,724 56,719 Other Chilean Central Bank and Government securities 1,908,031 1,207,221 Subtotal 3,367,557 1,921,036 Other Chilean securities Time deposits in Chilean financial institutions 398 2,693 Mortgage finance bonds of Chilean financial institutions 16,748 19,227 Chilean financial institution bonds Chilean corporate bonds Other Chilean securities 2,410 2,907 Subtotal 19,556 24,827 Foreign financial securities Foreign Central Banks and Government securities 197,685 280,622 Other foreign financial securities 425,474 167,838 Subtotal 623,159 448,460 Total 4,010,272 2,394,323 As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the item Chilean Central Bank and Government securities item includes securities sold under repurchase agreements to clients and financial institutions for Ch$379,924 million and Ch$16,109 million, respectively. Under the same line, there are instruments that guarantee margins for operations of derivatives through Comder Contraparte Central S,A, for an amount of $65,140 million and $ 42,910 million as of December 31 of 2019 and 2018, respectively. As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the item Other Chilean Securities includes securities sold to customers and financial institutions under repurchase agreements totaling Ch$131 million and Ch$32,436 million, respectively. The instruments of Foreign Institutions include instruments sold under repurchase agreements with customers and financial institutions for a total of $0 and $ 0 million as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Under the same line, there are instruments that guarantee margins for derivative transactions through the London Clearing House (LCH) for an amount of $73,109 million and $58,892 million as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, In order to comply with the initial margin specified in the European EMIR standard, instruments in guarantee with Euroclear are maintained for an amount of $390,954 million and $ 98,832 million as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. As of December 31, 2019 available for sale investments included a net unrealized profit of Ch$30,398 million, recorded as a “Valuation adjustment” in Equity, distributed between a profit of Ch$29,349 million attributable to equity holders of the Bank and a profit of Ch$1,049 million attributable to noncontrolling interest. As of December 31, 2018 available for sale investments included a net unrealized loss of Ch$6,424 million, recorded as a “Valuation adjustment” in Equity, distributed between a profit of Ch$5,114 million attributable to equity holders of the Bank and a profit of Ch$1,310 million attributable to noncontrolling interest. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 65 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE N°11 AVAILABLE FOR SALE INVESTMENTS, continued Gross profits and losses realized on the sale of available for sale investments as of december 31, 2019 and 2018, are as follow, As of December 31, 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Sale of avaiilable for sale investments generating realized profits 5,781,636 3,505,266 Realized profits 63,828 8,902 Sale of available for sale investments generating realized losses 607,349 709,371 Realized losses 156 6,004 The Bank evaluated those instruments with unrealized losses as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 and concluded they were not impaired. This review consisted of evaluation the economic reason for any declines, the credit rating of the securities issuers and the bank’s intention and ability to hold the securities until the unrealized kiss us recovered. Based ib this analysis, the Bank believes that there were no significant or prolonged declines nor changes in credit risk which would cause impairment in its investment portfolio, since most of the decline in fair value of these instruments was caused by market conditions which the Bank considers to be temporary. All of the instruments that have unrealized losses as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, were not in a continuos unrealized loss position for more than one year. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 66 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE N°11 AVAILABLE FOR SALE INVESTMENTS, continued The following charts show the available for sale investments cumulative unrealized profit and loss, as of December 31, 2019 and 2018: As of December 31, 2019: Less than 12 month More than 12 month Total Amortized Unrealize Unrealize Amortize Fair Unrealized Unrealize Amortized Unrealized Unrealized cost Fair value d profit d loss d cost value profit d loss cost Fair value profit loss MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Chilean central bank and government securities Chilean central bank fond 270,979 272,802 3,600 (1,777) 270,979 272,802 3,600 (1,777) Chilean central bank notes 1,186,487 1,186,724 237 1,186,487 1,186,724 237 Other Chilean central bank and government securites 1,893,615 1,908,031 39,754 (25,338) 1,893,615 1,908,031 39,754 (25,338) Subtotal 3,351,081 3,367,557 43,591 (27,115) 3,351,081 3,367,557 43,591 (27,115) Other Chilean secyruties Time deposits in Chilean financial institutions 398 398 398 398 15,962 16,748 786 15,962 16,748 786 Mortgage finance bonds of Chilean financial institutions Chilean financial institution bonds Chilean corporate bonds 407 2,410 2,003 407 2,410 2,003 Other Chilean securities Subtotal 16,767 19,556 2,789 16,767 19,556 2,789 Foreign financial securities 198,289 197,685 10,841 (11,445) 198,289 197,685 10,841 (11,445) Foreign central bank and goverment securities 413,737 425,474 12,811 (1,074) 413,737 425,474 12,811 (1,074) Other Foreign securities Subtotal 612,026 623,159 23,652 (12,519) 612,026 623,159 23,652 (12,519) Total 3,979,874 4,010,272 70,032 (39,634) 3,979,874 4,010,272 70,032 (39,634) Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 67 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE N°11 AVAILABLE FOR SALE INVESTMENTS, continued The following tables show the availability for sale of accumulated unrealized gains and losses as of December 31, 2018 : As of December 31, 2018 Menor a 12 meses Mayor a 12 meses Total Unrealiz Unrealiz Unrealiz Amortized ed Unrealiz Amortiz Fair ed Unrealiz Amortized ed Unrealize cost Fair value profit ed loss ed cost value profit ed loss cost Fair value profit d loss MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Chilean central bank and government securities Chilean central bank fond 658,013 657,096 3,698 (4,615) 658,013 657,096 3,698 (4,615) Chilean central bank notes 56,737 56,719 10 (27) 56,737 56,719 10 (27) Other Chilean central bank and 1,196,819 1,207,220 10,689 (262) 1,196,819 1,207,220 10,689 (262) government securites Subtotal 1,911,569 1,921,035 14,397 (4,904) 1,911,569 1,921,035 14,397 (4,904) Other Chilean secyruties Time deposits in Chilean financial 2,692 2,694 1 2,692 2,694 1 institutions Mortgage finance bonds of Chilean 19,010 19,227 426 (209) 19,010 19,227 426 (209) financial institutions Chilean financial institution bonds Chilean corporate bonds Other Chilean securities 220 2,907 2,687 220 2,907 2,687 Subtotal 21,922 24,828 3,114 (209) 21,922 24,828 3,114 (209) Foreign financial securities Foreign central bank and goverment 280,021 280,622 602 280,021 280,622 602 securities Other Foreign securities 174,387 167,838 (6,575) 174,387 167,838 (6,575) Subtotal 454,408 448,460 602 (6,575) 454,408 448,460 602 (6,575) Total 2,387,899 2,394,323 18,112 (11,688) 2,387,899 2,394,323 18,112 (11,688) Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 68 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 12 INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES AND OTHER COMPANIES a) The Consolidated Statements of Financial Position reflect investments in associates and other companies amounting to Ch$10,467 million as of December 31, 2019, Ch$ 32,293 million as of December 2018, as show in the following table: Investment Ownership interest Investment value Profit and loss As of December 31, As of December 31, As of December 31, 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 % % MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Company Redbanc S.A. (*) 33.43 2,822 Transbank S.A. (*) 25.00 17,651 Centro de Compensación Automatizado S.A. 33.33 33.33 2,184 1,894 293 305 Sociedad Interbancaria de Depósito de Valores S.A. 29.29 29.29 1,485 1,233 252 223 Cámara de Compensación de Pagos de Alto Valor S.A. (1) 15.00 15.00 958 945 29 58 Administrador Financiero del Transantiago S.A. 20.00 20.00 3,986 3,680 390 582 Sociedad Nexus S.A. (*) 12.90 2,279 Servicios de Infraestructura de Mercado OTC S.A. 12.07 12.48 1,556 1,491 60 57 Subtotal 10,169 31,995 1,024 1,225 Shares or rights in other companies Bladex 136 136 13 19 Stock Excharges 154 154 109 148 Otras 8 8 (67) Total 10,467 32,293 1,146 1,325 (*) The Bank has entered into a process of selling the shares in Redbanc S.A., Transbank S.A. and Nexus SA, therefore, the treatment established in IFRS 5 “Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations” has been applied, on the participation of said companies, which is described in Note 1 t) and Note 40. (1) In February 2017, Banco Paris sold to Banco Santander a portion of its interest in the companies “Sociedad Operadora de la Cámara de Compensación de pagos de Alto Valor S.A.”, the Bank’s share increased to 15.00%. b) Investments in associates and other companies do not have market prices. c) Summary of financial information of the partners between exercises 2019 and 2018: As of December 31, 2019 2018 Net Net Assets Liabilities Equity Income Assets Liabilities Equity Income MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Centro de Compensación Automatizado S.A. 8,550 1,998 5,671 881 7,073 1,480 4,677 916 Redbanc S.A. 23,413 14,106 8,441 866 20,825 12,469 7,505 851 Transbank S.A. 1,217,448 1,133,441 70,605 13,402 904,558 835,200 56,888 12,470 Sociedad Interbancaria de Depósito de Valores S.A. 5,074 4 4,209 861 4,392 230 3,400 762 Sociedad Nexus S.A. 31,147 13,471 17,660 16 35,139 18,335 13,995 2,849 Servicios de Infraestructura de Mercado OTC S.A. 15,152 2,682 11,993 477 25,273 13,313 11,506 454 Administrador Financiero del Transantiago S.A. 54,712 34,787 17,978 1,947 55,818 37,419 15,490 2,909 Cámara de Compensación de Pagos de Alto Valor S.A. 7,372 986 6,193 193 6,728 622 5,722 384 Totales 1,362,868 1,201,475 142,750 18,643 1,059,806 919,068 119,143 21,595 Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 69 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 12 INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES AND OTHER COMPANIES, continued d) Restriction on the ability of partners to transfer funds to investors. There are no significant restriction in relation to the ability of the associates to transfer funds in the form of dividends in Cash or reimvursements of loans or advances, to the bank. e) Activity with respect to investments in other companies during 2019 and 2018, is as follow: As of December 31, 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Opening balance as of January 1, 32,293 27,585 Acquisition of investments Sale of investments Participation in income 1,146 5,095 Dividends received (130) (38) Other adjustment (*) (22,842) (349) Total 10,467 32,293 (*) The Bank has entered into a process of selling the shares in Redbanc S.A., Transbank S.A. and Nexus SA, As such, these investment have been reclassified to held for sale and presented under Other assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position (Note 40). f) We have evaluated the objective evidence indicated in IAS No 28 and we have not detected any type of impairment on the investments that the Bank. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 70 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 13 INTANGIBLE ASSETS a) As of December 31, 2019 and 2018 the composition of intangible assets is as follows: As of December 31, 2019 Average Net opening remaining useful balance as of Accumulated life January 1, 2019 Gross balance amortization Net balance MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Licenses 82 35,997 (35,997) Software development 2 66,841 214,005 (140,616) 73,389 Total 66,923 250,002 (176,613) 73,389 As of December 31, 2018 Average Net opening remaining useful balance as of Accumulated life January 1, 2018 Gross balance amortization Net balance MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Licenses 1 1,200 37,224 (37,142) 82 Software development 2 62,019 181,191 (114,350) 66,841 Subtotal 63,219 218,415 (151,492) 66,923 b) The changes in the value of intangible assets during the periods December 31, 2019 and 2018 is as follows: b.1) Gross balance Software Gross balances Licenses development Total MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Balances as of January 1, 2019 37,224 181,191 218,415 Acquisitions 32,860 32,860 Disposals and impairment (*) (1,227) (1,227) Other (46) (46) Balances as of December 31, 2019 35,997 214,005 250,002 Balances as of January 1, 2018 37,224 159,833 197,057 Acquisitions 29,562 29,562 Disposals and impairment (*) (8,204) (8,204) Other Balances as of December 31, 2018 37,224 181,191 218,415 (*) Note No. 34, letter a). Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 71 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 13 INTANGIBLE ASSETS, continued b.2) Accumulated amortization Software Accumulated amortization Licenses development Total MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Balances as of January 1, 2019 (37,142) (114,350) (151,492) Amortization for the period (82) (26,266) (26,348) Other changes 1,227 1,227 Balances as of December 31 , 2019 (35,997) (140,616) (176,613) Balances as of January 1, 2018 (36,918) (96,922) (133,840) Amortization for the period (224) (24,069) (24,293) Other changes 6,641 6,641 Balances as of December 31, 2018 (37,142) (114,350) (151,492) c) The Bank has no restriction on intangible assets as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, Additionally, the intangible assets have not been pledged as guarantee to secure compliance with financial liabilities. Also, the Bank has no debt related to Intangible assets as of those dates. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 72 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 14 FIXED ASSETS AND RIGHT OF USE ASSETS AND OBLIGATION FOR LEASE CONTRACT a) As of December 31, 2019 and 2018 the property, plant and equipment balances is as follows: As of December 31, 2019 Net opening balance as of Gross Accumulated Net January 1, 2019 balance depreciation balance MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Land and building (*) 120,245 175,370 (55,237) 120,133 Equipment 56,865 219,600 (164,106) 55,494 Other 21,963 69,758 (47,552) 22,206 Total 199,073 464,728 (266,895) 197,833 (*) As of January 1, 2019, net balances of lease improvements have been reclassified by application of IFRS 16, according to circular Banks N° 3,645 of the FMC (ex SBIF). As of December 31, 2018 Net opening balance as of Gross Accumulated Net January 1, 2018 balance depreciation balance MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Land and building 159,352 289,568 (114,810) 174,758 Equipment 63,516 192,328 (135,463) 56,865 Other 15,458 62,156 (40,193) 21,963 Total 238.326 544.052 (290.466) 253.586 b) The changes in the value of property, plant and equipment during 2019 and 2018 is as follows: b.1) Gross balance Land and 2019 buildings Equipment Other Total MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Balances as of January 1, 2019 166,910 192,328 62,156 421,394 Additions 9,473 33,302 7,602 50,377 Disposals (6,030) (6,030) Impairment due to damage (*) (1,013) (1,013) Other Balances as of December 31, 2019 175,370 219,600 69,758 464,728 (*) Banco Santander-Chile have recognized in its consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2019 an impairment of $ 1,013 million, due to social unrest in the country. Note 34. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 73 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 14 FIXED ASSETS AND RIGHT OF USE ASSETS AND OBLIGATION FOR LEASE CONTRACT, continued 2018 Land and buildings Equipment Other Total MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Balances as of January 1, 2018 259,316 169,286 55,613 484,215 Additions 30,396 27,697 8,646 66,739 Disposals (144) (4,116) (2,103) (6,863) Impairment due to damage (*) (39) (39) Other Balances as of December 31, 2018 289,568 192,328 62,156 544,052 (*) Banco Santander Chile has had to recognize in its consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2018 deterioration by $39 Millions, corresponding to ATM claims. b.2) Accumulated depreciation 2019 Land and buildings Equipment Other Total MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Balances as of January 1, 2019 (54,671) (135,463) (40,193) (230,327) Depreciation in the period (8,120) (29,968) (6,869) (44,957) Sales and disposals in the period 7,554 1,325 8,879 Transfers Others (490) (490) Balances as of December 31, 2019 (55,237) (164,106) (47,552) (266,895) 2018 Land and buildings Equipment Other Total MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Balances as of January 1, 2018 (97,267) (109,843) (34,558) (241,668) Depreciation in the period (17,585) (25,660) (5,635) (48,880) Sales and disposals in the period 42 40 82 Transfers Others Balances as of December 31, 2018 (114,810) (135,463) (40,193) (290,466) Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 74 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 14 FIXED ASSETS AND RIGHT OF USE ASSETS AND OBLIGATION FOR LEASE CONTRACT, continued c) The composition of the right of use assets as of December 31, 2019 and January 1, 2019 is as follows: As of December 31, 2019 First application balance as of Gross Accumulated Net January 1, 2019 balance depreciation balance MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Land and building 154,284 182,910 (25,338) 157,572 Lease improvements 54,513 127,035 (74,107) 52,928 Equipment Other Total 208,797 309,945 (99,445) 210,500 d) The movement of the right of use assets under lease during the 2019 period, is as follows: d.1 Gross balance Land and Lease 2019 building improvements Equipment Other Total MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Balances as of January 1, 2019 (*) 154,284 122,658 276,942 Additions 48,008 7,013 55,021 Disposals (17,669) (2,636) (20,305) Impairment (**) (1,713) (1,713) Other Balances as of December 31, 2019 182,910 127,035 309,945 (*)Note No 02. (**) Banco Santander-Chile have recognized in its consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2019 an impairment of $ 1,713 million, due to social unrest in the country. Note 34. d.2 Accumulated anortization Land and Lease 2019 building improvements Equipment Other Total MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Balances as of January 1, 2019 (*) (68,145) (68,145) Amortization for the period (26,889) (7,898) (34,787) Sales and disposals during the period 1,551 1,936 3,487 Transfers Others Balances as of December 31, 2019 (25,338) (74,107) (99,445) (*) Note No 02. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 75 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 14 FIXED ASSETS AND RIGHT OF USE ASSETS AND OBLIGATION FOR LEASE CONTRACT, continued e) Obligation for lease contract As of December 31, 2019 and 2018 the obligation for lease contract are as follows, As of As of December 31, December 31, 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Obligations for lease contracts 158,494 Totales 158,494 f) Expenses associated with assets for the right to use leased assets and Obligations for lease agreements As of As of December 31, December 31, 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Depreciation (34,787) Interests (2,965) Short term lease (4,177) Total (41,929) As of December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the maturity level of the obligations for lease agreements, according to their contractual maturity is as follows: As of As of December 31, December 31, 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Due within 1 year 26,061 Due after 1 year but within 2 years 24,311 Due after 2 years but within 3 years 21,667 Due after 3 years but within 4 years 19,411 Due after 4 years but within 5 years 16,982 Due after 5 years 50,062 Total 158,494 Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 76 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 14 FIXED ASSETS AND RIGHT OF USE ASSETS AND OBLIGATION FOR LEASE CONTRACT, continued g) Operational leases Lessor As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the future minimum lease cash inflows under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: As of As of December December 31, 31, 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Due within 1 year 603 469 Due after 1 year but within 2 years 598 882 Due after 2 years but within 3 years 500 469 Due after 3 years but within 4 years 498 460 Due after 4 years but within 5 years 412 428 Due after 5 years 1,563 2,242 Total 4,174 4,950 h) As of December 31, 2019 and 2018 the Bank has no finance leases which cannot be unilaterally cancelled. i) The Bank has no restriction on property, plant and equipment as of December 31, 2019 and 2018. Additionally, the property, plant, and equipment have not been provided as guarantees to secure compliance with financial liabilities. The Bank has no debt in connection with property, plant and equipment. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 77 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 15 CURRENT AND DEFERRED TAXES a) Current taxes As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the Bank recognizes taxes payable (recoverable), which is determined based on the currently applicable tax legislation. This amount is recorded net of recoverable taxes, and is shown as follows: As of December 31, 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Summary of current tax liabilities (assets) Current tax (assets) (11,648) Current tax liabilities 8,093 Total tax payable (recoverable) (11,648) 8,093 (Assets) liabilities current taxes detail (net) Income tax (27%) 154,578 166,173 Less: Provisional monthly payments (161,097) (155,706) Credit for training expenses (2,145) (1,937) Grant credits (1,149) Other (1,835) (1,320) Total tax payable (recoverable) (11,648) 8,093 b) Effect on income The effect tax expense has on income for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 is comprised of the following items: As of December 31, 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Income tax expense Current tax 154,578 166,173 Credits (debits) for deferred taxes Origination and reversal of temporary differences 11,372 3,590 Valuation provision (56) Subtotal 165,950 169,707 Tax for rejected expenses (Article No,21) 927 1,110 Other (16,709) (4.920) Net income tax expense 150,168 165,897 Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 78 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 15 CURRENT AND DEFERRED TAXES, continued c) Effective tax rate reconciliation The reconciliation between the income tax rate and the effective rate in calculating the tax expense as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 is as follows: As of December 31, 2019 2018 Tax rate Amount Tax rate Amount % MCh$ % MCh$ Tax calculated over profit before tax 27.00 189,714 27.00 205,784 Permanent differences (1) (7.16) (50,297) (5.18) (39,494) Penalty tax (rejected expenses) 0.13 927 0.15 1,110 Other 1.40 9,824 (0.20) (1,503) Effective rates and expenses for income tax 21.37 150,168 21.77 165,897 (1) It mainly corresponds to the permanent differences originated by the Monetary Correction of the Tax Own Capital. d) Effect of deferred taxes on other comprehensive income A summary of the separate effect of deferred tax on other comprehensive income, showing the asset and liability balances, for the periods ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 follows: As of December 31, 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Deferred tax assets Available for sale investments 7,799 1,071 Cash flow hedges 10,919 65 Total deferred tax assets recognized through other comprehensive income 18,718 1,136 Deferred tax liabilities Available for sale investments (16,007) (2,806) Cash flow hedges (2,711) Total deferred tax liabilities recognized through other comprehensive income (16,007) (5,517) Net deferred tax balances in equity 2 ,711 (4,381) Deferred taxes in equity attributable to equity holders of the bank 2,993 (4,027) Deferred tax in equity attributable to non-controlling interests (282) (354) Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 79 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 15 CURRENT AND DEFERRED TAXES, continued e) Effect of deferred taxes on income Below are effects of deferred taxes on assets, liabilities and income allocated for differences: As of December 31, 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Deferred tax assets Interests and adjustments 9,531 9,384 Non-recurring charge-offs 15,325 13,389 Assets received in lieu of payment 2,933 2,467 Exchange rate adjustment 1,675 Property, plant and equipment 6,381 6,138 Provision for loan losses 198,990 168,320 Provision for expenses 89,098 63,134 Derivatives 3,924 Leased assets 116,226 107,897 Subsidiaries tax losses 5,416 5,314 Prepaid Expenses 156 Investment valuation 249 Total deferred tax assets 444,149 381,798 Deferred tax liabilities Valuation of investments (17,341) (42) Anticipated Expenses (20,347) (349) Provision for evaluation (6,509) (6,084) Derivatives (36,512) (3,383) Exchange rate adjustments (2,817) Other (75) (20) Total deferred tax liabilities (83,601) (9,878) f) Summary of deferred tax assets and liabilities A summary of the effect of deferred taxes on equity and income follows: As of December 31, 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Deferred tax assets Recognized through other comprehensive income 18,718 1,136 Recognized through profit or loss 444,149 381,798 Total deferred tax assets 462,867 382,934 Deferred tax liabilities Recognized through other comprehensive income (16,007) (5,517) Recognized through profit or loss (83,601) (9,878) Total deferred tax liabilities (99,608) (15,395) Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 80 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 15 CURRENT AND DEFERRED TAXES, continued g) Supplementary information related to the circular issued by internal tax service and the CMF. For purposes of disclosure and accreditation of provisions and penalties, banks must include in the tax note of their states annual financial statements, a detail of the movements and effects generated by the application of article 31, No. 4 of the LIR, as established in the document attached to the joint circular. g.1) Receivables and accounts receivable As of December 31, 2019 2018 Assets at tax value Assets at tax value Overdue Wallet Overdue Wallet Assets at Assets at with without with without financial financial value Total Warranty Warranty value Total Warranty Warranty MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Owed by banks 14,852 14,852 15,094 15,094 Comercial Placements 14,158,593 14,185,448 113,326 158,278 13,414,955 13,441,810 119,558 177,971 Consume Placements 5,091,801 5,136,406 1,393 16,691 4,872,131 4,878,008 1,372 22,127 Home mortgage Placements 11,262,995 11,273,701 63,944 1,445 10,150,981 10,200,415 63,121 1,031 Total 30,528,241 30,610,407 178,663 176,414 28,453,161 28,535,327 184,051 201,129 g.2) Provision on overdue portfolio without guarantees Punishment Balance as of against Provisions Provisions free Balance as of January 1, 2019 provisions constituted December 31, 2019 MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Comercial Placements 177,971 (67,926) 325,245 (277,012) 158,278 Consume Placements 22,127 (144,962) 177,766 (38,240) 16,691 Home mortgage Placements 1,031 (1,727) 34,404 (32,263) 1,445 Total 201,129 (214,615) 537,415 (347,515) 176,414 Punishment Balance as of against Provisions Provisions free Balance as of January 1, 2018 provisions constituted December 31, 2018 MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Comercial Placements 157,106 (70,181) 487,325 (396,280) 177,971 Consume Placements 20,041 (198,534) 204,703 (4,082) 22,127 Home mortgage Placements 1,245 (9,128) 35,605 (26,693) 1,031 Total 178,392 (277,843) 727,633 (427,055) 201,129 Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 81 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 15 CURRENT AND DEFERRED TAXES, continued g.3) Direct punishments and recoveries As of December 31, 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Direct Punishment Art, 31 No, 4, second paragraph (32,709) (38,549) Condonations that originated liberation of provisions Recoveries or renegotiations of credits written off 82,487 88,481 Total 49,778 49,932 g.4) Application Article 31 No, 4 paragraphs I and II As of December 31, 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Punishment according to first paragraph Condonations according to third paragraph 5,602 5,974 Total 5,602 5,974 Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 82 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 16 OTHER ASSETS Other assets include the following: As of December 31, 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ 67,139 47,486 Assets for leasing (1) Assets received or awarded in lieu of payment (2) Assets received in lieu of payment 12,387 11,297 Assets awarded at judicial sale 22,177 21,524 Provision on assets received in lieu of payment or awarded (2,042) (723) Subtotal 32,522 32,098 Other assets Guarantee deposits (margin accounts) (3) 314,616 170,232 Non-current assets classified as held for sale (4) 22,394 Gold investments 680 522 VAT credit 22,663 9,097 Prepaid expenses 432,030 477,819 Assets recovered from leasing for sale 3,575 6,848 Valuation Adjustments by macrohedge (5) 210,867 9,414 Pension plan assets 670 846 Accounts and notes receivable 147,108 59,511 43,354 78,330 Notes receivable through brokerage and simultaneous transactions Other receivable assets 44,262 48,612 Other assets 92,428 44,173 Subtotal 1,334,647 905,404 Total 1,434,308 984,988 (1) Correspondence to the assets available to be delivered under the financial lease modality. (2) The goods received in payment correspond to the goods received as payment of debts due from the customers, The set of goods that remain acquired in this way must not exceed 20% of the Bank's effective equity at any time. These assets currently represent 0.29% (0.28% as of December 31, 2018) of the Bank's effective equity. The assets awarded in judicial auction, correspond to assets that have been acquired at judicial auction in payment of debts previously contracted with the Bank. The assets acquired at judicial auction are not subject to the above mentioned margin, These properties are assets available for sale, For most assets, the sale can be completed within one year from the date the asset is received or acquired, In case the good is not sold within a year, it must be punished. Additionally, a provision is recorded for the difference between the initial award value plus the additions and their estimated realizable value, when the former is higher. (3) Corresponds to a guarantee thershold associated with a specific derivative contract. These guarantees operate when the valuation of the derivatives exceeds thresholds defined in the contract values and may be for or against the Bank. (4) Corresponds to the interests in Redbanc S.A., Transbank S.A. and Nexus S.A., which have been reclassified as non-current assets classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 “Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations “, for additional information see Note 1 t) and Note 40. (5) Net assets and liabilities fair value valuation subject to macro hedges. See Note 8 . Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 83 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 17 DEPOSITS AND OTHER LIABILITIES As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the composition of the item time deposits and other liabilities is as follows: As of December 31, 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Deposits and other demand liabilities Checking accounts 8,093,108 6,794,132 Other deposits and demand accounts 741,103 709,711 Other demand liabilities 1,463,221 1,237,574 Total 10,297,432 8,741,417 Time deposits and other time liabilities Time deposits 13,064,932 12,944,846 Time savings account 123,787 118,587 Other time liabilities 4,098 4,386 Total 13,192,817 13,067,819 Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 84 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 18 INTERBANK BORROWINGS As of December 31, 2019 and 2018 the line item interbank borrowings is as follow: As of December 31 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Loans obtained from the Central Bank of Chile Other obligations with the Central Bank of Chile Loans from financial institutions in the country 286,603 Loans from financial institutions abroad Bank of America N.A. Us Foreig 355,051 338,906 Citibank N.A. 269,841 Mizuho Bank Ltd Ny 269,404 223,829 Wells Fargo Bank N.A. 231,823 Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation 179,415 278,765 Standard Chartered Bank 153,373 50,960 The Bank of Nova Scotia 134,819 163,927 The Bank of New York Mellon 119,616 69,921 Barclays Bank Plc London 98,803 34,965 Corporacion Andina De Fomento 75,097 52,371 Zürcher Kantonalbank 75,002 The Toronto Dominion Bank 71,191 Hsbc Bank Plc 69,786 34,936 Bank of Montreal 56,123 31 State Bank of India 28,231 331 Banco Latinoamericano De Comer 18,731 Banco Santander Brasil S.A. 7,873 8,040 Banco Santander Hong Kong 3,697 6,047 Standard Chartered Bank 3,613 843 Bank of China 952 7,777 Industrial and Commercial Bank 898 30 Banco Santander Central Hispano 848 1,295 Korea Exchange Bank 761 Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking 684 1,300 China Merchants Bank 597 Unicredito Italiano Spa 583 1,117 Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria 571 888 Rabobank, Hong Kong Branch 477 Bbva Bancomer, S.A. 553 Kbc Bank Nv 406 Bank of Communications 385 Bank of The West 261 Danske Bank A/S 224 Deutsche Bank A.G. 193 5,558 Kookmin Bank 185 Caixabank S.A. 166 E. Sun Commercial Bank Ltd. 159 Bank of Tokio Mitsubishi 156 1,032 Woori Bank 155 Agricultural Bank of China 152 106 Bank of Taiwan 135 127 Shinhan Bank 133 Taiwan Cooperative Bank 131 Keb Hana Bank 119 United Bank of India 113 378 Banca Di Credito Cooperativo A 112 Joint Stock Commercial Bank Fo. 110 33 Banca Nazionale Del Lavoro S.P 106 77 Hua Nan Commercial Bank Ltd. 102 164 Industrial Bank of Korea 96 195 Banco Bradesco S.A. 84 89 Bank of Ningbo 83 Bank of East Asia, Limited 82 205 Hdfc Bank Limited 72 China Everbright Bank 70 Cassa Di Risparmio Di Parma E 69 Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. 67 Banco Bpm Spa 66 21 Canara Bank 66 Banco Comercial Portugues 63 Caixa Destalvis I Pensions de Barcelona 63 Shanghai Pudong Development Ba 59 237 Subtotal 2,232,856 984,501 Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 85 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 18 INTERBANK BORROWINGS, continued As of December 31 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Loans from financial institutions in the country Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena 58 179 Banca Commerciale Italiana S.P. 50 288 Fortis Bank S.A./N.V. Brussels 50 42 Habib Bank Limited 38 Kasikornbank Public Company Li 33 Banco Rio De La Plata S.A. 24 Australia And New Zealand Bank 23 Banco de la Republica Oriental 23 41 Citic Industrial Bank 19 Shangai Pudong Development Ban 14 Banco Caixa Geral 10 Bank of Baroda 9 37 Shanghai Commercial and Saving 6 33 Hsbc Bank USA 2 394 Akbank T.A.S. 106 Banca Lombarda E Piemontese S. 60 Banca Popolare Dell’Emilia Rom 31 Banca Popolare Di Milano S.C.A 6 Banco Commerzbank 19 Banco de Galicia Y Buenos Aires 231 Banco De Sabadell S.A. 20 Banco Internacional S.A. 33 Banco Itau S.A. 14 Banistmo S.A. 32 Bank of India 51 Bank of Shanghai 134 Bankinter S.A. 24 Banque Bruxelles Lambert S.A. 509 Bnp Paribas, Hong Kong Branch 3,554 Caixabank S.A. 44 Cajas Rurales Unidas 18 Canara Bank 237 Casa Di Risparmo De Padova E.R. 30 Cassa Di Risparmio In Bologna 21 Chang Hwa Commercial Bank Ltd. 18 China Construcción Bank 35 Citibank N.A. 241,041 Credit Agricole 106 Credit Lyonnais 139 Development Bank of Singapore 3 Dexia Bank SA 789 First Union National Bank 201 Hang Seng Bank (China) Limited 6 Hanvit Bank 58 Hdfc Bank Limited 28 Hsbc Bank Middle East 77 International Commercial Bank 70 Kbc Bank Nv 23 Keb Hana Bank 2,318 Kookmin Bank 78 Mega International Commercial 9 Metropolitan Bank Limited 170 Oriental Bank of Commerce 87 Rabobank, Hong Kong Branch 1,548 Raiffeisen Bank Polska S.A. 31 Shinhan Bank 380 Taiwan Business Bank 19 Taiwan Cooperative Bank 66 U.S. Bank (Formerly First Bank) 18 United World Chinese Commercial Bank 15 Wachovia Bank N.A. 33,499 Wells Fargo Bank N.A. 216,749 Woori Bank 356 Subtotal 359 504,125 Total 2,519,818 1,788,626 Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 86 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 18 INTERBANK BORROWINGS, continued b) Obligation with Central Bank of Chile Debts to the Central Bank of Chile include credit lines for renegotiation of loans and other borrowings, These credit lines were provided by the Central Bank of Chile for renegotiation of loans due to the need to refinance debt as a result of the economic recession and crisis of the banking system in the eaerly 1980s, The outstanding amounts owed to the Central Bank of Chile under these credit lines are as follows: As of December 31, 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Totals Line of credit for renegotiation with Central Bank of Chile c) Loans from domestic financial institutions these obligations maturities are as follows: As of December, 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Due Within 1 year 158,855 Due Within 1 y 2 years 117,344 Due Within 2 y 3 years 8,167 Due Within 3 y 4 years 2,237 Due Within 5 years Total loans from domestic financial institutions 286,603 d) Foreign obligations As of December 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Due Within 1 year 1,970,790 1,648,955 Due Within 1 y 2 years 225,025 139,671 Due Within 2 y 3 years 37,400 Due Within 3 y 4 years Due Within 5 years Total loans from foreign financial institutions 2,233,215 1,788,626 Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 87 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 19 ISSUED DEBT INSTRUMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the composition of this item is as follows: As of December 31, 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Other financial liabilities Obligations to public sector 9,198 32,449 Other domestic obligations 204,705 175,210 Foreign obligations 12,455 7,741 Subtotal 226,358 215,400 Issued debt instruments Mortgage finance bonds 18,502 25,490 Senior bonds 8,574,213 7,198,865 Mortgage Bonds 89,924 94,921 Subordinated bonds 818,084 795,957 Subtotal 9,500,723 8,115,233 Total 9,727,081 8,330,633 Debts classified as current are either demand obligations or will mature in one year or less, All other debts are classified as non-current, The Bank’s debts, both current and non-current, are summarized below: As of December 31, 2019 Current Non-current Total MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Mortgage finance bonds 6,013 12,489 18,502 Senior bonds 2,078,202 6,496,011 8,574,213 Mortgage Bonds 5,137 84,787 89,924 Subordinated bonds 818,084 818,084 Issued debt instruments 2,089,352 7,411,371 9,500,723 Other financial liabilities 226,033 325 226,358 Total 2,315,385 7,411,696 9,727,081 As of December 31, 2018 Current Non-current Total MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Mortgage finance bonds 6,830 18,660 25,490 Senior bonds 844,898 6,353,967 7,198,865 Mortgage Bonds 4,833 90,088 94,921 Subordinated bonds 1 795,956 795,957 Issued debt instruments 856,562 7,258,671 8,115,233 Other financial liabilities 205,871 9,529 215,400 Total 1,062,433 7,268,200 8,330,633 Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 88 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 19 ISSUED DEBT INSTRUMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES, continued a) Mortgage finance bonds These bonds are used to finance mortgage loans, Their principal amounts are amortized on a quarterly basis, The range of maturities of these bonds is between five and twenty years, Loans are indexed to UF and create a yearly interest rate of 5.39% as of December 31, 2019 (5.43% as of December 31, 2018), As of December 31, 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Due within 1 year 6,013 6,830 Due after 1 year but within 2 years 4,944 5,946 Due after 2 years but within 3 years 3,928 5,034 Due after 3 years but within 4 years 2,442 3,997 Due after 4 years but within 5 years 1,005 2,480 Due after 5 years 170 1,203 Total mortgage finance bonds 18,502 25,490 b) Senior bonds The following table shows senior bonds by currency: As of December 31, 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Santander bonds in UF 4,814,604 4,095,741 Santander bonds in USD 1,649,238 1,094,267 Santander bonds in CHF 499,485 386,979 Santander bonds in Ch$ 1,242,633 1,291,900 Santander bonds in AUD 124,748 24,954 Santander bonds in JPY 77,797 191,598 Santander bonds in EUR 165,708 113,426 Total senior bonds 8,574,213 7,198,865 Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 89 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 19 ISSUED DEBT INSTRUMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES, continued I, Placement of senior bonds: During 2019 the Bank has placed bonds for UF 29,678,000, CLP 115,000,000,000, EUR 30,000,000, AUD 160,000,000 y en CHF 250,000,000, detailed as follows: Series Maximum Maturity Series Currency Amount placed Term (years) Issuance rate Issue date amount date T7 UF 5,000,000 4 2,50% 01-02-2016 5,000,000 01-02-2023 T8 UF 5,678,000 4 y 6 months 2,55% 01-02-2016 5,678,000 01-08-2023 T14 UF 9,000,000 8 2,80% 01-02-2016 18,000,000 01-02-2027 T6 UF 5,000,000 10 1,70% 01-11-2018 5,000,000 01-05-2029 T10 UF 5,000,000 5 y 4 months 2,60% 01-02-2016 5,000,000 01-08-2024 Total UF 29,678,000 38,678,000 U9 CLP 75,000,000,000 2 y 8 months ICP + 0,80% 01-11-2018 75,000,000,000 19-11-2021 P-5 CLP 75,000,000,000 2 y 6 months 5,3% 01-03-2015 150,000,000,000 01-03-2022 Total CLP 150,000,000,000 225,000,000,000 EUR EUR 30,000,000 7 1,10% 01-02-2019 40,000,000 07-02-2026 EUR EUR 25,000,000 15 1,25% 26-11-2019 25,000,000 26-11-2034 Total EUR 55,000,000 65,000,000 AUD AUD 22,000,000 15 3,66% 20-05-2019 22,000,000 20-05-2034 AUD AUD 20,000,000 5 1,13% 11-07-2019 20,000,000 11-07-2024 AUD AUD 28,000,000 5 1,13% 17-07-2019 28,000,000 17-07-2024 AUD AUD 15,000,000 5 1,13% 17-07-2019 15,000,000 17-07-2024 AUD AUD 75,000,000 20 3,05% 30-08-2019 75,000,000 28-02-2039 AUD AUD 12,000,000 15 3,16% 12-11-2019 12,000,000 20-11-2034 AUD AUD 13,000,000 15 2,91% 21-11-2019 13,000,000 27-11-2034 Total AUD 185,000,000 185,000,000 CHF CHF 150,000,000 5 y 6 months 0,38% 12-03-2019 150,000,000 27-09-2024 CHF CHF 100,000,000 10 0,14% 29-08-2019 100,000,000 29-08-2029 Total CHF 250,000,000 250,000,000 Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 90 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 19 ISSUED DEBT INSTRUMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES, continued During 2019 the Bank repurchased the following bonds: Date Type Currency Amount 12-02-2019 Senior CLP 10,000,000,000 14-02-2019 Senior CLP 30,000,000,000 19-02-2019 Senior CLP 4,200,000,000 22-02-2019 Senior CLP 14,240,000,000 22-02-2019 Senior CLP 30,000,000 22-02-2019 Senior CLP 10,000,000 01-03-2019 Senior CLP 11,800,000,000 04-03-2019 Senior CLP 40,080,000,000 05-03-2019 Senior CLP 20,000,000,000 15-03-2019 Senior UF 156,000 19-03-2019 Senior UF 418,000 20-03-2019 Senior CLP 6,710,000,000 20-03-2019 Senior UF 154,000 21-03-2019 Senior UF 100,000 25-03-2019 Senior UF 100,000 26-03-2019 Senior UF 90,000 08-04-2019 Senior CLP 3,950,000,000 10-04-2019 Senior UF 409,000 16-04-2019 Senior UF 55,000 17-04-2019 Senior CLP 130,000,000 18-04-2019 Senior CLP 330,000,000 16-05-2019 Senior CLP 14,880,000,000 16-05-2019 Senior UF 9,000 13-06-2019 Senior UF 1,000 01-10-2019 Senior CLP 10,960,000,000 02-10-2019 Senior CLP 100,000,000 04-10-2019 Senior CLP 60,000,000 05-11-2019 Senior CLP 15,220,000,000 07-11-2019 Senior CLP 3,620,000,000 13-11-2019 Senior CLP 5,320,000,000 14-11-2019 Senior UF 2,977,000 28-11-2019 Senior UF 340,000 02-12-2019 Senior UF 105,000 Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 91 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 19 ISSUED DEBT INSTRUMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES, continued During 2018 the Bank has placed bonds for UF 23,000,000, CLP 225,000,000,000, USD 70,000,000, EUR 66,000,000, AUD 20,000,000, CHF 115,000,000, y en JPY 7,000,000,000, detailed as follows: Term Issuance rate Maturity Series Currency Amount placed Issue date Amount (years) (Annual) date T1 UF 4,000,000 2 2,20% 01-02-2016 7,000,000 01-02-2020 T4 UF 4,000,000 3 2,35% 01-02-2016 8,000,000 01-08-2021 T11 UF 5,000,000 7 2,65% 01-02-2016 5,000,000 01-02-2025 T12 UF 5,000,000 7 2,70% 01-02-2016 5,000,000 01-08-2025 T15 UF 5,000,000 11 3,00% 01-02-2016 5,000,000 01-08-2028 Total UF 23,000,000 30,000,000 P5 CLP 75,000,000,000 4 5,30% 05-03-2015 150,000,000,000 01-03-2022 U4 CLP 75,000,000,000 3 y 4 months ICP + 1,00% 10-01-2017 75,000,000,000 10-01-2022 U3 CLP 75,000,000,000 2 y 7 months ICP + 1,00% 11-06-2018 75,000,000,000 11-06-2021 Total CLP 225,000,000,000 300,000,000,000 USD USD 50,000,000 10 4,17% 10-10-2018 50,000,000 10-10-2028 USD USD 20,000,000 2 0,03% 16-11-2018 20,000,000 16-11-2020 Total USD 70,000,000 70,000,000 EUR EUR 26,000,000 7 1,00% 04-05-2018 26,000,000 28-05-2025 EUR EUR 40,000,000 12 1,78% 07-06-2018 40,000,000 15-06-2030 Total EUR 66,000,000 66,000,000 AUD AUD 20,000,000 5 3,56% 13-11-2018 20,000,000 13-11-2023 Total AUD 20,000,000 20,000,000 CHF CHF 115,000,000 5 y 3 months 0,44% 21-09-2018 115,000,000 21-12-2023 Total CHF 115,000,000 115,000,000 JPY JPY 4,000,000,000 10 y 6 months 0,65% 13-07-2018 4,000,000,000 13-01-2029 JPY JPY 3,000,000,000 5 56,00% 30-10-2018 3,000,000,000 30-10-2023 Total JPY 7,000,000,000 7,000,000,000 Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 92 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 19 ISSUED DEBT INSTRUMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES, continued During 2018, the Bank repurchased the following bonds: Date Type Currency Amount 04-01-2018 Senior CLP 12,890,000,000 04-01-2018 Senior CLP 4,600,000,000 22-01-2018 Senior UF 24,000 05-04-2018 Senior UF 484,000 06-04-2018 Senior UF 184,000 23-04-2018 Senior UF 216,000 24-04-2018 Senior UF 4,000 25-04-2018 Senior UF 262,000 10-05-2018 Senior UF 800,000 07-06-2018 Senior USD 3,090,000 11-12-2018 Senior USD 250,000,000 ii, Maturities of senior bonds are as follows: As of December 31, 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Due within 1 year 2,078,202 844,898 Due after 1 year but within 2 years 1,147,825 1,331,255 Due after 2 years but within 3 years 1,221,393 1,073,847 Due after 3 years but within 4 years 742,338 1,104,547 Due after 4 years but within 5 years 1,278,746 421,918 Due after 5 years 2,105,809 2,422,400 Total senior bonds 8,574,213 7,198,865 c) Mortgage bonds Detail of mortgage bonds per currency is as follows: As of December 31, 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Mortgage bonds in UF 89,924 94,921 Total mortgage bonds 89,924 94,921 i, Placement of Mortgage bonds During 2019 and 2018, the Bank has not placed any mortgage bonds, Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 93 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 19 ISSUED DEBT INSTRUMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES, continued ii, Maturities of mortgage bonds is as follows: As of December 31, 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Due within 1 year 5,137 4,833 Due after 1 year but within 2 years 8,248 7,758 Due after 2 years but within 3 years 8,514 8,008 Due after 3 years but within 4 years 8,788 8,267 Due after 4 years but within 5 years 9,072 8,534 Due after 5 years 50,165 57,521 Total mortgage bonds 89,924 94,921 d) Subordinated bonds Detail of subordinated bonds per currency is as follows: As of December 31, 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Subordinated bonds denominated in Ch$ 1 Subordinated bonds denominated in USD Subordinated bonds denominated in UF 818,084 795,956 Total subordinated bonds 818,084 795,957 i, Placement of subordinated bonds During 2019 and 2018, the Bank has not placed any mortgage bonds, The maturity of subordinated bonds considered long-term is as follows: As of December 31, 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Due within 1 year 1 Due after 1 year but within 2 years Due after 2 years but within 3 years Due after 3 years but within 4 years Due after 4 years but within 5 years Due after 5 years 818,084 795,956 Total subordinated bonds 818,084 795,957 Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 94 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 19 ISSUED DEBT INSTRUMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES, continued e) Other financial liabilities The composition of other financial liabilities, by maturity, is detailed below: As of December 31 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Non-current portion: Due after 1 year but within 2 years 40 9,221 Due after 2 year but within 3 years 43 40 Due after 3 year but within 4 years 47 44 Due after 4 year but within 5 years 52 48 Due after 5 years 143 176 Non-current portion subtotal 325 9,529 Current portion: Amounts due to credit card operators 151,984 172,425 Acceptance of letters of credit 5,709 2,894 Other long-term financial obligations, short-term portion 68,340 30,552 Current portion subtotal 226,033 205,871 226,358 215,400 Total other financial liabilities Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 95 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 20 MATURITY OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the detail of the maturities of assets and liabilities is as follows: Between 3 Between 1 Between 3 Subtotal As of December 31, 2019 Up to Between 1 and and Subtotal and and More than More than 1 Demand 1 month 3 months 12 months up to 1 year 3 years 5 years 5 years year Total MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Financial Assets Cash and deposits in banks 3,554,520 3,554,520 3,554,520 Cash items in process of collection 355,062 355,062 355,062 Trading investments 38,644 645 39,289 181,705 37,659 11,551 230,915 270,204 Investments under resale agreements Financial derivatives contracts 371,775 400,196 1,543,446 2,315,417 1,383,493 1,346,329 3,103,369 5,833,191 8,148,608 Interbank loans (1) 13,647 919 286 14,852 14,852 Loans and accounts receivables from customers (2) 315,191 2,958,221 2,408,280 5,658,557 11,340,249 6,004,493 3,610,620 11,761,521 21,376,634 32,716,883 Available for sale investments 1,131,500 3,752 52,130 1,187,382 508,596 725,419 1,588,875 2,822,890 4,010,272 Held to maturity investments Guarantee deposits (margin accounts) 314,616 314,616 314,616 Total financial assets 4,539,389 4,513,787 2,813,147 7,255,064 19,121,387 8,078,287 5,720,027 16,465,316 30,263,630 49,385,017 Financial Liabilities Deposits and other demand liabilities 10,297,432 10,297,432 10,297,432 Cash items in process of collection 198,248 198,248 198,248 Obligations under repurchase agreements 380,055 380,055 380,055 Time deposits and other time liabilities 142,273 5,184,567 4,905,414 2,417,703 12,649,957 357,856 163,121 21,883 542,860 13,192,817 Financial derivatives contracts 422,749 427,825 951,684 1,802,258 1,253,280 1,180,948 3,154,168 5,588,396 7,390,654 Interbank borrowings 94 363,560 624,167 1,141,824 2,129,645 387,936 390,176 2,519,818 2,237 Issued debts instruments 285,159 759,519 1,044,674 2,089,352 2,394,850 2,042,291 2,974,229 7,411,371 9,500,723 Other financial liabilities 161,021 5,155 30,969 28,888 226,033 83 99 143 325 226,358 Obligations for lease agreements 26,601 26,601 45,978 36,393 50,062 132,433 158,494 Guarantees received (margin accounts) 994,714 994,714 994,714 Total financial liabilities 11,793,782 6,641,245 6,747,894 5,610,834 30,793,755 4,439,983 3,425,089 6,200,485 14,065,558 44,859,313 (1) Interbank loans are presented on a gross basis, The amount of allowances is Ch$19 million, (2) Loans and accounts receivables from customers are presented on a gross basis, Provisions amounts according to type of loan are detailed as follows: Commercial loans Ch$512,442 million, Mortgage loans Ch$68,461 million, Consumer loans Ch$312,245 million, Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 96 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 20 MATURITY OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES, continued Between 1 Between 3 Between 1 Between 3 Subtotal As of December 31, 2018 Up to and and Subtotal and and More than More than 1 Demand 1 month 3 months 12 months up to 1 year 3 years 5 years 5 years year Total MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Assets Cash and deposits in banks 2,065,441 2,065,441 2,065,441 Cash items in process of collection 353,757 353,757 353,757 Trading investments 1,064 11,642 12,706 16,331 20,080 27,924 64,335 77,041 Investments under resale agreements Financial derivatives contracts 111,268 128,024 543,722 783,014 723,622 552,133 1,041,866 2,317,621 3,100,635 Interbank loans (1) 9,427 3,220 2,447 15,094 15,094 Loans and accounts receivables from customers (2) 238,213 3,285,576 2,320,222 4,946,887 10,790,898 5,474,289 3,236,349 10,765,393 19,476,031 30,266,929 Available for sale investments 2,391,329 1 2,391,330 86 2,907 2,993 2,394,323 Held to maturity investments Guarantee deposits (margin accounts) 170,232 170,232 170,232 Total assets 2,827,643 5,798,664 2,451,466 5,504,699 16,582,472 6,214,328 3,808,562 11,838,090 21,860,980 38,443,452 Liabilities Deposits and other demand liabilities 8,741,417 8,741,417 8,741,417 Cash items in process of collection 163,043 163,043 163,043 Obligations under repurchase agreements 48,545 48,545 48,545 Time deposits and other time liabilities 122,974 5,248,418 4,108,556 3,326,199 12,806,147 191,547 6,137 63,988 261,672 13,067,819 Financial derivatives contracts 131,378 120,361 349,551 601,290 495,789 471,185 949,464 1,916,438 2,517,728 Interbank borrowings 39,378 16,310 404,575 1,188,692 1,648,955 139,671 139,671 1,788,626 Issued debts instruments 71,465 39,267 745,830 856,562 2,431,849 1,549,743 3,277,079 7,258,671 8,115,233 Other financial liabilities 179,681 934 2,412 22,844 205,871 9,261 92 176 9,529 215,400 Guarantees received (margin accounts) 540,091 540,091 540,091 Total liabilities 9,786,584 5,517,050 4,675,171 5,633,116 25,611,921 3,268,117 2,027,157 4,290,707 9,585,981 35,197,902 (1) Interbank loans are presented on a gross basis, The amount of allowances is Ch$86 million, (2) Loans and accounts receivables from customers are presented on a gross basis, Provisions on loans amounts according to customer type: Commercial loans Ch$462,865 million, Mortgage loans Ch$69,066 million, Consumer loans Ch$283,756 million, Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 97 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 21 PROVISIONS a) As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the detail for the provisions is as follows: As of December 31, 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Provision for employee salaries and expenses 101,223 93,379 Provision for mandatory dividends 165,628 177,571 Provision for contingent loan risks: Provision for lines of credit of immediate disponibility 21,411 14,666 Other provisions for contingent loans 17,195 14,741 Provision for contingencies 15,388 8,963 Provision additional 16,000 20,000 Provision for foreign bank loans 552 620 Total 337,397 329,940 b) Below is the activity regarding provisions during the year ended December 31, 2019 and 2018: Provision Benefits and remuneration Minimum Risk of credits s to the staff dividends quotas Contingent Additional Risk country Total MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Balances as of January 1, 2019 93,379 177,571 29,407 8,963 20,000 620 329,940 Provision established 78,316 165,628 15,879 27,975 16,000 398 304,196 Application of provisions (70,385) (177,571) (155) (248,111) Provisions relased (552) (6,680) (21,395) (20,000) (466) (49,093) Reclasification Other 465 465 Balances as of December 31, 2019 101,223 165,628 38,606 15,388 16,000 552 337,397 Balances as of January 1, 2018 97,576 169,444 29,407 27,303 599 324,329 Provision established 80,912 177,571 5,011 19,447 20,000 200 303,141 Application of provisions (72,975) (169,444) (4,431) (246,850) Provisions relased (3,195) (5,011) (33,356) (179) (41,741) Reclasification Other (8,939) (8,939) Balances as of December 31, 2018 93,379 177,571 29,407 8,963 20,000 620 329,940 Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 98 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 21 PROVISIONS, continued c) Provisions for personal salaries and expenses As of December 31, 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Provision for seniority compensation 6,797 9,531 Provision for stock-based personal benefits Provision for performance bonds 68,595 59,633 Provision for vacation 23,864 22,792 Provision for other personal benefits 1,967 1,423 Total 101,223 93,379 d) Compensation year of services As of December 31, 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Balances as of January, 2018 9,531 17,874 Increase in the provision 3,782 10,753 Payments made (6,435) (8,414) Advance payments Released of provisions (84) (2,858) Other movements 3 (7,824) Total 6,797 9,531 e) Movement of the provision for compliance bonds: As of December 31, 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Balances as of January 1, 2018 59,633 53,947 Provisions constituted 61,808 58,229 Provisioning application (52,839) (51,954) Release of provisions (468) (337) Other movements 461 (252) Total 68,595 59,633 f) Movement of holyday provition As of December 31, 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Balances as of January 1, 2018 22,792 23,039 Provisions constituted 11,644 11,167 Provisioning application (10,572) (10,551) Release of provisions Other movements (863) Total 23,864 22,792 Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 99 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 22 OTHER LIABILITIES Other liabilities consist of: As of December 31, 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Accounts and notes payable 214,216 163,216 Income received in advance 640 673 Valuation Adjustments by macrohedge 7,039 Guarantees received (margin accounts) (1) 994,714 540,091 Notes payable through brokerage and simultaneous transactions (2) 1,418,340 50,807 Other payable obligations 61,555 94,779 Withheld VAT 8,147 1,990 Accounts payable by insurance companies 9,510 8,424 Other liabilities 99,203 33,389 Total 2,806,325 900,408 (1) Guarantee deposits thershold (margin accounts) correspond collaterals associated with derivative financial contracts to mitigate the counterparty credit risk and are mainly established in cash, These guarantees operate when mark to market of derivative financial instruments exceed the levels of threshold agreed in the contracts, wich could result the the Bank deliver or receive collateral. (2) In December 2019, Santander Corredora de Bolsa acted as an intermediary in the public offering of shares held between Latam and Delta, which was passed to the shareholders on January 3, 2020. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 100 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 23 CONTINGENCIES AND COMMITMENTS a) Lawsuits and legal procedures At the date these financial statements were issued, the Bank and its affiliates were subject to certain legal actions in the normal course of their business, As of December 31, 2019, the Banks and its subsidiaries have provisions for this item of Ch$1,274 million (Ch$923 million as of December 31, 2018) which is included in “Provisions” in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as provisions for contingencies. As of December 31, 2019, the following legal situations are pending: Santander Corredores de Bolsa Limitada Judgment Echeverría with Santander Corredora (currently Santander Corredores de Bolsa Ltda ,), followed before the 21st Civil Court of Santiago, Case C-21,366-2014, on compensation for damages for faults in the purchase of shares, With regard to its actual situation as of December 31, 2019, Santander Corredores de Bolsa Limitada requested the Court to declare the proceeding abandoned due to the pending actions of the plaintiff, a situation that is pending for the Court to resolve. Santander Corredora de Seguros Limitada There are lawsuits amounting to 15,947,44 corresponding to processes mainly for goods delivered in leasing, Our lawyers have not estimated additional material losses for these trials. Santander Consumer Chile S.A. Trial “Salgado con Santander Consumer Chile S.A.”, followed by the 3rd Civil Court of Santiago, Role C-35865-2018, on the Prescription of promissory notes, the amount of the claim is for $ 11,270,414. “Hawas con Santander Consumer Chile S.A.” trial, followed by the 30th Civil Court of Santiago, Role C-890-2019, on Compensation for damages, the amount of the claim is for $ 55,000,000. Judgment “Morales con Santander Consumer Chile S.A.”, followed before the 5th Local Police Court of Santiago, Role 21.309-M-2018, on Violation of Law No. 19.496. b) Contingent loans To meet customer needs, the Bank acquired several irrevocable commitments and contingent liabilities, although these obligations should not be recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, these contain credit risks and are therefore part of the Bank's overall risk. The following table shows the Bank`s contractual obligations to issue loans: As of December 31, 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Letters of credit issued 140,572 223,420 Foreign letters of credit confirmed 70,192 57,038 Performance guarantees 1,929,894 1,954,205 Personal guarantees 451,950 133,623 Subtotal 2,592,608 2,368,286 Available on demand credit lines 8,732,422 8,997,650 Other irrevocable credit commitments 485,991 327,297 Total 11,811,021 11,693,223 Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 101 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 23 CONTINGENCIES AND COMMITMENTS, continued c) Held securities The Bank holds securities in the normal course of its business as follows: As of December 31, 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Third party operations Collections 90,966 99,784 Transferred financial assets managed by the Bank 21,507 26,262 Assets from third parties managed by the Bank and its affiliates 1,592,845 1,630,431 Subtotal 1,705,318 1,756,477 Custody of securities Securities held in custody 9,731,894 11,160,488 Securities held in custody deposited in other entity 1,206,541 861,405 Issued securities held in custody 21,636,819 12,335,871 Subtotal 32,575,254 24,357,764 Total 34,280,572 26,114,241 During 2019, the Bank classified the portfolios managed by private banking in “Assets from third parties managed by the Bank and its affiliates”, At the end of December 2019, the balance for this was Ch$1,592,810 million (Ch$1,630,396 million at December 31, 2018), d) Guarantees Banco Santander Chile has an integral bank policy of coverage of Official Loyalty N°5014196 in force with the company Compañía de Seguros Chilena Consolidada SA, Coverage USD 50,000,000 per claim with an annual limit of USD 100,000,000, which covers both the Bank and its subsidiaries, with an expiration date of June 30, 2020. Santander Asesorias Financieras Limitada In order to ensure the correct and full compliance of all its obligations as securities agent in accordance with the provisions of articles N° 30 and following of Law N° 18,045, on Stock Market, the company constituted a guarantee for UF4,000 with insurance policy N°217112981taken with the Insurance Company of Crédito Continental SA and whose maturity is December 19, 2020. Santander Corredores de Bolsa Limitada i) As of December 31, 2019 the Company has comprehensive guarantees in the Santiago Stock Exchange to cover simultaneous operations carried out through its own portfolio, for a total of Ch$ 6,360 (Ch$ 20,509 as of December 31, 2018). ii) Additionally, as of December 31, 2019, the Company holds a guarantee in CCLV Contraparte Central S,A,, in cash, for an amount of MCh$9,300 (MCh$ 5,000 as of December 31, 2018). iii) In order to ensure the correct and full compliance of all its obligations as Brokerage Broker, in accordance with the provisions of articles 30 and following of Law N°18,045 on Securities Market, the Company has delivered fixed-income securities to the Santiago Stock Exchange for a present value of MCh$1,010 as of December 31, 2019 (MCh$ 1,015 as of December 31, 2018). iv) As of December 31, 2019, the company has a guarantee for equity loans in the amount of $ 3,542 million ($ 5,960 million as of December 31, 2018). v) As of December 31, 2018, the Company has a guarantee voucher N° B013383 from Banco Santander Chile to comply with the provisions of general rule N° 120 of the Commission for the Financial Market (Ex-SVS) with respect to the placement, transfer and redemption of the Morgan Stanley funds in the amount of USD $ 300,000, which covers the participants who acquire quotas of foreign open funds Morgan Stanley Sicav a nd whose maturity is 21 February 2020. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 102 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 23 CONTINGENCIES AND COMMITMENTS, continued Santander Corredora de Seguros Limitada i) In accordance with those established in Circular N° 1,160 of the Superintendency of Securities and Insurance, the company has contracted an insurance policy to respond to the correct and full compliance with all obligations arising from its operations as an intermediary in the hiring insurance. ii) The insurance policy for insurance brokers N ° 4790718, which covers UF 500, and the professional liability policy for insurance brokers N° 4790716 for an amount equivalent to UF 60,000, were contracted with the Compañía de Seguros Generales Chilena Consolidada S,A, both are valid from April 15, 2019 to April 15, 2020. iii) The Company maintains a guarantee slip with Banco Santander Chile to guarantee the faithful fulfillment of the public bidding rules of the tax and deductibility insurance plus ITP 2/3 of the mortgage portfolio for the housing of Banco Santander Chile, The amount amounts to UF 10,000 for each portfolio respectively, both with an expiration date as of July 31, 2021. For the same reason, the Company maintains a guarantee voucher in compliance with the public tender for fire and earthquake insurance, the amount of which amounts to UF 200 and UF 10,000 with the same financial institution, both with an expiration date as of December 31, 2020. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 103 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 24 EQUITY a) Capital As of December 31, 2019 and 2018 the Bank had 188,446,126,794 shares outstanding, all of which are subscribed for and paid in full, amounting to Ch$ 891,303 million, All shares have the same rights, and have no preferences or restrictions, The movement in shares during 2019 and 2018 is as follows: Shares As of December 31, 2019 2018 Issued as of January 1 188,446,126,794 188,446,126,794 Issuance of paid shares Issuance of outstanding shares Stock options exercised Issued as period end 188,446,126,794 188,446,126,794 As of December 31, 2019 and 2018 the Bank does not own any of its shares in treasury, nor do any of the consolidated companies, As of December 31, 2019 the shareholder composition is as follows: % share Corporate Name or Shareholder`s Name Shares ADRs (*) Total holding Santander Chile Holding S,A, 66,822,519,695 66,822,519,695 35,46 Teatinos Siglo XXI Inversiones Limitada 59,770,481,573 59,770,481,573 31,72 The Bank of New York Mellon 24,822,041,271 24,822,041,271 13,17 Banks on behalf of third parties 15,957,137,883 15,957,137,883 8,47 Pension funds (AFP) on behalf of third parties 9,995,705,956 9,995,705,956 5,30 Stock brokers on behalf of third parties 5,551,024,270 5,551,024,270 2,95 Other minority holders 5,527,216,146 5,527,216,146 2,93 Total 163,624,085,523 24,822,041,271 188,446,126,794 100,00 (*) American Depository Receipts (ADR) are certificates issued by a U.S. commercial bank to be traded on the U.S. securities markets. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 104 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 24 EQUITY, continued As of December 31, 2018 the shareholder composition is as follows: % of equity Corporate Name or Shareholder`s Name Shares ADRs (*) Total holding Santander Chile Holding S,A, 66,822,519,695 66,822,519,695 35,46 Teatinos Siglo XXI Inversiones Limitada 59,770,481,573 59,770,481,573 31,72 The Bank of New York Mellon 26,486,000,071 26,486,000,071 14,05 Banks on behalf of third parties 15,451,106,985 15,451,106,985 8,20 Pension fund (AFP) on behalf of third parties 9,033,172,896 9,033,172,896 4,79 Stock brokers on behalf of third parties 4,773,558,507 4,773,558,507 2,53 Other minority holders 6,109,287,067 6,109,287,067 3,25 Total 161,960,126,723 26,486,000,071 188,446,126,794 100,00 (*) American Depository Receipts (ADR) are certificates issued by a U.S. commercial bank to be traded on the U.S. securities markets. b) Reserves During 2019, on the Shareholders Meeting held in April, it is agreed to capitalize on reserves 40% of retained earnings from previous years, equivalent to $236,761 million ($141,204 million in the year 2018, 25% of retained earnings from previous years). As a result of the purchase of Santander Consumer S.A., the Bank has recorded negative equity effect of MCh$38,635, since the Bank apply “predecessor accounting method”, and the difference between the consideration transferred and the acquired net asset is recorded in equity, within reserves. Note 3. c) Dividends The distribution of dividends has been disclosed in the Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity. d) Diluted earnings per share and basic earnings per share As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the composition of diluted earnings per share and basic earnings per share are as follows: As of December 31, 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ a) Basic earnings per share Total attributable to equity holders of the Bank 552,093 591,902 Weighted average number of outstanding shares 188,446,126,794 188,446,126,794 Basic earnings per share (in Ch$) 2,930 3,141 Basic earnings per share from continuing operations (in Ch$) 2,921 3,121 b) Diluted earnings per share Total attributable to equity holders of the Bank 552,093 591,902 Weighted average number of outstanding shares 188,446,126,794 188,446,126,794 Assumed conversion of convertible debt Adjusted number of shares 188,446,126,794 188,446,126,794 Diluted earnings per share (in Ch$) 2,930 3,141 Basic earnings per share from continuing operations (in Ch$) 2,921 3,121 As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the Bank does not own instruments with dilutive effects. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 105 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 24 EQUITY, continued e) Other comprehensive income of available for sale investments and cash flow hedges: As of December 31, 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Available for sale investments As of January 1, 6,424 1,855 Gain (losses) on the re-valuation of available for sale investments, before tax (16,023) 6,071 Reclassification from other comprehensive income to net income for the year Net income realized 39,997 (1,502) Subtotal 23,974 4,569 Total 30,398 6,424 Cash flow hedges As of January 1, 9,803 (3,562) Gains (losses) on the re-valuation of cash flow hedges, before tax (49,163) 14,048 Reclassification and adjustments on cash flow hedges, before tax (1,075) (683) Amounts removed from equity and included in carrying amount of non-financial asset (liability) whose acquisition or assignment was hedged as a highly probable transaction Subtotal (50,238) 13,365 Total (40,435) 9,803 Other comprehensive income, before tax (10,037) 16,227 Income tax related to other comprehensive income components Income tax relating to available for sale investments (8,208) (1,735) Income tax relating to cash flow hedges 10,919 (2,646) Total 2,711 (4,381) Other comprehensive income, net of tax (7,326) 11,846 Attributable to: Equity holders of the Bank (8,093) (10,890) Non-controlling interest 767 956 The Bank expects that the results included in Other comprehensive income will be reclassified to profit or loss when the specific conditions have been met. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 106 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 24 CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS (BASEL) In accordance with Chilean General Banking Law, the Bank must maintain a minimum ratio of effective equity to risk-weighted consolidated assets of 8% net of required allowances, and a minimum ratio of basic equity to consolidated total assets of 3%, net of required allowances, However, as a result of the Bank’s merger in 2002, the FMC has determined that the Bank’s combined effective equity cannot be lower than 11% of its risk-weighted assets, Effective net equity is defined for these purposes as basic equity (capital and reserves) plus subordinated bonds, up to a maximum of 50% of basic equity, Assets are allocated to different risk categories, each of which is assigned a weighting percentage according to the amount of capital required to be held for each type of asset, For example, cash, deposits in banks and financial instruments issued by the Central Bank of Chile have a 0% risk weighting, meaning that it is not necessary to hold equity to back these assets according to current regulations, Property, plant and equipment have a 100% risk weighting, meaning that a minimum capital equivalent to 11% of these assets must be held, All derivatives traded off the exchanges are also assigned a risk weighting, using a conversion factor applied to their notional values, to determine the amount of their exposure to credit risk, Off-balance-sheet contingent credits are also included for weighting purposes, as “Credit equivalents,”, According to Chapter 12-1 of the FMC’s Recopilación Actualizada de Normas [Updated Compilation of Rules] effective January 2010, the FMC changed existing regulation with the enforcement of Chapter B-3 from the Compendium of Accounting Standards, which changed the risk exposure of contingent allocations from 100% exposure to the following: Type of contingent loan Exposure a) Pledges and other commercial commitments 100% b) Foreign letters of credit confirmed 20% c) Letters of credit issued 20% d) Guarantees 50% e) Interbank guarantee letters 100% f) Available lines of credit 35% g) Other loan commitments: Higher education loans Law No, 20,027 15% Other 100% h) Other contingent loans 100% Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 107 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 25 CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS (BASEL), continued The levels of basic capital and effective net equity as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, are as follows: Consolidated assets Risk-weighted assets As of December 31, As of December 31, 2019 2018 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Balance-sheet assets (net of allowances) Cash and deposits in banks 3,554,520 2,065,441 Cash in process of collection 355,062 353,757 112,948 105,421 Trading investments 270,204 77,041 26,825 10,704 Investments under resale agreements Financial derivative contracts (*) 1,355,786 1,226,892 964,623 868,578 Interbank loans, net 14,833 15,065 14,833 15,064 Loans and accounts receivables from customers, net 31,823,735 29,470,370 27,316,050 25,403,426 Available for sale investments 4,010,272 2,394,323 258,958 172,859 Investments in associates and other companies 10,467 32,293 10,467 32,293 Intangible assets 73,389 66,923 73,389 66,923 Property, plant, and equipment 197,833 253,586 197,833 253,586 Current taxes 11,648 1,165 Deferred taxes 462,867 382,934 46,287 38,293 Other assets 1,434,308 984,988 1,421,361 983,299 Off-balance-sheet assets Contingent loans 4,938,194 4,624,073 2,823,713 2,649,730 Total 48,723,618 41,947,686 33,478,952 30,600,176 (*) “Financial derivative contracts” are presented at their “Credit Equivalent Risk” value as established in Chapter 12-1 of the Updated Compilation of Rules issued by the CMF. Ratio As of December 31, As of December 31, 2019 2018 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ % % Basic capital 3,390,823 3,239,546 6.96% 7.72 Effective net equity 4,304,401 4,101,664 12.86% 13.40 The ratios of basic capital and effective net equity at the close of each period are as follows: Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 108 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 26 NON-CONTROLLING INTEREST a) It reflects the net amount of equity of dependent entities attributable to capital instruments which do not belong, directly or indirectly, to the Bank, including the portion of the income for the period that has been attributed to them. The non-controlling interest included in the equity and the income from the subsidiaries is summarized as follows: Other comprehensive income NonAvailable for Total other As of December 31, 2019 controlling sale Deferred comprehensive Comprehensive interest Equity Income investments tax income income % MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Subsidiaries: Santander Corredora de Seguros Limitada 0.25 178 6 1 1 7 Santander Corredores de Bolsa Limitada 49.41 22,301 625 (261) 71 (190) 435 Santander Asesorias Financieras Limitada (*) 0.97 498 9 9 Santander S.A. Sociedad Securitizadora 0.36 2 Klare Corredora de Seguros S.A. 49.90 3,782 (503) (503) Santander Consumer Chile S.A. (**) 49.00 24,425 1,405 1,405 Subtotal 51,186 1,542 (260) 71 (189) 1,353 Entities controlled through other considerations: Santander Gestion de Recaudacion y Cobranzas Limitadas 100.00 3,777 1,031 1,031 Bansa Santander S.A. 100.00 20,051 (486) (486) Multiplica Spa 100.00 4,480 (4) (4) Subtotal 28,308 541 541 Total 79,494 2,083 (260) 71 (189) 1,894 (1) Ex Santander Agente de Valores Limitada. (2) On November27, 2019, the Bank acquired the 51% of Santander Consumer S.A., the remaining 49% is accounted as non-controlling interest. Other comprehensive income NonAvailable for Total other As of December 31, 2018 controlling sale Deferred comprehensive Comprehensive interest Equity Income investments tax income income % MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Subsidiaries: Santander Corredora de Seguros Limitada 0.25 172 4 (2) (2) 2 hugoSantander Corredores de Bolsa Limitada 49.41 21,673 755 (84) 2 (82) 673 Santander Agente de Valores Limitada 0.97 488 99 99 Santander S.A. Sociedad Securitizadora 0.36 2 Subtotal 22,335 858 (86) 2 (84) 774 Entities controlled through other considerations: Santander Gestión de Recaudación y Cobranzas Limitada 100,00 3,777 852 852 Bansa Santander S.A. (1) 100,00 20,051 2,650 2,650 Subtotal 23,828 3,502 3,502 Total 46,163 4,360 (86) 2 (84) 4,276 (1) In December 2018, the company Bansa Santander S.A., held a legal assignment of rights by leasing contract, which resulted in a result of $ 2,122 million before taxes ($20,663 million net of taxes). Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 109 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 26 NON-CONTROLLING INTEREST, continued b) A summary of the financial information of subsidiaries included in the consolidation with non-controlling interests (before consolidation or conforming adjustments) is as follows: As of December 31, 2019 2018 Net Net Income Assets Liabilities Capital Income Assets Liabilities Capital MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Santander Corredora de Seguros Limitada 82,918 12,372 68,159 2,387 77,764 9,595 66,374 1,795 Santander Corredores de Bolsa Limitada 1,479,974 1,434,843 43,866 1,265 102,228 57,999 42,691 1,538 Santander Asesorias Financieras Limitada (*) 51,505 51 50,481 973 50,552 71 40,177 10,304 Santander S.A. Sociedad Securitizadora 636 88 639 (91) 704 66 728 (90) Klare Corredora de Seguros S.A. 8,303 724 8,586 (1,007) Santander Consumer Chile S.A. 505,059 452,528 39,951 12,580 Santander Gestión de Recaudación y Cobranzas Limitada 8,200 3,392 3,777 1,031 6,932 3,155 2,925 852 Bansa Santander S.A. 87,607 68,042 20,051 (486) 20,437 386 17,401 2,650 Multiplica Spa 4,480 4 4,480 (4) Total 2,228,682 1,972,044 239,990 16,648 258,617 71,272 170,296 17,049 Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 110 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 27 INTEREST INCOME This item refers to interest earned in the period from the financial assets whose return, whether implicitly or explicitly, is determined by applying the effective interest rate method, regardless of the value at fair value, as well as the effect of hedge accounting, a) For the periods ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, the income from interest income, not including income from hedge accounting, is attributable to the following items: As of December 31, 2019 2018 Inflation Prepaid Inflation Prepaid Interest adjustments fees Total Interest adjustments fees Total Items MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Resale agreements 718 718 903 903 Interbank loans 1,263 1,263 897 897 Commercial loans 780,284 160,462 16,478 957,224 771,405 153,851 11,008 936,264 Mortgage loans 349,663 283,820 455 633,938 330,055 266,691 909 597,655 Consumer loans 593,592 384 8,107 602,083 579,929 439 6,166 586,534 Investment instruments 71,150 26,169 97,319 75,423 24,790 100,213 Other interest income 18,387 3,592 21,979 16,644 4,013 20,657 Interest income less income from hedge 1,815,057 474,427 25,040 2,314,524 1,775,256 449,784 18,083 2,243,123 accounting b) As indicated in section i) of Note 1, suspended interest relates to loans with payments over 90 days overdue, which are recor ded in off-balance sheet accounts until they are effectively received. As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the suspended interest and adjustments income consists of the following: As of December 31, 2019 2018 Inflation Inflation Interest adjustments Total Interest adjustments Total Items MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Commercial loans 13,675 9,248 22,923 13,453 8,904 22,357 Mortgage loans 3,729 284 4,013 3,030 6,304 9,334 Consumer loans 4,238 7,439 11,677 4,172 333 4,505 Total 21,642 16,971 38,613 20,655 15,541 36,196 Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 111 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 27 INTEREST INCOME, continued c) For the period ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, the expenses from interest expense, excluding expense from hedge accounting, are as follows: As of December 31, 2019 2018 Inflation Inflation Interest adjustments Total Interest adjustments Total Items MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Demand deposits (14,018) (1,508) (15,526) (14,914) (1,371) (16,285) Repurchase agreements (9,710) (9,710) (6,439) (6,439) Time deposits and liabilities (335,307) (27,172) (362,479) (317,061) (35,284) (352,345) Interbank borrowings (50,354) (50,354) (39,971) (39,971) Issued debt instruments (250,512) (145,487) (395,999) (241,455) (133,227) (374,682) Other financial liabilities (1,310) (33) (1,343) (2,698) (110) (2,808) Other interest expense (2,965) (2,965) (6,929) (10,497) (17,426) Interest expense less expenses from hedge accounting (16,651) (11,300) (27,951) (629,467) (180,489) (809,956) d) For the periods ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, the income and expense from interest is as follows: As of December 31, 2019 2018 Items MCh$ MCh$ Interest income less income from hedge accounting 2,314,524 2,243,123 Interest expense less expense from hedge accounting (866,327) (809,956) Net Interest income (expense) from hedge accounting 1,448,197 1,433,167 Hedge accounting (net) (31,346) (18,799) Total net interest income 1,416,851 1,414,368 Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 112 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 28 FEES AND COMMISSIONS a) Fees and commissions includes the value of fees earned and paid during the year, except those which are an integral part of the financial instrument`s effective interest rate: As of December 31, 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Fee and commission income Fees and commissions for lines of credits and overdrafts 10,315 6,624 Fees and commissions for guarantees and letters of credit 35,039 33,654 Fees and commissions for card services 225,702 218,903 Fees and commissions for management of accounts 35,949 33,865 Fees and commissions for collections and payments 33,355 40,077 Fees and commissions for intermediation and management of securities 10,154 10,147 Insurance brokerage fees 49,664 39,949 Office banking 13,655 15,921 Fees for other services rendered 47,331 45,633 Other fees earned 37,494 39,690 Total 498,658 484,463 As of December 31, 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Fee and commission expense Compensation for card operations (171,513) (163,794) Fees and commissions for securities transactions (1,001) (936) Office banking (1,860) (4,096) Other fees (37,198) (24,752) Total (211,572) (193,578) Net fees and commissions income 287,086 290,885 The fees earned in transactions with letters of credit are presented on the Consolidated Statement of Income in the item “Interest income”. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 113 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 28 FEES AND COMMISSIONS b) The income and expenses for the commissions of the business segments are presented below and the calendar for the recognition of income from ordinary activities is opened. Revenue recognition calendar for Segments ordinary activities As of December 31, 2019 Individuals and Companies and Global Corporate Transferred over Transferred at a PYMEs institutional Banking Others Total time specific time Accrual model MM$ MM$ MM$ MM$ MM$ MM$ MM$ MM$ Fee income Commissions by credit lines and overdrafts 6,123 935 3,240 17 10,315 10,315 Commissions for endorsements and letters of credit 11,553 17,531 5,842 113 35,039 35,039 Commissions for card services 218,635 6,042 950 75 225,702 41,347 184,355 Commissions for account management 32,608 2,515 823 3 35,949 35,949 Commissions for collections, collections and payments 36,129 2,185 464 (5,423) 33,355 12,854 20,501 Commissions for intermediation and management of values 3,219 245 8,301 (1,611) 10,154 10,154 Remuneration for insurance commercialization 49,664 49,664 49,664 Office Banking 9,280 3,782 606 (13) 13,655 13,655 Other remuneration for services rendered 42,499 3,748 839 245 47,331 47,331 Other commissions earned 12,462 10,727 14,293 12 37,494 37,494 Total 422,172 47,710 35,358 (6,582) 498,658 122,650 305,843 70,165 Commission expenses Remuneration for card operation (168,024) (3,475) (321) 307 (171,513) (171,513) Commissions for operation with securities (33) (968) (1,001) (1,001) Office banking (1,186) (389) (282) (3) (1,860) (1,860) Other commissions (22,335) (5,134) (5,619) (4,110) (37,198) (37,198) Total (191,545) (8,998) (6,255) (4,774) (211,572) (211,572) Total income and expenses for net commissions 230,627 38,712 29,103 (11,356) 287,086 122,650 (94,271) 70,165 Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 114 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 28 FEES AND COMMISSIONS The income and expenses for the commissions of the business segments are presented below and the calendar for the recognition of income from ordinary activities is opened. Revenue recognition calendar for ordinary Segments activities As of December 31, 2018 Companies Global Transferred Individuals and Corporate Transferred at a specific Accrual and PYMEs institutional Banking Others Total over time time model MM$ MM$ MM$ MM$ MM$ MM$ MM$ MM$ Fee income Commissions by credit lines and overdrafts 5,901 271 453 (1) 6,624 6,624 Commissions for endorsements and letters of 11,099 16,258 6,239 58 33,654 33,654 credit Commissions for card services 211,615 6,193 1,036 59 218,903 34,856 184,047 Commissions for account management 30,386 2,678 799 2 33,865 33,865 Commissions for collections, collections and 66,780 1,693 458 (28,854) 40,077 15,719 24,358 payments Commissions for intermediation and 4,050 134 7,221 (1,258) 10,147 10,147 management of values Remuneration for insurance commercialization 39,949 39,949 Office Banking 11,420 3,893 608 15,921 15,921 Other remuneration for services rendered 40,901 3,833 819 80 45,633 45,633 39,949 Other commissions earned 6,908 9,743 23,320 (281) 39,690 39,690 Total 389,060 44,696 40,953 9,754 484,463 108,999 311,157 64,307 Commission expenses Remuneration for card operation (159,817) (3,186) (134) (657) (163,794) (163,794) Commissions for operation with securities (169) (3) (419) (345) (936) (936) Office banking (2,374) (985) (722) (15) (4,096) (4,096) Other commissions (6,168) (3,776) (4,614) (10,194) (24,752) (24,752) Total (168,528) (7,950) (5,889) (11,211) (193,578) (193,578) Total income and expenses for net 220,532 36,746 35,064 (1,457) 290,885 108,999 117,579 64,307 commissions Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 115 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 29 NET INCOME (EXPENSE) FROM FINANCIAL OPERATIONS Includes the amount of the adjustments from the financial instruments variation, except those attributable to the interest accrued by the application of the effective interest rate method of the value adjustments of the assets, as well as the results obtained in their sale, For the periods ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, the detail of income from financial operations is as follows: As of December 31, 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Profit and loss from financial operations Trading derivatives (162,183) 38,217 Trading investments 11,878 9,393 Sale of loans and accounts receivables from customers Current portfolio 63 (309) Charged-off portfolio 3,248 709 Available for sale investments 63,672 8,479 Repurchase of issued bonds 3,265 (840) Other profit and loss from financial operations 1,892 (2,475) Total (78,165) 53,174 (1) During 2019, the bank has repurchased bonds, note 03, Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 116 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 30 NET FOREIGN EXCHANGE INCOME Net foreign exchange income includes the income earned from foreign currency trading, differences arising from converting monetary items in a foreign currency to the functional currency, and those generated by non-monetary assets in a foreign currency at the time of their sale. For the period ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, net foreign exchange income is as follows: As of December 31, 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Net foreign exchange gain (loss) Net gain (loss) from currency exchange differences (84,566) (212,618) Hedging derivatives 362,374 252,275 Income from assets indexed to foreign currency 7,376 12,151 Income from liabilities indexed to foreign currency Total 285,184 51,908 Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 117 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 31 PROVISIONS FOR LOAN LOSSES a) The movement in provisions for loan losses for the periods ended Diciembre 31, 2019 and 2018 is as follows: Loans and accounts receivable from customers As of December 31, 2019 Commercial Mortgage Consumer loans Contingent loans loans loans Interbank Additional Individual Group Group Group Individual Group Total loans Provisions Individual MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Charged-off of loans (18,198) (47,514) (13,965) (70,588) (150,259) Provisions established (55) (93,556) (118,187) (17,462) (246,530) (7,709) (10,865) (16,000) (510,364) Total provisions and charge-offs (55) (111,747) (165,701) (31,427) (317,118) (7,709) (10,865) (16,000) (660,622) Provisions released (*) 65 58,084 12,100 8,263 49,576 5,916 3,458 20,000 157,462 Recovery of loans previously charged-off 11,336 15,293 13,652 42,433 82,714 Net charge to income 10 (42,328) (138,308) (9,512) (225,109) (1,793) (7,407) 4,000 (420,447) Loans and accounts receivable from customers As of December 31, 2018 Interbank Commercial Mortgage Consumer Contingent loans loans loans loans loans Individual Individual Group Group Group Individual Group Total MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Charged-off of loans (20,203) (16,118) (9,496) (79,517) (125,334) Provisions established (45) (68,302) (83,979) (22,683) (190,868) (8,026) (3,439) (20,000) (397,342) Total provisions and charge-offs (45) (88,505) (100,097) (32,179) (270,385) (8,026) (3,439) (20,000) (522,676) Provisions released (*) 102 35,301 8,764 8,446 45,031 6,303 5,163 109,110 Recovery of loans previously charged-off 11,399 19,535 17,367 40,180 88,481 Net charge to income 57 (41,805) (71,798) (6,366) (185,174) (1,724) 1,794 (20,000) (325,085) b) The detail of Charge-off of individually significant loans, is as follows: Loans and accounts receivable from customers Commercial Mortgage Consumer As of December 31, 2019 loans loans loans Individual Group Group Group Total MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Charge-off of loans 59,712 108,574 18,944 227,978 415,208 Provision applied (41,520) (61,060) (4,979) (157,390) (264,949) Net charge offs of individually significant loans 18,192 47,514 13,965 70,588 150,259 Loans and accounts receivables from customers Commercial Mortgage Consumer As of December 31, 2018 loans loans loans Individual Group Group Group Total MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Charge-off of loans 54,399 80,127 28,558 249,668 412,752 Provision applied (34,196) (64,009) (19,062) (170,151) (287,418) Net charge offs of individually significant loans 20,203 16,118 9,496 79,517 125,334 Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 118 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 32 PERSONNEL SALARIES AND EXPENSES a) Composition of personnel salaries and expenses: For the periods ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, the composition of personnel salaries and expenses is as follows: As of December 31, 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Personnel compensation 260,445 259,354 Bonuses or gratuities 78,534 72,728 Stock-based benefits (315) (337) Seniority compensation: 25,006 21,869 Pension plans 566 1,069 Training expenses 4,918 3,782 Day care and kindergarden 2,731 2,778 Health and welfare funds 6,644 6,040 Other personnel expenses 31,628 30,281 Total 410,157 397,564 Benefits based on equity instruments (settled in cash) The Bank provides certain executives of the Bank and its affiliates with a benefit of payments based on shares, which are settled in cash in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 2, The Bank measures the services received and the liability incurred, at fair value. Until the settlement of the liability, the Bank determines the fair value of the liability at the end of each reporting period, as well as on the settlement date, recognizing any change in fair value in profit or loss for the year. The balance corresponding to profits based on equity instruments, as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 was $ 315 million and $ 337 million, respectively. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 119 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 33 ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES For the periods ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, the composition of administrative expenses is as follows: As of December 31, 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ General administrative expenses 124,896 145,241 Maintenance and repair of property, plant and equipment 19,214 20,962 Office lease 29,761 Equipment lease 55 Short-term lease contracts expenses 4,177 Insurance premiums 3,848 3,439 Office supplies 5,126 5,070 IT and communication expenses 52,017 44,209 Lighting, heating, and other utilities 2,848 4,849 Security and valuables transport services 12,187 12,168 Representation and personnel travel expenses 4,109 3,444 Judicial and notarial expenses 1,277 1,148 Fees for technical reports and auditing 7,643 10,020 Other general administrative expenses 12,450 10,116 Outsourced services 71,572 65,358 Data processing 31,921 32,360 Archive service 3,518 3,401 Valuation service 3,644 3,167 Outsourced staff 10,139 9,936 Other 22,350 16,494 Board expenses 1,356 1,297 Marketing expenses 20,891 19,286 Taxes, payroll taxes, and contributions 14,897 13,907 Real estate taxes 1,936 1,730 Patents 1,913 1,896 Other taxes 5 7 Contributions to SBIF 11,043 10,274 Total 233,612 245,089 Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 120 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 34 DEPRECIATION, AMORTIZATION AND IMPAIRMENT a) The values of depreciation and amortization during December 31, 2019 and 2018 are detailed below: As December 31, 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Depreciation and amortization Depreciation of property, plant, and equipment (44,957) (54,987) Amortizations of intangible assets (26,348) (24,293) Total depreciation and amortization (34,787) (106,092) (79,280) Impairments Impairment of property, plant and equipment (1,013) (39) Impairment of intangible assets (1,713) Total Impairments (2,726) (39) Totales (108,818) (79,319) b) The changes in book value due to depreciation and amortization for the nine month period ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: Depreciation and amortization 2019 Property, plant, Intangible Right of use and equipment assets assets Total MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Balances as of January 1, 2019 (230,327) (151,492) (68,145) (449,964) Depreciation and amortization for the period (44,957) (26,348) (34,787) (106,092) Sales and disposals in the period 8,389 1,227 9,616 Other Balance as of December 31, 2019 (266,895) (176,613) (176,613) (546,440) Depreciation and amortization 2018 Property, plant, Intangible Right of use and equipment assets assets Total MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Balances as of January 1, 2018 (290,932) (261,828) (552,760) Depreciation and amortization for the period (54,987) (24,293) (79,280) Sales and disposals in the period 77 77 Other Balance as of December 31, 2018 (345,842) (286,121) (631,963) Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 121 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 35 OTHER OPERATING INCOME AND EXPENSES a) Other operating income is as follows: As of December 31, 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Income from assets received in lieu of payment Income from sale of assets received in lieu of payment 5,613 7,106 Recovery of charge-offs and income from assets received in lieu of payment 10,933 14,987 Other income from assets received in lieu of payment 664 1,410 Subtotal 17,210 23,503 Provisions released due to country risk 67 Provisions released due to contingencies 12,020 Subtotal 67 12,020 Other income Leases 222 Income from sale of property, plant and equipment 2,456 2,490 Recovery of provisions for contingencies Compensation from insurance companies due to damages 4,681 144 Other 184 1,147 Subtotal 7,321 4,003 Total 24,598 39,526 b) Other operating expenses are as follows: As of December 31, 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Allowances and expenses for assets received in lieu of payment Charge-offs of assets received in lieu of payment 17,638 15,037 Provisions on assets received in lieu of payment 1,809 816 Expenses for maintenance of assets received in lieu of payment 2,072 1,721 Subtotal 21,519 17,574 Credit card expenses 1,077 3,151 Customer services 2,456 3,635 Other expenses Operating charge-offs 973 798 Life insurance and general product insurance policies 21,205 9,964 Gain (Loss) for sale of PP&E 67 62 Provisions for contingencies 120 21 Expense for the Retail Association 343 898 Expense on sale of participation on associates 126 Other 13,135 9,637 Subtotal 35,969 21,380 Total 61,021 45,740 Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 122 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE N°36 TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES Associated and dependent entities are the Bank’s “related parties”, However, this also includes its “key personnel” from the executive staff (members of the Bank’s Board of Directors and Managers of Banco Santander Chile and its affiliates, together with their close relatives), as well as the entities over which the key personnel could exercise significant influence or control. The Bank also includes those companies that are part of the Santander Group worldwide as related parties, given that all of them have a common parent, i,e,, Banco Santander S,A, (located in Spain). Article 89 of the Ley de Sociedades Anónimas (Public Companies Act), which is also applicable to banks, states that any transaction with a related party must be made under equitable conditions similar to those that customarily prevail in the market. Article 84 of the Ley General de Bancos (General Banking Act) establishes limits for loans that can be granted to related parties and prohibits lending to the Bank’s directors, General Manager, or representatives. Transactions between the Bank and its related parties are specified below and have been divided into four categories: Santander Group companies This category includes all the companies that are controlled by the Santander Group around the world, and hence, it also includes the companies over which the Bank exercises any degree of control (Affiliates and special-purpose entities). Associated companies This category includes the entities over which the Bank exercises a significant degree of influence, in accordance with section b) of Note 1, and which generally belong to the group of entities known as “business support companies”. Key personnel This category includes members of the Bank’s Board of Directors and managers of Banco Santander Chile and its affiliates, together with their close relatives. Other This category encompasses the related parties that are not included in the groups identified above and which are, in general, entities over which the key personnel could exercise significant influence or control. The terms for transactions with related parties are equivalent to those which prevail in transactions made under market conditions or to which the corresponding considerations in kind have been attributed. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 123 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE N°36 TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES, continued a) Loans to related parties Loans and receivables as well as contingent loans are as follows: As of December 31, 2019 2018 Santander Santander Associated Key Associated Key Group Other Group Other companies personnel companies personnel companies companies MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Loans and accounts receivables: Commercial loans 246,868 375 2,986 685 122,289 459 4,298 233 Mortgage loans 20,473 18,814 Consumer loans 5,781 5,335 Loans and account 122,289 459 28,447 233 receivables: 246,868 375 29,240 685 Provision for loan losses (308) (9) (116) (5) (122) (182) (179) (10) Net loans 246,746 193 29,061 675 121,981 450 28,331 228 Guarantees 462,513 23,918 288 442,854 22,893 7,171 Contingent loans Personal guarantees Letters of credit 4,112 63 5,392 2,060 44 Performance guarantees 464,691 445,064 3,364 Contingent loans 468,803 63 450,456 5,424 44 Provision for contingent (1) (18) loans (835) Net contingent loans 450,455 5,406 44 467,968 63 Loans regarding activity with related parties during the periods ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 is as follows: As of December 31, 2019 2018 Santander Santander Group Associated Key Group Associated Key companies companies personnel Other companies companies personnel Other MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Opening balances as of January 1, 572,745 459 33,871 7,899 476,906 771 27,051 7,826 Loans granted 193,798 167 4,826 500 200,657 39 16,574 773 Loan payments (50,646) (251) (9,457) (7,651) (104,818) (351) (9,754) (700) Total 715,897 375 29,240 748 572,745 459 33,871 7,899 Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 124 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 36 TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES, continued b) Assets and liabilities with related parties As of December 31 2019 2018 Santander Santander Group Associated Group Associated Key companies companies Key personnel Other companies companies personnel Other MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Assets Cash and deposits in banks 171,816 189,803 Trading investments Investments under resale agreements Financial derivative contracts 2,058,715 218,610 55 748,632 105,358 9 Available for sale investments Other assets 185,317 210,579 38,960 51,842 Liabilities Deposits and other demand liabilities 25,261 93,761 4,624 566 27,515 (21,577) 2,493 (480) Obligations under repurchase agreements 138,498 5,000 270 80 6,501 329 68 Time deposits and other time liabilities 1,183,235 282,171 4,246 2,204 2,585,337 3,189 (838) Financial derivative contracts 2,159,660 288,013 3 770,624 112,523 Bank obligation Issued debts instruments 363,154 335,443 Other financial liabilities 6,231 6,807 Other liabilities 8,130 146,164 60,884 89,817 c) Recognized income (expense) with related parties As of December 31, 2019 2018 Santander Santander Group Associated Key Group Associated companies companies personnel Other companies companies Key personnel Other MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Income (expense) recorded Income and expenses from interest and inflation (41,181) (5,235) 1,151 26 (53,256) (156) 1,252 508 Fee and commission income and expenses 28,274 14,499 232 28 91,178 7,826 305 22 Net income (expense) from financial operations and (586,318) (84,236) (566,677) 65,727 27 (12) foreign exchange transactions (*) Other operating income and expenses 406 (2,026) 42 1,388 Key personnel compensation and expenses (9,548) (11,761) Administrative and other expenses (11,877) (47,757) (43,035) (50,764) Total (610,696) (124,755) (8,165) 54 (571,748) 24,022 (10,177) 518 (*) Primarily relates to derivative contracts used to hedge economically the exchange risk of assets and liabilities that hedge positions of the Bank and its subsidiaries, Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 125 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 36 TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES, continued d) Payment to Board members and key management personnel The compensation received by key management personnel, including Board members and all the executives holding Manager positions, is shown in the “Personnel salaries and expenses” and/or “Administrative expenses” of the Consolidated Statements of Income, and detailed as follows: As of December 31, 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Personnel compensation 16,264 16,924 Board member`s salaries and expenses 1,358 1,230 Bonuses or gratuity 16,104 16,243 Compensation in stock (315) (337) Training expenses 37 210 Seniority compensation 2,378 4,202 Health funds 273 284 Other personnel expenses 567 858 Pension Plans (*) 711 1,069 Total 37,377 40,683 (*) Part of the executives who qualified for this benefit ceased to belong to the Group for various reasons without meeting the requirements to obtain the benefit, for which the amount of the obligation decreased, generating an income for the reversal of provisions, e) Composition of key personnel As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the composition of the Bank’s key personnel is as follows: N° of executives Position As of December 31, 2019 2018 Director 11 11 Division manager 13 12 Manager 106 108 Total key personnel 130 131 Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 126 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 37 PENSION PLANS The Bank has an additinal benefit available to its principal executives, consisting of a pension plan, The purpose of the pension plan is to endow the executives with funds for a better supplementary pension upon their retirement, For this purpose, the Bank will match the voluntary contributions made by the beneficiaries for their future pension with an equivalent contribution, The executives will be entlited to recive this benefit only when they fulfill the following conditions: a. Aimed at the Bank’s management b. The general requisite to apply for this benefit is that the employee must be carrying out his/her duties when turning 60 years old, c. The Bank will create a pension fund, with life insurance, for each beneficiary in the plan, Periodic contributions into this fund are made by the manager and matched by the Bank, d. The Bank will be responsible for garanting the benefits directly, If the working relationship between the manager and the respective company ends, before s/he fulfills the abovementioned requirements, s/he will have no rights under this benefit plan, In the event of the executive’s death or total or partial disability, s/he will be entitled to recive this benefit, The Bank will make contributions to this benefit plan on the basis of mixed collective insurance policies whose beneficiary is the Bank, The life insurance company with whom such policies are executed is not an entity linked or related to the Bank or any other Santander Group company, Plan Assets owned by the Bank at the end of 2019 totaled Ch$7,195 million (Ch$6,804 million in 2018). The amount of the defined benefit plans has been quantified by the Bank, based on the following criteria: Calculation method Use of the projected unit credit method which considers each working year as generating an additional amount of rights over benefits and values each unit separately, It is calculated based primarily on fund contribution, as well as other factors such as the legal annual pension limit, seniority, age and yearly income for each unit valued individualy, Actuarial hypothesis assumptions: Actuarial assumption with respect to demographic and financial variables are non-biased and mutually compatible with each other, The most significant actuarial hypotheses considered in the calculation were, Assets related to the pension fund contributed by the Bank into the Seguros Euroamérica insurance company with respect to defined benefit plans are presented as net of associated commitments, Plans Plans post–employment post–employment 2019 2018 Mortality chart RV-2014 RV-2014 Terminarion of contract rates 5,0% 5,0% Impairment chart PDT 1985 PDT 1985 Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 127 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE N°37 PENSION PLANS, continued Activity for post-employment benefits is as follows: As of December 31, 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Plan assets 7,195 6,804 Commitments for defined-benefit plans For active personnel (6,525) (5,958) Incurred by inactive personnel Minus: Unrealized actuarial (gain) losses Balances at year end 670 846 Year’s cash flow for post-employment benefits is as follows: As of December 31, 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ a) Fair value of plan assets Opening balance 6,804 7,919 Expected yield of insurance contracts 333 353 Employer contributions 859 836 Actuarial (gain) losses Premiums paid Benefits paid (801) (2,304) Fair value of plan assets at year end 7,195 6,804 b) Present value of obligations Present value of obligation opening balance (5,958) (6,998) Net incorporation of Group companies Service cost (567) (1,069) Interest cost Curtailment/settlement effect Benefits paid Past service cost Actuarial (gain) losses Other 2,109 Present value of obligations at year end (6,525) (5,958) Net balance at year end 670 846 Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 128 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE N°37 PENSION PLANS, continued Plan expected profit: As of December 31, 2019 2018 Type of expected yield from the plan’s assets UF + 2,50% annual UF + 2,50% annual Type of yield expected from the reimbursement rights UF + 2,50% annual UF + 2,50% annual Plan associated expenses: For the years ended December 31, 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Current period service expenses 566 1,069 Interest cost Expected yield from plan’s asset Expected yield of insurance contracts linked to the Plan: (333) (353) Extraordinary allocations Actuarial (gain)/losses recorded in the period Past service cost Other Total 233 716 Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 129 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 38 FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction on the main market (or the most advantageous) at the measurement date in the current market conditions (in other words, an exit price) regardless of whether that price is directly observable or estimated by using a different valuation technique, The measurement of fair value assumes the sale transaction of an asset or the transference of the liability happens within the main asset or liability market, or the most advantageous market for the asset or liability. For financial instruments with no available market prices, fair values have been estimated by using recent transactions in analogous instruments, and in the absence thereof, the present values or other valuation techniques based on mathematical valuation models sufficiently accepted by the international financial community, In the use of these models, consideration is given to the specific particularities of the asset or liability to be valued, and especially to the different kinds of risks associated with the asset or liability. These techniques are significantly influenced by the assumptions used, including the discount rate, the estimates of future cash flows and prepayment expectations, Hence, the fair value estimated for an asset or liability may not coincide exactly with the price at which that asset or liability could be delivered or settled on the date of its valuation, and may not be justified in comparison with independent markets. Determination of fair value of financial instruments Below is a comparison between the value at which the Bank’s financial assets and liabilities are recorded and their fair value as of December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018: As of December 31, 2019 As of December 31, 2018 Book value Fair value Book value Fair value MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Assets Trading investments 270,204 270,204 77,041 77,041 Financial derivative contracts 8,148,608 8,148,608 3,100,635 3,100,635 Loans and accounts receivable from customers and interbank 29,485,435 30,573,611 31,838,568 34,668,858 loans, (net) Investments available for sale 4,010,272 4,010,272 2,394,323 2,394,323 Guarantee deposits (margin accounts) 314,616 314,616 170,232 170,232 Liabilities Deposits and interbank borrowings 26,010,067 26,200,921 23,597,863 23,770,106 Financial derivative contracts 7,390,654 7,390,654 2,517,728 2,517,728 Issued debt instruments and other financial liabilities 9,727,081 10,718,997 8,330,633 8,605,135 Guarantees received (margin accounts) 994,714 994,714 371,512 371,512 Fair value is approximated to book value in the following accounts, due to their short-term nature in the following cases: cash and bank deposits, operations with liquidation in progress and buyback contracts as well as security loans. In addition, the fair value estimates presented above do not attempt to estimate the value of the Bank’s profits generated by its business activity, nor its future activities, and accordingly, they do not represent the Bank’s value as a going concern. Below is a detail of the methods used to estimate the financial instruments’ fair value. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 130 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 38 FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES, continued a) Financial instruments for trading investments and available for sale investment The estimated fair value of these financial instruments was established using market values or estimates from an available dealer, or quoted market prices of similar financial instruments. Investments with maturities of les than 1 year are evaluated at recorded value since they are considered as having a fair value not significantly different from their recorded value, due to their short maturity term. To estimate the fair value of debt investments or representative values in these lines of businesses, we take into consideration additional variables and elements, as long as they apply, including the estimate of prepayment rates and credit risk of issuers. b) Loans and accounts receivable from customers and interbank loans Fair value of commercial, mortgage and consumer loans and credit cards is measured through a discounted cash flow (DCF) analysis. To do so, we use current market interest rates considering product, term, amount and similar loan quality. Fair value of loans with 90 days or more of delinquency are measured by means of the market value of the associated guarantee, minus the rate and term of expected payment. For variable rate loans whose interest rates change frequently (monthly or quarterly) and that are not subjected to any significant credit risk change, the estimated fair value is based on their book value. c) Deposits Disclosed fair value of deposits that do not bear interest and saving accounts is the amount payable at the reporting date and, therefore, equals the recorded amount. Fair value of time deposits is calculated through a discounted cash flow calculation that applies current interest rates from a monthly calendar of scheduled maturities in the market. d) Short and long term issued debt instruments The fair value of these financial instruments is calculated by using a discounted cash flow analysis based on the current incremental lending rates for similar types of loans having similar maturities. e) Financial derivative contracts The estimated fair value of financial derivative contracts is calculated using the prices quoted on the market for financial instruments having similar characteristics. The fair value of interest rate swaps represents the estimated amount that the Bank expects to receive to cancel the contracts or agreements, considering the term structures of the interest curve , volatility of the underlying asset and credit risk of counterparties. If there are no quoted prices from the market (either direct or indirect) for any derivative instrument, the respective fair value estimates have been calculated by using models and valuation techniques such as Black-Scholes, Hull, and Monte Carlo simulations, taking into consideration the relevant inputs/outputs such as volatility of options, observable correlations between underlying assets, counterparty credit risk, implicit price volatility, the velocity with which the volatility reverts to its average value, and the straight-line relationship (correlation) between the value of a market variable and its volatility, among others. Measurement of fair value and hierarchy IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement, provides a hierarchy of reasonable values which separates the inputs and/or valuation technique assumptions used to measure the fair value of financial instruments, The hierarchy reflects the significance of the inputs used in making the measurement. The three levels of the hierarchy of fair values are the following: • Level 1: the inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) on active markets for identical assets and liabilities that the Bank can access on the measurement date. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 131 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 38 FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES, continued • Level 2: inputs other than the quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly. • Level 3: inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability. The hierarchy level within which the fair value measurement is categorized in its entirety is determined based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. The best evidence of a financial instrument’s fair value at the initial time is the transaction price (Level 1). In cases where quoted market prices cannot be observed, Management makes its best estimate of the price that the market would set using its own internal models which in most cases use data based on observable market parameters as a significant input (Level 2) and, in very specific cases, significant inputs not observable in market data (Level 3). Various techniques are employed to make these estimates, including the extrapolation of observable market data. Financial instruments at fair value and determined by quotations published in active markets (Level 1) include: Chilean Government and Department of Treasury bonds Instruments which cannot be 100% observable in the market are valued according to other inputs observable in the market (Level 2). The following financial instruments are classified under Level 2: Type of Model Description financial instrument used in valuation Internal Rates of Return (“IRRs”) are provided by RiskAmerica, according to the following criterion: If, at the valuation day, there are one or more valid transactions at the Santiago Stock Exchange for Present Value of Cash a given mnemonic, the reported rate is the weighted average amount of the observed rates,  Mortgage and private bonds Flows Model In the case there are no valid transactions for a given mnemonic on the valuation day, the reported rate is the IRR base from a reference structure, plus a spread model based on historical spread for the same item or similar ones. IRRs are provided by RiskAmerica, according to the following criterion: If, at the valuation day, there are one or more valid transactions at the Santiago Stock Exchange for Present Value of Cash  Time deposits a given mnemonic, the reported rate is the weighted average amount of the observed rates, Flows Model In the case there are no valid transactions for a given mnemonic on the valuation day, the reported rate is the IRR base from a reference structure, plus a spread model based on issuer curves.  Constant Maturity Swaps (CMS), FX and IRRs are provided by ICAP, GFI, Tradition, and Bloomberg according to this criterion: Present Value of Cash Inflation Forward (Fwd) , Cross Currency With published market prices, a valuation curve is created by the bootstrapping method and is then Flows Model Swaps (CCS), Interest Rate Swap (IRS) used to value different derivative instruments. Formula adjusted by the volatility smile (implicit volatility), Prices (volatility) are provided by BGC Partners, according to this criterion:  FX Options Black-Scholes With published market prices, a volatility surface is created by interpolation and then these volatilities are used to value options. In limited occasions significant inputs not observable in market data are used (Level 3), To carry out this estimate, several techniques are used, including extrapolation of observable market data or a mix of observable data. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 132 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 38 FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES, continued The following financial instruments are classified under Level 3: Type of Model Description financial instrument used in valuation Black Normal Model for  Caps/ Floors/ Swaptions There is no observable input of implicit volatility. Cap/Floors and Swaptions Black – Scholes There is no observable input of implicit volatility. Hybrid HW model for rates and Brownian motion for FX, There is no observable input of Hull-White implicit volatility. Implicit Forward Rate Start Fwd unsupported by MUREX (platform) due to the UF forward estimate. Agreement (FRA)  Cross currency swap, Interest rate swap, Call Present Value of Cash Flows Validation obtained by using the interest curve and interpolating at flow maturities, but money swap in Tasa Activa Bancaria Model TAB is not a directly observable variable and is not correlated to any market input. (Active Bank Rate) TAB Present Value of Cash Flows Valued by using similar instrument prices plus a charge-off rate by liquidity. Model The Bank does not believe that any change in unobservable inputs with respect to level 3 instruments would result in a significantly different fair value measurement. The following table presents the assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis, as of December 31, 2019 and 2018: Fair value measurement As of December 31, 2019 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Assets Trading investments 270,204 270,204 Available for sale investments 4,010,272 3,992,421 17,146 705 Derivatives 8,148,608 8,133,700 14,908 Guarantee deposits (margin accounts) 314,616 314,616 Total 12,743,700 4,262,625 8,465,462 15,613 Liabilities Derivatives 7,390,654 7,387,704 2,950 Guarantees received (margin accounts) 994,714 994,714 Total 8,385,368 8,382,418 2,950 Fair value measurement As of December 31, 2018 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Assets Trading investments 77,041 71,158 5,883 Available for sale investments 2,394,323 2,368,768 24,920 635 Derivatives 3,100,635 3,089,077 11,558 Guarantee deposits (margin accounts) 170,232 170,232 Total 5,742,321 2,439,926 3,290,112 12,193 Liabilities Derivatives 2,517,728 2,516,933 795 Guarantees received (margin accounts) 371,512 371,512 Total 2,889,240 2,888,445 795 Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 133 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 38 FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES, continued The following table presents the assets and liabilities that are not measured at fair value in the consolidated statement of financial position, as of December 31, 2019 and 2018: Fair value measurement As of December 31, 2019 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Assets Loans and accounts receivables from customers and 34,668,858 34,668,858 Interbank loans Total 34,668,858 34,668,858 Liabilities Deposits and Interbank borrowing 26,200,921 15,903,489 10,297,432 Issued debt instruments and other financial liabilities 10,718,997 10,718,997 Total 36,919,918 26,622,486 10,297,432 Fair value measurement As of December 31, 2018 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Assets Loans and accounts receivables from customers and 30,573,611 30,573,611 Interbank loans Total 30,573,611 30,573,611 Liabilities Deposits and Interbank borrowing 23,770,106 15,028,689 8,741,417 Issued debt instruments and other financial liabilities 8,605,135 8,605,135 Total 32,375,241 23,633,824 8,741,417 There was no transfer between level 1 and 2 for the period ended December 31, 2019 and 2018. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 134 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 38 FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES, continued The following table presents the Bank’s activity for assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurrent basis using unobserved significant entries (Level 3) as of December 31, 2019 and 2018: Assets Liabilities MCh$ MCh$ As of January 1, 2019 12,193 795 Total realized and unrealized profits (losses) Included in statement of income 3,350 2,155 Included in other comprehensive income 70 Purchases, issuances, and loans (net) As of December 31, 2019 15,613 2,950 Total profits or losses included in comprehensive income at December 31, 2019 that are attributable to change 3,420 2,155 in unrealized profit (losses) related to assets or liabilities as of December 31, 2018 Assets Liabilities MCh$ MCh$ 22,987 7 As of January 1, 2018 Total realized and unrealized profits (losses) (10,769) (802) Included in statement of income 25 Included in other comprehensive income Purchases, issuances, and loans (net) As of December 31, 2018 12,193 795 Total profits or losses included in comprehensive income at December 31, 2019 that are attributable to change in (10,794) (802) unrealized profit (losses) related to assets or liabilities as of December 31, 2018 The realized and unrealized profits (losses) included in comprehensive income for 2019 and 2018, in the assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurrent basis through unobservable market data (Level 3) are recorded in the Statement of Comprehensive Income in the associate line item. The potential effect as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 on the valuation of assets and liabilities valued at fair value on a recurrent basis through unobservable significant entries (level 3), generated by changes in the principal assumptions if other reasonably possible assumptions that are less or more favorable were used, is not considered by the Bank to be significant. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 135 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 38 FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES, continued The following tables show the financial instruments subject to compensation in accordance with IAS 32, for 2019 and 2018: As of December 31, 2019 Linked financial instruments, compensated in balance Remains of unrelated and / Amount in Net amount Gross Compensated in or Statements of Financial instruments presented in amounts balance unencumbered Financial balance financial Position instruments Assets MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Financial derivative contracts 8,148,151 8,148,151 457 8,148,608 Investments under resale agreements Loans and accounts receivable from customers, and Interbank loans, net 31,838,567 31,838,567 Total 8,148,151 8,148,151 31,839,024 39,987,175 Liabilities Financial derivative contracts 7,388,145 7,388,145 2,509 7,390,654 Investments under resale agreements 380,055 380,055 380,055 Déposits and interbank borrowings 26,010,067 26,010,067 Total 7,768,200 7,768,200 26,012,576 33,780,776 As of December 31, 2018 Linked financial instruments, compensated in balance Remains of unrelated and / Amount in Net amount Gross Compensated in or Statements of Financial instruments presented in amounts balance unencumbered Financial balance financial Position instruments Assets MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Financial derivative contracts 1,947,726 1,947,726 1,152,909 3,100,635 Investments under resale agreements Loans and accounts receivable from customers, and Interbank 29,485,435 29,485,435 loans, net Total 1,947,726 1,947,726 30,683,344 32,586,070 Liabilities Financial derivative contracts 1,735,555 1,735,555 782,173 2,517,728 Investments under resale agreements 48,545 48,545 48,545 Déposits and interbank borrowings 23,597,862 23,597,862 Total 1,784,100 1,784,100 24,380,035 26,164,135 Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 136 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 38 FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES, continued In order to reduce the exposure of credit in its financial derivative operations, the Bank has entered into bilateral collateral agreements with its counterparts, in which it establishes the terms and conditions under which they operate, In general terms, the collateral (received / delivered) operates when the net of the fair value of the financial instruments held exceeds the thresholds defined in the respective contracts. Below are the financial derivatives contracts, according to their collateral agreement : As of December 31, 2019 2018 Financial derivatives contracts Asset Liabilities Asset Liabilities MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Derivatives contracts with threshold collateral agreement equal to zero 7,478,837 6,748,219 2,639,835 2,133,149 Derivatives contracts with non-zero threshold collateral agreement 532,298 517,814 344,520 262,683 Derivatives contracts without collateral agreement 137,472 124,621 116,280 121,896 Total Financial derivatives contracts 8,148,608 7,390,654 3,100,635 2,517,728 Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 137 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 39 RISK MANAGEMENT Introduction and general description The Bank, due to its activities with financial instruments is exposed to several types of risk, The main risks related to financial instruments that apply to the Bank are as follow: Market risk: rises from holding financial instruments whose value may be affected by fluctuations in market conditions, generally including the following types of risk: a. Foreign excharge risk: this arises as a consequence of fluctuations in market interest rates, b. Interest rate risk: this arises as a consequence of fluctuations in market interest rates, c. Price risk: this arises as a consequence of changes in market prices, either due to factor specific to the instrument itself or due to fa ctors that affect all the instruments negotiated in the market, d. Inflation risk: this arises as a consequence of changes in Chile’s inflation rate, whose effect would be mainly applicable to financial instruments denominated in UF. Credit risk: this is the risk that one of the parties to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations for reason of insolvency or inability of the individuals or legal entitles in question to continue as a going concern, causing a financial loss to the other party. Liquidity risk: is the possibility that an entity may be unable to meet its payment commitments, or that in order to meet them, it may have to raise funds with onerous terms or risk damage to its image and reputation. Operating risk: this is a risk arising from human errors, system error, fraud or external events which may damage the Bank’s reputation, may have legal or regulatory implication, or cause financial losses. This note includes information on the Bank’s exposure to these risk an on its objetives, policies, and processes involved in their measurement and management. Risk management structure The Board of Directors is responsible for the establishment and monitoring of the Bank's risk management structure and, to th is end, has a corporate governance system in line with international recommendations and trends, adapted to the Chilean regulatory reality and adapted to best practices, advanced markets in which it operates, To better exercise this function, the Board of Directors has established the Comprehensive Risk Committee ( CIR ), whose main mission is to assist in the development of its functions related to the Bank's control and risk management, Complementing the CIR in risk management, the Board also has 3 key committees: Assets and Liabilities Committee (CAPA), Markets Committee ( CDM ) and the Directors and Audit Committee ( CDA ), Each of the committees is composed of directors and executive members of the Bank's management. The CIR is responsible for developing Bank risk management policies in accordance with the guidelines of the Board of Directors, the Global Risk Department of Santander Spain and the regulatory requirements issued by the FMC, These policies have been created mainly to identify and analyze the risk faced by the Bank, establish risk limits and appropriate controls, and monitor risks and compliance with limits, The Bank's risk management policies and systems are regularly reviewed to reflect changes in market conditions, and the products or services offered, The Bank, through the training and management of standards and procedures, aims to develop a disciplined and constructive control environment, in which all its employees understand their duties and obligations. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 138 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 39 RISK MANAGEMENT, continued Market risk Market risk arises as a consequence of the activity maintained in the markets, through financial instruments whose value may be affected by variations in market conditions, reflected in changes in the different assets and financial risk factors, The risk can be mitigated through hedges through other products (assets / liabilities or derivatives), or by undoing the operation / open position, The objective of market risk management is the management and control of exposure to market risk within acceptable parameters. There are four major risk factors that affect market prices: interest rates, exchange rates, price, and inflation, Additionally, and for certain positions, it is also necessary to consider other risks, such as spread risk, base risk, commodity risk, volatility or correlation risk. Market risk management The internal management of the Bank to measure market risk is mainly based on the procedures and standards of Santander Spain, which are based on analyzing management in three main components: trading portfolio; local financial management portfolio; portfolio of foreign financial management, The trading portfolio consists mainly of those investments valued at their fair value, free of any restriction for immediate sale and that are often bought and sold by the Bank with the intention of selling them in the short term in order to benefit from the short-term price variations, The financial management portfolios include all financial investments not considered in the trading portfolio. The general responsibility for market risk lies with the ALCO, The Bank's risk / finance department is responsible for the preparation of detailed management policies and their application in the Bank's operations in accordance with the guidelines established by the ALCO and by the Global Risk Department of Banco Santander de España. The functions of the department in relation to the trading portfolio entail the following: i, apply Value at Risk (VaR) techniques to measure interest rate risk. ii, adjust the trading portfolios to the market and measure the profit and daily loss of commercial activities. iii, compare the real VAR with the established limits. iv, establish procedures to control losses in excess of predetermined limits and v, Provide information on the negotiation activities for the ALCO, other members of the Bank's Management, and the Global Ris k Department of Santander – Spain. The functions of the department in relation to the financial management portfolios entail the following: i, apply sensitivity simulations (as explained below) to measure the interest rate risk of activities in local currency and the potential loss foreseen by these simulations and ii, provides the respective daily reports to the ALCO, other members of the Bank's Management, and the Global Risk Department of Santander – Spain, Market risk Negotiation portfolio The Bank applies VaR methodologies to measure the market risk of its trading portfolio, The Bank has a consolidated commercial position composed of fixed income investments, foreign currency trading and a minimum equity investment position, The composition of this portfolio consists essentially of bonds of the Central Bank of Chile, mortgage bonds and locally issued low-risk corporate bonds, At the end of the year, the trading portfolio did not present investments in stock portfolios. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 139 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 39 RISK MANAGEMENT, continued For the Bank, the VaR estimate is made under the historical simulation methodology, which consists of observing the behavior of the losses and gains that would have occurred with the current portfolio if the market conditions of a certain historical period were in force, , from that information, infer the maximum loss with a certain level of confidence, The methodology has the advantage of accurately reflecting the historical distribution of market variables and of not requiring any specific probability distribution assumption, All VaR measures are intended to determine the distribution function for the change in the value of a given portfolio, and once this distribution is known, to calculate the percentile related to the level of confidence needed, which will be equal to the value at risk in virtue of those parameters, As calculated by the Bank, the VaR is an estimate of the maximum expected loss of the market value of a given portfolio within a 1-day horizon at a confidence level of 99,00%, It is the maximum loss of a day in which the Bank could expect to suffer in a certain portfolio with a 99,00% confidence level, In other words, it is the loss that the Bank would expect to exceed only 1,0% of th e time, The VaR provides a single estimate of market risk that is not comparable from one market risk to another, The returns are calculated using a 2 year time window or at least 520 data obtained from the reference date of VaR calculation backwards in time. The Bank does not calculate three separate VaRs, A single VaR is calculated for the entire trading portfolio, which, in addition, is segregated by type of risk, The VaR program performs a historical simulation and calculates a profit and loss statement (G & P) for 520 data points (days) for each risk factor (fixed income, currencies and variable income), The G & P of each risk factor is added and a consolidated VaR calculated with 520 data points or days, At the same time, the VaR is calculated for each risk factor based on the individual G & P calculated for each factor, Moreover, a weighted VaR is calculated in the manner described above but which gives a weight greater than the 30 most recent data points, The largest of the two VaRs is reported, In 2015 and 2014, the same VaR model was still used and there has been no change in methodology. The Bank uses the VaR estimates to deliver a warning in case the statistically estimated losses in the trading portfolio exceed the prudent levels and, therefore, certain predetermined limits exist. Limitations of the VaR model When applying this calculation methodology no assumption is made about the probability distribution of changes in risk factors, simply use the changes observed historically to generate scenarios for the risk factors in which each of the positions will be valued, in portfolio. It is necessary to define a valuation function fj (xi) for each instrument j, preferably the same one that it uses to calculate the market value and results of the daily position, This valuation function will be applied in each scenario to generate simulated prices of all the instruments in each scenario. In addition, the VaR methodology must be interpreted considering the following limitations: Changes in market rates and prices may not be independent and identically distributed random variables, nor may they have a normal distribution, In particular, the assumption of normal distribution may underestimate the probability of extreme market movements; The historical data used by the Bank may not provide the best estimate of the joint distribution of changes in risk factors in the future, and any modification of the data may be inadequate, In particular, the use of historical data may fail to capture the risk of possible extreme and adverse market fluctuations regardless of the period of time used; a 1-day time horizon may not fully capture those market risk positions that can not be liquidated or hedged in one day, It would not be possible to liquidate or cover all positions in a day; VaR is calculated at the close of business, however trading positions may change substantially during the trading day; The use of 99% confidence level does not take into account, nor does it make any statement about, the losses that may occur beyond this level of trust, and The model as such VaR does not capture all the complex effects of the risk factors on the value of the positions or portfolios, and therefore, could underestimate the potential loss. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 140 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 39 RISK MANAGEMENT, continued At no time in 2019 and 2018, the Bank exceeded the VaR limits in relation to the 3 components that make up the trading portfolio: fixed income investments, variable income investments and investments in foreign currency. The Bank performs daily back-testing and, in general, it is discovered that trading losses exceed the estimated VaR almost one in every 100 trading days, At the same time, a limit was established for the maximum VaR that is willing to accept on the trading portfolio, In both 201 9 and 2018, the Bank has remained within the maximum limit established for the VaR, even in those instances in which the real VaR exceeded the estimate. The high, low and average levels for each component and for each year were the following: 2019 2018 VAR MMUSD MMUSD Consolidated: High 15.78 5.23 Low 1.33 1.21 Average 3.06 2.01 Fixed income investments: High 9.77 2.54 Low 1.18 1.19 Average 2.33 1.71 Variable income investments: High 0.01 Low 0.01 0.00 Average 0.00 Foreign currency investments High 6.05 4.29 Low 0.10 0.09 Average 1.60 1.14 Market risk – local and foreign financial management The Bank's financial management portfolio includes most of the Bank's assets and non-trading liabilities, including the loan / loan portfolio, For these portfolios, investment and financing decisions are heavily influenced by the Bank's commercial strategies. The Bank uses a sensitivity analysis to measure the market risk of local and foreign currency (not included in the trading portfolio), The Bank performs a scenario simulation which will be calculated as the difference between the present value of the flows in the chosen scenario (curve with parallel movement of 100 bp in all its tranches) and its value in the base scenario (current market) , All positions in local currency indexed to inflation (UF) are adjusted by a sensitivity factor of 0,57, which represents a change in the rate curve at 57 basis points in real rates and 100 basis poin ts in nominal rates, The same scenario is carried out for net foreign currency positions and interest rates in US dollars, The Bank has also established limits regarding the maximum loss that these types of movements in interest rates may have on capital and net financial income budgeted for the year. To determine the consolidated limit, the foreign currency limit is added to the local currency limit for both the net financial loss limit and the capital and reserve loss limit, using the following formula: Bound limit = square root of a2 + b2 + 2ab a: limit in national currency. b: limit in foreign currency. Since it is assumed that the correlation is 0. 2ab = 0. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 141 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 39 RISK MANAGEMENT, continued Limitation of the sensitivity models The most important assumption is the use of a change of 100 basis points in the yield curve (57 basis points for real rates), The Bank uses a change of 100 basis points given that sudden changes of this magnitude are considered realistic, The Global Risk Department of Santander Spain has also established comparable limits by country, in order to be able to compare, monitor and consolidate the market risk by country in a realistic and orderly manner. In addition, the methodology of sensitivity simulations should be interpreted considering the following limitations: The simulation of scenarios assumes that the volumes remain in the Bank's Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and that they are always renewed at maturity, omitting the fact that certain considerations of credit risk and prepayments may affect the maturity of certain positions. This model assumes an equal change in the entire performance curve of everything and does not take into account the different movements for different maturities. The model does not take into account the sensitivity of volumes resulting from changes in interest rates. The limits to the losses of budgeted financial income are calculated on the basis of expected financial income for the year that can not be obtained, which means that the actual percentage of financial income at risk could be greater than expected. Market risk – Financial management portfolio – December 31, 2019 and 2018 2019 2018 Effect on Effect on capital Effect on Effect on capital financial financial income income Financial management portfolio – local currency (MCh$) Loss limit 100,000 48,000 192,001 High 36,518 43,742 189,725 Low 13,138 27,854 170,450 Average 26,308 37,569 180,972 Financial management portfolio – foreign currency (Th$US) Loss limit 30 30 75 High 20 12 38 Low 5 4 (10) Average 12 9 22 Financial management portgolio (MCh$) Loss limit 100,000 48,000 192,002 High 38,616 45,492 192,848 Low 15,779 29,167 168,766 Average 29,653 38,908 182,557 To fulfill its functions, the CIR works directly with the Bank's risk and control departments, whose joint objectives include: evaluate those risks that, due to their size, could compromise the solvency of the Bank, or that present potentially significant operational or reputation risks; ensure that the Bank is provided with the means, systems, structures and resources in accordance with the best practices that allow for the implementation of the strategy in risk management; ensure the integration, control and management of all Bank risks; execute the application throughout the Bank and its businesses of homogeneous risk principles, policies and metrics; develop and implement a risk management model in the Bank, so that the risk exposure is properly integrated in the different decision-making processes; identify risk concentrations and mitigation alternatives, monitor the macroeconomic and competitive environment, quantify sensitivities and the foreseeable impact of different scenarios on the positioning of risks; Y manage the structural liquidity risks, interest rates and exchange rates, as well as the Bank's own resources base. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 142 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 39 RISK MANAGEMENT, continued To comply with the aforementioned objectives, the Bank (Administration and ALCO) carries out several activities related to risk management, which include: calculating the risk exposures of the different portfolios and / or investments, considering mitigating factors (guarantees, netting , collaterals, etc,); calculate the probabilities of expected loss of each portfolio and / or investments; assign the loss factors to the new operations (rating and scoring); measure the risk values of the portfolios and / or investments according to different scenarios through historical simulations; establish limits to potential losses based on the different risks incurred; determine the possible impacts of structural risks in the Consolidated Statements of Results of the Bank; set the limits and alerts that guarantee the Bank's liquidity; and identify and quantify operational risks by business lines and thus facilitate their mitigation through corrective actions. The CDA is primarily responsible for monitoring compliance with the Bank's risk management policies and procedures, and for reviewing the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks the Bank faces. Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that one of the parties to the financial instrument contract fails to comply with its contractual obligations due to insolvency or disability of natural or legal persons and causes a financial loss in the other party, For purposes of credit risk management, the Bank consolidates all the elements and components of credit risk exposure (eg risk of individual default by creditor, innate risk of a line of business or sector, and / or geographical risk). Mitigation of credit risk for loans and accounts receivable The Board of Directors has delegated responsibility for credit risk management to the Comprehensive Risk Committee (CIR) and the Bank's risk departments whose roles are summarized as follows: Formulation of credit policies, in consultation with the business units, covering the requirements of guarantee, credit evaluation, risk rating and presentation of reports, documents and legal procedures in compliance with the regulatory, legal and internal requirements of the Bank. Establish the structure of the authorization for the approval and renewal of credit applications, The Bank structures levels of credit risk by placing limits on the concentration of that risk in terms of individual debtors, groups of debtors, segments of industries and countries, The authorization limits are assigned to the respective officers of the business unit (commercial, consumption, PYMEs) to be monitored permanently by the Administration, In addition, these limits are reviewed periodically, The risk assessment teams at branch level interact regularly with clients, however for large operations, the risk teams of the parent company and even the CIR, work directly with clients in the evaluation of credit risks and preparation of credit risk, credit applications, Inclusively, Banco Santander España participates in the process of approving the most significant loans, for example to clients or economic groups with debt amounts greater than US $ 40 million. Limit concentrations of exposure to customers, counterparts, in geographic areas, industries (for accounts receivable or credits), and by issuer, credit rating and liquidity (for investments). Develop and maintain the Bank's risk classification in order to classify the risks according to the degree of exposure to financial loss faced by the respective financial instruments and with the purpose of focusing the management or risk management specifically on the associated risks. Review and evaluate credit risk The risk divisions of the Administration are largely independent of the commercial division of the bank and evaluate all credit risks in excess of the designated limits, prior to the approval of credits to customers or prior to the acquisition of specific investments, Credit renewals and revisions are subject to similar processes. In the preparation of a credit request for a corporate client, the Bank verifies several parameters such as the debt service capacity (including, generally, projected cash flows), the client's financial history and / or projections for the economic sector in which it operates, The risk division is closely involved in this process, All requests contain an analysis of the client's strengths and weaknesses, a rating and a recommendation, The credit limits are not determined based on the outstanding balances of the clients, but on the direct and indirect credit risk of the financial grou p, For example, a limited company would be evaluated together with its subsidiaries and affiliates. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 143 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 39 RISK MANAGEMENT, continued Consumer loans are evaluated and approved by their respective risk divisions (individuals, PYMEs) and the evaluation process is based on an evaluation system known as Garra (Banco Santander) and Syseva of Santander Banefe, both processes are decentralized, automated and they are based on a scoring system that includes the credit risk policies implemented by the Bank's Board of Directors, The credit application process is based on the collection of information to determine the client's financial situation and ability to pay, The parameters that are used to assess the credit risk of the applicant include several variables such as: income levels, duration of current employment, indebtedness, reports of credit agencies. Mitigation of credit risk of other financial assets (investments, derivatives, commitments) As part of the process of acquiring financial investments and financial instruments, the Bank considers the probability of uncollectibility of issuers or counterparties using internal and external evaluations such as independent risk evaluators of the Bank, In addition, the Bank is governed by a strict and conservative policy which ensures that the issuers of its investments and counterparties in transactions of derivative instruments are of the highest reputation. In addition, the Bank operates with various instruments that, although they involve exposure to credit risk, are not reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, such as: guarantees and bonds, documentary letters of credit, guarantee slips and commitments to grant loans. The guarantees and bonds represent an irrevocable payment obligation, In the event that a guaranteed client does not fulfill its obligations with third parties who are liable to the Bank, the latter will make the corresponding payments, so that these transactions represent the same exposure to credit risk as a common loan. Documentary letters of credit are commitments documented by the Bank on behalf of the client that are guaranteed by the merchandise shipped to which they are related and, therefore, have a lower risk than direct indebtedness, Guarantee slips correspond to contingent commitments that are made effective only if the client does not comply with the performance of works agreed with a third party, guaranteed by them. When it comes to commitments to grant credit, the Bank is potentially exposed to losses in an amount equivalent to the unused total of the commitment, However, the probable amount of loss is less than the unused total of the commitment, The Bank monitors the maturity of credit lines because generally long-term commitments have a higher credit risk than short-term commitments. Maximun credit risk exposure For financial assets recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, exposure to credit risk is equal to their book value, For financial guarantees granted, the maximum exposure to credit risk is the maximum amount that the Bank would have to pay if the guarantee were executed. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 144 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 39 RISK MANAGEMENT, continued Below is the distribution by financial asset and off-balance a sheet commitments of the Bank’s maximum exposure to credit risk as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, without deduction of collateral, security interests or credit improvements recived: As of December 31, 2019 2018 Amount of Amount of exposure exposure Note MCh$ MCh$ Deposits in banks 5 2,693,342 1,240,578 Cash ítems in process of collection 5 355,062 353,757 Trading investments 6 270,204 77,041 Investments under resale agreements 7 Financial derivative contracts 8 8,148,608 3,100,635 Loans and accounts receivable from customers and interbank loans, net 9 y 10 31,838,568 29,485,435 Available for sale investments 11 4,010,272 2,394,323 Off-balance commitments: Letters of credit issued 140,572 223,420 Foreign letters ofcredit confirmed 70,192 57,038 Guarantees 1,929,894 1,954,205 Available credit lines 8,732,422 8,997,650 Personal guarantees 451,950 133,623 Other irrevocable credit commitments 485,991 327,297 Total 59,127,077 48,345,002 Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 145 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 39 RISK MANAGEMENT, continued Regarding the quality of the credits, these are classified in accordance with what is described in the compendium of regulati ons of the FMC as of December 31, 2019 and 2018: As of December 31, Category 2019 2018 Comercial Individual Percentage Allowance Percentage Individual Percentage Allowance Percentage Portfolio MCh$ % MCh$ % MCh$ % MCh$ % A1 99,042 0.31 34 0.00 29,998 0.10 9 0.00 A2 907,696 2.78 572 0.06 1,074,789 3.55 735 0.09 A3 2,213,921 6.77 3,434 0.38 2,746,323 9.07 3,811 0.48 A4 3,514,637 10.74 19,937 2.23 3,222,102 10.64 18,697 2.35 A5 2,226,246 6.81 29,599 3.31 1,796,864 5.93 21,455 2.69 A6 1,134,045 3.46 23,568 2.67 981,170 3.24 15,159 1.90 B1 603,202 1.85 10,689 1.21 495,102 1.64 11,550 1.45 B2 83,341 0.25 3,428 0.38 82,112 0.27 5,561 0.70 B3 85,851 0.27 4,590 0.51 67,703 0.22 2,943 0.37 B4 133,701 0.41 23,797 2.66 93,133 0.31 21,871 2.75 C1 158,437 0.48 3,169 0.35 154,708 0.51 3,094 0.39 C2 75,830 0.24 7,583 0.85 55,611 0.18 5,562 0.70 C3 48,601 0.14 12,150 1.36 45,171 0.15 11,293 1.42 C4 41,372 0.12 16,549 1.85 36,005 0.12 14,402 1.81 C5 44,904 0.13 29,188 3.27 65,465 0.22 42,552 5.34 C6 53,646 0.16 48,262 5.40 71,035 0.23 63,932 8.03 Subtotal 11,424,472 34.92 236,549 26.49 11,017,291 36.38 242,626 30.47 Individual Percentage Allowance Percentage Individual Percentage Allowance Percentage MCh$ % MCh$ % MCh$ % MCh$ % Commercial Normal Portfolio 4,027,776 12.31 76,918 8.61 3,793,923 12.53 60,255 7.56 Impaired portfolio 462,583 1.41 198,975 22.27 443,539 1.46 170,024 21.34 Subtotal 4,490,359 13.72 275,893 30.88 4,237,462 13.99 230,279 28.90 Mortgage Normal Portfolio 10,733,871 32.81 21,078 2.36 9,678,316 31.96 20,979 2.63 Impaired portfolio 529,124 1.62 47,383 5.31 472,665 1.56 43,262 5.43 Subtotal 11,262,995 34.43 68,461 7.67 10,150,981 33.52 64,241 8.06 Mortgage Normal Portfolio 5,258,137 16.07 124,054 13.89 4,601,694 15.20 103,020 12.93 Impaired portfolio 280,920 0.86 188,191 21.07 274,595 0.91 156,422 19.64 Subtotal 5,539,057 16.93 312,245 34.96 4,876,289 16.11 259,442 32.57 Total 32,716,883 100.00 893,148 100.00 30,282,023 100.00 796,588 100.00 Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 146 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 39 RISK MANAGEMENT, continued Regarding the individual evaluation portfolio, the different categories correspond to: Categories A or Portfolio in Normal Compliance, is one that is made up of debtors whose ability to pay them it allows compliance with its financial obligations and commitments, and that according to the evaluation of its economic-financial situation, it is not seen that this condition changes in the short term. Categories B or Substandard Portfolio, is one that contemplates debtors with financial difficulties or significant worsening of their abili ty to pay and over which there are reasonable doubts about the total reimbursement of principal and interest in the terms agreed upon, showing a low slack to meet with your financial obligations in the short term. Categories C or Portfolio in Default, is made up of those debtors whose recovery is considered remote, since they show a deteriorated or no capacity to pay. As for the group evaluation portfolios, a joint evaluation of the operations that compose it is carried out. Refer to Note 31 for details of impaired Bank loans and their respective provisions, Also refer to the Note 20 for a breakdown of the maturities of the Bank's financial assets. Exposure to credit risk in derivative contracts with abroad As of December 31, 2019, the Bank's foreign exposure, including the counterparty risk in the derivative portfolio, was USD 2,309 million or 3,65% of the assets, In the table below, the exposure to derivative instruments is calculated using the equivalent credit risk, which is equal to the net value of the replacement plus the maximum potential value, considering the collateral in cash, which mitigates the exposure. Below, additional details are included regarding our exposure to those countries that have a rating of 1 and that correspond to the largest exposures, The following is the exposure as of December 31, 2019, considering the fair value of the derivative instruments. Derivative instrument Financial (adjusted to market) Deposits Loans investments Total exposure Country Clasification M USD M USD MUSD M USD M USD China 2 0.00 0.00 7.23 0.00 7.23 Colombia 2 1.24 0.00 0.00 0.00 1.24 Italia 2 0.00 1.36 0.32 0.00 1.68 México 2 9.42 0.04 0.00 0.00 9.46 Panamá 2 1.50 0.00 0.00 0.00 1.50 Perú 2 2.20 0.00 0.00 0.00 2.20 Uruguay 2 0.00 0.00 0.10 0.00 0.10 Total 14.36 1.40 7.65 0.00 23.41 The total amount of this exposure to derivative instruments must be offset daily with the collateral and, therefore, the exposure to net loans is USD $ 0. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 147 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 39 RISK MANAGEMENT, continued Our exposure to Spain within the group is as follows: Derivative intruments Financial Total (adjusted to market) Deposits Loans investments exposure Counterpart Country Clasification M USD M USD M USD M USD M USD Banco Santander España (*) España 1 319.0 54.8 0.4 0.0 374.20 Santander UK UK 1 24.0 2.0 0.0 0.0 26.00 Banco Santander Mexico Mexico 2 9.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 9.4 The total amount of this exposure to derivative instruments must be offset daily with the collateral and, therefore, the exposure to net loans is USD $0, (*) We include our exposure to the Santander branches in New York and Hong Kong as exposure to Spain. Impairment of other financial instruments As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the Bank did not have significant impairments in its financial assets other than credits and / or accounts receivable. Security interests and credit improvements The maximum exposure to credit risk, in some cases, is reduced by guarantees, credit enhancements and other actions that mitigate the Bank's exposure, Based on this, the constitution of guarantees is a necessary but not sufficient instrument in the granting of a loan; therefore, the acceptance of risk by the Bank requires the verification of other variables or parameters such as the ability to pay or generate resources to mitigate the risk incurred. The procedures for the management and valuation of guarantees are included in the internal risk management policy, These policies establish the basic principles for the management of credit risk, which includes the management of guarantees received in transactions with custo mers, In this sense, the risk management model includes assessing the existence of appropriate and sufficient guarantees that allow the recovery of the loan to be carried out when the debtor's circumstances do not allow it to meet its obligations. The procedures used for the valuation of the guarantees are in accordance with the best practices of the market, which involve the use of valuations in real estate guarantees, market price in stock values, value of the shares in an investment fund, etc, All the collateral received must be properly instrumented and registered in the corresponding registry, as well as having the approval of the Bank's legal divisions. The Bank also has rating tools that allow ordering the credit quality of operations or clients, In order to study how this probability varies, the Bank has historical databases that store the information generated internally, The qualification tools vary according to the segment of the analyzed client (commercial, consumption, SMEs, etc,). The following is a breakdown of impaired and non-impaired financial assets that have collateral, collateral or credit enhancements associated with the Bank as of December 31, 2019 and 2018: As of December 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ Non-impaired financial assets: Properties/mortgages 23,371,510 22,047,354 Investments and others 2,785,219 2,200,776 Impaired financial assets: Properties/mortgages 101,456 119,181 Investments and others 525 865 Total 26,258,710 24,368,176 Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 148 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 39 RISK MANAGEMENT, continued Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Bank has difficulties in complying with the obligations associated with its financial obligations. Liquidity risk management The Bank is exposed daily to requirements of cash funds from several banking transactions such as current account drafts, pay ments of term deposits, guarantee payments, disbursements of derivative operations, etc, As is inherent in banking activity, the Bank does not hold funds in cash to cover the balance of those positions, since experience shows that only a minimum level of these funds will be withdrawn, which can be foreseen with a high degree of certainty. The Bank's approach to liquidity management is to ensure, to the extent possible, that it always has sufficient liquidity to meet its obligations at maturity, under normal circumstances and stress conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking risk, of damage to the reputation of the Bank, The Board sets limits on a minimum portion of funds to be made available to meet such payments and on a minimum level of inter -bank operations and other lending facilities that should be available to cover drafts at unexpected levels of demand, which is reviewed periodically, On the other hand, the Bank must comply with regulatory limits dictated by the FMC for the mismatches of terms. These limits affect the mismatches between future income and expenditure flows of the Bank considered individually and are the following: i, Mismatches of up to 30 days for all currencies, up to once the basic capital; ii, mismatches of up to 30 days for foreign currencies, up to once the basic capital; Y iii, mismatches of up to 90 days for all currencies, twice the basic capital. The treasury department receives information from all the business units on the liquidity profile of its financial assets and liabilities and details of other projected cash flows derived from future businesses, According to this information, treasury maintains a portfolio of liquid assets in the short term, composed largely of liquid investments, loans and advances to other banks, to ensure that the Bank maintains sufficient liqui dity, The liquidity needs of the business units are met through short-term transfers from treasury to cover any short-term fluctuation and long-term financing to address all structural liquidity requirements. The Bank monitors its liquidity position on a daily basis, determining the future flows of its expenses and revenues, In addition, stress tests are carried out at the end of each month, for which a variety of scenarios are used, covering both normal market conditions and fluctuation conditions, The liquidity policy and procedures are subject to review and approval by the Bank's Board of Directors, Periodic reports are generated detailing the liquidity position of the Bank and its affiliates, including any exceptions and corrective measures adopted, which are regularly reviewed by the ALCO. The Bank is based on client (retail) and institutional deposits, bonds with banks, debt instruments and time deposits as its main sources of financing, Although most of the obligations with banks, debt instruments and time deposits have maturities of more than one year, customer and retail deposits tend to have shorter maturities and a large proportion of them are payable within 90 days, days, The short-term nature of these deposits increases the liquidity risk of the Bank and therefore the Bank actively manages this risk by constantly monitoring market trends and price management. Exposure to liquidity risk One of the key measures used by the Bank to manage liquidity risk is the proportion of net liquid assets to customer deposits, For this purpose, the net liquid assets must include cash / cash, cash equivalents and debt investments for which there is an active and liquid market minus the deposits of the banks, fixed income securities issued, loans and other commitments maturing in next month, A similar measure, but not identical, is used as a calculation to measure the Bank's compliance with the liquidity limit established by the SBIF, where the Bank determines the mismatch between its rights and obligations according to maturity according to the estimated performance. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 149 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 39 RISK MANAGEMENT, continued The proportions of the mismatches at 30 days in relation to capital and 90 days in relation to 2 times the capital are shown in the following table: As of December 31, 2019 2018 % % 30 days 63 (20) 30 days foreign 90 days 79 (37) Following is a breakdown, by contractual maturities, of the balances of the Bank's assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, considering also those unrecognized commitments: Up to 1 Between 1 and Between 3 and Between 1 and Between 3 More than 5 As of December 31, 2019 Demand month 3 months 12 months 3 years and 5 years years Total MM$ MM$ MM$ MM$ MM$ MM$ MM$ MM$ Asset expiration (Note 20) 4,539,389 4,513,787 2,813,147 7,255,064 8,078,287 5,720,027 16,465,316 49,385,017 Expiration of liabilities (Note 20) (11,793,782) (6,641,245) (6,747,894) (5,610,834) (4,439,984) (3,425,089) (6,200,485) (44,859,313) Net expiration (7,254,393) (2,127,458) (3,934,747) 1,644,230 3,638,303 2,294,938 10,264,831 4,525,704 Unrecognized loan / credit commitments Guarantees and bonds (30,356) (9,009) (318,024) (93,814) ( 747) ( 451,950) Letters of credit from abroad confirmed (25,492) (1,808) (11,305) (31,587) (70,192) Letters of documentary credits issued (33,207) (347) (33,438) (73,580) (140,572) Guarantee (144,363) (546,369) (902,737) (216,472) ( 97,661) ( 22,292) (1,929,894) (7,254,393) (2,360,876) (4,492,280) 378,726 3,222,850 2,196,530 10,242,548 1,933,096 Net maturity, including commitments Hasta Entre 1 y 3 Entre 3 y 12 Entre 1 y 3 Entre 3 y 5 Más de 5 As of December 31, 2018 A la vista 1 mes meses meses años años años Total MM$ MM$ MM$ MM$ MM$ MM$ MM$ MM$ 2,827,643 5,798,664 2,451,466 5,504,699 6,214,328 3,808,562 11,838,090 38,443,452 Asset expiration (Note 20) (9,786,584) (5,517,050) (4,675,171) (5,633,116) (3,268,117) (2,027,157) (4,290,707) (35,197,902) Expiration of liabilities (Note 20) Net expiration (6,958,941) 281,614 (2,223,705) (128,417) 2,946,211 1,781,405 7,547,383 3,245,550 Unrecognized loan / credit commitments Guarantees and bonds (22,128) (63,230) (41,637) (6,628) (133,623) Letters of credit from abroad confirmed (3,842) (9,128) (33,177) (212) (10,679) (57,038) (12,469) (110,970) (54,015) (45,937) (2) (223,393) Letters of documentary credits issued Guarantee (663,642) (188,147) (905,554) (75,909) (87,597) (33,356) (1,954,205) Net maturity, including commitments (6,958,941) (420,467) (2,595,180) (1,162,800) 2,870,090 1,630,564 7,514,025 877,291 The above tables show the undiscounted cash flows of the Bank's financial assets and liabilities on the estimated maturity basis, The expected cash flows of the Bank from these instruments can vary considerably compared to this analysis, For example, demand deposits are expected to remain stable or have an increasing trend, and unrecognized loan commitments are not expected to be executed all that have been arranged, In addition, the above breakdown excludes available lines of credit, since they lack contractual defined maturities. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 150 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 39 RISK MANAGEMENT, continued Operating risk Operational risk is the risk of direct or indirect losses arising from a wide variety of causes related to the Bank's processes, personnel, technology and infrastructure, and external factors that are not credit, market or liquidity, such as those related to legal or regulatory requirements, Operating risks arise from all Bank operations. The objective of the Bank is the management of operational risk in order to mitigate economic losses and damages to the Bank's reputation with a flexible structure of internal control. The Bank's Administration has the primary responsibility for the development and application of controls to deal with operational risks, This responsibility is supported by the overall development of the Bank's standards for operational risk management in the following areas: Requirements for the proper segregation of functions, including the independent authorization of operations Requirements for reconciliation and supervision of transactions Compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements Documentation of controls and procedures Requirements for the periodic evaluation of the applicable operational risks, and the adequacy of the controls and procedures to deal with the identified risks Requirements for the disclosure of operating losses and the proposed corrective measures Development of contingency plans Training and professional development / training Establishment of business ethics standards Reduction or mitigation of risks, including contracting insurance policies if they are effective. Compliance with Bank regulations is supported by a program of periodic reviews carried out by the Bank's internal audit and whose examination results are presented internally to the management of the business unit examined and to the Directors and Audit Committee. Capital risk The Group defines capital risk as the risk that the Group or any of its companies may have an insufficient amount and/or quality of capital to: meet the minimum regulatory requirements in order to operate as a bank; respond to market expectations regarding its creditworthiness; and support its business growth and any strategic possibilities that might arise, in accordance with its strategic plan. The objectives in this connection include most notably: • To meet the internal capital and capital adequacy targets. • To meet the regulatory requirements. • To align the Bank’s strategic plan with the capital expectations of external agents (rating agencies, shareholders and investors, customers, supervisors, etc.) • To support the growth of the businesses and any strategic opportunities that may arise. The Group has a capital adequacy position that surpasses the levels required by regulations, Capital management seeks to optimize value creation at the Bank an at its different business segment, The Bank continuously evaluates it risk-return ratios through its basic capital, effective net equity, economic capital and return on equity, With regard to capital adequacy, the Banks conducts its internal process based on the FMC standards which are based on Basel Capital Accord (Basel I), Economic capital is the capital required to support all the risk of the business activity with a given solvency level. Capital is managed according to the risk environment, the economic performance of Chile and the business cycle, Board may modify our current equity policies to address changes in the mentioned risk environment. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 151 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 39 RISK MANAGEMENT, continued Capital minimum Under the General Banking Law, a bank is required to have a minimum of UF800,000 (approximately Ch$22,053 million or U,S,$ 31,6 million as of December 31, 2019) of paid-in capital and reserves, calculated in accordance with Chilean GAAP. Capital requirement Chilean banks are required by the General Banking Law to maintain regulatory capital of at least 8% of risk-weighted assets, net of required loan loss allowance and deductions, and paid-in capital and reserves (“basic capital”) of at least 3% of total assets, net of required loan loss allowances, Regulatory capital and basic capital are calculated based on the consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with the Compendium of Accounting Standards issued by the FMC, As we are the result of the merger between two predecessors with a relevant market share in the Chilean market, we are currently required to maintain a minimum regulatory capital to risk-weighted assets ratio of 11%, As of December 31, 2019, the ratio of our regulatory capital to risk-weighted assets, net of loan loss allowance and deductions, was 12.86% and our core capital ratio was 6.96%. Regulatory capital is defined as the aggregate of: • a bank’s paid-in capital and reserves, excluding capital attributable to subsidiaries and foreign branches or basic capital; • its subordinated bonds, valued at their placement price (but decreasing by 20,0% for each year during the period commencing six years prior to maturity), for an amount up to 50,0% of its basic capital; and • its voluntary allowances for loan losses for an amount of up to 1,25% of risk weighted-assets. The levels of basic capital and effective net equity at the close of each period are as follows: Ratio As of December 31, As of December 31, 2019 2018 2019 2018 MCh$ MCh$ % % Basic capital 3,390,823 3,239,546 6.96 7.72 Regulatory capital 4,304,401 4,101,664 12.86 13.40 Concentration of risk The Bank operates mainly in Chile, so most of its financial instruments are concentrated in that country, Refer to Note 10 of the financial statements for a breakdown of the concentration by industry of the Bank's receivables and accounts receivable. Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 152 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTA N°40 NON CURRENT ASSETS HELD FOR SALE Banco Santander has decided to implement its own acquisition network, therefore the Bank is in process to dispose-of the investment in the companies who provide such services. Accordingly, the Bank management is engaged in search plan for a buyer. As required by IFRS 5, the Bank has reclassified to assets held for sale under the heading Other assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as of December 31, 2019 and in the same way it has presented in the income statements the effects associated with those investments as discontinued operations for all years presented. The following investments in associates were classified to Other assets as assets held for sale: As of December 31 2019 2018 Participation Assets income Income % MCh$ MCh$ MCh$ Transbank 25.00 19,093 1,442 284 Nexus 1.94 357 136 3,118 Redbanc 33.43 2,944 121 368 Totales 22,394 1,699 3,770 Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 153 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 41 SUBSEQUENT EVENTS Bond issuance and repurchase On January 7, 2020 Banco Santander Chile placed a bond with a 5 year term for an amounted of U.S.$750 million under the Rule 144-A of Securities Exchange Commission of United States. On January 21, 2020, the Bank placed a Subordinated bond for an amount of U.S.$200 million. On February 4, 2020, the Bank placed a Senior bond for an amount of UF2,000,000. The Bank has performed the following bond repurchases during 2020: Date UF Date Ch$ 01-02-2020 357.000 01-13-2020 50.000.000 01-14-2020 131.000 01-14-2020 9.820.000.000 01-21-2020 171.000 01-15-2020 400.000.000 01-21-2020 181.000 01-21-2020 330.000.000 01-24-2020 2.000 01-22-2020 11.430.000.000 02-17-2020 15,000 02-17-2020 2,000 02-18-2020 50,000 02-18-2020 4,000 02-20-2020 350,000 02-20-2020 115,000 02-21-2020 57,000 02-21-2020 24,000 02-24-2020 10,000 02-24-2020 250,000 Investment in associated and affiliates a. Nexus On January 22, 2020 Banco Itau-Corpbanca purchased the remaining shares held by Banco Santander in Nexus (79,577 shares), whit this, the sale process of Nexus has conclude. The investment in this company was classified as assets held for sale in June 2019. b. Santander Consumer S.A. (“Consumer”) On January 7, 2020 at the Extraordinary Shareholders Meeting, the members agreed to modify the business structure of Santander Consumer Chile to a limited liability company (responsabilidad limitada), which will operate under the corporate name Santander Consumer Finance Limitada. c. Santander S.A. Sociedad Securitizadora On January, 16, 2020, the company sent a “Material Fact” (Hecho Esencial) notifying that at the Extraordinary Shareholder Meeting held on January 15, 2020, the members agreed to modify the capital increase agreement dated on November 27, 2018, without changing the number of shares (280 ordinary registered shares, with a singles series and without nominal value). Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 154 Banco Santander Chile and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 NOTE 41 SUBSEQUENT EVENTS, continued New regulations On January 27, 2020, Financial Market Commission (FMC) issued two papers draft for comments related to credit-risk weighted assets and capital buffer requirements for the framework of modernization of the Chilean Banking Law (LGB), in accordance with new Basel III requirements. On February 24, 2020 was published in the “Diario official” Law 21,210 which will be effective from the first quarter of 2020. The modification includes changes to income tax law, VAT tax and Tax Code. The Bank is reviewing any potential impact on the implementation of the new tax regulations. There are no other subsequent events to be disclosed that occurred between January 1, 2020 and the date of issuance of these Financial Statements (February 27, 2020). Jonathan Covarrubias H. Miguel Mata Huerta Chief Accounting Officer Chief Executive Officer Consolidated Financial S tatements Dec ember 2019 / B anc o S antander Chile 155 GH
