ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 2 Summary 39 Quality and Trust 44 Food quality and safety 47 Partnering with clients and consumers 49 Innovation and knowledge 53 Health and nutrition 3 Leadership Message 52 Impact and Value Generation 56 Human capital 7 Indicator 65 72 Supplier Management Local communities Synthesis 10 A BRF 76 Animal welfare 11 Who we are 80 Environmental efficiency 13 Operations map 15 17 Business model Governance and management 85 Businesses 90  Operating and economic23 Strategy financial results 25 28 Our drivers Competitive Advantages 95 Report 30 Investments and capital allocation 100  GRI content 32 Risks and Opportunities summary 38 Sustainable development 115 Annexes 126 Credits BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 3 Leadership Message GRI 102-14, 102-15 A great purpose guided BRF in 2018 by esto pass through prices and the truck drivers’ tablishing a restructuring plan, for strengthstrike are among the main external elements ening the Company’s organizational health, of this period. The problems in our goverresuming our financial balance and creating nance, the extensive de-structuring of teams, value to all our stakeholders. systems and processes and a second phase of police investigations operations were other We believe we have a huge capacity in elements to compose this scenario of chalhands. We are a wide, capillary and influenlenges. The most visible consequences in tial business network: we have a production our business that we had to face during 2018 with about 36 manufacturing complexes, a were the fall in our margins, a high increase strong presence in the field and a business in our indebtedness and the constitution of that is present in the daily routine of consumraw material stocks much higher than the ers from the most diverse cultures, through desirable level. If we exclude these non-rePEDRO PARENTE well-established and respected brands. We curring factors, our negative result would be Global CEO are a team of 100,000 employees worldwide; much lower. people from different nationalities, mobilized to make the mission of bringing food to peoIn response to these events and changes in ple in more than a hundred countries a reality. scenery, we adopted short-term measures around 100k and immediate impact on results and our The year of 2018 was the most challenging operation: we granted collective vacations at one in BRF’s ten years of history, having testseven plants, adopted the layoff mechanism ed our responsiveness and answers. at our Chapecó unit (SC) and promoted operational adjustments that 5% of our workforce employees around the world Protectionist measures that closed import– such as the closure of turkey slaughter lines form our team, made up ant import markets, the pressure of costs in in Mineiros (GO), Francisco Beltrão (PR) and of people with different a domestic market where it was not possible Chapecó (SC). These were comprehensive nationalities BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 4 and timely responses that mitigated the imThe expenses incurred due to the aforemenpacts on our results, although they were not tioned problems, associated to the equity able to completely counteract the negative impact (impairment) of the divestment inieffects on the business. tiatives, resulted in a considerable loss in the year of 2018. It should be noted, on one hand, We have decided, in short, As we recognized the need for additional measures to address this adverse scenarthat these were non-recurring events, and on the other hand, that they did not affect the to face our main problems, io and speed up our financial deleveraging process, we decided to sell our assets in Company's ability to produce future results. On the contrary: our ability to generate restarting trajectories to Argentina, Europe and Thailand, in addition to our plant located in Várzea Grande (MT) and sults improved, in view of our exit from operations that had low or even negative margins. increase our margin and some real estate assets. We also securitized reduce our leverage receivables through a Credit Rights InvestWe understand that this was a cycle that ment Fund (FIDC) and reduced our frozen ended in 2018. We decided, in sum, to face raw material inventories by about 60%. In our main problems, beginning trajectories to total, we reached an amount of R$ 4.1 billion increase our margin and reduce our leverage. from an estimated total amount of R$ 5 billion with this set of measure. In fact, there was an expansion of our margin, With regard to our internal restructuring, we measured via an adjusted EBITDA – which work intensively on several fronts. One of the was 4.6% in the second quarter to 6.9% in the most relevant was the reconstruction of the third quarter and 8.8% in the fourth quarter of top leadership level, our Executive Committhe year. Our cash position of approximately tee. We are a global team in all areas, seeking R$ 7 billion at the end of December 2018 is talents in large companies and in different robust and will be strengthened by inflows of parts of the world. funds from divestments, estimated at more than R$ 2 billion and expected by the middle We have also established the three fundaR$ 7 of 2019. mental commitments of our company: Safety, Quality and Integrity. These are non-negotiaDuring 2019, we estimate to reach the level of ble commitments, for which there is no tolerapproximately 3.65x leverage, reaching this ance for deviations. We also initiated policies STRENGTHENING billion level at the end of the year. Our long-term objective remains a level of leverage ranging aimed at expanding diversity, which is low, especially at leadership levels. The company has adopted measures to increase sales in cash and the entry of from 1.5x to 2.0x, opening up space to deal and to better serve conanother R$ 4 billion in with the cyclical nature of our business and In the systems and processes area, the urgent sumers and customers 2019, will make our position re-establishing our credit risk grade to investimprovement in operational performance is more robust ment grade. being directly addressed through programs of BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 5 operational excellence (SEO), Zero Base Budget (OBZ) and management by guidelines challenging environment and healthy competition between our regional offices, in order to In the Asian market, we crave for a new frontier of opportunities for BRF, just as the We have established (GPD), as well as projects of engagement and culture, which will allow us to ensure longachieve excellence and exceed our objectives, as well as incorporating best practices in the Halal market was in the 1970s. Its preference for dark meat places it in a prominent posithree fundamental term alignment and high performance teams. We are also adopting measures aimed at logistics area. tion in our strategy, as it is complementary to our main business, Brazil. The signing of the commitments increasing our sales and better service to our As for the Halal market, we have unquesprice undertaking mechanism between Braof our company: Security,Quality consumers and customers, improving pricing tionable leadership of more than 41% market zilian producers and the Chinese government and product mix, reopening channels such as share in the countries from the Gulf Cooperarepresented an exceptional advance in trade food service, seeking to increase the number of customers served, quantity of items sold to tion Council. We believe that we have a robust operation, with an important presence in negotiations with one of the main markets in the world. and Integrity. These reduction of disruptions and reduction of our operating costs. We have already made progthe final distribution in the region. In this way, we have opportunities to further advance Parallel to this work, we are also committed to are non-negotiable ress over 2018, when we look at, for example, the average number of customers moved the other links in the chain and participate in the strategic movement of the Saudis, who advancing the plans to return to historical levels of market perception regarding our praccommitments, which increased more than 9% in 2018, in the annual comparison. We have also launched seek greater food security for the country, especially through partnerships that do not tices in sustainability, transparency, ethics and safety. To translate this effort into concrete for which there is the + Excellence program, which fosters a change the pace of reduction of our debt. indicators, we have as a goal the return of our no tolerance for deviations shares to the Brazilian Corporate Stock Index (ISE) and the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) Emerging Markets, New York. To strengthen this front, we have expanded our partnership with the Brazilian Network of the Global Compact, a UN initiative for which we seek the exchange of knowledge so as to internalize the Sustainable Development Objectives (ODS) in our Sustainability strategy. In the field of management, we have estabORIGIN lished a robust quality management tool The bio chicken was (Quality TIER); we continued the energy launched with a focus efficiency programs in the operation; we on consumers coninvest heavily in technological innovation in cerned about the origin of the product BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 6 logistics processes, traceability of production And looking at the need to account for this and control of farms; and remain committed journey, which in 2018 has just begun, we are to the best practices in animal welfare, which, sharing in this report our plans for the future in our eyes, will increasingly serve to differenand inviting you to dialogue with us. tiate and demonstrate in practice the change of mindset in the food industry. Enjoy your reading! Broadening the horizon of our observations, LORIVAL NOGUEIRA Leader our strategic planning establishes the goal of LUZ JR. reversing the declining trend of our margins Executive Vice-President in 2019, by setting forth a high performance Global management and consolidation of our foundations in leadership, innovation and financial strength, in order to seek historical levels of We are absolute profitability in 2020 and a the continuous and sustainable growth, through a rigorous execution, so as to deliver a level of profitability above the historical average as of 2021. leaders in We know that our staff will make a difference terms of share in our recovery and thus we wish to thank all our employees, partners and partners who in the Brazilian have worked with an unparalleled dedication in serving our customers and stakeholders. and Halal markets Discipline and consistency in the execution will be our obsessions in the management of the company. We are very confident that all of the measures we have taken, as well as the new strategic direction of the company, are what it takes to build an increasingly efficient, Our goal is to reach more profitable BRF, with an unquestionable reputation. a profitability level above the historical average, as of 2021 BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 7 Indicator synthesis • NET OPERATING REVENUE* ROL SALES VOLUME MAIN FINANCIAL INDICATORS (R$ MILLION) (TOTAL IN R$ MILLION) (THOUSAND TONS) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Net revenue 27,786 29,007 32,197 33,733 33,469 34,529 2013 48% 52% TOTAL 2013 55% 45% TOTAL Gross profit 6,910 8,509 10,089 7,526 6,421 5,186 27,786 4,587 Gross margin (%) 24.9% 29.3% 31.3% 22.3% 19.2% 15.0% 2014 47% 53% 2014 48% 52% Adjusted EBITDA N/A N/A N/A 2,938 2,857 2,616 Adjusted EBITDA 29,007 4,725 N/A N/A N/A 8.7% 8.5% 7.6% margin (%) Net profit 1,062 2,225 3,111 -372 -1,099 -4,466 2015 50% 50% 2015 47% 53% Net 3.8% 7.0% 9.3% -1.1% -3.3% -12.9% 32,197 4.515 margin (%) Market value 42,969 55,350 48,335 38,552 29,688 17,550 2016 54% 46% 2016 57% 43% Total assets 32,375 36,104 40,388 42,945 45,228 42,382 33,733 4,688 Net Worth 14,696 15,690 13,836 12,219 11,713 7,532 Net debt 6,785 5,032 7,337 11,141 -13,310 -15,610 2017 55% 45% 2017 57% 43% Net debt/ Adjusted EBITDA 2.17 1.24 1.28 3.77 4.46 5.12 33,469 4,919 Income per share (R$) 1.17 2.46 3.62 -0.47 -1.35 -5.50 2018 47% 53% 2018 46% 54% No. of shares 872,473,246 872,473,246 872,473,246 812,473,246 812,473,246 812,473,246 34,529 4,974 No. of shares 1,785,507 1,785,507 62,501,001 13,468,001 1,333,701 1,057,224 in the treasury BRAZIL INTERNATIONAL BRAZIL INTERNATIONAL *Values consider consolidated operations. BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 8 NET WORTH NET PROFIT/LOSS NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES1 ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENTS (R$ MILLION) (R$ MILLION) (R$ MILLION) 2013 14,696 2013 1,062 YEAR EMPLOYEES YEAR INVESTING 2013 109,426 2013 212.00 2014 15,690 2014 2,225 2014 104,400 2014 208.39 2015 13,836 2015 3,111 2015 105,733 2015 324.66 2016 12,219 2016 -372 2016 104,035 2016 325.84 2017 105,408 2017 388.30 2017 11,713 2017 -1,099 2018 107,784 2018 162.8 2018 7,532 2018 -4,466 1 It includes indefinite employees and employees outside Brazil. BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 9 Net operating revenue increased compared to the previous cycle OUR PRODUCTIONS Slaughter 2017 2018 Var. 2018/2017 Poultry slaughter (million head) 1,628 1,554 (4.6) Pig slaughter (thousand head) 9,793 9,844.1 0.5 Cattle slaughter (thousand head) 145.4 154.6 6.3 Production (thousands of tons) Meat 3,841.8 3,648.7 (5.0) Other processed products 490.4 461.1 (6.0) Rations and concentrates (thousands 10,444.7 9,559.6 (8.5) of tons) BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 10 BRF IN THIS CHAPTER Who we are Operations map Business model Governance and management BRF commitments BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 11 Who we are GRI 102-1, 102-2, 102-3, 102-5 We are a company formed by 107,700 direct Our chain is complex and capillary and inemployees who, together with a network of cludes 36 manufacturing complexes – 31 13,356 agricultural producers, make BRF the of which in Brazil –, 47 distribution centers largest exporter of chicken in the world, as and integrated producers all over the planet. well as a leader in pork and chicken producProduction crosses the field, industry, retail tion in the domestic market. We are a publicly and goes to consumers' homes, ranging from traded company with shares traded on the raising animals to processing, distributing and Brazilian stock exchange (B3 BRFS3) and selling food. the New York Stock Exchange (ADR level III). The offer of practical products, convenient and adapted to the routines of varied consumer profiles is part of the company's history and projects worldwide the strength of the Brazilian industry: it covers frozen, protein BRF S.A. is a global in natura, margarines, sandwiches, desserts, various ingredients and processed. food company margarines, sandwiches, desserts, various In our business headquartered in ingredients and processed. snacks, and cusmodel, we wish to feed the world through a Brazil, with more tomers in the food industry, with solutions in ingredients, animal feed and food service. portfolio of around than 80 years of history and present in over 140 In recent years, BRF has also sought to consolidate itself as an international company with an emphasis on growth in Asia, the Americas, Africa, Europe and the Middle East 4k products and brands present at all – a region where our Sadia brand has gained times of the day, including Sadia, countries leadership in several countries. Perdigão, Qualy and Perdix, among others BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 12 In 2018, the goal of strengthening the orUnder the influence of the sale of assets ganizational health and ensuring adequate and efforts to increase operational efficienlevels of cash generation and leverage led the cy and optimize the management of raw company to establish a restructuring plan. In materials inventory, as well as the exchange addition to measures related to governance, rate and short-term aspects of the regions financial management and operational excelin which we operate, we ended the year lence, planning has focused on operations in with ROL R$ 34.5 billion – 3.2% above the Brazil, Asia and the Muslim world. previous year – and market value of about R$ 18 billion. Rather than increasing the generation of results, this route adjustment directs us to Our business model and our institutional regions and segments in which we have positioning are tuned and convergent in solid competitive advantages recognized by three fundamental pillars that are non-nethe market, protecting our capital structure gotiable commitments: Quality, Safety and and betting on our potential to grow safely Integrity – aspects prioritized in the strateand permanently. gy and that reflect how we work in all stages of the production chain. Aware of BRF's challenges in recent years, we are mobilized to enhance transparency and ethics in everything we do and thus protect our reputation in a context of broad transformations Our business model and our in relationships between businesses, consumers and business partners. institutional positioning are based on three fundamental pillars that are nonnegotiable commitments: Quality, Safety and Integrity BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 13 Operations map • Abroad: over over 80 years of history and tradition Perdigão: founded in 1934 5 plants 1 in the United Arab Emirates 3 in Turkey 1 in Malaysia 4k products (SKU) Sadia: founded in 1944 27 11.3% 2009: merger announcement, concluded in 2012 distribution centers 20k of the global poultry trade is BRF employees More interns and trainees over 5 million tons of food In Brazil: 2nd largest produced 32 chicken producer in per year over plants 47 the world 20 107k distribution distribution employees centers centers Largest 85k chicken employees 92 nationalities 29 languages spoken and pork producer in Brazil World's Largest Chicken Exporter BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 14 Changes in progress: sale of assets As part of the restructuring plan, we are the sale of non-operating assets, as well as undergoing a cycle of transformations that minority interests in companies – were initiinclude the sale of units and brands, the conated. The Monetization Plan consisted of four clusion of supply agreements and changes in main fronts: factories and integrated operations in Brazil and abroad. • asset divestments; • sale of non-strategic assets; Throughout 2018 and the first months of • reduction of stocks of frozen raw material; 2019, operations – which include sales of and finished products; and assets in Europe, Thailand and Argentina and • securitization of receivables. QUICKFOOD THAILAND AND EUROPE In December, BRF announced with Marfrig In early February 2019, the Company anGlobal Foods S.A. a purchase and sale agreenounced the sale of its units linked to the ment for QuickFood, the leader in the prooperations of Thailand and Europe to Tyson duction of beef derived products in ArgentiInternational Holding Company. In total, there na, with three plants and processing capacity are six slaughter and processing plants, with of 6 thousand tons/month in hamburgers, related operations, covering Thailand, the sausages, cold cuts and frozen vegetables. United Kingdom and the Netherlands, with a The sale also included the future acquisitotal of 10 thousand employees. The operation of BRF's Várzea Grande (MT) plant and tion had a total value of approximately R$ 1.3 an agreement to supply various finished billion (US$ 340 million). R$ 4.1 products including hamburgers, meatballs and quibes. CAMPO AUSTRAL In January 2019, the sale of the assets in ArAVEX gentina was completed with the transfer of billion Also in the same month, BRF celebrated the subsidiary Campo Austral to BOGS S/A the sale of the shares of Avex S.A., one of and to La Piemontesa de Averaldo Giacosa the leading producers of chicken and marand Compañia S/A for the amount of approxgarine in Argentina. The company operates imately R$ 131 million. The operation involved were captured through the Monetization three plants in the country, with a slaughthree plants and the brands Campo Austral, Plan, equivalent to 81% of the target of the tering capacity of 160,000 birds / day and Calchaquí and Bocatti. cash generation plan disclosed by BRF processing more than 10 thousand tons / in 2018 month of products. BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 15 Business model • Generating How we allocate capital, we consistent execute processes and generate value in our chain and sustainable results OUR PROCESSES OUR IMPACT OUR COMMITMENTS Development and Tasty and quality Value progress products generated in INTEGRITY SAFETY the long term HUMAN CAPITAL Ethics, compliance and People welfare and Connection between talents and Health and safety development risk management of leadership Environmental and values Protecting the integrity and Working the natural diversity of physical well-being of all QUALITY social investments consistent with the our people and adherence to our our employees In all processes, complexity of our products and Customized business portfolio NATURAL CAPITAL relationships that respects Eco-efficiency Animal welfare multiculturality Conscious use of natural resources Performing responsible and Leading role ethical practices from breeding in global and management of emissions industry and and waste to slaughter Measures of measurable key markets social impact in SOCIAL CAPITAL AND RELATIONSHIP communities Consumer Confidence BRF Radius Being attentive to the needs Protecting reputation by Being careful about our impact Benefits for integrated Access to safe with a focus on health, quality being transparent with all on the lives of communities producers and and tasty meats and access our partners suppliers and processed products MANUFACTURED CAPITAL Presence and capillarity Logistics Efficient use From factories to integrated Always planning to keep the of industrial ones, to guarantee the delivery of integration of production Strong brands and assets products in over 140 countries on sale partners of consumers' day to day INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL Brands Science and technology Researching, developing Connecting for quality, and innovating, resulting in productivity and business Financial results for shareholders leading products connectivity and investors BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 16 Governance and management GRI 102-18 A stable and functional model • As a publicly held company with a leading position in the global food industry, we are was implemented, capable of 2018 was a year of consolidation for committed to the adoption of corporate governance practices that allow for promptincreasing the governance, with transitions in the high leadership and ness, transparency, balance and coherence in decision-making. company’s restructuring of the team BRF has traded shares in the Brazilian capital organizational responsible for defining and implementing strategic market since the 1980s; in 2006, it entered health planning the New Market of B3, then BM&FBovespa. Several measures have since been adopted to adapt the company's governance to long-term vision and alignment in all decithe most demanding segments of the stock sions of our future. OUR MODEL GRI 102-19, 102-20, 102-22, 102-23, market, such as the presence of independent 102-24, 102-26, 102-28, 102-28, 102-29 directors, minority shareholders' rights guarThe process, built with the support of the The General Shareholders' Meeting, the Adantees, the exclusive maintenance of common Corporate Governance area and continuous ministration Council, the Fiscal Council, the shares and the existence of policies on transmonitoring of the highest decision-making Executive Board and the advisory committees actions with related parties and conflicts of body of BRF, the Administration Council, also are BRF's main governance bodies. Check out interest, information disclosure and trading resulted in the renewal of the executive team. the model, assignments and novelties of these of securities The consistent generation of results, with a structures during the year: stable and functional model capable of in2018 was a year of consolidation for BRF's creasing the company's organizational health, Shareholders' General Meeting – It is the main new governance. After a period of transitions was a top priority in attracting talents to lead BRF deliberative body, with ordinary and exin our high leadership, we worked on the the corporate areas and business divisions. traordinary meetings, in which the Company's restructuring of the team responsible for the most relevant matters are voted. In 2018, there definition and implementation of strategic Also during the year, approval was given were four meetings held – one ordinary and explanning. In a deliberative process, our shareto amendments to our Bylaws at the Extraordinary and other three extraordinary ones. holders elected a new Administration Council, traordinary General Meeting, adjusting it The main one, held on April 26, 2018, resulted in committed to the complete reorganization to the New Market regulation and to the the election of the new Administration Council, of the business and to the resumption of the recommendations of the Brazilian Code of with the task of promptly responding to the Company's historical results, focusing on the Corporate Governance. current market challenges. BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 17 Administration Council – It is the body's responsibility to define general guidelines to the business, including the long-term strategy, and to select and supervise the executive officers’ performance. The criteria for choosing directors are objective, including reputation, ethical standards and experience/knowledge in finance, governance and our industry and absence of conflicts PEDRO PULLEN PARENTE PRESIDENT – MEMBER of interest. The current council, elected in 2018, has eight of its ten independent members, meetAUGUSTO MARQUES WALTER MALIENI JR. ing the standards of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act DA CRUZ FILHO MEMBER INDEPENDENT VICE(SOX) and exceeding the 20% rule of the New PRESIDENT Market on a large scale. Fiscal Council – With a structure that values independence in analysis and deliberations, the board evaluates all acts of business administrators and the balance sheets and financial stateDAN IOSCHPE ADMINISTRATION ROBERTO RODRIGUES ments. In 2018, the body was composed of Attilio INDEPENDENT MEMBER COUNCIL INDEPENDENT MEMBER Guaspari, an independent member; Marcos ViniStarting date of the mandate: cius Dias Severini, member; and André Vicentini, April 26, 2018 an independent member. Executive Board – It is the body responsible for business management, acting in line with strategic guidelines defined by the executives after FLÁVIA BUARQUE DE discussion and validation by the Administration ALMEIDA ROBERTO ANTÔNIO MENDES INDEPENDENT MEMBER Council – which elects and dismisses the direcINDEPENDENT MEMBER tors. In 2018, remodeling governance has made this structure leaner, with ten vice-presidencies (four of which are statutory) in three broad areas (markets, operations, planning and quality, and corporate). Information on the curriculum of statutory directors, of which an extensive market experience is required, is available at ri.brf-global. FRANCISCO PETROS LUIZ FERNANDO FURLAN INDEPENDENT MEMBER com/en/governance-management/diretorcounINDEPENDENT MEMBER cils-and-committees.ri.brf-global.com/pt-br/goverJOSÉ LUIZ OSÓRIO DE ALMEIDA FILHO nanca-corporativa/diretoriaconselhos-e-comites. INDEPENDENT MEMBER BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 18 EXPERIENCED LEADERSHIP, COMMITTED TO LONG-TERM Advisory committees In 2018, the structure of the committees was also Pedro Parente revised in order to welcome strategic issues for GLOBAL CEO the company's current context. In the period, the following five groups have acted: Lorival Luz GLOBAL COO MARKETS OPERATIONS, CORPORATE PLANNING AND QUALITY Finance and Risk Management Committee Quality and Sustainability Committee Francisco Petros Oliveira Lima PapathanasiRoberto Rodrigues, Luiz Furlan, José Sidney Manzaro Vinícius Barbosa Alessandro Bonorino adis, Roberto Antonio Mendes, Walter Malieni Luiz Osório and Vicente Falconi BRAZIL OPERATIONS AND SUPPLIES HR AND SHARED SERVICES Jr., Dan Ioschpe and Manoel Cordeiro Silva (external consultant). Filho (external member). Audit and Integrity Committee – with auStrategy and Marketing Committee tonomy and independence to assist, support Patrício Rohner Leonardo Dallorto Lorival Luz (alternate) Augusto Marques da Cruz Filho, Flávia and advise on issues related to BRF internal INTERNATIONAL INTEGRATED PLANNING AND FINANCES AND RI MARKETS LOGISTICS Buarque de Almeida, Luiz Fernancontrols, the body supports the Administrado Furlan and Eduardo Fontana D'Ávila tion Council regarding internal and external (external member). audits, reported complaints and issues relatNeil Peixoto Rubens Pereira ed to market laws (such as SOX) All the evalQUALITY, R&D AND STRATEGY, MANAGEMENT Committee of People, Governance Organiuated topics are sent to verification, when SUSTAINABILITY AND INNOVATION zation and Culture necessary, to the Compliance Department or Flavia Buarque de Almeida, Dan Ioschpe and to an independent company. Augusto Marques da Cruz Filho. Francisco Petros Oliveira Lima PapathanasiBruno Ferla adis, Roberto Antonio Mendes, Walter MaINSTITUTIONAL, LEGAL AND COMPLIANCE lieni Jr., Fernando Maida Dallacqua (external member) and Thomás Tosta de Sá (external member). BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 19 BRF’s Commitments • Global structure adequate to the level of Business Partners, which are among the risk: the Compliance area is corporate and main guidelines to be followed by employ• global, being responsible for the definiees and business partners, supporting the GRI 103-1 | 205, 103-2 | 205, 103-3 | 205, 103-1 | tion of policies and guidelines in Brazil and actions implemented by the Compliance 206, 103-2 | 206, 103-3 | 206, 205-2 abroad. Reporting to the Vice Presidency of Department. Other internal procedures and Institutional, Legal and Compliance Relastandards related to the Integrity System tions, in addition to independent reports are currently in the process of being updatto the Transparency Committee and Audit ed and published, such as the Corporate Recent years have been challenging for BRF, the São Paulo Stock Exchange and the New and Integrity Committee, the area gained Standard for Procurement of Suppliers and which has undergone major changes in recent York Stock Exchange (NYSE). As a result, it is importance in recent years, with a robust the Corporate Relations Policy with the years, as has the food industry in general. subject to the anti-corruption laws of various capillarity structure for risk management Public Power. Regarding the improvement of its goverjurisdictions, as well as specific regulations to and improvement of policies and controls. • Training, capability and communication: nance, control and compliance processes, publicly traded companies such as the CVM Currently, it is comprised of 20 people, with the disclosure of new policies and the BRF defined as non-negotiable commitments and Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOx). In this way, structures in São Paulo, Curitiba and Itajaí, main guidelines of the company is carIntegrity, Quality and Security, which should the fight against corruption, bribery, fraud and focal points in the regions and counried out through internal communication be applied in all links of the productive chain, and inappropriate behavior occupied a promtries where we operate. campaigns, using various channels such in our daily institutional or business relations, inent place in the company, with the launch • Global policies and procedures: The Transas emails, posters, banners and videos. In regardless of hierarchical levels or roles. and implementation of the BRF Integrity Sysparency Manual is the main guidance policy addition, around 90,000 employees around tem, headed by the Compliance Department, for BRF employees regarding the behavior the world are trained through face-to-face BRF has as its principle compliance with with the support of top management, includexpected in the conduct of their activities. training and through an online learning applicable laws and regulations toits activing advice and committees. It addresses issues such as human rights, platform, considering the target audience ities, in Brazil and abroad, and throughout anti-corruption and bribery, defense of and the risks involved in their activities; 2018, the Company saw the dissemination of The BRF Integrity System has a preventive competition, sustainable development and the culture of ethics, transparency and best focus and was built following the best nanorms of ethical behavior in general, and is practices as essential instruments for its comtional and international Compliance practices. available on the Company's internal netpetitiveness in the market and long-term susApplicable to all Collaborators, business partwork and in three official languages ​​(Portutainability. BRF's new management guidelines ners and audiences that relate to us, the BRF guese, English and Spanish) besides having include Integrity, Quality and Safety commitIntegrity System has 8 pillars that feed on a local translations in seven other languages ​​ ments as a direct responsibility of leadership, continuous flow of improvement and seek (Turkish, Arabic, Dutch, Burmese, Cambodiand must permeate decisions in pursuit of the to respond to the demands of the business an, Laotian and Thai). company's goals and results (read more on areas with efficiency and agility. Next, check • In addition to the Transparency Manual, page 26). out the objectives of each Pillar of the BRF there are Corporate Anti-corruption and Integrity System: Anti-Corruption Policies; Gifts, Gifts and EnBRF is present in several countries through tertainment; Conflict of interests; Donations the production and marketing of its prodand Sponsorship; Report of Complaints and ucts, as well as having securities traded on Non-Retaliation, in addition to the Corporate Standard of Reputational Analysis of BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 20 Pillars of the BRF Integrity System Global structure Policies, corporate standards appropriate to the level and global procedures of risk Identification and mitigation Training, capability of Compliance risks and communication TRANSFORMING LEADERSHIP  External engagement and Continuous analysis sharing practices of business partners Detection and implementation D  igital controls and prompt monitoring, of remediation measures appropriate to the business dynamics BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 21 • Continuous analysis of business partners: consultancies, allows the Compliance Board Prior to certain hirings, the Compliance to continually update and improve the Board is set up to carry out reputationIntegrity System; al analysis of the business partner, which • External engagement and sharing of pracincludes verifications of press reports, court tices: in addition to acting in-house, the proceedings and the inclusion of the third Compliance Department continually seeks party in official restrictive lists. With this, it to collaborate with all the major anti-coris possible to map the potential BRF exporuption initiatives in Brazil. In addition to sure factors related to third parties related participating in various forums of non-govto corruption and fraud. Due diligence proernmental entities and private companies cesses are also organized to verify corrupfrom various sectors of the economy, we tion and fraud risk in business and business share the best practices in the fight against unit operations, in cases of potential mergpublic and private corruption; ers and acquisitions (M&A). • Updating on Integrity policies and controls implemented. These and other • Digital controls and agile monitoring apCONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT AND and procedures activities in the Compliance area allow the propriate to business dynamics: the adherMONITORING • Timely reporting any allegation of violation improvement and constant updating of the ence of the Company's activities to internal Still in 2018, the BRF Integrity Ambassadors The monitoring of the activities carried out BRF Integrity System. laws, policies and guidelines is continuously program was implemented, which includes by the Compliance Department is carried out monitored by evaluating the effectiveness more than 50 employees of average leaderby means of indicators measured on a weekly The BRF's financial statements are audited of internal controls, auditing and transacship and with a profile aligned to Integrity basis, such as the percentage of employees on a quarterly basis by an independent extional testing, in conjunction with other policies. The Compliance Ambassadors are trained in key policies, the number of reputernal audit firm, which also evaluates the areas, and external auditing . There are speemployees of strategic business areas present tational analyzes of third parties carried out; Integrity System and the adequacy of the cific controls monitored by the Compliance in various regions of the country and have the dissemination of themes and compliance acCompany's activities to the SOx legislation area, designed according to the level of risk responsibility to assist in the implementation tivities in communication channels; responses (Sarbanes-Oxley Act), encompassing such of each operation and implemented in an and improvement of the Integrity System. Its to external and internal customers; analysis of aspects as the dissemination and publication agile way, with minimal negative impact highlighted activities include: digital systems; Transparency Channel manof the Transparency Manual, the training of on operations; agement; mapping of areas and locations Employees on anti-corruption legislation, the • Detection and implementation of remedi• Disseminating the culture of ethics and with the highest volume of reports of potenreputational analysis of business partners, and ation measures: the Transparency Channel compliance, identifying the risks related to tial nonconformities and remediation meathe global structure dedicated to compliance is an indispensable support in the detection the topic, and together with the Complisures on identified risks. and anti-corruption issues. of irregularities, managed by the team of ance Department, seeking solutions internal investigations, dedicated to carry and improvements In addition to top management support, the out the appropriate treatments and apply • Communicating, organizing and delivering Compliance Board is in constant contact with occasional remediation measures; training on the Integrity System Transparareas of controls such as Internal Audit, Risks • Identification and mitigation of Compliance ency and Policy Manual and Internal Controls (read more on page xx), risks: periodic risk analysis, by a specialized • Answering simple queries on issues related receiving feedback regarding the Company's internal team and with the help of external to Integrity policies and standards risks, the effectiveness of the policies, tools BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 22 SENSITIZATION AND COMMUNICATION TRANSPARENCY CHANNEL GRI 102-43, 102-44 Operating in eight countries (Brazil, Chile, During the last year, the totality of the memJapan, China, the United Arab Emirates, Saudi bers of the Brazilian governing bodies was Arabia, Singapore and Turkey), available to communicated regarding the Integrity polemployees, suppliers, customers and other icies and procedures adopted by the Comaudiences, the BRF Transparency Channel pany. Employees and business partners were aims to raise reports and complaints of susalso targeted: communication campaigns to pected situations that may violate the Comdisseminate the Transparency Manual, Transpany's Transparency Manual, laws or internal parency Channel and Integrity System Polpolicies. The complainant can report in an icies and other corporate integrity policies anonymous form, if desired, via the Internet, were ostensibly made via online and printed email or telephone, and all cases are verified information and made available in manufacdirectly by the responsible areas, such as turing plants, distribution centers and other Compliance, Human Resources or Loss PreBRF units, as well as corporate e-mails advention, as the case may be. Indicators of the dressed to computerized employees in BraTransparency Channel and the main cases are zil and in the international units, in order to periodically reported to the Audit and Integrireach the approximately 100,000 direct and ty Committee. indirect employees of the Company. The significant increase in the use of the Likewise, face-to-face and distance training Transparency Channel in recent years (see was offered by the Compliance Board, in line table), driven by publicity campaigns and with the laws and good market practices. open dialogue within the Company, also indiBetween 2017 and 2018, training applied to cates more confidence in its use, given that the high leadership and other collaborators the possibility o anonymity and the confion the Brazilian Anti-Corruption Law and dentiality of the information provided in the other international standards, such as FCPA reports is ensured, in addition to the effective and UK Bribery Act, on the Integrity Sysapplication of the Corporate Non-Retaliation tem and BRF Transparency Manual reached Policy to the good faith complainant. The reports received are fundamental for the around 100,000 employees around the world. improvement of processes and risk mitigation For the approximately 26,000 computer for the Company. As a goal for next year, the employees, distance training was also progoal is to reduce the time taken to analyze vided on the corporate policies of Anti-corand respond to reports received, expand ruption and Anti-Corruption and Conflict of channel coverage to external markets, ensure Interests. Every week, the percentages of the continuity of the mechanism's disclosure, these training sessions are monitored by the and train Human Resources teams regarding Compliance Department. their operation. BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 23 INDICATORS ON THE TRANSPARENCY CHANNEL OPERATION 2016 2017 2018 Total number of reports received 737 593 1,452 Number of complaints settled 601 362 1,140 Types of complaints received by the Misuse of intellectual property, behavioral issues, fraud and channel conflict of interest, among others. ACCESS TO THE TRANSPARENCY CHANNEL (Available 24 hours, 7 days a week, for internal and external audiences) Online: www.brf-global.ethicspoint.com and www.brf-global.com/ sobre/etica-e-integridade/canal-de-transparencia/ E-mail: denuncia@brf-br.com Intranet: electronic form, available at the internal corporate network (Corp. Governance – Complaint) Phone: In Brazil, 0800-892-0677. People outside Brazil should visit the above mentioned websites. BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 24 Strategy IN THIS CHAPTER Our drivers Competitive advantages Investments and Capital Allocation Risks and Opportunities Sustainable development BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 25 Our drivers Every day, our suppliers and employees work to produce high quality food that comes to the table of consumers and provides the energy needed to get their lives moving. This goal of feeding the world guides BRF's business model and is today a reason for pride, commitment and effort for the company – one of the leaders of an industry that generates jobs, dynamizes economies and projects Brazil on a global scale, contributing to the challenge of food scarcity. Today, we invest heavily in aspects such as As an organization present in more than 140 corporate culture, supplier management, markets, we believe we are responsible for adoption of international animal welfare delivering tasty, convenient, practical, nutritious and processed foods according to high standards, maximization of efficiency in industry and logistics, and research, The objective of feeding the principles of quality, safety and integrity. We development and innovation. These measures supported a significant growth in market world guides the BRF business, mobilizing pride, commitment must also induce social and economic develshare, size and presence of our brands in opment in an extensive production chain, use Brazil and abroad – especially Latin America, our industrial and biological assets efficiently and responsibly, know and respect the culthe Middle East and Asia. and effort tures of the countries in which we operate, The understanding that we still have a long develop our talents and act in full agreement journey to meet in terms of productivity, with standards, laws and regulations. profitability, economic and financial strength, • Organizational health: ensuring a stable return to shareholders and investors and the and functional governance, focusing on These challenges are, along with our purpose, generation of value for the chain has motivatculture and talent retention; the force that mobilizes the BRF leadership ed an intense strategic review process in the • Key responsibilities: security, integrity and to reflect and update its strategic planning on last two years. quality as cross-cutting commitments to a continuous basis a task that is incumbent the organization, its areas and activities; upon the Board of Directors, the Board of ExIn 2018, this work was deepened from the • Consistent strategy: harmony between the ecutive Officers and the advisory committees updating of the organizational structure, gobusiness planning and nature, leveraging that make up our governance. ing from the reorganization of the vice-presBRF's strengths; and idencies to a renewal in the Administration Council (read more on page xx). Together, our • Rigorous execution: with robust processes leaders identified the need to enhance investof monitoring and discipline in the execuments and efforts from four drivers: tion of the strategy. BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 26 BRF MANAGEMENT MODEL MARKET ADDRESSING BRF COMMITMENTS Guided by our commitments to Safety, InFocus: achieving a volume growth with marOUR WORK IS OUR BRAND tegrity and Quality, we wish to take a journey gin, raising opportunities according to our that will enable BRF to become a food comadvantages in each region: pany with a position of relevance in the global market. • Brazil: working brands, innovation and operational excellence, strengthening the platFrom the reading and analysis of scenarios, form used for food service, boosting proSAFETY the economic-financial challenges that still cessed food and make in natura profitable everything we manufacture affect the company's results and regulatory • Islamic market (Halal): consolidating leadand all our practices and transformations and key markets, our leaderership in Saudi Arabia and the Gulf Cooprelationships are based on ship revisited strategic planning throughout eration Council and moving forward with respect for physical and 2018 and redefined it in five levers for generlocal production in Turkey psychosocial integrity, ating consistent and sustainable results and • International (others marked): expanding the life and well-being feedback to shareholders. access, consolidating presence and develof employees, suppliers, oping the ingredient business consumers and communities. Understand them below: PUSH AND PULL OPTIMIZATION FINANCIAL DISCIPLINE Focus: management that maximizes results Focus: maintaining return on investment by the full use of each animal, carefully study(ROIC) above the cost of capital; raising the ing the supply of protein and the demand gross margin and Ebitda above historical for specific categories of food, in tune with INTEGRITY QUALITY levels; control leverage and reaching levels consumer demands, exchange conditions and must always be present in the conduct is present in all of us and is from 1.5 to 2.0x; and resuming the payment of access to markets of our business. Ethics, transparency a principle that governs all dividends and compliance with laws and relationships and the entire HIGH PERFORMANCE ORGANIZATION regulations, in all markets in which life cycle of BRF products, OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE Focus: offering appropriate remuneration polwe operate, are principles of our from the field to the table Focus: reducing direct and indirect costs, icy to shareholders' needs, adopt best goveractivities. We encourage diversity of end consumers, covering optimizing production and supply processes, nance and management practices, and deand we do not tolerate any kind of certifications, compliance reducing losses, maximizing the use of proveloping and retaining talent and knowledge discrimination and harassment. with international standards, ductive capacity and being a global reference with a strong and stable business culture strict process controls, health in the operation principles and sanitary standards. BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 27 Revised in 2018, strategic Management of the implementation of the strategic plan will take place through the BRF Operational Excellence System (SEO or OES): a tool focused on the implemenplanning is guided by five levers Management Model, which supports the imtation of benchmarks in operational perplementation of the vision of the future based formance, integrating practices, projects for consistent and sustainable on high performance, supported by programs and indicators of all plants. Read more on generation of results and return of variable compensation, operational excellence, cost reduction and management page 45. to shareholders and monitoring of indicators, and the main Corporate Projects Office (PMO): unit reones are: sponsible for following up with the initiatives for buffing up performance and achieving the Management by Guidelines (GPD): a process Company’s strategy; that, in its first phase, resulted in the mapping of 367 indicators, 24,000 goals deployed, High Performance Cycle (HPC): all our leadReturning to the ISE A diversity of goals more than 5,000 eligible employees impacted, and 87 leaders and 23 focal points iners, from supervision to the board, are now evaluated by two new criteria beyond the 180 and DSJI guides the company, volved. This mobilization covers all the Vice degree Performance Assessment: BRF ComPresidencies, Boards and associated areas mitments and Readiness Assessment. Learn Our leadership is committed to retake market as described below: and will be worked through 2019; more about evaluation processes on page 60. perceptions regarding its practices in sustainability, transparency, ethics and safety. • We are aligned with the Animal WelfaZero Base Budget (OBZ): greater control, In order to translate this effort into concrete re agenda (BEA), which is growing most monitoring and management of the organiindicators, top management has set as a goal in modern industrial production. BRF has zation's costs and expenses through more for the entire BRF the return of its actions to commitments from breeding to slaughtering efficient budgeting processes; the Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE) and animals. to the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) • We link environmental, animal welfare, and – Emerging Markets. labor goals to all leaders of productive and executive units at the company. Differentiated portfolios of the Brazilian • We wish to expand the portfolio of brands, stock exchange (B3) and the New York Stock but above all we make the difference in quaExchange, respectively, these instruments refer to publicly traded companies with good lity, convenience and practicality. • We will always invest in service level improThe understanding that there is a socio-environmental practices. The challengvement, execution discipline, efficiency gain long journey to be accomplished in several aspects has triggered an es of recent years have removed BRF from and loss reduction. such indices today we are fully mobilized to recompile them, reinforcing the company's image and reputation in the market. intense strategic review process BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 28 Competitive advantages 20 WIDE DISTRIBUTION NETWORK • We serve more than 200 thousand customers from 140 countries and we have the capacity LEADERSHIP IN THE BRAZILIAN FOOD to reach almost anywhere in Brazil with our products. Moreover, we globally sell directly to own distribution centers in Brazil and +530k MARKET, WITH STRONG BRANDS AND monthly deliveries to food processing companies and distributors in worldwide A GLOBAL PRESENCE customers in Brazil various markets We are one of the largest producers of fresh and frozen foods in the world, based on protein, with a size and scale that allow us to compete in Brazil and abroad with established and valuable brands TOP OF MIND LOW COST PRODUCTS 50.1% Sadia (1st) and Perdigão IN A GROWING GLOBAL MARKET (3rd) stand out in the domestic market We differentiate our operation from competitors in 48.9% some international markets, due to the lower production costs and our gains in efficiency in animal production in Brazil and in the industry in Turkey and in the United Arab Emirates 53.7% BRAZIL: LEADERSHIP IN MARKET SHARE COLD CUTS 39.2% 42% Over 4k 5 FROZEN FOOD market share in SKUs capable of industrial units MARGARINE the Gulf countries, serving different outside Brazil, EMBEDDED maintaining broad markets and guaranteeing market leadership consumer profile a suitable manufacturing footprint BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 29 Presence in 36 STRATEGIC AND DIVERSIFIED QUALITY, SAFETY AND PORTFOLIO GEOGRAPHIC LOCATION DIVERSITY The redefinition of key markets, focusing on Commitments to quality and safety range more than 140 manufacturing Asia, the Muslim world and Brazil, reinforcfrom treatment of poultry and pigs in the es competitive differentiation through the production chain to the production, distribuflexible, robust chain that is able to serve countries quickly and efficiently, adapting the tion and sale processes, which are among the bases of our strategy and inspire practices in complexes, portfolio and the production model according to local needs 100% of operations and portfolio countries in Brazil and worldwide 100% REINFORCED GOVERNANCE, of the portfolio evaluated in terms WITH EXPERIENCED MANAGERS of quality and health After a series of enhancements, our safety leadership structure includes experienced advisors with long-term vision for the 100% industry and an executive team with ten vice presidents, distributed among corporate areas, markets and operations specialties of leaders evaluated in Executives specialized in the accordance with key Specialized geographic region (Brazil and goals and indicators support in the International Markets), with of performance tuned evaluation of quality production areas (Integrated with the strategy aspects, such as Planning and Logistics, Quality, the International R&D and Sustainability, Operations Our chain is complex. Association for Food Protection and Supplies) and corporate assignments (HR and CSC, Finance Production crosses the field, and researchers and IR, Strategy, Management and internationally industry, retail and goes renowned Innovation, Institutional, Legal and up to consumers’ homes Compliance) BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 30 R$ 4.1 MARKETS VIEW BRAZIL The domestic market represents an inducer of innovation and a privileged field for the testInvestments and billion ing of new business models for BRF. In order to grow in consumer preference, expand our Capital Allocation were raised in 2018, reinforcing the company's cash position portfolio of brands and obtain differentiation for attributes such as quality, convenience and • practicality, in 2018 we live a year of intense transformation in industrial standards and models of service to the market. These are priorities: Driven by its new strategic guidelines and total, we concluded 81% of the estimated iniindustrial and biological assets – in projects the need to strengthen its capital structure, tial value (R$ 4.1 billion), a percentage that we that translate the company's future vision, • Boosting growth in the categories in which in 2018 BRF experienced a cycle of transforconsider adequate within the complex execuconsidering the demand of capital providers we operate: among the goals are to raise mations that updated its projects and investtion of the negotiation plan for the transfer of and opportunities of value generation for sliced items to about 25% of the portfolio; ments landscape. assets abroad. communities, business partners and leaders. reaching 20% of the revenue in frozen lines, Check out, in the next pages, a summary of essentially investing in innovation; advancing In June, the company disclosed to its shareIn coordination with strategic planning, once what was done – and projects planned for in frankfurters and sausages through the agholders and to the market the operational and it had been finalized and approved at the bethe near future. gregation of value; and increasing profitabilfinancial restructuring plan focused on reducginning of the second half, the restructuring ity and growing in margarine, based on new ing leverage and directing business to areas plan paves the way for more efficient allocaproducts; with greater growth potential and a competition of financial and non-financial resources • Consolidating leadership and profitability in tive differentiation. – such as human and intellectual capital and natura: through lines like Assa Fácil, strengthening the products of greater added value; The overall goal of improving results is the working special packaging on chicken lines; decision to focus our operations on three and innovating in pigs, also seeking an inmain segments: the Brazilian domestic marcrease in the value added; ket, Asia and the Muslim market. Restructuring plan • Transforming food service into astrategic platform: leading strategic networks, improvThe restructuring plan also included the sale of operating and non-operating assets, workDisclosed to the market in June, it defines ing participation in global accounts, developing new channels and relying on this segment ing capital improvement, mainly through measures to re­balance indebtedness, cash as an alternative to optimize the production inventories, and the securitization of receivables. As a result, an expectation of R$ 5 generation and BRF results from a careful chain and the use of raw materials; • Business Efficiency: 25% increase in custombillion was raised, reinforcing the company's cash position and balancing the ratio bemarket analysis and reorganization er productivity, with pricing technologies and measuring performance; tween net debt and the Adjusted EBITDA. In of the operational structure BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 31 40% • Efficiency of transport, warehousing and loCombined with a portfolio of strong and estabgistics network: achieving a more efficient and lished brands such as Hilal, Perdix, Confidence lean operation with the reduction of the cost and Sadia, this structure has received signifiof serving, improvement in logistics and tax cant investment in recent years and allows the efficiency and enhanced service level; Halal division to be the focus of BRF's strategy. of the supply of • Innovation as the business core: leading in our There are 7,000 employees acting locally – and products to the Halal categories, having consumers and customers the expectation is that 40% of the supply of our market is locally in the center of the company, reaching about products to the region will be generated in the manufactured in the 10% of revenue by 2023 from innovations and local production. Middle East product renewals. Investment priorities for the coming years HALAL DIVISION include: BRF maintains a subsidiary responsible for the direct demand for food in the Islamic world. • Strengthening the global Halal protein leadHeadquartered in Dubai, in the United Arab ership in the Gulf and consolidate leadership Emirates, it serves a universe of 2 billion people in the Turkish market; worldwide, concentrated in the Middle East and • Migrating to products with higher added valNorth Africa, South and East Asia, the Gulf reue in consumers and customers of in natura gion (Gulf Cooperation Council) and Turkey. and processed items, doubling the volume of the latter by 2023; Expecting significant growth until 2030, the • Reinforcing operations in Saudi Arabia Muslim world has its own requirements with through investments in the cold cuts market. regard to food – the main one is the Halal certification, required for consumption in Islamic INTERNATIONAL program, aimed at improving the profitability precepts. The more than 90 countries served by internaof animals from the best use of stock of raw tional operations have a great diversity of regmaterials and animal protein. This project allows We maintain a production platform focused on ulatory and market contexts. Our prioritization our operation a more efficient and profitable serving these markets. Today, BRF is the largest in Asia is accompanied by sustained growth in direction of assets, including the production of exporter to the Gulf region; has its own manuother countries, in line with four core guidelines: Brazilian plants qualified to export to internafacturing operations in the United Arab Emirates expanding market access; developing a porttional markets. (1), Malaysia (1) and also in Turkey (3), through folio of higher added value; consolidating the Banvit's assets; and maintains an extensive bases for a future with a local presence; and Also during the year, we worked for the opennetwork of distributors and commercial partnerdeveloping the ingredients business. ing of markets through the habilitation or reships, capable of serving countries such as Saudi habilitation of plants for export, including units Arabia, Qatar, Bahrain, Oman, Iraq, Lebanon and In 2018, one of the most important investments based in Brazil, responsible for directing their Egypt, among others. was the Global Optimization management products to the global regions. BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 32 Cuts elaborated from pork, Risks and opportunities GRI 102-30 processed chicken and • prepared dishes have a It is within the scope of the Corporate Risk of employees from all regions, areas and units growth potential in Asia Board to maintain an integrated work to to establish a culture of risk mapping and monitor the main risk factors to which the opportunities for improvement. operations are exposed – including financial, market and the likelihood of contaminaThe risk map is periodically revisited by the tion or deterioration of food, nutritional and leadership and considers critical issues of the health concerns, adulterations of products, sector, macroeconomic situations, regulatory animal husbandry risks and adverse climatic aspects and financial and non-financial isconditions. sues (social, environmental, reputational etc.). BRF INGREDIENTS We also invested in strengthening the portfolio, According to the levels of impact and probAnother highlight of the period was the expanexploring additional opportunities for selling Because of its decades of experience in the ability of effectiveness, we classify the risks sion of BRF Ingredients, a business unit started in natura protein with higher added value; this global food industry, BRF is able to monitor, and prioritize those of high and very high in the previous year focused on solutions for is the case of elaborate pork cuts, processed analyze and measure all potential risks that level, besides accompanying the middle and the ingredients and animal nutrition markets, chicken and breaded chicken and ready-tocan affect results. At the same time, the comlow ones. This work is the responsibility of the with a platform established in Brazil that has eat dishes, which are categories with a growth pany's expertise allows it to capture opportuExecutive Board, the Administration Council efficient service capacity for the various inpotential in Asia. nities guided by four pillars of the area: and the advisory committees. ternational markets. Based on the concept of optimization of biological assets and the full • Monitoring, treatment and reporting of corThroughout 2018, the Company handled its use of organic raw materials, this unit has great porate and operational risks; principal risks and respective monitoring and growth potential in the sale of products to cli• Maintenance of the internal controls enresponse to each of them, including, in Form ents in international markets, following criteria vironment and dissemination of control 20-F, the US Securities and Exchange Comof quality, safety and efficiency. culture in the company; mission (SEC). pages. The document is pre• Prevention of losses and misappropriation sented by foreign issuers with shares traded Global markets such as animal feed and fertilizof assets; on the stock exchanges in the United States. ers have the potential to contribute to innova• Global insurance management. tion and differentiation in our business, as well For learning about all the details, as reducing waste and impacts of the producThe methodology adopted proposes the click here tion process and giving greater flexibility to integrated management of risks capable of the chain. affecting BRF's operation, strategy and value generation capacity, including an analysis of the company's vulnerability, potential impacts and the organization's response capacity. The idea is to advocate the training and the view BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 33 TRADE BARRIERS AND SANITARY AND TECHNICAL RESTRICTIONS Our opportunity Continuously improve our processes, guaranteeing markets for exportReinforcing the positioning of The risk: Measures of importing countries to ing, opening up new countries, enabling more plants and more confidence of consumers quality as a non-negotiable protect the local market, by using sanitary and customers. value is among BRF's priorities and technical criteria, resulting in temporary restrictions on imports and embargoes as a FOOD SAFETY AND QUALITY CONTROL consequence of non-compliance with local The risk: Health risks related to our business regulations. and the food industry can adversely affect our marketing capacity. Recently, we have Context: In response to the increasing parbeen subjected to large investigations assoticipation of Brazilian poultry, pork and beef ciated with, among other things, food safety products in international markets, exporters and quality control. of our products and an adverse impact on Context: We consider the potential effects of are increasingly being affected by measures business. climate change in assessing and managing taken by importing countries to protect local Context: During 2018, the European Union our operations and supply chain, recognizing producers. The competitiveness of domestic embargoed 12 production units of the compaOur opportunity: Reinforce the positioning the vulnerability of the natural resources and enterprises has led some countries to estabny after the Low Quality Meat and Cheating of quality as a non-negotiable value of BRF agricultural inputs that are essential to our lish trade barriers (tariff and non-tariff) to Operations. The investigations indicated that strategy and management system, reinforcing activities. The main risks we identify relate limit access to markets. In our case, non-tariff there was undue use of components in the this message among partners, consumers, to changes in temperature and precipitation, barriers are particularly worrisome because feed and falsification of tests in certain BRF customers and the market. including droughts, floods, storms and lack of they refer, in particular, to health and technifactories and accredited laboratories, with the water, which can affect agricultural produccal restrictions. aim of reducing the levels of the salmonella CLIMATE AND ENVIRONMENTAL CHANGES tivity, animal welfare and energy availability. bacteria that would prevent the export of the GRI 201-2 They can have a direct impact on our costs Changes in slaughtering rules and animal products to external markets with a more The risk: Climate change can negatively by raising the price of agricultural commodidiseases (or their possibility) can be reasons rigid control. affect our business and operating results, ties (as a result of long periods of drought or for imposing barriers. Furthermore, the global reflecting on several aspects – such as global excessive rains), increasing operating costs effects of disease have a negative impact on At the beginning of 2019, we voluntarily colsupply and demand for agricultural commodthat guarantee animal welfare and the price consumer opinion on protein products. As a lected 165 tons of fresh chicken meat for the ities, as grain, price changes, inventory and of electricity or rationing of it. Within this consequence, they fall on our ability to access domestic market and 300 tons for the exteravailability of raw materials. Moreover, they scenario, we also consider possible regulatory certain markets (even if Brazil does not have nal market, due to concerns about salmonella can reduce energy security and water availchanges and monitor trends in changes in lirecords of bird flu, for example), which would contamination. We believe that we have taken ability. The risk in the supply of grains and censing legislation for greenhouse gas emisadversely affect our results of operations the appropriate measures to address the energy also directly implies the creation and sions at the domestic and international levels. and financial condition. In 2018, the unfolding problem, despite the fact that they increased well-being of animals. of the Meat and Poor Trap Operations were costs for the company. Even though the prodOur opportunity: Being a reference in the responsible for suspending some international ucts were not contaminated, we understand integration of climatic aspects to strategy and markets, as well as the decrease in the value that negative consumer perception causes management, with measures of environmenof some products. loss of confidence in the safety and quality tal efficiency and risk monitoring. BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 34 WATER AND ENERGY RESOURCES characteristics of the use of water resources The risk: Water scarcity and access problems to understand the growth of local demand. to key energy resources are critical risks to Water management is especially crucial and our business. Such issues can reduce the profpresents many challenges for our operations. itability and efficiency of our operation, reIn Brazil, water use regulations impact agristrict projects and investments in operational cultural operations, industrial production and expansion, and increase the cost base in case hydropower. Any failure to comply with any of resource supply problems. such laws or regulations or the lack of permits or licenses may result in administrative and Context: Our operations are largely depencriminal penalties, such as fines, cancellation dent on electricity and energy-related exof authorizations or revocation of licenses, as penses are among the highest fixed costs. well as negative publicity and civil liability for The significant outage or loss in power supply remediation or compensation for environmenat any of our facilities may affect the productal damage. tion and delivery of products to customers and at additional costs. In general, a signifiOur opportunity: Improving preventive meacant portion of the installed electricity gensures and innovation in the use and access eration capacity in Brazil depends on hydroto energy and water sources, seeking a lower electric generation, vulnerable to a number of environmental impact, greater availability and factors, such as drought. In order to increase efficiency gains. our efficiency and reduce the demand for electricity, we have developed more efficient SUPPLIER CHAIN processes for lower energy consumption. The risk: Occurrences of non-conformities or legal, sanitary, social, environmental and huAnother factor that can drastically affect our man rights problems in business partners, as business is the lack of water, since it is an well as failures in the supply processes, qualessential input for our production processes, ity problems and dependence on exclusive as well as for the cultivation of grains and suppliers. other agricultural inputs. We are aware that the industrial use of water can affect its availContext: We maintain systems designed ability. Therefore, we have developed proceto monitor food safety risks at all stages of dures to reduce consumption, comply with production and distribution, but we know Turning BRF into a applicable rules, and minimize our impact on the environment and the community where that failures lead to product contamination. In particular, processed meat may be exposed reference operations are located. We analyze the micro to bacteria, such as salmonella, during proin terms of safety, respect to life and macro watersheds of the regions where duction or as a result of improper handling and employees’ welfare is we operate and the activities and industrial by food processors (franchisees, distributors, an opportunity to the company BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 35 food service providers or third-party consumLABOR RELATIONS, LEGAL COMPLIANCE Besides, we face risks related to the safety – and is a front with investments in the Comers). Another risk is deterioration, especially AND SAFETY OF OPERATIONS of our facilities. If we fail to implement safepany ensuring sustainability and quality. due to errors in the storage and transporta103-1 | 419, 103-2 | 419, 103-3 | 419 ty procedures or if they are ineffective, our tion systems. We rely on fast and efficient The risk: Deterioration of relationships with employees and other workers may be injured, COMMODITIES transportation and logistics services to, workers, including compliance with legislation resulting in injury and loss of productivity. among other things, deliver raw material to on the subject and the safety of our faciliThe risk: Seasonality, climatic events (such our production facilities, deliver animal feed ties, generating labor costs or accidents and Our opportunity: To make BRF a reference in as droughts or extreme rains), price volatility to our poultry and swine producers and disoccurrences in our plants, adversely affecting operational safety, respect for life, well-being and difficult access to certain inputs and raw tribute our products. Any prolonged disconthe business. of employees and levels of service. materials, such as corn, soybeans and cattle, tinuation of these services may have a matedue to market conditions, diseases, sanctions rial adverse impact on our business, financial Context: Labor costs are among our most INNOVATION AND LAUNCH or embargoes. condition and results of operations. significant costs. In addition, we outsource OF PRODUCTS part of the workforce, which subjects us to The risk: Faced with the inability to meaContext: Among initiatives taken to reduce Our opportunity: Advancing in the relationcomplaints that may arise from such relationsure the direction of our major markets and our exposure to climate change and maintain ship with the productive chain, seeking to ships as if we were the direct employer of the to successfully identify, develop, manufaccost competitiveness, we monitor grain and maximize efficiency and predictability in the outsourced workers. If a significant amount of ture and market new or improved products climate stocks in agricultural regions to guide purchasing processes and contribute to the these actions result in an unfavorable outin these markets in a timely or economical purchasing decisions and to anticipate comdevelopment of suppliers in order to leverage come against us, we may be held liable for manner, our products, brands, financial results modity prices as well. Our business is largely new businesses. amounts higher than our provisions, which and competitive position may be affected, dependent on the cost and supply of corn, may have a material adverse effect on our with a relevant adverse effect on our busisoybeans and bran, and other raw materibusiness, financial condition and operating ness, operating results, financial condition and als, and the sales prices of poultry and pigs. results and results of operations. We are also perspectives. These values may fluctuate significantly (due subject to increases in our labor costs due to to supply and demand) and other factors, Brazilian inflation and health insurance costs. Context: The company's financial success also such as environmental and conservation regudepends on the ability to anticipate changes lations, freight costs, exchange rates and inin consumers' preferences and eating habits terest rates. By 2018, commodity prices (corn, and to successfully develop and launch new soybean meal and soybeans, for example) products and product variations desirable to were affected by the trade dispute between consumers. Moreover, a reduction in investthe United States and China. ment in product development could adverseRisk management considers financial and ly affect our ability to generate innovative solutions. Our opportunity: Differentiating our management from that of the direct competitors non-financial variables that may affect by anticipating BRF to market risks, reducing our business and results Our opportunity: The trend towards prioritizproduction costs and reducing exposure to ing health and well-being poses a challenge the potential unavailability of inputs. for the development of new successful product lines to meet these consumer preferences BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 36 Context: We have internal policies and procethe brand, the operating results, as well as the dures to ensure compliance with anti-fraud, growth strategy. anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. Yet, this does not prevent us from identifying possible Context: Our image, as well as the constant violations, considering the size and compleximprovement of it, is directly linked to the ity of our operations. We are also subject to company's financial conditions and operthese laws and other international trade regating results. Our success in maintaining it ulations as we operate on a global basis. We also depends on our ability to adapt to an face risks related to compliance with export ever-changing environment, including incontrol laws and regulations and economic creasing trust in social media and the online sanctions, including those administered by dissemination of advertising campaigns. If the United Nations, the European Union and we are involved in cases of violation of laws the United States. The breach of them may or regulations, we may face fines or criminal have an adverse effect on our business, repor civil penalties, we may suffer damage to utation, brand, sales prices, results of operareputation and our results of operations and tions and financial condition, and closing of financial condition may be adversely affected. international markets. Further, we are subject The increasing use of social and digital meto antitrust and competition laws in the jurisdia increases the speed and extent to which dictions in which we operate. Consequently, misinformation and opinions can be shared. we may be subject to regulatory scrutiny in Negative posts or comments about us or our some of these jurisdictions that may have products can seriously damage our reputaadverse impacts on our business, results of tion and brand image. operations or financial condition. Our opportunity: Guaranteeing admiration, Our opportunity: In line with the strategy, trust and respect for the company and for COMPLIANCE WITH ANTI-FRAUD, strengthening integrity as the company's our brands according to the society's perANTI-CORRUPTION AND ANTI-MONEY fundamental value in all its relationships and ception of the integrity, quality and safety of LAUNDERING LAWS AND REGULATIONS practices and making it a reference in the its activities. The risk: Events of non-compliance with global food industry. anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws, regulations and legislation, as well as economic IMAGE AND REPUTATION sanctions, antitrust laws and competition in The risk: Serious incidents, crises, and limitthe different markets applied to our operaing situations can test BRF's ability to build tions and subsidiaries. Internal policies and trust among consumers, customers, business procedures related to compliance do not partners, authorities, and the market, with prevent the company from identifying cases potential damage to relationships with these of misconduct. audiences. Cases of misconduct also impact BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 37 FINANCIAL DEPARTMENT AND INTERNAL LEGAL, ADMINISTRATIVE AND FISCAL Our opportunity: Maintaining a plan that Moreover, we are subject to financial and CONTROLS ASPECTS 103-1 | 419, 103-2 | 419, 103-3 | 419 ensures competitiveness and legal and tax non-financial risks that cover liquidity and The risk: Transactions, exchange rate conThe risk: Exposure to sanctions caused by compliance of the company in all contexts, indebtedness; strikes and outages of employtexts and negotiations that may affect BRF's non-compliance and problems related to the regions and markets, avoiding losses related ees and workers in sectors with an impact on financial health, as well as failures in maintaincollection of taxes and tax and administrative to sanctions, punishments and/or fines. the production chain; difficulties in innovating ing internal controls for the disclosure and aspects. and launching products capable of meeting management of financial information. OTHER RISKS the requirements, demands and needs of Context: Regarding tax contingencies, we Although BRF has the experience and tools customers and consumers; the performance Context: Our management is responsible for are currently defendants in several cases, to monitor the main risks associated with its of third parties in logistics and transportation; establishing and maintaining an adequate inwhich include, for example, disputes relating activities, the Company, like all other commaterial damage to facilities not covered in ternal control over financial reporting in order to offsetting tax credits and the use of tax panies in Brazil, is exposed to unstable ecoinsurance policies, recruitment and retention to demonstrate the reliability of the finanincentives in several states that have not yet nomic cycles and interventions by the Brazilof skilled labor at leadership levels; maintecial statements. Inadequate internal controls reached a final decision in Brazilian courts. ian government – which frequently updates nance of information technology systems, can result in failure to meet public reporting In addition, we can face risks arising from monetary, price control, taxation, credit and including prevention of cyber attacks; and requirements accurately and punctually and the possible VAT of inputs (value-added tax) tariffs, among others, to influence the course diplomatic, political and socioeconomic damage our reputation. Internal control over that we accumulate in exports. Currently, we of the economy. issues involving Brazil and its governors and financial reporting may not prevent or detect have a case involving the Tax on Circulation legislators. any distortion or fraud, regardless of the adeof Goods and Services (ICMS) on sales of Our business and results may be affected by quacy of such controls. staple foods, in which the Brazilian Supreme some factors, including: currency fluctuations, Read more at BRF’s 20-F report: Court decided against us. The case is awaiting price volatility, rising interest rates, changes in click here Our opportunity: Ensuring that the compaa final judgment of an appeal, and if the final environmental regulation, strikes, and social ny's value generation is done in a consistent, decision is held against some or all of BRF's and political instability. coherent, planned and responsible manner, operations, this could have a significant imwith a long-term vision and market recognipact on our liquidity and financial results. tion regarding the solidity of the business. The Financial Risk Management Policy guides all the investments and actions that belong to this company pillar BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 38 Sustainable development GRI 102-31 • GLOBAL COMPACTS AND AGREEMENTS GRI 102-12, 102-13 In recent years, BRF has joined a series of national and international voluntary initiatives In BRF, the incorporation of sustainability level, specific nuclei were set up dedicated to addressing social and environmental causIn the last years, criteria into management and strategy is a the environment, animal welfare, social rees – including human rights, ethics, integrity, the vision of permanent journey that seeks to anticipate market changes, prepare the company to sponsibility and institutional relations, with a segmented treatment for each axis of impact. climate change and responsibility in the food industry. Check the main ones: sustainability capture opportunities and ensure the approhas matured, considering priate treatment of risks and impacts. All this structure guarantees the direct re• Global Compact: we are signatories of the the influence on sponsibility of our executives and managers United Nations compact, composing the communities, customers, In recent years, our vision of sustainability on financial and non-financial aspects, with Brazilian Committee (CBPG), working for partners and other has matured: it has surpassed the walls of our the incorporation of sustainability into decithe internal adoption of the global chalstakeholders units and has begun to consider the radius of sion-making. Continued adherence to volunlenges that the UN proposes and articulatinfluence over communities, customers, parttary commitments and market instruments ing the business network for responsible ners and other stakeholders. (see more below) encourages our leadership action. to engage in socio-environmental topics and We have had public sustainability policies and study the implementation of business prac• Sustainable Development Objectives guidelines since the year 2000, and in 2009 tices and models that consider impacts such (ODS): launched in 2015, continuing the we began conducting internal and external as animal welfare, eco-efficiency, community former Millennium Development Goals inquiries structured to gather insights about relations, supply chain development, health (MDGs), the ODS build a multisectoral our impact generation. This process builds on and safety management of workers, among agenda for tackling challenges facing BRF's materiality, built on the guidelines of others. humanity based on 17 objectives and 169 the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the goals in areas such as hunger, sanitation, International Integrated Reporting Council As a reflection of this maturity, in 2018 we biodiversity, ethics and human and social (IIRC). began to link collective goals of the environrights. BRF connects its strategic pillars ment, animal welfare and labor aspects to all to the goals linked to the ODS, giving Governance in this area is carried out with the leaders of productive and executive units of light and promoting its evolution in an direct involvement of top leadership, through the Company, through a management tool effective way. the Vice Presidency of Quality, R&D and (referred to as TIER of Quality). Sustainability. The Quality and Sustainability • Business Compact for Integrity and AnCommittee, in turn, brings together three BRF ti-corruption: BRF integrates the commitadvisors and one external guest to foster strament – which brings together companies tegic discussions on the subject, with meetengaged in the search for a more ethical ings at every 45 days. At the management and integral market. BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 39 • National Compact Institute for the EradNGOs and universities with references in MATERIALITY ication of Slave Labor (InPacto): we have the theme, to maximize opportunities for GRI 102-21, 102-29, 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, participated in this initiative together with improvement in the production chain. 102-44, 102-47 other companies mobilized in the fight (read more on pages 76-79) against slave labor in productive chains. As part of our maturity in relation to social • Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and Inand environmental aspects, we have been • Na Mão Certa (“In the right lane”): an ternational Integrated Reporting Council doing materiality processes for a decade a initiative that combats the sexual exploita(IIRC): the reporting guidelines disseminatrelevant tool for understanding how our aution of children and adolescents at Brazilian ed by these two organizations guide our diences see the impacts and management of highways. At BRF, the issue is critical beaccountability practices and contribute to the company, prioritizing the issues to be adcause of the potential risks that surround the definition of socio-environmental metdressed by our leadership and communicated our supply chain. rics and indicators for operations. to society through public documents like this Annual Report. • GHG Protocol Brazilian Program: we use the Public Register of Emissions as an anBetween 2017, 2018 and 2019, we conductnual disclosure tool for our global inventory ed cycles of revision and maturation of our of greenhouse gas emissions, audited by materiality, combining the direct inquiry with third parties. ODS: dialogue with Connection between employees, suppliers, communities, financial institutions, leaders and external experts to an • CDP (Climate Change, Water and Forest): our strategy the management and analysis of BRF’s scenarios, commitments and this forum addresses the responsible manpolicies, as well as of the food sector. agement of emissions, water resources and The launch of the Sustainable Development the ODS forestry, connecting these themes to the Objectives has led us, as an organization, to Along this Annual Report, we present the We also carried out a mapping of challenges companies' strategies, with their correlated a process of reflection on impacts, processes connection between the ODS, material related to each theme, based on discussions risks and opportunities. and means of contributing to the achievethemes, capital (IIRC), BRF strategy with interdisciplinary groups in three BRF ment of the goals set by the United Nations. and management pillars. Check out this units (São Paulo-SP, Jundiaí-SP and Curiti• Save Food Initiative: since 2017, we have correlation in chapter openings and also ba-PR). This work resulted in a socio-environbeen part of this initiative by the United Currently, ODS are directly addressed by in our listing of material themes on the mental impact management tool that links Nations Food and Agriculture Organization strategic sustainability projects – as in the next pages. our material themes, the Sustainable Devel(FAO) and the United Nations Environment case of the animal welfare program; a strong opment Objectives (ODS), strategic pillars, Program (UNEP), which focuses on comperformance in energy efficiency; and our risks and opportunities, as well as guiding the bating losses and waste in food chains. risk control in the supply chain. Our challenge definition of the indicators and topics prioriis to integrate the 17 objectives and 169 goals tized in this report. • Universities and BEA NGOs: with projects in an effective manner towards management and public animal welfare goals since 2012, and strategy, prioritizing the most relevant This work was continued throughout 2018 we are a company that works in partnerones to the company and monitoring our and early 2019. A short review of the issues ship with international animal protection progress through key indicators. BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 40 addressed and their relationship and consisIn 2019, BRF is working to establish a corpos tency with the BRF restructuring plan, the rate sustainability strategy by consolidating i lit i e si b Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) indicators, the various existing projects, instruments and p on es m es the IIRC guidelines and the UN ODS were work fronts, as well as incorporating discusy R ri a l The carried out. BRF also mapped the Brazilian Insions on emerging issues in the public debate Ke M ate dicators for Sustainable Development Objecof the area, such as bioenergy, elimination tives, offered by IBGE, to understand how to of food waste, sustainable development of Environment better measure its real impact on this agenda. grains and other pillars in line with Agenda P ill a r s 2030 and the UN ODS (for which seven priorg ic te The most relevant issues for BRF have been ity ODSs are being defined). Already in 2019, t ra High performance consistent with our concerns for the future, we worked with 17 employees focused on the S organization and all consolidate around our strategic bases strategy, in 22 projects in progress in the year, of Security, Quality and Integrity. Waste of articulating 17 internal partnerships and nine ti on food, packaging and waste, sustainable value external partnerships, with five commitments Safety Animal bi Well-being Push and Pull m chain, social responsibility, diversity, animal assumed on fronts such as animal welfare, A welfare, water and energy are the themes grain chain and water. Among the outstandmost closely linked to our direct performance, ing efforts, we joined the seven Working the means by which we develop our business Groups, in addition to the Brazilian Global CONSISTENT AND SUSTAINABLE Operating GENERATION OF RESULTS AND and contribute to society. All of them, guided Compact Committee, with leadership in one Quality Excellency Sustainable VALUE TO SHAREHOLDERS AND by our pillars, are fundamental to putting our of the Working Groups. Partnerships STAKEHOLDERS business strategies into practice and achieving a consistent and sustainable generation of Check out our relevant topics in the results and value. graphs below. Growth and Profitability Integrity Society Financial Discipline Our people The most relevant issues for BRF have been consistent with our future concerns BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 41 MATERIAL THEME PRIORITY SDGS OTHER RELEVANT SDGS CAPITALS ANNEXES AUDIENCES IMPACTED Sustainable partnerships: 201: Economic performance Sustainable grain chain 205: Fight against corruption 206: Unfair competition Engage and develop suppliers to adopt sustainabil307: Environmental compliance ity principles in the execution of their businesses Financial 17 8 12 16 419: Socio-economic compliance All audiences and their partnerships, as well as to strengthen BRF Social and relationship 308: Environmental evaluation of suppliers management mechanisms on topics of traceability, 408: Children’s assignment quality, environmental efficiency and social devel409: Forced or analogous to slave labor opment, with a focus on the agricultural grain and 414: Supplier social evaluation commodities chain. FP1 and FP2: Third parties and procurement Animal welfare: Integrated producers Made in BRF Public power Seek the alignment of BRF at the forefront of the Natural 2 12 FP10, FP11 and FP12: Animal creation Customers industry in aspects of animal welfare, by engaging Social and relationship employees and stakeholders and by adhering to comFP13: Handing , Museum, transport e abate Employees mitments from internationally recognized organizaSociety tions in the industry. Environment: Water and bioenergy Employees To manage impacts on the environment from the efNatural 302: Energy Suppliers ficient use of resources, especially water, energy and 6 7 13 11 13 Human 303: Water Customers associated environmental aspects (such as green305: Emissions Intellectual 306: Effluent and Waste Public power house gas emissions), emphasizing topics such as Society water availability, efficiency in agroindustrial processes and the search for low energy sources impact. Our people: Social and biodiversity responsibility 102-8: Organizational profile Employees To value the diversity of BRF's human capital and the Human 102-38 and 102-39: Compensation Suppliers valuing of people's lives and well-being through a 8 5 10 102-41: Collective negotiation agreements Intellectual 401: Employment Customers strong and integrated organizational culture, contin403: Occupational Health and Safety Public power uous learning, retention and valuation of talents and 404: Training and education the formation of leaders committed to the values of Society 405: Diversity and equal opportunities business. Society: Social and relationship 203: Indirect economic impact Society Zero food waste Manufactured 413: Local communities 416, FP5, FP6 and FP7: Consumers' Consumers Manage social and economic impacts on communities 12 1 2 11 Intellectual Health and Safety Employees of influence, seeking to maximize positive social im417: Marketing and labeling pacts and generate real progress in people's lives, with Customers a central focus on combating food waste. Suppliers BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 42 Quality and trust IN THIS CHAPTER Food quality and safety Partnership with customers and consumers Innovation and knowledge Health and nourishment BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 43 Being present in the daily lives of consumers in more than 140 countries with a broad portfolio of products and brands takes our responsibilities business. We believe that by investing in quality, innovation, healthiness and relationships of trust, we contribute to reducing the potential impacts of the food industry – such as consumer health risks – and 4k deliver convenient, practical, tasty and safe products. In 2018, the strategy review process strengthened our performance in the domestic (Brazil), Islamic (Halal division) and Asian (Interproducts national division) markets – a move that finds offered to the its coherence in the company's innovation market are fruits potential and contribution to the food indusof the investment try in key regions of the planet's population in consolidating growth. customized solutions to consumers The more than 4 thousand products (SKU) that we offer in the markets materialize the investment of the last years in consolidating customized solutions, establishing partnerships and proximity to consumers. In terms of our Qualy margarine lines. And, in line with practicality, the snacks, the individual frozen, the strategy, we have advanced with BRF The goal of delivering the sliced cold and the products that can be Ingredients, with the food service and with baked without defrosting have the advantage innovations in the international market to flex of facilitating the routine of consumers and combating waste, with appropriate portions the chain, deliver innovative products and serve the food segment outside the home. convenient, practical, tasty at any given time. All these investments have their reason for and safe products induces The presence on special occasions of family life is another recognized attribute of BRF being in the three core responsibilities of BRF management: Quality, Safety and Integrity. investments in quality, brands – such as traditional Chester, Christmas turkey and festive special cuts. HealthIt is from these principles that we realize our desire to feed the world with respect to peoinnovation and healthiness iness and innovation are still the hallmark of ple, our values and our way of doing business. BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 44 Food quality and TIER BRF One of the innovations introduced during dards and certifications and plan for management improvements. safety the year of 2017 and enhanced later was the BRF is externally audited by several agencies establishment of this tool, which evaluates responsible for the surveillance of the sector – legal, environmental, labor, animal welfare Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Supply GRI 103-1 | 416, 103-2 | 416, 103-3 | 416 and quality issues in all our industrial plants. (Map) and National Agency of Sanitary SurIn addition to improving the integrated manveillance (Anvisa). It is also subject to verifiagement of these aspects and allowing risk cation of the international markets in which it control, TIER was also adopted in 2018 to operates, such as the Ministry of Food, Agrimeasure the achievement of BRF’s corporate culture and Livestock (Turkey). goal at the end of the period. The company’s customers also carry out external audits on export-enabled plants locatThe growth and recognition of BRF's ability These instruments establish control measures ed in Brazil, Turkey, Malaysia and Abu Dhabi to be a leader in the global industry is directand criteria that cover 100% of the portfolio, – a total of 36 manufacturing complexes. ly related to the perception of consumers, allowing the control of sanitary and regulacustomers and partners about the quality and tory risks and compliance with international The effort on these two fronts was fundamenCritical reading of the entire BRF portfolio, in reliability of our products. standards of food production. tal to dealing with the challenging context order to map possible quality and / or variaafter the unfolding of the Carne Fraca and tion problems and correct issues prior to the Taken as crucial to the success of the busiIn recent years, we have deepened the work Trapaça operations, which put our quality generation of impacts to consumers, is anothness, these two pillars are continuously highof quality management with two areas of standards in check (read more on page xx). er effort. Since 2016, the project of improving lighted in the company's dialogue with its emphasis: food safety and food transparency. The combination of quality assurance sysquality standards in so-called icon products stakeholders and are among the priorities The first one deals with the technical work of tems and the timely provision of informamonitors aspects of quality in strategic SKUs of the high leadership which stands out guaranteeing the non-variation, high quality tion has been our guideline for dealing with for BRF and for the reputation of our brands. through the Vice Presidency of Quality, R&D and safety levels of all our products, taking complaints, investigations and questioning of and Sustainability and of the Quality and Susinto account sanitary and legal criteria of the the relationship audiences about our internal In 2017, we began monitoring the information tainability Committee, which take the issue to markets. processes. contained in the nutritional table of various governance and strategy. industrialized products. By 2019, the informaThe pillar of transparency, on the other hand, AUDIT AND CERTIFICATION GRI 416-1 tion management of industrialized icons will The Food Quality and Safety Policy, the BRF is the provision of clear, accurate and accesbe carried out. In this model, the producing Quality System and the Hazard Analysis and sible information to consumers and business To ensure that the entire production chain units send monthly samples of each prodCritical Control Point Program (HACCP) are partners about the standards we use in promeets international quality and safety criteria, uct icon to the company’s central laboratory, the main management tools on the subject, duction, as well as packaging, transportation we maintain a routine of audits – Audits of located in Jundiaí (SP), for the analysis of the combining criteria, standards and awareness and retailing processes. the BRF Quality System (SQBRF) –, annually information described on the label. actions across industrial and agricultural units, held with the purpose of ensuring legal comcorporate areas and markets. pliance and compliance with customer stanBRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 45 The quality vision examined in the project The initiative imposes even stricter standards In 2018, the following 100% goes beyond food compliance and safety: it of quality analysis on these products which results stood out: categories have more than one also covers perceived characteristics, sensory adds up to the portfolio’s 100% analysis of form of management aiming at aspects, packaging standards and the state of criteria, standards and policies and results, consumers’ health and safety. the product after the distribution processes since 2017, in the Conformity Index, an indicaAll external audits met expectations, to the points of sale. tor obtained from the analysis of about xxx products, representing xx% of the volume almost 100% either from the requirements of the clients, or from certifiers or produced. servicing items for industrialized products, supervisory bodies. As for internal referring to the information audits, deviations are being contained in the nutritional deployed in action plans. table to ensure compliance with current legislation (metrics: % Units – Final Product of service = No. of compliant BRC analyzes/Total Brazil (Chapecó, Concórdia, Capinzal (SC); analysis No.). Toledo, Francisco Beltrão (PR); Serafina More agility and connection Corrêa, Lajeado, Várzea Grande, Marau (RS); Mineiros, Rio Verde (GO); Dourados (MS). The development of a single model to tighten Intrinsic Quality Asset Management, Industrial IFS the link between agricultural and industrial and Agricultural Operations – which are large Brazil (Chapecó, Capinzal, Concórdia, Videiunits is part of a project that BRF has been areas of knowledge and impact (directly or CERTIFICATIONS* GRI FP5 ra (SC); Toledo, Paranaguá (PR); Lajeado, dedicated since the second half of 2018. The indirectly) on BRF results. BRF adopts global standards in Várzea Grande, Marau (RS); Mineiros, Rio purpose of the Operational Excellence System its production processes, in line Verde (GO); Dourados (MS); Vitória Santo (SEO), as it was named, is to intensify the team Each pillar consists of four stages, starting from with certifications that address the Antão (PE). engagement based on agility, simplicity and basic conditions and legal requirements to the quality of processes, environmenNATIONAL CHICKEN COUNCIL (PAACO) clarity, consistency in routine, and less on the implementation of operational excellence practal controls, animal welfare, and Toledo (PR), Chapecó, Capinzal, elaboration of documentation and plans to be tices. Hence, the system bets on the inverted food safety aspects. Get to know Concórdia (SC). implemented in the future. pyramid model by strengthening the routine the main ones: CERTIFIED HUMANE + ZERO ANTIBIÓTICO of operators, supervisors, process managers Lucas do Rio Verde (MT) With this more agile profile in the connection and productive units and, last but not least, of *Valid for 2018 The Buriti Alegre (GO) unit is no longer certified in the Certified Humane standard, between areas and people, the company has directors. with the completion of the Garden project and Units – Raw Material the perspective of continuing to achieve robust the partnership with the English chef Jamie Oliver. GlobalGAP certifications were not renewed at the GLOBALGAP results in line with the values of safety, quality After the positive results obtained during the Chapecó (SC) and Alo Free units in Marau (RS) and Marau Capinzal (SC), due to the delisting of the plants and integrity. pilot project implemented in the South (Toledo to meet the European market. In the year 2019, ISO 17025: 2005 and Videira) and the Midwest (Lucas do Riowe intend to renew the GlobalGAP certification in Marau/RS and recertify in the Alo Free standard. Brazil: Carambeí, Francisco Beltrão, Toledo, To give transversality to the project, the SEO Verde) – with the participation of 51 employees The Chapecó/SC plant will also re-certify in the Dom Vizinho (PR); Videira, Concórdia, CapGlobalGAP standard. was constituted by eight pillars – Management, – the SEO started to be extended to the other inzal (SC); Marau (RS); Jundiaí (SP); UberlânPeople, Healthcare and Safety, Environment, units of the company. dia (MG); Lucas do Rio Verde (MT). BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 46 78,5% complaints in the transparency 23% fewer complaints Safety, channel were sorted out in 2018 submitted by consumers in INTEGRITY IN ALL WE DO the CSC Quality & Integrity Controlling risks We are continuously trained in Anti-Corruption and Conflict of Interest policies. Below are some of our training indicators: 50% reduction NON-NEGOTIABLE COMMITMENTS in the accident rates 4 mobilized areas in preventive in 2018 and corrective actions Compliance Board Internal Audit WE WORK 100% of the portfolio Risks and Internal Controls WITH SAFETY assessed as per sanitary Audit and Integrity Committee safety and quality criteria In the operation We seek to reduce accidents Communicating policies and eliminate fatalities in Campaigns and awareness plants, farms, logistics centers actions solidify our culture. We and product distribution 100% of the employees have already trained represented by HSE Injuries with leaves 95.4 employees committees 2.57 (2017) Transparency manual 1.19 (2018) Injuries without leaves 11.3 employees Anticorruption 30.41 (2017) 100% of the external 19.25 (2018) audits met the expected 9.7 employees In logistics standards of Conflict of Interests We have achieved the best clients, certifiers or result since the beginning inspection bodies of the HSE transport program 25% reduction in deaths, in 2018 QUALITY IN A WIDE SENSE In the products In the processes and in the management In the portfolio Connection Process Improvements and Operational We work to ensure our Food Quality and The Operational ExcelExcellence contribute to the Company's consumers’ welfare and health Safety Policy lence System (SEO) perception of quality engages areas and teams BRF Quality based on more agile, Quality TIER System Certifications clear and constant This tool assesses legal, environmental, Program for Hazard Analysis and procedures in the IFS labor items, related to animal welfare and Critical Control Items (HACCP): company routine Certified Humane quality in all our industrial plants, which They ensure 100% of the portfolio Global Standard for Food are tied to the variable compensation of is covered by control measures Safety – BRC executives and eligible parties and sanitary and regulatory criteria BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 47 Partnership with customers and consumers COMPLAINTS AND LEVEL OF SATISFACTION IN THE SAC4 GRI 103-2 •Our relations with the market are historicalThe CSC is offered in Brazil, Chile, Paraguay Perdigão, Qualy, etc.) have their own accounts 2016 2017 2018 ly guided by transparency and the effort of and Uruguay for all brands, allowing the clariand websites, which offer information on nutridialogue and confidence building. With the fication of doubts, the recording of complaints tion, health, prescription tips and consumption No. of cases recorded effects of the Carne Fraca and Trapaça operaand the reception of compliments, counting on patterns. (Positive and Neutral) 29 38 47 tions on the image and reputation of BRF, we a team of BRF's own staff. Specific denounce(%)1 work to reinforce Integrity, Quality and Safety ments regarding ethical and integrity aspects In 2018, we had a 23% reduction in the volume No. of cases recorded as non-negotiable requirements of our way of can be carried out by the BRF Transparency of complaints, with initiatives that included 71 62 53 (Negative) (%)1 working. Channel (read more on page 22). process improvements and registration tools, presentation of frequent gaps in forums, en1st level service (%)1 2 81 87 90 The Consumer Protection Code and the In Brazil, the Customer Service Center is headgagement of areas and creation of a specific Corporate Consumer and Customer Service quartered in the Shared Services Center (CSC) governance for critical cases. No. of cases resolved 100 100 98 7 standard guide investments, projects and meain Itajaí (SC), and is comprised of more than (%)1 3 sures of relationship with those who consume 40 people. By means of it, consumers from We have set a 20% reduction goal regarding Not Satisfaction level NPS our products or acquire them for processing, Brazil and some South American countries complaints rate. We have a shared goal based appli66 73 6 (Consumer Individual) distribution and sale. are served for all BRF brands, with a solution on the NPS index, and in 2019 we should reach cable5 deadline and a 10-day response return. the 75th level in the case of consumers; among Not Satisfaction level NPS appli-27 -19 For this reason, the Customer Service Center customers, 30. (Business) cable5 (SAC or CSC) assumes an even more strategic All demands related to product quality and/ Not role in the Company, guided by two pillars: or safety issues, involving potential impacts on STRENGTHENED RELATIONSHIP Satisfaction level NPS appli-17 6 a search for consumer and customer loyalty consumer welfare, are dealt with by the legal In the last two years, approximately R$ 10 (Logistics) cable5 (through the best experience with our sersupport in critical cases. Complaints in the million were invested in the area of relationship Not Satisfaction level NPS vices) and helping customers and consumers legal sphere are managed by internal lawyers with consumers and clients, including the appli45 40 (UP) be heard, as a way of achieving the continuous and through a specific system of registrations. implementation of the Salesforce platform (a cable5 1 The information was presented in % on the basis of the data business improvement. In order to strengthen 100% of the cases involving product anomalies reference in CRM in the market). In this sense, confidentiality. this connection with the public, the company are submitted to quality area checks. the management of NPS (Net Promoter Score) 2 1st level service are all registered neutral, positive and negative cases treated with consumer/customer by the attendant, without implemented some actions, such as the live is part of another strategy as it translates the the need for analysis by another area. CSC (executives follow the day to day of calls), BRF digital channels have also been relevant in service to consumers and customers through 3 Registered cases that are included in our system as concluded, with all flow steps completed. Fale com o Consumidor (“Contact Consumenabling closer relationships with end consumthe SAC into goals for 2019. These two actions 4 Simple contacts, such as requesting phone numbers from other ers”, managers and directors directly respond ers. In addition to the specific corporate brand mobilize the company to reduce complaints, areas, sending CVs and mistakes, were not counted in the figures presented. to consumers) and Rodas de Prosa (“Prose site (brf-global.com) and social networking acbacklogs, to improve service indicators (such as 5 NPS data in 2016 are not applicable, since monitoring started in 2017. Round”), conversations with supervisors of the counts – Twitter (@brf_brasil), LinkedIn (linkeresponse time) and NPS, causing the company’s 6 Data of the NPS Individuals of 2018 contemplates only the months producing units in Brazil. din.com/company/brf) and YouTube (youtube. vision to be focused on the interests of of November and December, because in the previous months this indicator was not applied. com/user/brfglobal), our main brands (Sadia, consumers and customers. 7 At the time of data collection, there were still cases in progress with the areas. BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 48 INFORMATION AND TRANSPARENCY GRI 103-1 | 417, 103-2 | 417, 103-3 | 417, 417-1 One of the main transformations of the relationship between companies and consumers is the level of their requirement for nutritionLabeling: mandatory standards al and production information. To stimulate Applied to 100% of BRF markets conscious choices and put into practice the concept of food transparency, one of the • List of ingredients: indicated on the label as when applicable – there are cases in which • Expiration date pillars of quality management (read more on per the specific legislation of each country products dispensed from registration by • Product composition page xx), BRF adopts all relevant legislation • Net contents: indicated on the main panel Anvisa do not have a SIF stamp in the markets associated with brand commu• Registration indication: when applicable – of the label • Establishment rating, as per the official nication and labeling. there are cases of products exempted from • Origin identification classification registration by Anvisa We are aware of potential changes in regu• Name or business name and establishment • CNPJ • Instructions on the preparation and use of latory scenarios and countries' requirements address • Product conservation the product of edible animal origin or food, and best practices, developing products in • Name or business name and importer’s • Product trademark when necessary accordance with Technical Identity and Qualaddress in the case of imported products • Good practices and market differentials ity Regulations (RTIQs) and/or other applica• Lot identification with an animal origin ble laws. All product formulations are regis• Manufacture date tered with regulatory agencies as indicated in • Official stamp of the Federal Inspection: the labeling records. We understand that BRF's risk management We present on our labels items such as recyis directly linked to compliance with nationcling and selective collection seals; signs on al and international labeling standards. We allergens (now mandatory in Brazil); and ceronly use proven safe substances and provide tifications for specific markets, such as Halal, product composition data on all labels and for the Islamic markets. In brands such as SaCONSUMER’S DATA packaging. In Brazil, Anvisa is responsible for dia, we also include, where applicable, inforoverseeing, regulating and monitoring these mation on health and animal welfare. Specific The labels take information in items. We also include in the products various information, such as outsourcing of product market obligations are also observed, such as the European Community 's packaging stamp different ways, such as safe or service components; substances that may and the phrase Destination People Republic use, substances that may cause have an environmental or social impact; safe of China in the case of products intended for use; product layout; and environmental or the Chinese market. environmental or social impact, social impacts. certifications, among others BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 49 CUSTOMERS AND MARKET Innovation and knowledge The relationship with retailers, distributors The company and food processors and business partners is an important front for us to undertake our relates to more • strategy of being an admired, respected company, capable of feeding the world. than 200,000 Investing in intellectual capital is the foundation for the realization of BRF's purpose and Investments in service level improvement, discustomers in 140 strategy, which must rely on its strong and conspicuous brands and at the same time cipline of execution, efficiency gains, reduccountries, ranging be attentive to a constantly changing global tion of losses and improvement of the negotiation and inventory management processes from bakeries to market. are the focus of our relationship with more than 200 thousand customers in 140 counlarge retailers, small From conceptualization to product launching, we are attentive to the profile, culture and tries – including bakeries, large retailers, small and medium-sized needs of the markets in which we are present. and medium-sized markets and the food service and catering service sector. markets and the In recent years, we have grown into key categories, with brands with well defined market With a clear vision of seeking growth in the food service sector and public positioning. customer base, with 25% productivity gains Our history is marked by the valorization of and the goal of reaching 300,000 partners in intellectual capital. Through the Innovation the coming years in Brazil, BRF is focused on Center in Jundiaí (SP), we maintain a team improving relationship technology, integrating dedicated to studying novelties in the food inmonitoring platforms of execution and mobiis + Excellence, an initiative that covers all dustry, rethinking the composition and buildlize the sales chain in the precepts of quality, the country's regional and seeks to leverage ing disruptive solutions, testing new modalisafety and integrity that guide its strategy. results through indicators and processes in ties and product presentations. eight pillars: Staff, Management, Finance/PricThe last three years have been important ading, Trade Marketing, Route, A.S., Food and In 2018 alone, we invested R$ 53.5 million in vances in this field, with the systematic moniLogistics. R&D, covering all our operations. toring of several indicators, such as OTIF (On Time In Full), percentages of store ruptures, From 2019, BRF plans to integrate + ExcellenThe allocation of resources for research and R$ 53.5 service level evaluation, aspects of punctucy into the Company’s projects in the Brazildevelopment covers both the products that ality and perceived quality and standards of ian Vice-Presidency, disseminating successful are offered to final consumers as well as disposal of products at points of sale. actions, such as the Logistics Excellence studies in the agricultural area. These are the Program (PEL), in all the regional ones. company's efforts to anticipate market transIn Brazil, several programs contribute to raising service levels and improving business formations, drive consumer trends, optimize our cost base, market share in strategic catemillion processes: the main one, structured in 2018, gories, to improve the genetics of our biologInvested in R&D BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 50 TOTAL BRF’S MARKET SHARE (%) ical assets and feed conversion (the relationAs for Perdigão, it has established itself as the In Brazil, we continue to invest in the brand ship between weight gain and feed consumed allied brand of the Brazilian family, present in communication of Sadia, Perdigão and Qualy, by animals) and to increase the presence and various moments of one’s daily routine with with special emphasis on campaigns for 1Q17 43.2 strength of our brands in the regions where high quality and practicality products. Qualy, festive periods and major events. Several we intend to grow and become leaders. in turn, consolidated in Brazil as a possibility launches in the one-to-one lines of frozen and of healthier food at the table, with different barbecue (Na Brasa) items were also rele2Q17 44.3 A BRAND FOR EACH OCCASION uses in revenue and consumption for breakvant, respectively, in Sadia and Perdigão (see The deepening of the plan for expanding and fast and an innovative launch during the year, it below). conquering markets has made us look with focused on the segment without lactose. increasing attention to the complementarity Another highlight in 2018 was the entry into 3Q17 44.9 of BRF brands. Through Sadia, Top of Mind in the Kidelli market, BRF's new brand focused several and categories, we have consolidated on offering products with our quality stanourselves as a global company based on attridard at competitive prices. The portfolio 4Q17 45.3 butes such as taste, quality and innovation. includes processed foods with poultry and pork, with 13 products of hams, breaded, sausages, mortadella and hamburger products. 2017 44.2 The brand is focused on the Brazilian market and is exclusively marketed in atacarejo networks (self-service retail and wholesale integrated in the hypermarket models) and 1Q18 45.3 independent distributors. Market share 2Q18 45.4 From 2017 to 2018, BRF increased 0.5 percentage points in the market share in Brazil, reaching 44.7% of market share. In this way, we continue to enjoy market leadership in our leading brands. In 2018, the categories 3Q18 44.2 of sausage and frozen increased by 1.5pp and 0.3pp compared to the previous cycle. On the other hand, the cold cuts categpry had a decrease of 0.9 pp in the period. For the margarine category, we had an 4Q18 44.9 advance of 0.6 pp in 2018. Source: Nielsen * As of 4Q18, the Becel brand was excluded 2018 44.7 from the Company’s market share reading, given the extinction of the joint venture between Unilever Brazil and BRF BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 51 MARKET FROZEN (%) MARGARINES (%) COLD CUTS (%) EMBEDDED(%) SHARE PER CATEGORY 1Q17 48.7 1Q17 51.3 PERIOD MARKET SHARE PERIOD MARKET SHARE 2Q17 47.0 2Q17 53.0 1Q17 51.6 1Q17 34.7 3Q17 48.0 3Q17 54.1 2Q17 51.3 2Q17 38.0 4Q17 49.8 4Q17 54.5 3Q17 50.7 3Q17 39.0 4Q17 50.4 4Q17 39.6 2017 48.6 2017 53.1 2017 51.0 2017 37.7 1Q18 49.4 1Q18 53.6 1Q18 50.4 1Q18 37.9 2Q18 50.1 2Q18 53.6 2Q18 51.0 2Q18 39.9 3Q18 47.4 3Q18 53.7 3Q18 48.9 3Q18 39.8 4Q18 49.4 4Q18 54.2 4Q18 50.0 4Q18 39.3 2018 48.9 2018 53.7 2018 50.1 2018 39.2 BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 52 ATTENTIVE LOOK TO PROCESSES In 2019, we started the implementation of • Shopping system: a specific portal for BRF also understands and applies the conSEO in a pilot model in three plants in Brazil, the Supply area, with several services that cept of innovation in a manner that is attenand the expectation is to consolidate SEO facilitate the negotiation processes and the tive to its processes and operational activities. in all BRF operations in Brazil and abroad in awareness of the partners regarding the In direct connection with our Restructuring 2020, bringing results through indicators. Code of Conduct for Suppliers. Plan (read more on page xx), we believe that • Telemarketing: since 2017, we have a cusit is key to study opportunities to optimize TECHNOLOGIES tomer relationship project (B2B, or business the use of our assets, to rethink the installed Innovation is also present through the deployto business) executed through a dedicated productive capacity and to make the converment of new technologies in process moniservice center. sion of raw material into products more agile toring and operational management. Some according to the demand of the markets. highlighted initiatives are: In recent years, a manufacturing footprint • Traceability: the use of blockchain figure project sought to identify opportunities for as one of the opportunities to leverage the eliminating idleness, increase of productivity, BRF business, with a competitive differenspeed of execution and capacity of service tiation resulting from a thorough control of to the markets in all the regions in which we the entire production chain. In 2017, a projmaintain industrial units. ect was started with a large retailer to track BRF's production products to supermarket The operational adjustment associated with shelves in partnership with IBM. BRF's operational and financial restructuring • Telemetry: BRF has partnered with an IoT also had a say in this aspect, with changes in (Internet of Things) solution expert for more than 20 factories in Brazil to improve the deployment of advanced telemetry in service to markets and strategic categories, fleets. The company will use its telemetry eliminate idleness and make the production systems to improve the management of chain more flexible. logistic monitoring as part of BRF's Health, Safety and Environment Program. In 2018, we began the implementation of the • Online indicators: we work in the computBRF Operational Excellence System (SEO), a erization and availability through systems program focused on improving, standardizing and mobile devices of all processes and and systematizing the company's operations sales stages, focusing on the monitoring of management. Involving about 50 employtotal investments by category, region and ees in its first phase, the initiative focuses on channel, as well as inventory and service raising the best practices of our units and level monitoring. disseminating them, in addition to raising pro• Sensors and IoT technology in factories ductivity and efficiency levels and optimizing and farms: they involve the offer of operacost management and capital allocation. tion online data. BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 53 Health and nutrition • GRI 103-1 | 417, 103-2 | 417, 103-3 | 417 We work in our portfolio with products in Abia has also set sectoral targets for reducnatura, processed and frozen products that ing sodium levels in meat products (hams, have different characteristics and attributes, sausages, hamburgers, chicken patties and according to their consumer profiles and mortadella). The perspective is that the goals consumption patterns. Our industry coexists will be updated by 2020. with the challenge of improving the nutritional standard of its deliveries to society without APPROACHES AND CHALLENGES compromising practicality, taste, affordable BRF's nutritional strategy speaks directly to price and origin of ingredients – a balance our business plans and proposes a permanent that motivates us, especially from innovation, review of what we consider to be healthy to look for alternatives that guarantee the products. Today, our understanding directs well-fare and consumer health in the long the focus of action to the nutritional adequaterm. cy in relation to the moment of consumption, besides the reinforcement of commitments BRF is committed to pursuing improvements with animal welfare as key elements for the that encompass the portfolio's increasing quality of the products. spectrum; in parallel, it works on a sectoral scale to enhance status of products already in We continue to review the nutritional criteria line, focusing on reducing the content of fats, of our products, making this a more robust sodium and sugar products, pursuant to interpillar in the coming years. A highlighted brand national standards and local regulations. in recent years is Sadia, in which we have concentrated several actions related to sodiThe Brazilian Association of Food Industries um reduction. We have launched the internal (Abia) has allowed us to advance in healthy challenge of reducing sodium content by 30% debates in the food industry in recent years. A decade ago, we worked to eliminate the in 2016 and have achieved a much more qualified portfolio compared to the goal estabReductions in fat, sodium use of trans fat in the formulation of all products, with research, sensory and performance lished by the sector agreement via Abia. and sugar content are part of testing and safety assessments. To promote such improvements, we had to study innovative solutions for the conservathe quest for better quality tion and preservation of sensorial aspects products BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 54 of the products, mobilizing our suppliers in search of ingredients solutions and develFor 10 PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL SALES VOLUME OF CONSUMER PRODUCTS, years, BY PRODUCT CATEGORY, THAT HAVE A SODIUM REDUCTION oping BRF's own technology, allowing the EQUIVALENT TO (%)* GRI FP6 lowest use of sodium. the company has worked to Product category 2016 2017 2018 This is the most relevant challenge in the food eliminate the trans fat from Hams 1.03 1.27 1.15 industry, since sodium is a functional comproducts pound for certain products such as sausagSausage 0.74 0.57 0.51 es, ready-made dishes etc. – and their absence may impact on aspects of stability and Pastry 0.22 0.27 0.24 quality, especially in foods commercialized in Some traditional meat products are marketed Beef sausage 2.27 2.68 1.05 non-refrigerated conditions, such as mortain high-content packaging, and their exposure dellas, sausages and bacon. and portioning does not allow the commuSeasoned 0.52 0.5 0.17 nication of some nutritional information to Cured Smoked 0.74 0.26 0.24 In 2018, we consolidated the implementation, the consumer/customer's best buying decibegun in previous years, of the monitoring sion. That resulted, in the year of 2018, in the Hamburger 0.02 0.1 0 contained in the results of the attributes inanalysis of BRF portfolio products that concluded in the nutritional table of our products. tained added vitamins and minerals. Due to Ready Dishes 0.26 0.41 0.19 * Sodium is the molecule responsible for the osmotic balance of the body, being one of the main factors that affect There were 374 products of the processed the analytical difficulties of proving the quanthe blood pressure of individuals. The percentage presented indicates the participation in sales of products that have category in the Brazilian operating platform, tity of these components in such a complex the reduction/addition claim in the total amount of products sold by BRF, including the volume of products in natura, in which there is no technical/legal feasibility for the use of these claims. which had all the tests performed and the base as meat products, which may lead to results were analyzed by a multi-professional uncertainties in the analysis results, we chose team. to remove these components in most of the PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL SALES VOLUME OF CONSUMER PRODUCTS, products of the breaded, sausages and cateBY PRODUCT CATEGORY, WITH ADDED VITAMINS AND MINERALS (%)* gories of the Perdigão brand. GRI FP7 Product category 2016 2017 2018 Sausage 4.37 4.07 0.02 Improving the nutritional Pastry 0.43 0.5 0.04 standard without Beef sausage 1.07 1.04 0.76 compromising practicality and Margarines 4.67 3.47 * Vitamins are the organic substances that are present in food and that are necessary for the balance of vital 3.44 taste is the challenge faced by functions. Much of the essential vitamins the human body can not synthesize. Minerals are essential micro-nutrients and cannot be synthesized by the human body, and therefore must be ingested. The percentage presented indicates the participation in sales of products that have the reduction/addition claim in the total amount of products sold by the company. BRF, including the volume of products in natura, in which there is no technical/legal feasibility for the use of these claims. BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 55 Impact IN THIS CHAPTER Human capital and value Supplier management Local communities Animal welfare Environmental generation efficiency BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 56 Human capital The maturing of our management challenges us to think about the generation of results in addition to economic-financial indicators. The combination of business performance and other variables, such as our influence on local communities, human development expressed in our workforce and the environmental footToday, we are a team composed of print of our operation, allows us to evaluate how BRF in fact generates value, delivers over 107,000 employees worldwide benefits and critical impacts of the operation. Inspired by our material sustainability themes In BRF, developing human capital aims to and capital vision of the integrated reportboost results and contribute to generate posiing model of the International Integrated tive impacts throughout our value chain. Reporting Council (IIRC), we present in this 4 pillars chapter our performance in different chain We are more than 107,000 employees worldlinks and demonstrate our value generation wide. 80% (85 thousand) of this total is in throughout 2018. Brazil and about 20% abroad, especially in Asia, where we have more than 9 thousand professionals. They are people from 92 counendorse our HR tries, who speak more than 29 languages, but initiatives who conduct business in a way that is aligned with our values, practices and purpose. With the review of strategic planning in 2018, which included human capital as one of its pillars, the human resources strategy was also • Inspirational Leadership: Ensuring the updated to support the new five-year cycle. consistency and stability of the leadership structure and teams to engage and inspire From the challenges of developing a the high performance and behaviors we high-performance organization, inspired by expect from the organization consistent leadership and a culture that encourages everyone to engage in disciplined • Cultivating Talents: Establishing an envistrategy execution and makes all employees ronment that promotes the identification, proud to be part of BRF, we have established development and retention of talents, stimfour pillars that have guide all initiatives in the ulating high performance and sustaining area of ​​human resources: the business BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 57 • Culture of Excellence: Developing an effiPROFESSIONAL’S PROFILE cient organization with high performance GRI 103-1 | 401, 103-2 | 401, 103-3 | 401 culture and meritocracy, leveraging best Because of the strategic measures taken people management practices throughout the year, such as the reorientation of businesses focused on the domestic, Asian • Pride of being BRF: Ensuring engagement and Islamic markets, some consequences and alignment of employees to implewere inevitable, such as adjustments in the ment the strategy, promoting a safety and framework and lay-offs (when the working well-being environment, with best human day is reduced or the contract is temporariresources practices and recognition ly suspended), in plants directly affected by market changes. If, on one hand, the incorpoWe understand that implementing human ration of the operations in Turkey brought 4 resource best practices, promoting well-being thousand new employees throughout 2018, in the work environment and engaging emon the other hand, the decision to sell assets ployees (from factories and farms to corpofrom Europe, Thailand and Argentina will rerate offices), and structuring diversity prosult, during 2019, in the transfer of around 10 grams are some of the action plans. thousand employees to other organizations. BRF's mission is to be considered the best We stopped production in Concórdia and company to work for in 2023. Hence, the Chapecó, both in Santa Catarina, and finished Company's purpose must be strengthened the production of turkeys in Francisco Beltrão and investments in security, leadership (PR) and Mineiros (GO). Part of these decitraining and compliance – important parts sions comes from the closure of the Russian to be fitted – become the foundations of and European markets. Therefore, initiatives this transformation. aimed at taking volume out of the chain were essential for the Company not to accumulate losses in 2019 and to return to growth and profitability in 2020. We believe that despite the difficulties of the period, it was possible to maintain the engagement of our people. This is due to many efforts, such as the valuation of professionals by competence, salaries that meet market standards, an environment that encourages a plurality of ideas and contracts that do not distinguish between gender, race and religion. BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 58 The company seeks to constantly rethink its EMPLOYEES BY GLOBAL REGION (2018) talent retention initiatives in order to have YEAR BY YEAR – OUR STAFF (%) lower turnover rates. We are one of the largest employers in the Brazilian food industry BRAZIL LATIN and prioritize the hiring of local professionals 2016 104,035 AMERICA 87,032 in our national or international operations. We know that management is a fundamental 3,831 tool for the company to constantly rethink its AFRICA initiatives aimed at retaining talent and having 2017 109,733 MIDDLE EAST 8 lower turnover rates. 6,713 EUROPE We are aware that the changes in the behav782 ior of the new generations in the conduct of their careers, the impositions of economic 2018 107,784 ASIA conjunctures, and the very nature of the busi9,418 ness, which are highly competitive, become recurring challenges. * Value considering the operation of Turkey (unlike the GRI 102-8 indicator). Total MORE INFORMATION on our human capital in the Annexes, page 115 107,784 EMPLOYEES, BY TYPE OF CONTRACT AND GENDER GRI 102-8 2016 2017² 2018 Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total We are one of the main Undetermined time (Brazil) 51,058 34,924 85,982 52,822 34,611 87,433 51,941 32,893 84,834 employers in the Brazilian Determined time (Brazil) 211 156 367 297 153 450 212 198 410 food industry, prioritizing the Employees out of Brazil¹ 9,547 6,567 16,114 9,495 6,531 16,026 13,970 6,782 20,752 hiring of local professionals Interns and trainees 770 802 1,572 737 762 1,499 805 983 1,788 in national and international TOTAL 61,586 42,449 104,035 63,351 42,057 105,4082 66,928 40,856 107,784 operations. 1 For employees outside Brazil, there is no data on type of contract (determined/indeterminate). Therefore, only the total per structure is informed, without opening the respective categories. 2 In 2017, data from Turkey was ignored. As this was BRF's latest acquisition, there was still no full integration of the information. In Turkey, in 2017, there were 4,325 employees. Considering this data, the total number of BRF employees in 2017 was 109,733 people. BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 59 PROUD TO BE BRF CORPORATE EDUCATION Throughout the year, we strive to offer proAVERAGE NUMBER OF TRAINING In November 2018, we conducted a global GRI 103-1 | 404, 103-2 | 404, 103-3 | 404 grams aligned with the company’s strategy HOURS BY GENDER engagement survey with more than 19,000 In 2018, a diagnosis of critical capabilities and with our career paths. For the future, foci employees, in order to evaluate the percepaligned with our strategic planning resulted are deploying new trails by role in the Leadtion and guide the internal initiatives and their in the structuring of a Corporate University ership Academy, the Sales Academy and the MEN 19.3 results metrics. Conducted in partnership BRF Academy, with transversal academies Operations Academy; expand educational with Willis Towers Watson, the methodology (such as Leadership) and business (dedicated incentive programs based on succession plan; considered representative sampling of the to Sales teams). This strategic deployment and expand the offer of online training (Digientire company based on the organizational ensured the alignment of employee develtal BRF Academy). WOMEN 12.9 structure, in addition to involving 100% of the opment with the business prioritization. In leaders up to the managerial level. With 92% addition to the BRF Academy, the company DIVERSITY of adherence and an overall result of 89% for executes and follows up on Legal and ManGRI 103-1 | 405, 103-2 | 405, 103-3 | 405 16.8h the level of engagement, the consultation datory Training, as well as supporting specific In BRF, Diversity in its most different aspects had its results communicated in January to all external development initiatives, according to (culture, race, religion, age, gender, sexual oriemployees. an analysis of its effectiveness in transforming entation, disability, etc.) is an important pillar Total: talents and business processes. of management of our employees, generatAlthough the overall result of the survey was ing opportunities for innovation and social *For this information, we use the asset base (Brazil December 2018), which has a total above the average for consumer goods comWith an eye on the development of our commitment. We believe that diversity builds number of 87,032 employees. panies, we evaluated improvement opporpeople, we worked in 2018 with three axes a company that is more likely to respond to tunities when we compared the data to the of development, training and improvement: the needs of the market and our audiencaverage of high performance companies. a Learning Portal for 20k employees (BRF es around the world. This way of thinking is Academy Digital); the Academies of the translated through internal studies based on In early 2019, local Engagement Committees Corporate University, with on-site courses demographic data, strategic directions, pawere established, which will be responsible, (people, processes, business); and educationrameters for management (ISE/Bovespa and throughout the year, for ensuring the impleal incentives for graduation and qualification Dow Jones Sustainability Index, among othmentation of strategies taking into account in the context of the career paths of the Sales ers) and the carrying out of focus groups in the specific needs of each locality. Academy. Brazil and abroad. Since 2018, in line with the United Nations (UN) principles of sustainable development One of the issues that has (ODS) for gender issues, we are committed to promoting changes that increase the repreadvanced the most in recent sentation of women in high leadership positions while, through our benefits and health years is the evolution in the programs, we guarantee all our employees access to medical care with pre and neonatal gender wage comparison care, as well as educational activities regardBRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 60 ing the importance of preventive health care premises present in the company's code of CULTIVATING TALENTS movement. The process is divided into five for men and women. We are evolving to conduct, which is made available to all emGRI 103-1 | 401, 103-2 | 401, 103-3 | 401, 404-3 stages and is based on the development of an build more robust strategies, considering the ployees, BRF promotes, in the different units, The connection and engagement of employIndividual Development Plan. For the leaderspecificities of each of the audiences present cultural and educational activities on comees with the culture and purposes of BRF are ship audience, an assessment of consistency in our organization, with training sessions for memorative dates of appreciation of diversity, accompanied by periodic researches and by with culture and readiness for the next levels leaders on integrity and respect for diversity, as a means of disseminating the commitment the High Performance Cycle, annually applied. of career complexity is also made. In 2018, we the latter being one of the priority audiences to foster an environment that is friendly toThis assessment provides career development raised the evaluated audience from about 4 in dialogues and actions. As a complement, wards differences, by creating proximity and based on employee performance. The current thousand people to more than 18 thousand, in addition to the frequent disclosure of the building bridges. cycle considers eligibility for employee bonus covering not only senior positions, but also for positions distributed between the senior the entire operational population of areas analyst and CEO levels, all other levels being such as Sales and the administrative team. over eligible for profit sharing (PLR) and perfor18k mance evaluation, which contributed to the Throughout 2019, we will expand our audiencCompany’s results. In addition to these two es to 100% of the Company, including factory tools, our purpose is to intensify feedbacks operating levels and logistics. The objective people from managers to their respective areas. The aim is to provide tools so that employees are is to ensure evaluations and feedbacks to all, regardless of one’s hierarchical level. submitted to the protagonists of their development and in orBRF performance der for leaders to actively contribute for this evaluation achievement. The performance evaluation by BRF has evolved since 2014, from a restricted process aimed at the remuneration pillar to a process based on feedback and employee development. In 2018, the process covered 3.7 times more people, initiating a universalization Issues such as gender, sexual orientation and age are on our diversity radar BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 61 A Healthier Life BENEFITS GRI 401-2, 401-3 Employees in Brazil receive a number of benefits, either from BRF's liberality or guaranteed by Collective Labor Agreements. The main ones are: At BRF, we also focus on providing welfare A New Being ( Novo Ser ) Program: It to people, as we believe that the quality of guides pregnant women (employees or • Valuation and recognition programs for • Discount on the acquisition of products; life is directly linked to a collaborative work dependents) through face-to-face or telecompany time; • Employees’ Sports Associations (available environment that allows the full development phone meetings on topics such as nutrition, • Transportation vouchers; only in certain units); of talents. Therefore, We encourage sports in prenatal care, legislation, newborn care, • Food card or food staples; • Agreements with gyms and pharmacies; all of our units (at the gyms installed inside psychological support etc. Another ob• Meal card or internal restaurant service; • Extended maternity/paternity leave (Citior outside them, with which we have a partjective is to provide quality prenatal care • Health agreement; zen Company – “Empresa Cidadã”); nership), offer several programs related to and access to assistance during this peri• Dental agreement; • Freebies on commemorative dates and the theme and provide labor flexibility for the od through benefits and exemptions from • Complementary social security; gifts for children up to 10 years old; corporate team, among other benefits. co-participation in the health agreement. • School aid; • Integration training and technical qualifica• Day-care aid; tion for the activities. The objective of the A Healthier Life ( Vida Health Program by Gender and Age Group: • Life insurance; + Saudável) program is to propose a series it provides co-participation (employees and of initiatives aimed at the health care of our dependents) exemption for certain age-speThe benefits are either provided by BRF WAGE NEGOTIATIONS GRI 102-41 employees and their families, such as: cific routine exams, such as mammography or guaranteed via a Collective Negotiation Collective negotiations with trade unions reprefor women over 40 or PSA for men over 40 Agreement. BRF still offers all employees in senting occupational categories takes place evyears of age. Brazil and in certain units abroad, a company ery 12 months, according to the base date, held working time valuation program referred to in regular meetings with workers' represenas “Nossa Gente, Nossa História” (Our People, tatives. In Brazil, 100% of employees are covOur History”), which honors and recognizes ered by agreements and represented by the people who have worked from 10 to 50 years workers' union. In 2018, BRF negotiated with at the company. In 2018, we had more than 76 unions of various professional categories, 7,000 employees honored. Some benefits, signing 80 Collective Agreements with wage such as daily meal, do not apply to all partreadjustments and six collective agreements. time workers. The company follows the local legislation regarding maternity and paternity Abroad, the labor laws of each country are Health prevention and leaves and does not offer any type of discouragement, oppression or censorship regarding followed, and when there is a representative body of workers, the coverage of collective support for pregnant women the subject. In 2018, in Brazil, BRF adhered to the rules of the so-called “Empresa Cidadã”, agreements is 100%. In the various manufacturing units outside Brazil, except in the Middle are among the welfare which extends maternity and paternity leave. East, BRF employees are represented by trade unions. Culturally, in countries from the Middle actions East, employees do not organize collectively. BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 62 HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI 103-1 | 403, 103-2 | 403, 103-3 | 403 Safety is a non-negotiable commitment to Internal audit and recognition programs; esBRF. We value the lives of our people first, tablishment of safety objectives and targets; above any result. In 2018, we dedicated our KPI systematization and external audits in efforts to improve our results in this regard certified units are the main mechanisms used and recorded a significant improvement in to evaluate the effectiveness of the health our performance – especially in the reduction and safety management approach in order to of accident rates in our industrial units, with assess compliance with the Company's global one of the best results in recent years. guidelines and to promote improvements. The Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) The results of these evaluations are sourcprogram develops actions aimed at safe es for the dissemination of external reports behavior and the valuation of life. All busi(such as this Annual Report), a critical review ness areas adopt principles that are aligned of the management of KPIs and audit prowith international best practices and legal cesses, as well as a periodic conduction of requirements implemented in the locations in health and safety committees and the delibwhich we operate. Health and safety indicaeration of relevant issues. tors, goals and programs are established by taking into account the assessed risks and the Company's commitment towards quality of life and accident prevention. Safety evolution is a reflection of the integration of BRF management processes BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 63 Nowadays, 100% of the Company's PERFORMANCE AND ACTION FOCI GRI 403-2 Above all, health and safety related impacts include loss of life and/or injury to workers, employees are represented by formal Our management prioritizes the elimination of accidents, diseases related to the work not to mention medical expenses, indemnities, claims administration fees, indirect costs arishealth and safety committees environment and death. In 2018, there was a significant reduction in the absolute valing from equipment expenses and damaged goods, production and quality losses, interues of injuries, in the rates with and without ruption of processes, revenue losses, labor leave and in the volume of lost days of the replacement, overtime, litigation , damage to RISK MANAGEMENT Company – a historically transforming result, customer relationships and public image. GRI 403-1, 403-3, 403-4 in line with our purpose of reinforcing SafeOur risk management management focuses Both routine debates and collective agreety as a non-negotiable management pillar on policies and programs that demonstrate ments with unions have health and safety (see the table). READ MORE commitment towards employees and stakeissues on their agenda. The very elaboration About our performance in Health and holders. The manufacturing and agricultural of the NR36, a specific standard for our busiSafety in the Annexes, page 119 areas are the ones with the greatest occupaness, was elaborated by a tripartite commistional risk in BRF, due to the higher exposure. sion, representing the trade unions. Therefore, a continuous mapping, analysis and monitoring work is carried out, along Currently, 100% of the Company's employees EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND SAFETY RATES BY GENDER with operational and administrative controls are represented by formal health and safety 2018 aiming to eliminate or minimize such factors. committees. All areas and processes have 2016 2017 Women Men Total forums at some level that guarantee moniThe mapping covers working conditions, risks, toring and control of work, even in relation to Injuries with leaves 306 522 81 205 286 monitoring of employees' health and the analoutsourced workers. There are several levels ysis of indicators, such as accidents, absenof committees and forums for the subject, Injury rate with leaves 1.72 2.57 1.03 1.47 1.19 teeism, complaints and occupational diseases, including: EHS Committees of Vice-PresidenInjuries with no leaves 3588 6170 1126 3051 4177 among others. In addition to the legal Occucies, Regional Management, Boards and Units; pational Health Medical Control, Respiratory Technical Working Groups on Regulatory Injury rate with no leaves 20.15 30.41 14.43 21.99 19.25 Protection, Auditory Conservation and EnviStandards and potential mapped risks; Exronmental Risk Prevention Programs, several ecutive Committee (Comex) with Vice-Pres19,885 23,415 (No. measures are adopted to guarantee people’s idencies and the Health and Safety at Work Lost days ratio (No. of 91 126 113 of days) health, safety and welfare. Board; Operational Committee (COU), regudays) lated CIPAs and emergency brigades. In 2017 and 2018, we worked hard to reduce Occupational disease rate 0.11 0.21 0.70 0.14 0.45 critical tasks under the ergonomic aspect, Absenteeism rate 2.44 2.41 3.28 1.92 2.43 substantially adjusting/reducing the number of tasks with these characteristics. Number of deaths 3 1 0 0 0 BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 64 Logistics HSE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM The HSE Management System guides the In addition to the individual responsibility of The management of logistics partners is an Accident Frequency Rate (moderate and definition of the performance indicators, goals working with prevention, all our employees also based on the analysis of HSE indicators, severe) limit of 0.30, which represents 174 and evolution in terms of health and safety. must report any risk condition observed to based on corporate standards that cover veaccidents per month, if we consider the same This system is based on three pillars: Method, the managers, for the appropriate treatment, hicle inspections, driver assessment, health, mileage from last year. As for the number of Behavior/Culture and Facilities/Infrastructure. guaranteeing everyone the right to question safety and environmental criteria, transcasualties, it has improved, with 30 fatalities Key practices include a formal leadership work conditions that do not comply with the portation emergency service and logistics in 2018 against 40 in 2017. The casualties indicommitment (including goals linked to variCompany's guidelines. In this sense, the BRF excellence. cator takes considers drivers and third parties able remuneration), clearly defined roles and Gold Rules are an important instrument of casualties, even without BRF’s responsibility responsibilities, committees, working groups, engagement and mobilization. The frequency rate of accidents in this area in the accident. With the implementation of established standards and procedures, emincreased by 6% in 2018, with 212 accidents the HSE Transportation program at BRF in ployees who are trained and skilled to carry All leaders have goals linked to their health classified as moderate and severe. The main 2013, 2018 was the year with the lowest numout their activities, dialogues on health and and safety performance. It is up to our leadcauses were incompatible speed and disber of accidents with fatal victims. safety and behavioral tools conducted by the ers to give positive examples, demonstrate traction, with cases of overturning, collision leadership, accident and critical deviation recommitment to the management of the issue and running over The goal for 2020 is having search, risk analysis and emergency response and proactively act, thus promoting actions, plan, among other tools. providing the necessary resources and responding to the health and safety management results. 25% HSE management fewer is performed casualties recorded in logistics, in 2018 through a system based on method, culture and infrastructure BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 65 Supplier management • Our supply chain is complex due to its global Each group has their specific program and the dependence on animal feed, slaughter nature, involving purchase processes, quohas initiatives focused on risk monitoring, animals, ingredients and packaging, and, tations and negotiations in different markets sustainability (environmental, social and finally, the fact that we are naturally subject and a significant volume of expenses and economic) and engagement and mobilization to political, cultural and legal aspects due to investments. All these components need to actions around the Company's culture. They our presence in different markets, as well as be well balanced, since they are strategic for also follow the Code of Conduct for Suppliers to bad weather. BRF. They connect the Company's public and Related Party Term, the Health, Safety (internal and external) to business opportuniand Environment Policy (HSE) and the Transties, controlling socio-environmental risks and parency Manual, documents that support our providing the development of the localities management. For the logistics operation, we where the company operates. The priority of this management is to optimize costs, gain have our own management methodologies, such as the Integrated Supplier Management How we monitor our suppliers profitability and efficiency. (GIF) program The Chain Monitoring Program, which moare evaluated as per quality, service, sustainOur suppliers are divided into three major The legal contracts have clauses related to bilizes 13,356 members in the agricultural ability, compliance and financial-economic groups, and all volumes traded with these Compliance, as well as Code of Conduct, chain and 21,200 suppliers, was designed to aspects. partners are in compliance with our purchasGood Environmental Practices and anti-corstrengthen socio-environmental risk control ing policies: ruption, as well as issues related to possible and disseminate an ethical and responsible A series of public documents are used to assubcontractors and child labor and labor that business model. Through it, we conduct qualsess whether our partners are in compliance • Procurement (Supplies): it includes packagis analogous to slavery. Annually, the suppliity audits, disclose the Code of Conduct for with legal and BRF standards, such as the list ing, ingredients and inputs suppliers, as well ers' results are measured by an automated Suppliers, conduct inquiries with public data of areas embargoed by the Brazilian Institute as energy resources, partnerships, services system that, in turn, monitors on a monthly and requirements considered in contractual for the Environment and Renewable Natural in general (e.g.: public, logistics, IT), CAPEX basis the evolution and the position among clauses. Resources (Ibama); InPacto's Transparency and MRO materials (Maintenance, Repair the indicators that are covered in the CompliList on Contemporary Slave Labor, in addition and Operation) etc.; ance Index. The basis of the monitoring is the compliance to data from the Ministry of Labor and Em• Commodities: grains, bran and oils; with the Code of Conduct for Suppliers and ployment; and conformitie, normally pursuant • Integrated producers (poultry and pig INTERLACED OPERATIONS Related Party Term. Those who present some to the National Registry of Disreputable and breeding) The management of this chain needs to be disagreement will go through an evaluation Suspended Companies (CEIS), at the Transvery well tuned, as it directly influences the and shall be treated according to each situaparency Portal. All of them are subject to standards and Company's financial results. However, we tion/particularity. In serious cases, the conrequirements, especially those of the Minconsider other high impact factors, such as tract may be canceled. The main suppliers Any and all irregularities may be anonymousistry of Agriculture, Livestock and Supply the sustainability criteria (mandatory and ly reported on our Transparency Channel (MAPA) in the case of Brazilian companies. essential for a company to provide to BRF), available at www.brf-global.com. BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 66 POLICIES BY CATEGORY GRI 103-1 | 204, 103-2 | 204, 103-3 | 204, 103-1 | 307, farmers, companies, NGOs and government, in order not to market soybeans originating pacts assumed by BRF and its guidelines. The supplier group undergoes process audits and Practices in the 103-2 | 307, 103-3 | 307, 103-1 | 308, 103-2 | 308, 1033 | 308, 103-1 | 408, 103-2 | 408, 103-3 | 408, 103-1 | from deforestation areas within the biome. the company has a system tool to prevent noncompliance with the rules. chain are tuned 409, 103-2 | 409, 103-3 | 409 BRF also has controls on suppliers' irregularities with the Brazilian Institute for the EnviOver time, the Company has built integrated to the specificity COMMODITIES: RESPONSIBLE PROCUREMENT ronment and Renewable Natural Resources (IBAMA), through public lists and contractual management of global purchasing processes at BRF, standardizing models, standards, govof each BRF The BRF supply chain is global and mobilizes negotiation clauses. Another tool used by the ernance and auditing in the countries where supplier category processes of purchase, quotation and trading Company is the BRF Supplier Code of Conit operates. The Procurement professionals in the various markets in which we are presduct, disclosed to all suppliers of commodiinstalled in offices in the main markets, seek ent. The proper management of this relationties, with specific guidelines for environmensynergies and improvement of results in catship is strategic for BRF, not only due to the tal management (waste management, water high volume of expenses and investments, consumption within legal parameters, atmobut also for the control of socio-environmenspheric emissions and environmental presertal and compliance risks that may have a say vation areas) and social (labor legislation, soin the future of the business and in the genercial security and labor relations) regulations. ation of development opportunities in various locations. In 2018, 100% of the active supplier base is committed to meeting the criteria of the BRF In recent years, the company prioritized cost Supplier Code of Conduct. Suppliers who optimization, management monitoring, profare not active have not signed the code of itability and efficiency gains and attention to conduct and may only re-negotiate with BRF environmental and social aspects. when they accept the criteria defined by BRF Due to deforestation, we considercommodity PROCUREMENT: COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE (grains, bran and oils) purchase as critical for Our purchasing policy is focused on ensuring all suppliers near the Amazon Biome. That cost competitiveness and compliance in all is why, in risk areas, we only deal with tradof our relationships. Thus, we avoid risks and ings affiliated with the Brazilian Association optimize market opportunities. Purchasing of Vegetable Oil Industries (Abiove) and the practices cover all our integrated units (agNational Association of Exporters of Cereals ricultural chain) and suppliers through the (Anec) – together, they control 94% of soyGlobal Procurement Standard and the Supbeans produced in the country – which are plier Code of Conduct. Part of the objectives obliged to adhere to the Soy Moratorium. It is established in this document is mandatory an environmental pact created in 2006 that (respect for labor legislation) and the other involves representative entities of soybean part is voluntary, such as the replication of the BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 67 egories of purchases with a global profile, to The Supply processes continue to be an imal of suppliers through documental analysis, supply different regions. Our focus is to mainportant tool for the recovery of our results. acceptance of the Code of Conduct for Suptain globalized and regionalized procurement Among the current foci are the reduction of pliers and monitoring compliance with legal practices when necessary. For us, local suppliprocurement costs, with greater efficiency requirements and internal standards for those ers are those companies with headquarters or through tools such as the increased use of who provide services within our facilities, branch in the municipality and/or state of the electronic auction; the optimization of stock allowing BRF to acquire materials and quality requesting unit regarding the material and/or control of materials; the reduction of negotiservices. service. ation with restricted and exclusive suppliers; and increased coverage of supplies. We will The purchasing process is constantly audited Regional negotiations increase the efficienalso invest in efficiency in the grain process, internally (by BRF's own system) by the Intercy of logistics costs, which impact the total key to our operation, with an increased canal Controls area (processes) and Corporate cost of the raw material. This relationship is pacity of alternative inputs for feed, more Audit (standards, legislation, SOX) as well as extremely relevant for the Company, which productivity in the logistics network and an by an external auditing. The Procurement and acquires high volumes of agriculture comincreased storage capacity in specific regions. Audit areas are to follow-up with the applimodities for producing animal rations. The cation of the requirements, being the back main local suppliers deal with all types of Purchases with local or global suppliers are office are incumbent upon ensuring the applidirect and indirect materials, such as corn computerized, with uses of the Ariba/SAP cation of the rules and procedures regarding and soybeans in grains, poultry and pigs. The system (centralizing in a single platform the the operationalization of purchases. reduction in the volume of purchases in 2018 complete purchasing process (to order to is due to market situations and economic and pay), including legal and financial routines, For Suppliers from the laundry, waste collecbusiness context. to ensure greater compliance in the process) tion and disposal and firewood transportaSuppliers are also audited in the requirements intranet and other approval mechanisms. In tion areas, the equipment approval team will related to their own quality management and the SAP/Ariba routine, we have the approvrequire, in addition to the standard analysis processes. They are only effective from the documentation, the environmental supplier number of Non-Conformance Reports (RNCs) license. We are also considering the extent of registered by BRF. the requirement for all material suppliers. It is part of the performance It is part of the supplier performance management to provide technical support, includmanagement of suppliers to ing our factories, thus mitigating correlated impacts. The BRF Supplier Quality area provide technical support, carries out technical visits, in suppliers and/ or the Company’s plants, either to identify including our factories, causes of problems or to improve the quality of their processes and products. In case of mitigating correlated impacts. proven irregularity, a policy of severe consequence is applied. BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 68 Better control 173 new suppliers of waste disposal and Halal Since May 2018, all suppliers of supplies in abatement (following Islamic precepts) entered our Brazil, in their homologation, are now oblibase in 2018, all contracted based on environmental gated to formalize acceptance of the Code criteria, which are essential during the competition of Conduct for Suppliers and Term of Related and approval process. GRI 308-1 Parties. In the case of global suppliers, 100% of our suppliers were manually sent the documents. During the year 2018, the sale of the assets was officialized in Argentina, Europe and Thailand; Nevertheless, the Company was concerned with pursuing compliance with internal policies, with specific targets for each region: for suppliers in the Middle East and North Africa and in Turkey (Halal), the goal was to achieve the receipt of 80% of thespend basis for suppliers and 100% of suppliers, defined as critical (categories considered as high risk). In 2018, our purchased Partnerships for efficiency: volume of suppliers in accordance with our purchasing policies reached: maravalha plant in RS With an eye on improvement opportunities for its chain, BRF structured an unprecedented partnership and, through the process, promoted the construction of a marquee plant in Santo Antônio do Palma (RS). In the model, BRF and a supplier established a model for the preparation of this input – a type of lining formed from scraping or cutting of wood, Middle East/North essential to the operation of farms – with 100% guarantee of Europe and Brazil Africa (Mena) and Argentina* the purchase by the Company. The plant will meet all sanitary Thailand* Turkey 100% 100% 70.5% standards and BRF quality standards and will fully meet the 100% demand for the Marau, Serafina Corrêa, Lajeado and Arroio do Meio units, with more efficiency in the chain, mutual gains and a posture that combines the combination of standards *Discontinued that are socially fair, economically feasible and ecologically Operations. correct. BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 69 LOGISTICS: TOWARDS POTENTIAL GAINS incident investigations. In the hiring, logistics Part of BRF's costs is closely related to loproviders are evaluated in terms of health and gistics services and product transportation. safety indicators, accidents and speeding and We can achieve potential gains in this area working hours non-compliance events. Carriand at the same time manage the negative ers from the refrigerated segment are part of impacts associated with it. In this way, we the GIF program, which also guides suppliers HSE standards have developed actions to reduce accidents, in topics on profitability and business susRules for carriers and their agents serving BRF: mitigate environmental impact, combat the tainability. The GIF includes a self-assessment sexual exploitation of children on the roads tool, validated by BRF, which contemplates and comply with Act 12,619/12, which reguthe emission of polluting gases. • 80 km/h as maximum speed limit on nor• BRF standard uniform and closed lates the truck driver profession in Brazil. The mal days; 60 km/h on rainy days safety footwear Company's Health, Safety and EnvironmenTwo years ago, all fleet transports signed a • 30 minutes stop at each 5:30h of • The driver must be able to use the risk tal Program (HSE) is the great ally of these commitment term for safety management, continuous driving manager, have an Occupational Health initiatives. considering primary and agricultural operCertificate (ASO or OHC) and a defensive ations. Through a routing project via soft• 12 hours of maximum driving time, of driving license, valid for one year, as well as The hiring of cargo transportation (except ware,information was collected such as the which 8 normal hours, extending to 2 a toxicological test spot vehicles) follows the HSE Criteria Policy identification of alternative routes, reducing hours or 4 hours, according to collective and part of the suppliers of this group was the average distance per trip (7.3%) and agreement • The truck should have 4 locks pallets, a audited according to the pillars of Security, bringing a logistic and environmental gain cold test certificate valid for 6 months and • Always keeping lights on, in the daytime, Management, Integrity and Quality. The obto the BRF operations. For the transport of a smoke test, valid for one year even inside BRF units and CDs jective of the HSE rules is to make the Service ration, we installed a vehicle locking system Providers in Road Transport of Loads follow with the tube erected, in order to reduce the • Any accident must be reported to the BRF the rules, since it is a BRF requirement in risk of collisions between the pipe discharge (unit of origin) and to the Leading Regula100% of the contracts. and the electric network. In 2018, we brought tor (0800 7030 373), even if the vehicle is together vehicle manufacturers and carriers empty 207 The carrier must implement the Integratto understand the technologies being de• Safety kit in the truck (reflective vest, four ed Supplier Management (GIF) program in ployed, especially those related to temperacones, two shims, 100 meters of striped its company, meeting requirements such as ture and noise. During the year, we had a ribbon and flashlight) smoke emission control and correct disposal of waste such as oil, battery and tires. Some significant reduction in total casualties and an increase in the accident rate (read more on suppliers of the agricultural transporters are in the GIF, page 119). for logistics services evaluated in addition to 100% of the primary logistics. in the Integrated Supplier Management (GIF or ISM) Besides, we have adopted standards that GRI 308-1 include driver assessment, vehicle inspection, emergency care plan, and accident and BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 70 AGRICULTURAL CHAIN: 100% PARTNERSHIP IN THE FIELD Throughout our existence, we have partnered animal welfare requirements and treat this Integrated production contracts consist of with more than 13,000 integrated producers category as crucial within the Chain Monitorvarious clauses of recommendations, guideresponsible for poultry and pig farms, which ing Program. lines and adequacy notices. If not done, they are essential for our business. The Compacan result in the suspension of lodging (anof the new suppliers ny's annual survey showed that 35% of them Through the program, we ensure that 100% of imals delivered on the farms) and even in considered were contracted maintain a relationship of more than 20 years the integrated producers in Brazil are moncontractual terminations. There is an own plan based on environmental with BRF. Our goal is to contribute to making itored and evaluated in relation to sustainof action for partners who perform services this chain link more economically sustainability issues, within the criteria of the Susin the poultry carriage category (a process criteria, following the Code of able, despite natural variations in production tainability Index BRF's tool to assess risks referred to as catchment ). The Legal CatchConduct for Suppliers. volume and changes in the integrated base and generate value in its agricultural chain. ment Program has a work based on the GRI 308-1 due to the restructuring experienced by the Participants are evaluated on 30 issues reestablishment and compliance with procedurCompany. lated to quality, environmental, labor, human al and legal standards related to the activity, rights and economic aspects, including busievaluation of innovation for automation of Currently, we have integrated producers in ness continuity. They then undergo individual loading and unloading of trucks, improvement eight states in Brazil, in addition to Turkey. evaluation and gain plans for enhancing and of safety/structure conditions and follow-up The integrated production system ensures meeting the requirements. We also have a with the process and the strengthening of that rural producers act in an 100% integrated field technical team that visits and monitors partnerships with suppliers. and regionalized manner. the monthly integrated producer base. Another preventive measure of BRF is the mainWe disseminate among these business parttenance of a system that manages the enviners the BRF Transparency Manual and the ronmental licensing of properties. Code of Conduct for Suppliers. The documents address social and environmental aspects, ethics, compliance, operational effiMAPPED IMPACTS IN THE CHAIN GRI 308-2, 414-1, 414-2 Sociociency and respect for human rights. Our rural extension team periodically visits 100% of the Environmental impacts Social impacts environmental properties to assist and guide in relation to the points of need. No. of suppliers 173 (Procurement) 267 (turnover agriculture and livestock) impact evaluated 207 (logistics) 100% (Procurement) In 2018, agricultural and livestock In Brazil, 100% of the integrated producers 207 (logistics) suppliers were evaluated on social and 100% of the candidates for business partNon-compliance with legislation and conditions; Violation of human rights and impacts and also on the logistic ners are submitted to a sustainability assesslack of water grants; problems with emissions traditional populations; occurcategory; both in social and Potential monitored ment, based on the Standard for Agricultural impacts volume; overlapping or use of areas of preserrence of slave labor, forced, environmental criteria, there was an Expansion and Growth. We have been able to vation, conservation and legal reserves; treatand labor that is analogous to evaluation. In total, 100% of the cases ment and disposal of waste. slavery or child labor. globally evolve in partner adherence to high were addressed by the relevant areas. BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 71 BRF SUPPLY CHAIN GRI 102-9, FP1 Percentage of purchased/delivered Business type Profile and categories Supplier region Number of partners volume of suppliers in accordance with the organization's purchasing policy Agriculture and livestock Animal production RS, SC, PR, MT, MS, MG, GO, SP Turkey 13,356 100% Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Qatar, Chile, China, Cyprus, Singapore, Colombia, 12,207 Brazil Croatia, Denmark, United Arab Emirates, Slovakia, 430 Middle East and Direct Spain, United States, Finland, France, Germany, HunIndirect gary, India, Ireland, Iceland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Malaysia, Morocco, North Africa 953 Turkey 92.6%* Supplies Freights New Zealand, Oman, Panama, Paraguay, Poland, Unit6,137 Argentina *Data from 2018, considering the ed Kingdom, Czech Republic, Serbia, Sweden, Switzer1,461 Europe and Thailand adherence of the Argentina and Thailand Partnerships land, Thailand, Turkey, Ukraine, Uruguay and Brazil. = operations Logistics Brazil (AC, AL, AM, AP, BA, CE, DF, ES, GO, MA, MG, MS, MT, PA, PB, PE, PI, PR, RJ, RN, RO, RS, SC, SE, 21,188 SP, TO) • Rural producers: direct purchase of the crop for BRF (84% of the total number of suppliers) • Cerealists: small businesses that are Paraguay, Singapore and Argentina Grains, intermediates in the commodity marbran and oil ket (grains) • Tradings: large companies that operate as intermediaries in the grain Brazil (GO, MG, MS, MT, PR, RS, SC, SP, BA, PI, TO, PA, DF) 2,702 90% market • Cooperatives: non-profit civil society/ commercial organizations, formed by groups of rural producers *The scope encompasses a global level. BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 72 Local communities Through this purpose, the work is focused on strengthening community protagonism, genIn 2018, we mobilized 3,000 volunteers through actions to benefit communities. 3 thousand • erating technical and specialized knowledge There were more than 400 actions during the volunteers were GRI 103-1 | 413, 103-2 | 413, 103-3 | 413, 103-1 | 203, and improving the services provided. Another year, benefiting more than 100 thousand peo103-2 | 203, 103-3 | 203 Our global performance also involves rerole of the Institute is to advise the company to fulfill its obligations that dialog with ple. In 2018, we reaffirmed our commitment to the 17 Sustainable Development Goals mobilized in more lationships with communities around the operations. The BRF Institute, created sevthe social theme or communities and to act as an incubator for actions that result in the (ODS) and to the principles of the United Nations Global Compact, which are intrinsically than 400 actions in en years ago, is responsible for building an systematic advancement in regional issues of connected to our business and addressed 2018, benefiting 100 agenda that promotes local development and corporate citizenship through volunteering, corporate social investment. throughout this report. thousand people carrying out actions of positive social impact The Institute acts as a reference of social in the communities which we are part of. One intelligence for the company, defining the year ago, the Institute became part of the strategies that guide the company's social governance of the HR Vice-Presidency, with investment in the localities, especially where the purpose of providing the business with there are productive units, and working with expertise and knowledge on social impacts the business areas to find opportunities of and. In 2018, this linkage continued, especially fostering a positive social impact in the comthrough dialog with the areas of engagement munities and society. In 2018, we focus on and culture, working closer to the BRF culture three ways of acting through volunteering: and the experience of employees through volunteering. • Senses and Flavors (promoting an integrated life, through balanced eating habits) The work of the BRF Institute is based, in • Project Fund (local development projects particular, on two principles contained in the according to the reality of each locality) United Nations (UN) Sustainable Develop• Mobilizing Actions (short and medium-term ment Objectives (ODS): voluntary actions to promote solidarity and voluntary engagement) ODS 1: ending poverty in all its forms, everywhere; and ODS 11: Making cities and human settlements inclusive, secure, resilient and sustainable. BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 73 MANAGEMENT MODEL GRI 203-2 The BRF Institute is a private association of public interest founded by BRF to strategicalHighlights and investments GRI 203-1, 203-2 ly direct the Company's social investments. It is qualified as a Civil Society Organization of SENSES AND FLAVORS Public Interest (OSCIP) and acts both through Through the BRF Volunteer Program, which is its own resources, donated by BRF, and by transversal to all the work of the Institute, we the orientation of the investment of resources implemented the Senses and Flavors (“Senencouraged by state laws. Its activities undertidos e Sabores”) project in associations of go annual financial auditing. municipalities, organizations and other institutions. The focus of this project is to address The governance of the BRF Institute is comthe theme of food in a playful way, adapted posed of an Associate Assembly, a Fiscal to different audiences in the municipalities, Council and a board of directors divided where we are to promote healthier communibetween the Chief Executive Officer and the ties. Due to a strategic direction, investments Executive Board. There is a technical team in infrastructure were hardly made in 2018 directed only to the activities of the associa(about R$ 50k). GRI 203-1 tion that maintains a constant dialogue with stakeholders and leaderships of the BRF itself. PROJECTS FUND Its main volunteers are the Social Investment We continue with the local partnerships of Committees, which actively participate in the the Project Fund initiative in 2018, with design of the action strategies. social organizations, schools and residents' associations, ensuring local relevance to the Strategic decisions on investments and projactivities carried out. The Social Investment ects are made through discussions related to Committees had the possibility to create and the themes, including data analysis of platlead projects of social relevance, built with forms and indexes such as the ISE (B3 Bralocal partners. In 2018, 19 fund projects were zil, Exchange and Stock Exchange), the Dow carried out, in the total amount of almost Jones Sustainability Index and the GIFE CenR$ 70k. GRI 203-2 sus. Corporate Social Investment BenchmarkPrazeres, in the Santa Teresa district of Rio the Environmental Agency of the United ing (BISC) is also another management tool RECYCLING AND ACTION (“RECICLAÇÃO”) de Janeiro. This performance is based on a States Government (IPA) and won the seal that directs practices in line with the positive Another highlight is the Recycling and Action model of behavior change of the residents. of Social Technology by the Banco do Brasil trends and market experiences. The social Project, which since 2013 has maintained a Waste sent for recycling is sold to recyclers Foundation. In 2018 the BRF Institute's finanproject managers hold bimonthly conferences program of environmental education, comand partnerships, generating resources for cial support for the project was completed with the Institute to follow the indicators of munity mobilization and solid waste manthe community to reinvest in local projects and the Institute will integrate the goverthe work and to enable decision-making in a agement, with the objective of eradicating and improving the living conditions of the nance structure of the project that is under participatory manner. social and environmental risks in Morro dos place. The methodology was recognized by development. BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 74 Our leaders remained involved and active IMPACT MANAGEMENT AND LOCAL third parties are also related to the theme, in the engagement and mobilization of emPRESENCE GRI 413-1, 413-2 and, today, there is a strategic action of social ployees and new partners, members of local Together, the BRF Institute and the Social investment also in administrative headquarcommunities. In 2018, we were present in 36 Investment Committees enhance their soters and distribution centers. municipalities, 31 with committees and othcial, economic and environmental impacts. ers with spontaneous groups of volunteers In 2018, 447 social actions were carried out, who came together to carry out voluntary with continuous monitoring and annual evalactions (mainly in the sales subsidiaries and uations of each project implemented in the distribution centers – the committees conmunicipalities. tinued to operate in productive units and headquarters). The Institute's involvement extends to the various multidisciplinary working groups, In 2018, the Institute selected two projects for corporate areas and business units, managing support through the São Paulo State Sports the social impacts of the operation and proLaw: one from the International Association moting improvements in the lives of commuof Humanity Interest, Embu das Artes, and nities. During the annual campaign of volunthe other from the Gol de Letra Foundation, tary actions, held in August, 36 locations in in the city of São Paulo. Brazil, 10 in Latin America, four in Asia, three in Europe and one in Africa had corporate The projects are selected or created based volunteering. on talks with the communities where BRF maintains its business, seeking to generate We recognize that community relationship shared value. Both the Mobilizing Actions and issues can impact our business, including the Projects Fund and the Senses and Flavors diverse reputational, social, environmental, Project are carried out through the Social people and community engagement, and 31 Investment Committees, which are groups of relationships with partners and institutions. employees in the production units, adminisThrough the BRF Institute, we work to mintrative headquarters and distribution centers imize these potential impacts and ensure trained to conduct dialog with local commuthe protection and integrity of BRF's image nities and jointly propose the activities that are carried out in each territory. In this way, before society. of the we guarantee the volunteers' engagement, the relevance and the legitimacy of the projThe potential impacts of our operation on the community are more clearly connected to operations ects carried out. the municipalities where we have production in Brazil have activities of units, but are not limited to these locations. local development and Suppliers, including integrated producers, and corporate volunteering BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 75 MONITORING IMPACTS An example of action is the annual campaign GOVERNMENTS, INSTITUTIONS AND FOOD fits are to stimulate the socioeconomic develWe have an internal team and we contracted of donation of Chester Turkeys made by the SECTOR opment of the regions and enable the generaoutside consultancy to monitor the activities brand Perdigão, with the help of the BRF GRI 103-1 | 201, 103-2 | 201, 103-3 | 201, 201-4 tion of direct and indirect jobs, as well as local in a quantitative and qualitative way, in addiInstitute and partnership with the Mesa Brasil Our operations aims to boost the sustainabilpartnerships of companies with producers, tion to the monthly monitoring of indicators, Program, by SESC. In 2018, 14 states were ity of our chain and to seek improvements transporters and potential new suppliers. without ROI (Return on Investment) measurebenefitted (AM, BA, CE, ES, GO, MG, MT, PA, in operations, in dialog with governments, ment. The results are disseminated through PE, PR, RJ, RS, SC and SP). Eleven countries institutions and society, in Brazil and abroad. Incentives granted by governments allow the different channels, such as the GRI reports, (Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Austria, the United In this way, we belong to management posicompany to make investments for the instalactivities and publication of activities insites Kingdom, the Netherlands, Thailand, Hong tions, participate in forums and sector assolation and operation of factories, promoting and corporate social networks. There are also Kong, Singapore, South Korea and South Afciations. We are also signatories to compacts a positive impact on income generation and management mechanisms for each theme: rica) were reached with the annual campaign and voluntary initiatives that address aspects taxes. The total monetary value of the finanof voluntary actions of BRF. of corporate responsibility, for example, cial assistance received by the organization Policies: Corporate Policy of Donations and combating degrading or slave/child labor and totaled R$ 227.7 million in 2018. Part of these Sponsorship, Corporate Rule of the BRF VolCommitments: engagement with the Susaddressing the impacts of climate change. amounts were related to subsidies and tax unteer Program and Corporate Social Investtainable Development Goals, especially those incentives, since the Company has tax subsiment Standard. related to poverty reduction and sustainable Relations with governments and representadies on the circulation of goods and services development; participation in BISC, RedEtives of public authorities follow strict legal, (ICMS) in the states of Mato Grosso, PernamCommittees: in 2018, 33 municipalities countAmérica and GIFE, in order to publicly mainethical and moral standards, based on laws buco and Goiás, directly linked to the opered on the Social Investment Committees, tain the commitment of corporate social such as the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ation of productive units, the generation of responsible for the management of resources investment to the communities, fostering the (FCPA), the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX), the employment and social and economic develand projects in benefits to the communities, Company's responsible performance. Brazilian Anti-Corruption Act (12,846/2013) opment. In 2018, in this area, the amounts of existing in the productive units, administraand the United Kingdom Bribery Act (UKBA). investment grants totaled R$ 174.2 million (R$ tive headquarters and distribution centers. Goals: starting in 2019, our goals will be linked 144.3 million as of 12.31.17). These committees are composed of groups to projects, seeking to improve the quality of The BRF Transparency Manual allows us to of employees from other activities, helping to the projects carried out and their translation record and reiterate that Company employAnther assistance received was linked to disseminate the culture of community relainto results. ees are expressly prohibited from participatresearch and development costs, through tions and social responsibility. ing in corruption or engaging in any type of spending on new products and internal rePerformance model: the BRF Institute have passive or active bribes, directly or indirectly. search. The total expenses incurred by the responsibilities linked to performance apOne must not frustrate, deceive, deceive, Company in 2018 were almost R$ 53.5 million 33 praisals carried out by the Company's internal prevent or disrupt public or private bidding (approximately R$ 52 million on December 31, evaluation and monitoring system (Manageprocedures. 2007). ment System). The Company uses fiscal and financial incenRegarding tax policy, we are aware of the municipalities tives (at the federal, state and municipal levels) and in different spheres of administration legality of our acts, acting strictly in compliance with the legislation of the countries in counted on our Social in the countries where it operates. The benewhich we are located or in which we maintain Investment Committees BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 76 commercial relations, preserving the sustainAnimal welfare GRI FP10, FP11 ability of the business and evaluating the tax impacts of our actions. • In line with Brazilian electoral law (Federal Commitments Act No. 13,165/2015), BRF does not endorse Animal welfare (BEA) is one of the fastest or authorize donations to candidates, political growing agendas in modern industrial proparties or any political association. Through our Institutional, Legal and Compliance duction (with best practices in breeding, transporting and slaughtering animals) and reinforce BRF's Vice-Presidency, we communicate the prohibited behaviors, due to the electoral period has often become a market requirement. responsible that was held in Brazil, in 2018. Afterwards, in Brazil, we published Corporate Standard In tune with this debate, we have more and more aligned our practices with national and position from 11.1.05, with the guidelines to be followed by all its employees during the electoral period international parameters. We also have the partnership in Brazil of World Animal Proanimal breeding in Brazil, in addition to creating a channel to tection (WAP), an international reference to their slaughter clarify and respond to employees' doubts, NGO for the theme. Our commitments are through mail address duvidaseleicoes@brf-br. structured in the global Animal Welfare Made com. For the other countries, the BRF Transin BRF program, guided by our Public Comparency Manual (the BRF Code of Global mitment and validated by the company's top Conduct) says that BRF and the people must management. One of its approaches is the comply with applicable national and foreign model of five freedoms conceptualized by laws, and in turn prohibits contributions or the Farm Animal Welfare Council (FAWC): out the production chain, establish partnerdemonstrations favorable to political parties animals free from hunger, thirst and malnutriships, monitor audits of business partners and and/or governmental entities on behalf of the tion (physiological freedom); animals free of offer training on animal welfare for the intercompany, without the prior approval of the discomfort (environmental freedom); animals nal audience, our integrated producers and Administration Council. free from pain, injury and disease (freedom animal carriers. of health); animals free to express their natBRF seeks to increase its contribution in the ural behavior (behavioral freedom) and aniIn 2018, the animal welfare theme received a development of public policies and in the demals free of fear and anguish (psychological reinforcement of structure, being subject to fense of the interests of the sector, in regulafreedom). the management of sustainability in technitory issues, animal health, economic developcal aspects. The division started to count on ment, sustainability, animal and environmental We formed a multidisciplinary working group three experts dedicated to the subject, focuswelfare. constituted by the Quality, Agricultural, Opering on the pig chain, the slaughter of poulations and Sustainability teams to take care of try and in agriculture and poultry transport the theme, coordinating work and discussing (chicken and turkey). In this way, we launched demands. We count on employees throughan integrated and comprehensive look at the BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 77 processes in our production chain. As an industry, we also commit to avoiding A Live Animal Transport Committee was creroutine mutilation and long-distance transport ated with the areas of Sustainability, Agriculof live animals, working with desensitization ture, Livestock, Operations and HSE. In this prior to slaughter, following ethical precepts, committee, a corporate briefing was develinternational guidelines and market specificioped on measures in case of accidents with ties. Productivity indicators monitor lot by lot living loads. Training sessions were carried any weight gain of animals, feed conversion out with the production units on the subject, and lot feasibility, daily water consumption including a simulation of accident, so that the and maximum and minimum temperatures. collaborators are assertive and agile in cases of this nature Every month, our team meets to discuss the evolution of the indicators and to facilitate We still have dedicated employees to deal the dissemination of good practices between with the issue throughout the production the units. Animal welfare also reaches the chain, from the operations areas to the supintegrated producer through training sessions port roles, as well as the animal welfare offiwith the technical team and with materials cers , professionals who are formally trained on the subject in the BRF Rural newspaper. to implement our commitments, which are At each issue of the newspaper, the theme now based on three main axes, as follows: of animal welfare and the main issues related to the production chain are presented to the Traceability: In 2018, we replaced the prointegrated producers in a clear and objective cedure in the identification and traceability manner, unifying the knowledge among proof pigs by the system of tattoo, which is less ducers throughout Brazil. Get to know some invasive for the animal. practices for poultry and swine breeding, committed to the legislation: Eggs: We are committed to using only eggs CREATION AND SLAUGHTER from cage free chickens throughout the inWe are aligned to standards such as GlobPOULTRY dustrial food process by 2025. The raw mateal-GAP and Certified Humane for the breedrial is used, for the most part, in the producwe are setting a goal with our outsourced ing and slaughter of animals on poultry farms • We do not use any hormones or cloned antion of industrialized products, as in the case egg vendors so that they fit by the deadline. and integrated producers. For the improveimals; we do not use any growth promoting of lasagna. Chicks producing matrices are ment of the processes and risk management, antibiotics either; created in a 100% cage free system. BRF does Pork matrices: Implementation of collective we daily monitor indicators such as mortality, not produce commercial eggs, only fertile gestation bays of swine matrices in 100% of density, eliminated animals, foot calls, trans• Cut chickens do not undergo any kind of eggs for the production of chicks. Therefore, the production by 2026. port mortality and bruises and fractures. physical alteration during their lifetime; BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 78 • All birds have an area to move inside the • All broilers are free to move within the state of insensitivity, maintaining vital func100% facilities and take a bath on a substrate, one aviary, to interact with other animals and to tions to bleeding. BRF has analyzed alternaof their natural behaviors; freely eat; tives to minimize the impacts of slaughter without a previous desensitization. • All animals receive a minimum amount of • Cut fowls have access to rations elaborated four hours of darkness, without interrupby professionals specialized in 100% of their SWINE of the animals are desensitized tions, for their adequate rest, except for the life, according to development needs of before slaughter first seven days of life and in the last three each phase of the animal life; • We adopted the collective gestation system days; in all new BRF production expansion proj• The fowls are desensitized prior to the ects, with a gradual application in existing • Daily care with the aviary bed (substrate slaughter throughout the whole global properties; where the animals are), kept dry, fluffy and operation (including Turkey), except for without foreign materials, providing thermal the plants produced to the Saudi Arabian • We are committed to achieving 100% of the • The practice of mossa in the units stopped comfort; market. Due to the demand of this market, production housed in the system, through being carried out in the year 2018 in the of a great economic importance for BRF, the collective system by 2026, reflecting termination chain, with 100% of the BRF • Cut chicken and turkey matrices are 100% the fowls do not go through the process of the partnership with WAP in Brazil; In 2018, staff comprised of finishing pigs being matured in the hatchery by means of laser pre-bleeding desensitization. Desensitizawe reached the 31.1% adequacy status of identified by means of a tattoo; equipment; only 1/3 of the beak is cut, in an tion is understood as the process applied the gestation system of swine matrices; area where there are fewer pain receptors; so as to provide the animal with a rapid • We do not use neither cloned animals nor • We are in a process of weaning migrating any growth hormones; in the entire company to last on average 25 days (thus encompassing the fourth week • We maintain the partial tail cut (2/3) since of breastfeeding), attesting the feasibility the procedure has a small impact com“Sadia Chicken Bio” of weaned piglets and reaching a higher weaning age to improve immunity and pared to the risk of cannibalism during the growth and fattening phases of pigs; In the second half of 2018, BRF launched Bio involved in the process, as well as the transgood animal welfare; Sadia , poultry cuts raised free from antibiotport and slaughter, are audited. The fowls • 99% of the animals undergo immuno-stainics, growth promoters, therapeutics and checreated under this seal also have additional • We follow the guidelines of the European ing, much less invasive. Surgical castration motherapeutics (ionophores and coccidioenvironmental enrichment to their regular community including good practices reis exclusively performed on animals dedstats), fed with 100% vegetable feed and with breeding, with the use of perches and peckgarding the abolition of cutting or wearing icated to the production of parma type a seal proving high standards of animal weling objects, as well as more space to move of teeth. Today, 100% of the pigs at BRF ham. Anesthetic use is being gradually fare. Whoever buys bio chickens will have around within the facility. Even produced in are free of teeth cutting or wearing, unless implemented in the integration; tools to trace the origin of the product up to special conditions, this chicken cannot be there is aggressiveness, to preserve the the producing farms, in Lucas do Rio Verde considered organic, since it is not food with welfare of the females; and Sorriso, both in Mato Grosso, certified by grains originally organic. For now, this new Certified Humane, one of the most important line is only sold in the domestic market. animal welfare seals. 100% of the producers BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 79 • Currently, 89% of the BRF farms use some CATTLE on average less than 5 mg of antibiotics per In the poultry, turkey and pig chains, no subsort of environmental enrichment either BRF currently has no bovine breeding system. kilogram of poultry, while Europe allows up to stances and/or treatments for the purpose of part-time or in specific bays. The CompaAll the raw material used is acquired from 30 mg/kg. promoting growth are used, nor are cloned ny acts in this way, believing that the main suppliers constantly evaluated in hygiene and animals used. In 2018, there was a 50% reducreasons for the use of the environmental safety standards and by qualified professionWe have a team of veterinarians with expetion in the use of antibiotics for treatment of enrichment is that it avoid fights, prevents/ als in BRF. In Brazil, the cattle are mostly freerience in animal health. They are responsible diseases in broiler chicken, compared to 2017. reduces cannibalism; prevents animals from grazed, and the tail-cutting of the animals is for defining and planning the use of drugs In turkeys, there was no oscillation in the use defecating and/or urinating in inapproprinot practiced. for all productive units. The shelf life of the of antibiotics in 2018. In December 2018, BRF ate places; provides entertainment/fun to medicines is revised and reinforced by the finalized the withdrawal of all antibiotics from animals, among others. USE OF MEDICATION GRI FP12 responsible veterinarians, and the withdrawal the HPCIA (Highest Priority Critically ImportWe aim to reduce the use of antibiotics and of the use prior to slaughter is performed by ant Antimicrobials) group listed by the World drugs regarding all animals in general, without following strict parameters, ridding the prodHealth Organization (WHO) in the production causing damage to the welfare of the animals uct of any residues. of broilers and turkeys in 100% of poultry and to the quality of our products. Hence, reared in Brazil. we invest in research and seek alternatives always supported by international guidelines As for the pig chain, there was also no oscillaand good practices. For example, we use tion in the use of antibiotics for the treatment of diseases in the animals of cut in 2018. The goal for the year 2022 is to own 69.7% of BRF's total squad in 6.2 48 31.1% of the squad matrices adequate a collective gestation system, finalizing 100% of the adequate farms in million fowls from the cut chicken chain at the BRF aviaries at the Lucas do Rio Verde (MT) unit were adapted to the new to the collective gestation system. Lucas do Rio Verde (MT) unit guidelines, in 2018 2026, guaranteeing the have access to environmental enrichment throughout their lives, commitment established to complement the possibilities in a pioneering way in and repertoire of the animals in 2014. expressing their natural behavior BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 80 Environmental efficiency • Making rational use of water and energy, By means of the Environmental Compliance Index (ICA) – an internal indicator for meacompetitors. Globally, we have met the standards of specific environmental legislation. R$ 162.8 reducing emissions, reducing impacts, investsuring the quality of processes, performance, ing in environmental initiatives, among other compliance of each unit to internal and exWe are also aware of the direct impact of things, are amidst our purposes. After all, ternal directives (regulated by law), which is environmental issues – especially climate BRF is a global company and recognizes the connected to the Quality TIER (read more on change – on the future of our business. Cliresponsibility to promote the proper use of natural resources in its value chain. page xx), we monitor 100% of the production units in Brazil and the United Arab Emirates mate change can have a significant impact on world supply and demand of agricultural million (Abu Dhabi), in the approach to effluents, commodities, affecting prices and conseEnvironmental We have the environmental management sysresidues, atmospheric emissions, noise, odor, quently our raw material stocks, as well as afinvestments tem, our own HSE Policy and internal guidegrants and environmental licenses. It is also fecting energy security and water availability. lines based on ISO 14001 and the approach applied to the agricultural operation (feed GRI 201-2 to opportunities, impacts and risks of our factories, hatcheries and own farms). In 2018, activities. Consumers are increasingly critithe ICA was 2.6% higher in comparison with GREEN INVESTMENTS cal and aware, especially regarding with the the year 2017. productive process of their food. Therefore, Throughout the year, we invested R$ 125,45 our levels of environmental management only Our practices in renewable energy and energy million in environmental impact reduction tend to increase, demanding from the busiefficiency guarantee access to green financial initiatives in Brazilian and international operaness partners the same rigor. lines, a strategic advantage over our global tions, covering Capex (projects), investments in forests and expenses with effluent and solid waste treatment; this is an approximate figure, which will still be verified and published by BRF in June 2019. By 2022, we will have access to green bonds (€ 500 million Senior Environmental Compliance Index (ICA) Notes) issued in 2015 to increase investment capacity in projects focused on energy effiAll units receive Environmental Compliance Index (ICA) targets, which include items relatmonitors 100% of its own agricultural ciency, renewable energy, sustainable forests, greenhouse gas emission reduction, among ed to legal obligations, waste, effluents, atmospheric emissions, odor and noise. The goal in and livestock units in Brazil and the others. Environmental investments reached 2018 was 86.20% and we reached December United Arab Emirates R$ 162.8 million. 2018 with 88.40%. BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 81 WATER MANAGEMENT GRI 103-1 | 303, 103-2 | 303, 103-3 | 303, 103-1 | 306, 103-2 | 306, 103-3 | 306 PURSUIT OF EFFICIENCY PERCENTAGE OF WATER REUSE/RECYCLING Water is the main critical point for the food Currently, we do not have any public goals on AT BRF (%) GRI 303-3 industry, because its scarcity compromises the subject. There are internal goals for the field activity (in breeding animals and agwater consumption indicator (measured in 2016 36.19 riculture commodities) to factories, which m³/produced ton), which are annually set for will transform the raw material into food for productive units. consumption. We also reuse water (and its treatment for 2017 19.19 We respect all legal aspects determined by its return to the environment), prioritize the the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and superficial capture, invest in modern and Supply (Map) regarding the consumption of more economical equipment for this natuwater to be used in production, even if this ral resource and have groups of energy ex2018 11.29 implies to comply with quantities higher than cellence responsible for closing the points those foreseen by the company. In addition of consumption during the intervals and in to the legal process requirements, we control non-productive periods. We also use reducers and monitor the limits established in water (sprinklers, flow reducing nozzles) in sinks use grants. and sanitation hoses. TOTAL VOLUME OF WATER WITHDRAWN PER SOURCE (m³) GRI 303-1 For this reason, we consider it fundamental to In 2018, water consumption was higher than 2016 2017 2018* participate in the Hydrographic Basin Comin 2017 when we compared the same scope Surface water including wetlands, rivers, mittees in the regions where we are present. (Brazil, Abu Dahbi and Turkey). Mainly influ38,366,961.88 39,480,557.51 37,565,095.64 lakes and oceans Beginning in 2019, we became part of the UN enced by operations in Brazil, there was an Global Compact Water WG. 8% increase in the technical water indicator Underground waters 20,807,007.94 23,608,629.88 21,159,290.84 (m³/ton produced). Rainwater directly collected and stored In order to evolve in the subject, in 2018 we 53,300.00 51,300.00 0.00 by the organization also implemented an Internal Water GT, which counts on the participation of a multidisEffluents from another organization 0.00 468,000.00 0.00 ciplinary team (Environment, Engineering, Municipal water supply Processes and Quality) and aims to propose 1,855,287.60 2,178,280.19 2,699,956.15 projects and actions to increase efficiency in or other water supply companies the industrial units, in addition to promoting the evaluation of the water reuse/recycling TOTAL 61,082,557.42 65,786,767.58 61,424,342.63 system. *Data consider information from Brazil, Abu Dhabi and Turkey. BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 82 Effluents The management of effluents generated in BRF effluents are not used by other comthe industrial activity is of extreme imporpanies. We monitor the effluent release tance to control possible impacts that may standards, which vary according to the final cause eventual environmental damages to destination and other legal parameters. In an water bodies and to the soil. We implementactivity where there is fertirrigation of the ed projects to improve effluent quality, in effluent, the case of farms, for example, we case of initiatives in the Francisco Beltrão carry out analyzes of specific parameters to (PR) and Dois Vizinhos (PR) units, which guarantee the quality of the soil. replaced existing effluent treatment systems with more efficient systems. Effluent consumption was lower in 2018, since this year we are reporting a smaller scope We use preventive tools, such as the Environ(Brazil, Abu Dhabi and Turkey). mental Performance Index (IPA), generated through on-site inspection routes to identify and address the potential situations of an environmental event. EMISSIONS DISPOSAL OF WATER/EFFLUENTS BY DESTINATION (m³) GRI 306-1 GRI 103-1 | 305, 103-2 | 305, 103-3 | 305 2016 2017 2018 Because we are a global company, we know that our impacts are as well, because of the Surface waters 54,004,053.52 54,848,043.80 52,945,638.85 operations and the chain – which emit greenhouse gases (GHG) in different stages and processes. That is why we are striving to inSoil 163,698.76 90,404.72 208,373.62 crease efficiency in the use of natural resources and control emissions. To monitor impacts Sewer collection municipal network 58,958.00 2,669,153.00 106,283.02 and identify the opportunity to mitigate GHG impacts of GHG emissions in the company's emissions, we calculate the emissions inventovalue chain are aspects contemplated in the TOTAL EFFLUENTS GENERATED (m³) 54,226,710.28 57,607,601.52 53,260,295.49 ry, by establishing measures for reduction. In HSE Policy. another line, we evaluate the possible impacts * Data from 2016 and 2017 consider Brazil, Latin America (except Brazil), Europe, Asia, Africa and the Middle East. Data from 2018 consider Brazil, Abu Dhabi and Turkey. Methodology used for the collection: via the system, in which the effluent samples are collected; submission of climate change and define management Our volume of emissions is concentrated esto external and internal laboratories accredited to carry out the analyzes; and registration in the BRF information system, from where the measures for adaptation. Both the mitigapecially in agriculture – integrated producers management reports are generated. tion and the ability to analyze the risks and (treatment and disposal of residues/waste) BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 83 and in road and ship transportation. Our Every year, the GHG inventory is audited by OUR EMISSIONS BY SCOPE (IN tCO2e) GRI 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4 ultimate challenge is to define boundaries, an outside company, which includes analysis 2016 2017 2018* methodology for calculating emission sourcof the calculation tool, baseline data used Direct emissions of greenhouse gases – Scope 1 es and access to information, since we form to calculate emissions and in loco visits, to 439,962.58 440,621.04 285,881.12 (equivalent tCO2) * a complex and extensive chain. On the other check the information used, and the issuance hand, we have a high proportion of renewable of a verification letter, attesting the informaBiogenic emissions of CO2 Scope 1 (tCO2) * 2,103,531.01 1,966,390.17 2,086,509.77 energy. tion. Later, this letter is submitted to the Brazilian GHG Protocol Program which, in turn, Indirect emissions of greenhouse gases Scope 2 274,684.41 306,320.98 146,008.70 (tCO2 equivalent) * The main sources of emission of BRF are: recognizes the inventory with the Gold Seal. stationary (use of fuels for power generIn 2018, the intensity of our emissions was Biogenic emissions of CO2 Scope 2 (tCO2) * 462.86 22.69 52.05 ation); treatment of effluents (some units 0.0676 tCO2e/t produced. GRI 305-4 * Emission factors and global warming rates (GWP), provided by the Brazilian GHG Protocol Program and the IPCC, respectively, were used. have anaerobic treatment, without capture of The base year for performance analysis was 2017, as there is no goal or other analysis defined, based on another previous year. The gases included in the calculations are carbon dioxide (CO2), nitrous oxide (N2O), methane (CH4) and hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs). The consolidation methane); agricultural waste treatment; and With regard to atmospheric emissions, we approach chosen for the issues is Operational Control. The data is under verification by third party, and there may be changes. The scope for operations includes Brazil, Abu Dhabi and Turkey. fugitive and mobile emissions. use high technology equipment, which employs the principle of electrochemical cells We are part of the Brazilian GHG Protocol conducting on-line analysis of the gases Program and follow this methodology for calresulting from the combustion process (CO2, OTHER GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS SCOPE 3 (IN tCO2e) culating the inventory of greenhouse gases, O2, NOx and SOx). The main sources of externally published on an annual scale. The emissions are the boilers of industrial plants, 2016 2017 2018 atmospheric and GHG emissions are subject steam generating equipment. As a legal asUpstream transport and distribution (outsourced i.n.d. 795,876.99 670,867.83 to a management model that complies with pect, these emissions are a parameter monifleet) the environmental legislation and good practored in the Company's Environmental ConResidues generated in operations i.n.d. 133,058.54 45,376.13 tices of the operating markets. formity Index (ICA). Business trips i.n.d. 5,786.55 5,136.71 TOTAL OTHER INDIRECT EMISSIONS SCOPE 3 834,957.27 934,722.08 721,380.67 Every year, the GHG inventory is INTENSITY OF GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 2016 2017 2018 audited by an external company Total GHG emissions 439,962.58 440,621.04 285,881.12 Intensity of greenhouse gas emissions (tCO2e/t 0.10 0.10 0.0676 produced) * Data only consider Scope 1 emissions. The gases included in the calculations are carbon dioxide (CO2), nitrous oxide (N2O), methane (CH4) and hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs). It should be noted that the data have not yet been audited. BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 84 ENERGY GRI 103-1 | 302, 103-2 | 302, 103-3 | 302 Our risk management cautiously monitors energy consumption considering price and enif the indicator is not met. We have a team of experts and engineers dedicated to the anal6,430.36 GJ GRI 302-4 ergy availability as aspects that directly affect ysis of refrigeration and freezing processes, It was the total reduction of electricity the operation. Therefore, we maintained the searching for operating points and providing consumption compared to 2017 (analyzing BRF Energy Excellence Program, which mobitechnical support to the units in the elaborathe energy consumption kWh per ton). The lizes corporate and unit techniques, managing tion of new projects to improve the efficiency improvement is directly linked to conservation and efficiency in the use of the resource throughof the systems. efficiency projects out the Company. Considering only the energy consumption In 2018, 93.79% of the energy consumed in within the BRF, the energy intensity was 2.13 BRF came from renewable sources. In 2018, GJ/t produced in 2016, 2.22 GJ/t in 2017, and fuel consumption from renewable sources 2.00 GJ/t produced, taking into account the (ethanol) in light vehicles was higher than consumption of electricity. GRI 302-3 that of non-renewable fuel, reducing the impact of GHG emissions. Our impacts related to energy consumption TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMED INSIDE BRF (GJ)¹ GRI 302-1 ENERGY CONSUMED OUTSIDE BRF are found in the production units, such as (GJ)* GRI 302-2 2016 2017 2018 slaughterhouses and industrialized factories, and in hatcheries and farms. Thereby, we Fuels from non-renewable sources 1,158,461.41 GJ 1,633,828.29 GJ 1,284,896.81 GJ 2016 5,201,991.82 have developed a methodology that assessFuels from renewable sources 22,954,945.46 GJ 22,657,492.54 GJ 18,687,792.94 GJ es risks and the vulnerability of supply and consumption. Energy consumption is moniEnergy consumed (purchased) from non769,455.19 GJ 893,816.79 GJ 438,834.77 GJ tored in 100% of the units, in real time, with renewable sources 2017 6,144,040.94 four levels of check-in and with a monthly disclosure of results. The objective is to carry Energy consumed (purchased) from 6,497,555.43 GJ² 7,657,118.07 GJ 7,351,988.83 GJ renewable sources out internal and external actions to reduce consumption, minimizing the impact on the Energy sold 0.00 GJ 0.00 GJ 0.00 GJ 2018 5,580,239.13 environment. TOTAL 31,380,417.49 GJ 32,842,255.69 GJ 27,763,513.34 GJ We generate the electric energy indicator 1 The methodology for calculating the data followed the Corporate Standard of Energy Excellence. The energy data comprises BRF's KWh/TPA on a daily basis, accompanied by operations in Brazil, Turkey and Abu Dhabi (United Arab Emirates). Total energy consumption/use of fuels to generate steam and heat in operations; consumption/purchase of electricity; and consumption of fuels for the light fleet vehicles used by the sales force, agricultural * Data consider the fuel consumption of the land fleet in Brazil. the utilities teams of the units, treating occaextension agents and vehicles from forest areas (consolidated in the year 2018). This value is total non-renewable and renewable energy. Data for 2016 and 2017 revised. sional deviations and proposing action plans 2 2016 revised amount. BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 85 Energy Committee is analyzing alternatives to improve the Fronts for efficiency Company's consumption matrix We maintained the BRF Energy Committee, When we detect an imminent opportunity or over 31.8k formed by the Engineering, Controller and risk that may affect the cost or availability of Procurement, in order to define monthly energy in the long term, the issue is escalatstrategies for contracting energy in BRF and ed to the BRF Risk Committee and, in case in the value chain. They are considered an of positioning, we structure the purchase improvement of the cost of acquisition, strategic partners for sustainable projects, approcess in which we submit approvals to the Administration Council . It is also in this forum hectares proval of projects to reduce consumption and that we discussed the status of the implemake up our renewable pass on guidelines to production units. mentation of efficiency projects. planted forests The Company adopts annual lines of inBRF also has planted renewable forest as a vestments to apply its own resources to the carbon stock. It is a positive impact on the upgrading of technology and the purchase environment, helping to mitigate our imof more efficient equipment, such as tempacts and to balance the climate. Our current perature control of freezing tunnels, impleplanted area is 31,802 hectares, spread over mentation of automatic controls and vari8 Brazilian states (RS, SC, PR, MS, MT, MG, ables of compressed air equipment, as well GO, PE). as upgrading of factory lighting for the LED system. In order to make the purchase process, the distribution of the contracts and to generate We also take advantage of the resources value in the management of the Portfolio available in the Energy Efficiency Programs more flexible and expeditious, in 2017 BRF’s of energy distributors, under the recomown energy trading company, namely BRF mendation of the National Electric Energy Energia, was created, whose main objective Agency (Aneel), with actions such as replacis to reduce energy costs, more efficiently ing common motors and electric pumps for managing the BRF contracts. By strategy, it high-performance equipment. is forbidden to use BRF Energia to assume contracting risks outside the core business. BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 86 WASTE 103-1 | 306, 103-2 | 306, 103-3 | 306 Animal Health Waste Logistics Program. We maintain in our own and integrated farms the The Company controls waste by reducing, reReverse Logistics Program of Animal Health cycling and reusing materials throughout the Wastes, for the collection of hazardous waste value chain – from suppliers to the post-conin the field and in hatcheries. sumption phase. The initiatives for better waste management Another measure is to reuse by-products in are based on the Solid Waste Management production processes, such as sludge (genPlan (PGRS). It is up to the guidelines to erated in the treatment of effluents and used guide operations from the control of the as a fuel mixture for boilers), thus allowing generated materials to monitoring their the reduction of chip consumption. We transproper destination. form the compost into organic fertilizer, with a proper destination. Among the initiatives In 2018, the Marau (RS) unit developed a related to waste management is the transproject that aimed to stop shipping type 7 formation of organic waste into biofertilizers, plastic waste to landfills (a type of low recythrough the composting process. clability plastic). Hence, it developed a new supplier in the region of the unit that, through Administrative operations adopt separation the recycling of this material, manufactures for disposal of organic waste and other categories (recyclable and non-recyclable). Our sidings for civil construction. As a result, the unit failed to send about 8 tons/month of this In 2018, the Marau (RS) unit developed own and integrated farms have the Reverse waste to landfills. In addition to the reduction of environmental impact, the unit also had a project to eliminate landfill of low financial gains. recyclability plastic waste Swine waste is treated appropriately and then applied In 2018, there were six significant leaks, totalto the soil, according to the ing 24 m³, due to the leakage of animal fat, effluent, effluent treatment sludge and solid environmental authorization waste in the cities of Videira (SC), Chapecó (SC) and Concórdia (SC). Environmental manand an accompanying agement is focused on reducing/mitigating environmental impacts. agricultural engineer GRI 306-3 BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 87 DISPOSAL OF WASTE (IN TONS) GRI 306-2, 306-4 TRANSPORTED AND TREATED HAZARDOUS WASTE (TONS) Disposal 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 With Abia, we are also part of the Packaging Hazardous waste generated by type1 and disposal Coalition, which brings together companies Transported 461.12 1,840.40 4,413.46 committed to a plan for solid waste manageIndustrial landfill and autoclaving 480.94 932.91 2,522.14 ment and reverse logistics, defined within a Imported 0 0 0 sectoral agreement to meet the PNRS. We Recycling 327.30 635.27 1,604.12 Exported 0 0 0 strive to reduce the use of materials and develop innovative packaging with a focus on Incineration 128.58 272.22 172.70 waste. Treated 267.34 0 0 Re-use i.n.d. i.n.d. 86.81 HOW TO REDUCE IMPACTS TOTAL 728.46 1,840.40 4,413.46 * Hazardous waste transported is all generated by BRF, for which We invest in projects to reduce the weight Recovery i.n.d. i.n.d. 27.69 transportation is contracted up to the treatment. BRF does not have and use of raw material in the packaging its own transport for the destination of hazardous waste, nor does it import or export any waste internationally. All hazardous Class 1 (without prejudice to the needs of security TOTAL 936.82 1,840.40 4,413.46 waste is transported and destined correctly and stability of the product) and we maintain Non-hazardous waste generated, by type2 and disposal projects to mobilize and support the structuring of cooperatives and associations of waste Incorporation into the soil 42,157.76 16,476.81 18,926.54 PRODUCTS AND PACKAGING pickers in the regions near the operations. We participate in the Packaging Industry Industrial landfill and autoclaving 110,873.88 162,768.95 82,155.57 Agreement of the Brazilian Association of The losses of packaging in the productive Food Industry (Abia) – it brings together processes are destined for the recycling, reRecycling 68,408.16 78,501.84 69,948.43 different segments of the industry – which ducing the impacts related to the final prodprovides for a reduction of recyclable waste ucts. We also strive to reduce the occurrence Incineration 484.93 784.00 3,169.42 sent to the landfill, among other actions. The of loss or breakage of products, so as to minchallenge of practicing an adequate manageimize the disposal of these materials. We seek Composting 120,995.25 55,033.39 227,661.27 ment of the impact of our products after the to advance in the analysis of the environmenpurchase by the consumer (discarding the tal impact of our products. Re-use i.n.d. i.n.d. 1,917.01 packaging) is part of BRF's daily routine. This work is linked to the National Solid Waste PolRecovery i.n.d. i.n.d. 35,288.66 icy (PNRS), which stipulates adjustments in the industry's production model, from operaTOTAL 342,919.97 313,565.00 439,066.89 tion to post-consumption. 1. Among the main hazardous wastes generated at BRF are health care waste, animal health waste, oil-contaminated light bulbs and waste etc. 2. Among the main non-hazardous wastes are effluent treatment sludge, hatchery waste, plastic waste etc. BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 88 Businesses IN THIS CHAPTER Operating and economic-financial results BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 89 We consider 2018 as the most challenging collective vacations in seven plants, adopted period of the last ten years for BRF. On one the layoff in the Chapecó unit (SC) and closed hand, it was also the time when we made lines of turkey slaughter in Mineiros (GO), one of the largest set of equity, financial and Francisco Beltrão (PR) and Chapecó (SC). management adjustments in the company's These were responses that mitigated the imhistory, laying the foundation for the Compapacts on our results, even though they were 2018 ny's recovery. not able to completely neutralize the negative effects on the business. Throughout the year, we encountered adverse scenarios, such as the closure of important To streamline our financial deleveraging promarkets, the truck drivers' strike and the cess, we decided to sell our assets in Argentican be defined as the pressure of internal costs. On the other hand, na, Europe and Thailand, as well as our Várzea most challenging year we had problems in our governance and a Grande (MT) plant and some real estate asof the last decade. But second phase of police investigation operasets. We also securitized receivables through it was also a period of tions. The most visible consequences were a Credit Rights Investment Fund (FIDC) and key adjustments to the the decrease in our margins, the increase in reduced our frozen raw material inventories Company indebtedness and raw material stocks higher by about 60%. In total, we reached an amount than desirable. of R$ 4.1 billion within the R$ 5 billion forecast with this set of measures, referred to as the The results of the Cheating Operation led to Monetization Plan. We decided that Brazil, the the exclusion of 12 BRF plants from the list Muslim market (Halal) and Asia are the three of establishments approved to be exported key regions where we will focus our business to the European Union, an important market (read more on page xx). for the Company. We had the imposition of anti­dumping fees by China and the continued Although it resulted in considerable losses, For the future, our strategic planning estabsuspension of pork imports by Russia. The these situations did not affect the Company's lishes, as goals, the reversal of the declining price of grains registered an accumulated ability to produce future results. They, as a trajectory of our margins in 2019, through the increase in 2018 of 30%, while the readjustmatter of fact, allowed us to face our main establishment of a high performance manment of the protein in the national market problems. Our de-leveraging process will agement; the consolidation of our fundamenwas below 3%. The truckers' strike demandcontinue through 2019 (approximately 3.65 tals in leadership, innovation and financial ed us speed and ability to continue to feed times), but the goal is to achieve a leverage strength to reach historical levels of profitabilour squad in the field and transfer it to the ratio of 1.5 and 2.0 times, restoring our credity in 2020; and the continuous and sustainslaughter. it risk rating to investment grade. For more able growth, with a rigorous execution for the information, access the F-20 report on the delivery of a level of profitability above the In response to these events, we adopted investor relations website: ri.brf-global.com. historical average from 2021. short-term measures and immediate impact on the results and our operation: we gave BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 90 Operating and economic-financial result NET OPERATING REVENUE (ROL) Volume (thousands of tons) 2017 2018 2018/2017 • GRI 201-1 Poultry (in natura) 2,127 2,261 6.3% Check out some financial and operational Pigs and other (in natura) 323 293 (9.3%) indicators that synthesize 2018 for BRF. Processed 2,118 2,123 0.2% Other sales 351 297 (15.3%) We closed 2018 with a consolidated net revTOTAL 4,919 4,974 1.1% enue of R$ 34.5 billion, growth of 3.2% over 2017. The increase is a reflection of the higher ROL (R$ million) 33,469 34,529 3.2% volumes traded in Brazil (7.1% per year) and in Average price (ROL) 6.80 6.94 2.0% the Halal Division (5.7%), as well as the average price growth in both markets. MAIN INDICATORS (R$ MILLION) OPERATING EXPENSES (R$ MILLION) We achieved a gross margin of 15.0% in 2018, 2017 2018 2018/2017 2017 2018 2018/2017 which represents a decrease of 4.2 pp a year. Volume (thousands of tons) 4,919 4,974 1.12 Expenses with sales (4,744) (4,956) 4.5% The result reflects the operational obstaNet revenue 33,469 34,529 3.2% % on ROL (14.2%) (14.4%) (0.2 ) p.p. cles that impacted our business chain, such Administrative and fee expenses (575) (671) 16.7% Gross profit 6,421 5,186 (19.2%) as the increase in grain costs, anti-dumping Gross margin (%) 19.2 15.00 (4,2 p.p.) % on ROL (1.9%) (1.7%) (0.2 ) p.p. measures imposed by China and adjustments in the production process to meet Adjusted EBITDA 2,857 2,616 (8.4%) Total operating expenses (5,318) (5,627) 5.8% new requirements of Saudi Arabia, among Adjustd EBITDA margin (%) 8.5 7.6 (1.0 ) p.p. % on ROL (15.9%) (16.3%) (0.4 ) p.p. others. In addition, we had a negative impact Net Profit (Loss) (1,099) (4,466) 306.4% of R$ 208 million referring to the effects of hedge accounting due to debts on exports, Net margin (%) (3.3) (12.9) (9.7 ) p.p. a fact communicated to the market over RESULT PER SHARE* (1.35) (5.50) 306.4% SG&A LTM (% ROL) the quarters. * Consolidated income per share (in R$), excluding treasury shares Sales expenses increased by 4.5% in 2018. 16.5 16.4 16.4 16.4 16.3 This leap is a result of higher logistical exGROSS PROFIT (R$ MILLION) 16.1 16.2 penses, mainly due to the increase in the 16.3 16.4 16.4 15.9 Average 2017 2018 2018/2017 16.1 16.2 logistics network to serve a larger number of 16.0 16.2% Gross profit 6,421 5,186 (19.2%) 15.8 15.8 points of sale. Administrative expenses and fees increased by R 96 million during the year, Gross margin (%) 19.2% 15.0% 4.2p.p 1Q15 2Q15 3Q15 4Q15 1Q16 2Q16 3Q16 4Q16 1Q17 2Q17 3Q17 4Q17 1Q18 2Q18 3Q18 4Q18 basically due to the inflation pass-through of the period in Brazil and the exchange variation in operations abroad. BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 91 We closed the year with an increase in the OTHER OPERATING INCOMES (R$ MILLION) PERFORMANCE OF DIVISIONS net loss of R$ 2,102 million, mainly due to We have chosen the Brazil segment as the 2017 2018 2018/2017 the settled fixed assets and the impairment backbone of our strategy, leveraging the adjustment of discontinued operations and Other operating incomes (389) (2,491) 540.3% leadership of our brands and the capillarity Várzea Grande (MT), in the amount of R$ % on ROL (1.2%) (7.2%) (6.1 ) p.p. of our distribution network. We have also 2,533 million. identified opportunities in the Halal segment, increasing our production in the region and The Company generated a net loss of R$ FINANCIAL INCOME (R$ MILLION) stimulating more business opportunities. In 4,466 million in 2018, consolidating a negative relation to the international segment, we have margin of 12.9%. The result reflects the impair2017 2018 2018/2017 reformulated our strategy of action and chose ment adjustment of the discontinued operFinancial revenues 1,641 1,740 6.0% the Asian market as the most appropriate one ations and of Várzea Grande (MT), expenses Financial Expenses (3,723) (3,497) (6.0%) to replicate the strong presence in the final in the amount of R$ 994 million linked to the distribution. Net financial income (2,082) (1,758) (15.6%) Carne Fraca/Trapaça Operation and corporate restructuring, among other factors. Adjusted EBITDA for 2018 totaled R$ 2.6 billion (8.4% down), consolidating a margin NET PROFIT (LOSS) (R$ MILLION) of 7.6%, essentially reflecting the increase in average grain prices in the year, greater idle2017 2018 2018/2017 2018 VOLUME (%) ness and change in the productio mix, among Net Profit (Loss) (1,099) (4,466) 306.4% others. Moreover, the adjusted EBITDA inSOUTH CONE Net margin (%) (3.3%) (12.9%) (9.7 ) p.p. cluded R$ 154 million related to discontinued BRAZIL Result per share (1.35) (5.50) 306.4% 5 operations (Argentina, Europe and Thailand), 46 whose results became deficit in the second OTHER half of 2018, mainly as a result of the loss of 5 the qualifications of BRF's Brazilian plants to be marketed in the European market. ADJUSTED EBITDA (R$ MILLION) INTERNATIONAL 2017 2018 2018/2017 21 Consolidated Net Loss (1,099) (4,466) 306.4% Income tax and social contribution (247) (206) (16.6%) Net financing companies 2,082 1,815 (12.8%) HALAL Depreciation and amortization 1,918 1,946 1.5% Adjusted EBITDA 2,857 2,616 (8.4%) 23 Adjusted EBITDA margin (%) 8.5 7.6 (1.0 ) p.p. BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 92 BRAZIL BRAZIL INTERNATIONAL In 2018, our net revenue grew 7.2% in relation 2017 2018 2018/2017 In the annual comparison, the net revenue fell to the previous year, positively impacted by 18.1% p.a., with a central impact of the volume Volume (thousands of tons) 2,122 2,273 7.1% higher volumes. Nonetheless, average prices restrictions in Europe and Russia, as well as remained stable (even with the increase in Poultry (in natura) 454 532 17.3% the temporary anti-dumping measures in Chivalues achieved during the second half of the Pigs and others (in natura) 108 117 8.0% na. In addition, our costs increased 11.4% p.a., year), due to the faster growth in volume of in Processed 1,560 1,623 4.1% due to the significant increase in grain costs natura products, whose prices are lower than and operating losses related to the restricNet Operating those of processed products. Gross margin 15,189 16,285 7.2% tions. Thus, our Adjusted EBITDA totaled R$ Revenue (R$ million) fell 4.9 percentage points, reflecting higher 209 million, with an Adjusted EBITDA margin Avrage price (R$/Kg) 7.16 7.17 0.1% grain prices pressure (+ 30% p.a.), higher cost of 3.0% in 2018. of idleness, changes in the production mix Gross profit (R$ million) 3,827 3,298 (13.8%) and settlement of stocks. Gross margin (%) 25.2% 20.3% (4.9 ) p.p. Adjusted EBITDA (R$ million) 1,887 1,488 (21.2%) On the other hand, more efficient manageEBITDA Margin (%) 12.4 9.1 (3.3 ) p.p. ment of general, administrative and sales expenses partially offset the higher costs. In this way, Adjusted EBITDA totaled R$ 1,488 HALAL DIVISION million and the margin, 9.1%, a decrease of 3.3 CONSOLIDATED RESULTS – INTERNATIONAL percentage points. If we exclude the settle2017 2018 2018/2017 ment of raw material and the PIS/COFINS Volume (thousands of tons) 1,082 1,143 5.7% 2017 2018 2018/2017 credit, the Adjusted EBITDA for 2018 would Poultry (in natura) 967 991 2.5% Volume (thousands of tons) 1,244 1,045 (16.0%) be R$ 1,355 million, with a margin of 8.3%. Poultry (in natura) 665 691 3.9% Pigs and other (in natura) 2.0 3.0 21.4% Processed 113 149 32.4% Pigs and other (in natura) 167 117 (29.9%) HALAL DIVISION This segment registered a trend towards Net Operating Revenue (R$ million) 6,694 8,293 23.9% Processed 290 195 (32.6%) better price performance, especially in the Average price (R$/Kg) 6.19 7.25 17.2% Other sales 122 41 (66.1%) Gulf region, given the better balance between Net Operating Revenue (R$ million) 8,497 6,959 (18.1%) Gross profit (R$ million) 1,272 1,765 38.7% supply and demand and the consolidation Gross margin (%) 19.0 21.3 2,3 p.p. Average price (R$/Kg) 6.83 6.66 (2.5%) of Banvit (occurred in June 2017). Thus, we observed a growth of 23.9% p.a. in net reveAdjusted EBITDA (R$ million) 368 840 128.1% Gross profit (R$ million) 1,235 526 (57.4%) nue. Even excluding the positive impacts of Adjusted EBITDA margin (%) 5.5 10.1% 4,6 p.p. Gross margin (%) 14.5 7.6 (7.0 ) p.p. the acquisition, net revenue grew 14.9% p.a. Adjusted EBITDA (R$ million) 823 209 74.6% CFR Volume* (thousands of tons) 458 434 (5.3%) The highlight was the expansion of Adjusted Representativeness in the total volume Adjusted EBITDA margin (%) 9.7 3.0 (6.7 ) p.p. EBITDA margin to 10.1% in 2018 (4.6 p.p. p.a.). 42.3 37.9 (4.4 ) p.p. (%) * CFR (Cost and Freight). BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 93 OTHER SEGMENTS Net revenue totaled R$ 854 million in 2018, positively impacted by a better operating The Halal Division performance of BRF Ingredients, whose role registered a trend is to add value to the Company's products and optimize its production chain (read more towards better on page 32). price performance, OTHER SEGMENTS + INGREDIENTS especially in the Gulf 2017 2018 2018/2017 region Volume (thousands of tons) Poultry (in natura) 240 11 279 5 12.4% (56.2%) Pigs and other (in natura) 0 3 n.m SOUTH CONE Processed 1 8 419.19% 2018* Other Sales 227 254 11.1% Segment 2017 Former hyperin2018 2018/2017 Net Operating Revenue (R$ million) 818 854 4.4% flation Gross profit (R$ million) 138 167 21.0% Volume (thousands of tons) 231 243 243 5.3% Gross margin (%) 16.9% 19.6% 2,7 p.p. Poultry (in natura) 30 41 41 38.1% Adjusted EBITDA (R$ million) 76 97 27.9% Pigs and other (in natura) 45 53 53 18.2% Adjusted EBITDA margin (%) 9.3% 11.4% 2,1 p.p. Processed 155 148 148 (4.2%) Net Operating Revenue (R$ 2,272 2,261 2,148 (0.5%) million) CORPORATE (R$ MILLION) CAPEX (R$ MILLION) Average price (R$/Kg) 9.84 9.30 8.83 (5.5%) 2017 2018 2018/2017 2017 2018 2018/2017 Gross profit (R$ million) 198 218 97 10.1% Net Operational Growth 256 62 (75.9%) Gross margin (%) 8.7 9.7 4.5 0,9 p.p. 0 (11) n.m Revenue Efficiency 83 92 10.5% Adjusted EBITDA (R$ million) (91) 13.0 13.0 (113.9%) Gross Profit (287) (668) 132.6% Support 346 389 10.0% Adjusted EBITDA margin (%) (4.0%) 0.6 0.6 4,6 p.p. Adjusted EBITDA (206) (31) (84.7%) Biological assets 713 877 23.0% * In 2018, the Company adopted IAS 29 Hyperinflationary Economies. A hyperinflationary economy occurs in a country that calculates 100% of inflation index in the accumulated period of 3 years, among other qualitative criteria. Market Leasing and As of July 1, 2011, Argentina came to be considered a hyperinflationary economy. In this way, the balance sheet and 220 221 n.m Others the results of the Argentine subsidiaries were monetarily restated to reflect current value. As the hyperinflationary economy was only identified for the subsidiaries of Argentina and not for its parent company, the Company did not TOTAL 1,617 1,632 0.9% restate previous balances. BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 94 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL CYCLE MANAGEMENT CASH FLOW The improvement in the The Company's 2018 financial cycle totaled 35.7 days, a decrease of 5.3 days compared to Accumulated operating cash flow for 2018 totaled R$ 1,533 million. Compared to the working capital cycle is 2017. The improvement in the working capital cycle in the comparison of the annual averagprevious year, the amount is lower by R$ 331 million. Thus, we closed the year at a negamainly due to the decrease es is mainly due to the decrease in inventories of frozen raw material and finished product, tive R$ 99 million, due to the generation of operating cash, after CAPEX expenditures. in inventories of frozen according to the Company's Operational and M&A and Sale of Assets amounted to R$ 259 raw material and finished Financial Restructuring Plan, and the reduction of the turnover of customers due to the million (R$ 988 million higher in the previous year), when the disbursement related to the products better management of sales deadlines and the structuring of the Credit Rights Fund – acquisition of Banvit was made. BRF Customers. GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED VALUE (R$ MILLION) GRI 201-1 2016 2017 2018 Generated direct economic value FINANCIAL CYCLE Revenues 33,733 33,469 30,188 42.4 Distributed economic value 37.7 37.1 38.2 35.7 35.9 Human Resources 4,881 5,279 4,795 32.8 32.9 31.8 32.6 Taxes 3,711 3,717 3,530 26.4 12.2% 22.4 Interest/Rentals 4,874 3,969 4,391 11.2% 10.8% 10.8% Interest on own capital 611 2,000 6,000 9.6% 10.3% 10.0% 9.4% Retention -984 -1,126 -2,115 Non-controlling shareholders interest 5 -27 0 8.9% 9.2% TOTAL 13,098 11,812 10,607 7.6% Economic value retained 6.8% Direct economic value generated 20,635 21,655 19,581 less Distributed economic value 1Q16 2Q16 3Q16 4Q16 1Q17 2Q17 3Q17 4Q17 1Q18 2Q18 3Q18 4Q18 BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 95 INDEBTEDNESS DEBT PROFILE INDEBTEDNESS (R$ MILLION) Total gross debt in the amount of R$ 22,556 As of As of million total financial indebtedness added to EQUIVALENT 2018/2017 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 other liabilities, in the amount of R$ 235 milCASHES 6,946 Current Non-Current Total Total Variation lion. This increase was mainly due to R$ 1,443 million increase in gross debt due to the 17.2% Indebtedness* appreciation of the US dollar in relation to the National currency (3,077) (7,550) (10,627) (9,343) 13.7% real, in addition to a free cash consumption of 2019 4,644 Foreign currency (1,794) (10,135) (11,929) (11,401) 4.6% R$ 664 million. Gross indebtedness (4,871) (17,685) (22,556) (20,744) 8.7% Pro-forma net debt amounted to R$ 13,404 Applications* million in 2018, influenced by factors such 2020 3,428 National currency 4,601 740 5,341 4,941 8.1% as sales of operations in Argentina (R$ 564 Foreign currency 1,470 135 1,605 2,493 (35.6%) million), Europe and Thailand (R$ 1,138 milTOTAL APPLICATIONS 6,071 875 6,946 7,434 (6.6%) lion former minority); of the plant located in Várzea Grande (MT), for R$ 100 million; of Net indebtedness 1,201 (16,811) (15,610) (13,310) 17.3% receivables not assigned to FIDC in December 2021 2,961 * Indebtedness and investments include discontinued operations in the amount of R$ 156 million and R$ 235 million, respectively. 2018 (R$ 200 million); and the impact of the difference in the value of the (actual) consolidation currency in December 2018, in relation to the projected value (R$ 203 million) at the 2022 3,082 time of the announcement of the Operational and Financial Restructuring Plan, dated from 06/29/2018 . For 2019, the Company's financial obligations 2023+ 8,205 (between amortization of principal and interest) totaled R$ 4,256 million. They are already equated when considering the assignment of the uncounted portion in 2018 to the FIDC; the cash inflows related to the sales of the Average term: 3 years assets of Argentina, Várzea Grande (MT), Europe and Thailand, already deducting the minority share; the refinancing with Banco Santander, announced in February 2018; and, finally, the refinancing of the Mandatory Rural Credit Resources, scheduled for 2019. BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 96 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT (R$ MILLION) 2017 2018 2018/2017 Net Operational Revenue 33,469 34,529 3.2% Sale Costs (27,049) (29,343) 8.5% 3.2% % on ROL (80.8%) (85.0%) (4.2 ) p.p. Gross Profit 6,421 5,185 (19.2%) % on ROL 19.2% 15.0% (4.2 ) p.p. Operational Expenses (5,318) (5,627) 5.8% was the growth of net % on ROL (15.9%) (16.3%) (0.4 ) p.p. operating revenue in Expenses with Sales (4,744) (4,956) 4.5% % on ROL (14.2%) (14.4%) (0.2 ) p.p. 2018 Fixed (3,105) (3,148) 1.4% Variable (1,607) (1,771) 10.2% Administrative and fee expenses (575) (671) 16.7% % on ROL (1.7%) (1.9%) (0.2 ) p.p. Administrators’ fees (31) (29) (7.4%) % on ROL (0.1%) (0.1%) 0,0 p.p. General and administrative (544) (642) 18.1% % on ROL (1.6%) (1.9%) (0.2 ) p.p. Operating Income 1,103 (441) (140.0%) % on ROL 3.3% (1.3%) (4.6 ) p.p. Other Operating Results (389) (2,491) 540.3% Equity Income 22 18 (20.9)% EBIT 736 (2,914) (495.9%) % on ROL 2.2% (8.4%) (10.6 ) p.p. Net financial (2,082) (1,758) (15.6%) Income prior to taxes (1,346) (4,672) 247.2% % on ROL (4.0%) (13.5%) (9.5) p.p Income tax and social contribution 247 206 (16.6%) % on the income prior to taxes (18.3%) (4.4%) 13,9 p.p. Consolidated Net Profit/ (Loss) (1,099) (4,466) 306.4% % on ROL (3.3%) (12.9%) (9.7 ) p.p. Interest of minority shareholders 27 (18) (168.01%) Adjusted EBITDA 2,857 2,616 (8.4%) % on ROL 8.5% 7.6% (1.0 ) p.p. BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 97 EQUITY BALANCE SHEET(R$ MILLION) Assets 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Liabilities and Net Worth 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Current Current Cash and cash equivalents 4,870 6,011 Loans and Financing 4,547 5,031 Financial Applications 507 228 Suppliers 5,552 6,445 Customers’ accounts receivables 2,605 3,919 Suppliers’ Withdrawn Risk 886 715 Taxes to be Recovered 1,067 1,228 Wages and social duties 555 669 Interest on Own Capital Receivable 7 6 Tax Duties 403 426 Securities receivable 115 113 Interest on shareholders' own capital and dividends payable 6 2 Inventories 3,877 4,948 Employee and adminstrators' interest 64 96 Biological assets 1,513 1,510 Derivative financial instruments 235 299 Derivative financial instruments 182 91 Provisions for tax, civil and labor risks 496 536 Other current assets 684 961 Employee benefit plan 95 85 Other rights 452 716 Other current liabilities 518 603 Anticipated expenses 232 245 Liabilities directly related to assets held for sale 1,132 0 Restricted Cash 277 128 TOTAL CURRENT 14,489 14,908 Assets held for sale 3,326 42 Non-Current TOTAL CURRENT 19,031 19,186 Loans to financing 17,618 15,413 Non-Current Suppliers 180 197 Long-term assets 7,549 6,587 Tax Duties 162 171 Financial Applications 291 569 Provision for tax, civil and labor risks 855 1,237 Deferred income taxes 66 155 Customers’ accounts receivables 8 6 Employee benefit plan 373 310 Judicial deposits 669 689 Other non-current liabilities 1,108 1,125 Biological assets 1,061 904 TOTAL NON-CURRENT 20,362 18,608 Securities receivable 89 116 TOTAL LIABILITIES 34,851 33,516 Taxes to be Recovered 3,150 2,438 Net Worth Deferred taxes 1,520 1,369 Social capital 12,460 12,460 Restricted cash 584 408 Capital Reserves 115 115 Other non-current assets 177 87 Profit reserves 0 101 Permanent 15,802 19,456 Other comprehensive income (1,276) (1,405) Investments 86 68 Accrued losses (4,279) 0 Fixed Assets 10,697 12,191 Shares in treasury (57) (71) Intangible 5,019 7,198 Non-controlling shareholders' interest 567 513 TOTAL NON-CURRENT 23,351 26,043 TOTAL NET WORTH 7,532 11,713 TOTAL ASSETS 42,382 45,228 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH 42,382 45,228 BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 98 Report IN THIS CHAPTER GRI Content Summary Annexes BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 99 In line with our open doors and transparency As a result of the unfolding of the Carne Our efforts to improve the quality, accuracy policy with the relationship audiences, this Fraca and Trapaça Operations, we appointed and completeness of the information preAnnual Report summarizes the main progspecific contents to detail the changes we are sented in this Annual Report accompanies ress, challenges and overall results of BRF going through to respond to events, based on improvements in sustainability management S.A. from January 1 to December 31, 2018 in all the pillars of quality, safety and integrity. and strategy, enabling stakeholders – neighglobal operations. boring communities, employees, shareholders, Another relevant subject to our stakeholders authorities, suppliers, customers and business Once again, the document was built on the is the operational and financial restructuring partners – to access a trustworthy picture of financial and non-financial issues of major plan disclosed to the market to ensure the the company with its challenges, progress importance to the business and to our stakecompany's economic and financial strength and commitments. This is even more relevant holders, identified and prioritized in the last – which as early as 2018 resulted in changin the face of challenging years, such as 2017 cycle of materiality – including aspects such es in the organizational structure described and 2018, in which we work to rebuild the as impacts on society, animal welfare, sustainthroughout the report. foundations of our vision for the future and to able partnership development, eco-efficiency, place the business on a growth path. social responsibility, diversity, among other Financial and non-financial indicators (enviissues. ronmental, social, operational, quality etc.) Questions about the content of this cover, in most cases, our entire global operareport can be clarified by calling We have adopted as references the Global tion – including factories, logistics centers and (+55 11) 2322-5052/5061/5048 or by email Reporting Initiative (GRI) methodology, Comoffices located in countries such as Brazil, the acoes@brf-br.com. GRI 102-45, 102-46, 102-48, prehensive Standards version, and the inteUnited Arab Emirates and Turkey. Exceptions 102-49, 102-50, 102-53, 102-54, 102-56 grated reporting guidelines of the Internationare described in footnotes and relate mainal Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC), which ly to discontinued or acquired operations in allow integrated communication of financial recent years and therefore still in the process and non-financial performance and detailing of integration. governance company's business model, stratSUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES (ODS) egy and investments. The data of the financial statements follow Brazilian standards and the International We have also connected to the United NaFinancial Reporting Standards (IFRS), accordtions Sustainable Development Goals (ODS), ing to the standards of the Brazilian Securities referring to the 17 objectives throughout the and Exchange Commission (CVM) and the report, and prioritized information aligned Security Exchange Commission (SEC). Fiwith the demands of transparency adoptnancial indicators were audited, while in the ed by differentiated segments of the capital socio-environmental, only the inventory of market – such as the Corporate Sustainabiligreenhouse gas emissions was submitted to ty Index (ISE) , the Brazilian stock exchange external verification. (B3), and the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) of the New York Stock Exchange. BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 100 GRI Content Summary GRI Standard Disclosure Page/URL Omission ODS GENERAL DISCLOSURE GRI 101: Founded in 2016 GRI 101 has not been disclosed ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE GRI 102: General Disclosure 2016 102-1 Organization’s name 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 102-3 Headquarters’ location 102-4 Operations Location 102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form 102-6 Markets served 102-7 Organization’s size 102-8 Information about employees and workers 8 102-9 Supplier chain 102-10 Significant changes in the organization and its supply chain 102-11 Approach or precautionary principle 102-12 Externally developed initiatives 102-13 Share in associations STRATEGY 102-14 Statement from the senior decision-maker GRI 102: General Disclosure 2016 102-15 Main impacts, risks and opportunities ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 Values, principles, standards and behavior rules 16 GRI 102: General Disclosure 2016 102-17 Ethical Counseling Mechanisms and Concerns 16 GOVERNANCE GRI 102: General Disclosure 2016 102-18 Governance structure 102-19 Authority delegation on BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 101 GRI Standard Disclosure Page/URL Omission ODS 102-20 Executive level responsible for economic, environmental and social topics 102-21 Inquiry to stakeholders on economic, environmental 16 and social topics 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its 5, 16 committees 102-23 President of the highest governance body 16 102-24 Selecting and appointing the highest governance 5, 16 body and its committees 102-25 Interest conflicts 16 102-26 Role of the highest governance body in the definition of purpose, values and strategies 102-27 Collective knowledge of the highest governance 4 body 102-28 Performance evaluation of the highest governance body 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental 16 and social impacts 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 102-31 Revision of economic, environmental and social topics 102-32 Role of the highest governance body in the reporting process 102-33 Communicating Critical Concerns 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 102-35 Remuneration policies 102-36 Processes for determining remuneration 102-37 Involvement of stakeholders in remuneration 16 Information on the ratio of the average annual total remuneration to all employees (except the highest 102-38 Total annual remuneration ratio paid individual) and the highest paid remuneration is considered confidential and will not be disclosed. BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 102 GRI Standard Disclosure Page/URL Omission ODS Information on the ratio of the percentage increase in the total annual remuneration of the highest 102-39 Percent increase in the total annual remuneration paid individual to the average ratio percentage increase in the total annual remuneration of all employees is considered confidential and will not be disclosed. STAKEHOLDERS’ ENGAGEMENT 102-40 List of stakeholders’ groups 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 8 GRI 102: General Disclosure 2016 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 102-43 Approach to stakeholders' engagement 102-44 Main topics and concerns raised REPORT PRACTICES 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial GRI 102: General Disclosure 2016 statements 102-46 Defining Report Contents and Topic Boundaries 102-47 List of Material Topics 102-48 Reformulations of information 102-49 Changes in the report 102-50 Reporting period 102-51 Date of the most recent report 102-52 Report Cycle 102-53 Contact point for questions about the report 102-54 Option according to GRI Standards 102-55 GRI Content Summary 102-56 External securing BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 103 GRI Standard Disclosure Page/URL Omission ODS MATERIAL TOPICS ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its limits GRI 103: 103-2 Management approach Management 1, 5, 8, 16 and its components approach in 2016 103-3 Evolution of the management approach GRI 201: Economic 201-1 Direct economic value 2, 5, 7, 8, 9 performance in 2016 generated and distributed 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and 13 opportunities due to climate changes The liabilities of the plans are covered by the resources already contributed by the organization and the participating employees, in the respective pension plans. Possible coverage of liabilities by the organization, only in case of deficit. According to the ALM Asset Liability Management study, the possibility of a deficit is close to zero for the next 10 years. The plan is made available to all employees in Brazil; currently, the share level is 49.07%. The income benefits paid by the Plan are funded directly by the reserves already constituted in the Plans. In 2018, BRF made a total of R$ 23,371,243.69 in contributions. The participants made a total of R$ 23,135,477.11. The contribution percentage defined in Plans I, II and III follows the following criteria: for Plan I, the contribution defined in the regulation is 0.70% on the part of the salary corresponding to up to 10 Reference Units BRF (URBs), which today is equivalent to R$ 5,305.05, and 3.70% on the salary surplus, if any. The sponsor’s contributions are made on the basic contribution of the participants and obey the 201-3 Defined benefit following scale: up to 50 years, 100% of the basic contribution of the participant; from 51 onwards, plan obligations and other 200% of the participant's basic contribution. For Plan II and for those who joined until 04/11/2016 in retirement plans Plan III, the contribution defined in the regulation is 0.70% on the part of the salary corresponding to up to 10 URBF (Reference Unit BRF), which today amounts to R$ 5,305.05 and 3%, 4%, 5%, 6% or 7% (at the option of the participant) on the surplus portion of the salary, if any. For Plan III (for those who joined after 04/11/2016), the contribution defined in the regulation is 1.50% on the part of the salary less than or equal to 1 URBIII (Reference Unit of Plan III), which today amounts to R$ 4,338.16, 4% on the portion of the share salary that exceeds 1 URBIII up to the limit of 1.65 of URBIII and 5%, 6% or 7% (as per the participant’s option) on the portion that exceeds 1.65 of URBIII, if any. The variation in the values ​​of the 2017 and 2018 contributions was mainly due to the increase in the number of participants. In the FAF Plan, according to the modality of the Plan (Defined Benefit Plan), as well as the surplus result, the contributions are suspended. The actuarial or profitability targets of the Plans for the year 2019 are: Plans I (merged into Plan II on 12/31/2018), II and III = IPCA + 5% a.a. and the FAF Plan = INPC + 5% a.a. 201-4 Financial aid received from the government BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 104 GRI Standard Disclosure Page/URL Omission ODS INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its limits GRI 103: 103-2 Management approach Management and its components approach in 2016 103-3 Evolution of the management approach 203-1 Development and impact of investments in GRI 203: Indirect 2, 5, 7, 9, 11 infrastructure and services economic impacts in offered 2016 203-2 Significant indirect 1, 2, 3, 8, 10, 17 economic impacts FIGHT AGAINST CORRUPTION 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its limits GRI 103: 103-2 Management approach Management and its components approach in 2016 103-3 Evolution of the management approach GRI 205: Fight 205-1 Operations subject to Information on operations subject to risk assessments related to corruption is considered confidential against corruption in risk assessments related to 16 and will not be disclosed. 2016 corruption 205-2 Communication and training in anti-corruption 16 policies and procedures The Carne Fraca and Trapaça Operation were deployed in administrative and judicial processes related to corruption filed against the organization or its employees. The investigations are still 205-3 Confirmed cases of ongoing and are being conducted by the competent authorities. Internally, investigations are corruption and measures conducted by an independent committee, which is advised by outside lawyers. Due to certain 16 taken investigations, some BRF staff were temporarily removed from their duties. Pursuant to applicable legislation, BRF is cooperating with the authorities. Depending on the sensitivity of the information, information on corruption cases is considered confidential and will not be disclosed. UNFAIR COMPETITION BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 105 GRI Standard Disclosure Page/URL Omission ODS 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its limits GRI 103: 103-2 Management approach Management and its components approach in 2016 103-3 Evolution of the management approach 206-1 Lawsuits filed by GRI 206: Unfair There have been no occurrences of lawsuits brought on by unfair competition, trust and monopoly unfair competition, trust and 16 competition 2016 practices in the last three years. monopoly practices ENERGY 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its limits GRI 103: 103-2 Management approach Management and its components approach in 2016 103-3 Evolution of the management approach 302-1 Energy consumption 7, 8, 12, 13 within the organization 302-2 Energy consumption 7, 8, 12, 13 outside the organization 302-3 Energy intensity 7, 8, 12, 13 302-4 Reduced energy 7, 8, 12, 13 GRI 302: Energy in consumption 2016 No information available. There is no monitoring of this indicator, since 302-5 Reducing the energy the energy management needs of products and is implemented in the 7, 8, 12, 13 services processes and not in the product lines. There is no management through the product life cycle. WATER BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 106 GRI Standard Disclosure Page/URL Omission ODS 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its limits GRI 103: 103-2 Management approach Management and its components approach in 2016 103-3 Evolution of the management approach 303-1 Total water withdrawal 6, 7 by source 303-2 Water sources GRI 303: Water in significantly affected by 6 2016 water withdrawal 303-3 Percentage and total volume of recycled and 6, 8, 12 reused water EMISSIONS 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its limits GRI 103: 103-2 Management approach Management and its components approach in 2016 103-3 Evolution of the management approach GRI 305: Emissions 305-1 Direct emissions of 3, 12, 13, 14, 15 in 2016 greenhouse gases (Scope 1) 305-2 Indirect emissions of 3, 12, 13, 14, 15 greenhouse gases (Scope 2) 305-3 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions 3, 12, 13, 14, 15 (Scope 3) 305-4 Intensity of 13, 14, 15 greenhouse gas emissions 305-5 Reducing greenhouse There were no reductions in GHG emissions achieved in 2018 as a direct result of emissions reduction 13, 14, 15 gas emissions or compensation initiatives. 305-6 Emissions of substances that deplete the 3, 12, 13 ozone layer (SDO) 305-7 NOx,SOx emissions and other significant atmospheric 3, 12, 13, 14, 15 emissions BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 107 GRI Standard Disclosure Page/URL Omission ODS EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its limits GRI 103: 103-2 Management approach Management and its components approach in 2016 103-3 Evolution of the management approach 306-1 Water disposal, GRI 306: Effluents broken down by quality and 3, 6, 12, 14 and waste in 2016 destination 306-2 Waste, broken down by type and method of 3, 6, 12 disposal 306-3 Meaningful leaks 3, 6, 12, 14, 15 306-4 Transport of hazardous 3, 12 waste 306-5 Bodies of water affected by discharges and/or 6, 15 water drainage ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its limits GRI 103: 103-2 Management approach Management and its components approach in 2016 103-3 Evolution of the management approach In 2018, the amount of R$ 1,496,780.57 was paid in significant fines received due to non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. In 2017, the amount of R$ 1,188,391.93 was paid, due to two infraction records. It should be noted that in 2018 other significant fines still outstanding were GRI 307: 307-1 Non-compliance with received, totaling R$ 994,183.54, since these are still subject to appeal and are in legal process. Environmental environmental laws and 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 Significant fines are considered when the amounts involved are greater than R$ 150k. In 2018,there compliance in 2016 regulations was no non-monetary sanction and there were no cases resolved through arbitration mechanisms. In 2017, there was only a non-monetary sanction and there were also no cases resolved through arbitration mechanisms. ENVIRONMENTAL EVALUATION OF SUPPLIERS GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Management material topic and its limits approach in 2016 BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 108 GRI Standard Disclosure Page/URL Omission ODS 103-2 Management approach and its components 103-3 Evolution of the management approach 308-1 New suppliers selected, based on environmental GRI 308: criteria Environmental supplier's evaluation 308-2 Negative in 2016 environmental impacts in the supply chain and measures taken EMPLOYMENT 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its limits GRI 103: 103-2 Management approach Management and its components approach in 2016 103-3 Evolution of the management approach 401-1 Rates of new hires and 5, 8 employee turnover 401-2 Benefits granted to GRI 401: Employment full-time employees that are 8 in 2016 not offered to temporary or part-time employees 401-3 Maternity and paternity 5, 8 leave OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Management material topic and its limits approach in 2016 103-2 Management approach and its components 103-3 Evolution of the management approach GRI 403: 403-1 Employees represented Occupational health in formal health and safety 8 and safety in 2016 committees BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 109 GRI Standard Disclosure Page/URL Omission ODS 403-2 Types of injuries, injury rates, occupational diseases, days lost, absenteeism and 3, 8 number of work-related deaths 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of 3, 8 diseases related to their occupation 403-4 Health and safety topics covered by formal 8 agreements with trade unions TRAINING AND EDUCATION 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its limits GRI 103: 103-2 Management approach Management and its components approach in 2016 103-3 Evolution of the management approach 404-1 Average hours of training per year per 4, 5, 8 employee 404-2 Continuing learning GRI 404: Training programs for employees and 8 and Education in preparation for retirement 2016 404-3 Percentage of employees who regularly 5, 8 receive performance reviews and career development DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its limits GRI 103: 103-2 Management approach Management and its components approach in 2016 103-3 Evolution of the management approach BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 110 GRI Standard Disclosure Page/URL Omission ODS 405-1 Diversity in governance 5, 8 GRI 405: Diversity bodies and employees and equal 405-2 Mathematical ratio opportunities in 2016 for wages and remuneration 5, 8, 10 between women and men CHILD LABOR 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its limits GRI 103: 103-2 Management approach Management and its components approach in 2016 103-3 Evolution of the management approach 408-1 Operations and GRI 408: Child Labor suppliers identified as having There was no supplier case related to child and slave labor (agriculture, logistics, Procurement). Get 8, 16 in 2016 significant risk in terms of to know the policies and risk assessments on this topic in the Supplier Management chapter. child labor FORCED OR ANALOGOUS TO SLAVE LABOR 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its limits GRI 103: 103-2 Management approach Management and its components approach in 2016 103-3 Evolution of the management approach 409-1 Operations and GRI 409: Forced suppliers identified as There was no supplier case related to child and slave labor (agriculture, logistics, Procurement). Get work or analogous to having significant risk for the 8 to know the policies and risk assessments on this topic in the Supplier Management chapter. slavery in 2016 occurrence of forced or slave labor LOCAL COMMUNITIES 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its limits GRI 103: 103-2 Management approach Management and its components approach in 2016 103-3 Evolution of the management approach BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 111 GRI Standard Disclosure Page/URL Omission ODS 413-1 Operations with implemented programs of local community engagement, impact GRI 413: Local assessment and local communities in 2016 development 413-2 Operations with significant potential impacts 1, 2 or real negative impacts on local communities SOCIAL EVALUATION OF SUPPLIERS 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its limits GRI 103: 103-2 Management approach Management and its components approach in 2016 103-3 Evolution of the management approach 414-1 New suppliers selected GRI 414: Supplier based on social criteria Social Evaluation 414-2 Negative social impacts 2016 on the supply chain and 5, 8, 16 measures taken CONSUMERS' HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Management material topic and its limits approach in 2016 103-2 Management approach and its components 103-3 Evolution of the management approach 416-1 Products and services for which health and safety GRI 416: Consumers' impacts are assessed Health and Safety in 416-2 Nonconformities 2016 In 2018, 165 lawsuits/administrative assessments involving the subject were filed (136 in 2017); 39 related to health and safety of these resulted in fines or penalties (98 in 2017) and none resulted in a warning (38 in 2017). The 16 impacts of products and indicator considers actions involving discussions with consumers on aspects of product quality. services BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 112 GRI Standard Disclosure Page/URL Omission ODS FP5 Percentage of production volume manufactured in locations certified by third 3 parties in accordance with internationally recognized standards FP6 Percentage of total sales volume of consumer products, by product category, which have a 2 Food Sector reduction of saturated fat, Supplement trans fat, sodium and addition Consumer Health of sugars and Safety FP7 Percentage of total sales volume of consumer products, by product category, which contain increased nutritional 2 ingredients and food additives such as fiber, vitamins, minerals, phytochemicals and functional items MARKETING AND LABELING 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its limits GRI 103: 103-2 Management approach Management and its components approach in 2016 103-3 Evolution of the management approach 417-1 Requirements for GRI 417: Marketing information and labeling of 12, 16 and labeling in 2016 products and services In 2018, there were no cases involving problems with labeling information on products in which BRF 417-2 Non-compliance cases has been found convicted (guilty). BRF has no history of problems with labeling, having computed related to information and in 2017 two administrative assessments related to the labeling. The reasons for the assessments 16 labeling of products and were the use of the inappropriate letter to abbreviate the term grams and the description of the services composition of an outdated product in relation to the registration in the Ministry of Agriculture. In both cases, the penalty involved was the payment of a fine. BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 113 GRI Standard Disclosure Page/URL Omission ODS 417-3 Non-compliance There were no registered cases in 2018 involving marketing communications in which the company cases relating to marketing was found guilty. The indicator remains the same as 2017 (no case recorded). communication SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its limits GRI 103: 103-2 Management approach Management and its components approach in 2016 103-3 Evolution of the management approach GRI 419: 419-1 Non-compliance with Socioeconomic social and economic laws and 16 compliance in 2016 regulations OUTSOURCING AND PROCUREMENT FP1 Percentage of volume purchased from vendors in accordance with the organization's purchasing Food Sector policy Supplement – Outsourcing and FP2 Percentage of purchased Procurement volume that conforms to internationally recognized 2, 12, 14, 15 standards and certifications, broken down by type of certification ANIMAL WELFARE FP10 Policies and practices, Sectoral Supplement by species and race, related of Food – Animal to physical changes and Welfare anesthetic use FP11 Percentage and total animals raised and/or processed, by species and breed, by type of housing FP12 Policies and practices regarding the use of antibiotics, antiinflammatories, hormones 2 and/or treatments with growth promoters, by species and type of breeding BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 114 GRI Standard Disclosure Page/URL Omission ODS In 2018, BRF had 16 cases of noncompliance due to non-compliance with laws, regulations and adherence to voluntary standards related to transport, handling and slaughter of terrestrial and aquatic animals (31 cases in 2017), and the amount paid for significant fines was R$ 130,894.19. Also received in 2018 were fines totaling R$ 513,937.57, for which there is still an appeal to be filed. FP13 Total number of The infractions for animal welfare are verified by the Ministry of Agriculture Livestock and Supply. cases of significant nonAccording to the regulations applied by this body, the fine can vary from R$ 6k to R$ 15k, and the compliance with laws and fine is only known after the judgment of the infraction by the body. Thus, all infractions received and regulations and adherence to their potential fines were considered. voluntary standards related The non-conformities received in 2018 were accompanied by the welfare officers of each plant that to transport, handling and received the notification; the compliance action plans were built in conjunction with the operation slaughtering of terrestrial and and validated by the team of animal welfare experts. aquatic animals There has been an increase in the number of non-conformities in recent years, due to the increase in the accuracy of federal inspectors regarding the issue. There is a target of a 23% reduction of the infraction notices motivated by the theme animal welfare in the year 2019. In 2018, there were no non-monetary sanctions due to non-compliance with laws, regulations and adherence to voluntary standards related to transport, handling and slaughter of terrestrial and aquatic animals. BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 115 GRI Human capital GRI 102-8, 401-1, 401-3, 403-2, 404-1, 404-3, 405-1 EMPLOYEES BY TYPE OF EMPLOYMENT EMPLOYEES BY FUNCTIONAL CATEGORY Years 2016 2017* 2018 2016 2017* 2018 Job Type Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Board of Directors 70 72 71 Managers 593 598 678 Full day 53,344 34,936 88,280 61,772 40,655 102,427 65,569 39,275 104,844 Supervisors and Coordinators 2,646 2,903 2,360 Partial day (part time) 7,472 6,711 14,183 838 644 1,482 559 593 1,152 Administrative 18,037 17,616 10,402 Operational 81,117 87,045 92,485 Interns and trainees 770 802 1,572 737 762 1,499 803 985 1,788 Interns and trainees 1,572 1,499 1,788 TOTAL 61,586 42,449 104,035 63,347 42,061 105,408* 66,931 40,853 107,784 TOTAL 104,035 109,733* 107,784 * In 2017, data from Turkey have been disregarded. * Data include employees in Turkey. INDIVIDUALS INSIDE THE ORGANIZATION'S GOVERNANCE BODIES, BY GENDER EMPLOYEES BY AGE GROUP INDIVIDUALS FROM GOVERNANCE BODIES (%) 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017* 2018 2016 2017 2018 Men Women Men Women Men Women Below 30 years 38,379 35,541 42,627 Administration Council 9 9 10 Administration Council 100% 0.0% 88.9% 11.1% 90.0% 10.0% Between 30 and Fiscal Council 3 3 3 57,936 62,733 56,706 Fiscal Council 100% 0.0% 100% 0.0% 100% 0.0% 50 years Executive Board 8 7 8 Over 50 years 7,720 11,459 8,451 TOTAL 20 19 21 Executive Board 100% 0.0% 100% 0.0% 100% 0.0% TOTAL 104,035 109,733* 107,784 TOTAL 100% 0.0% 94.7% 5.3% 95.2% 4.8% * Data include employees in Turkey. INDIVIDUALS INSIDE THE ORGANIZATION'S GOVERNANCE BODIES, BY AGE GROUP (%) 2016 2017 2018 Between 30 and Between 30 and Between 30 and Below 30 years Over 50 years Below 30 years Over 50 years Below 30 years Over 50 years 50 years 50 years 50 years Administration Council 0.0% 22.2% 77.8% 0.0% 33.3% 66.7% 0.0% 10.0% 90.0% Fiscal Council 0.0% 0.0% 100% 0.0% 0.0% 100% 0.0% 33.3% 66.7% Executive Board 0.0% 75.0% 25.0% 0.0% 57.1% 42.9% 0.0% 37.5% 62.5% TOTAL 0.0% 40.0% 60.0% 0.0% 36.8% 63.2% 0.0% 23.8% 76.2% BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 116 EMPLOYEES, BY FUNCTIONAL CATEGORY AND GENDER (%) EMPLOYEES, BY FUNCTIONAL CATEGORY AND AGE GROUP* 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Functional category BeBeBeMen Women Men Women Men Women Functional cateBelow tween Over Below tween Over Below tween Over gory 30 30 and 50 30 30 and 50 30 30 and 50 Directors 0.06% 0.01% 0.06% 0.01% 0.06% 0.005% years 50 years years 50 years years 50 years Managers 0.46% 0.12% 0.44% 0.11% 0.52% 0.12% years years years Directors 0.00% 0.06% 0.01% 0.00% 0.05% 0.01% 0% 0.05% 0.01% Supervisors and 2.01% 0.58% 2.14% 0.61% 1.79% 0.43% Coordinators Managers 0.04% 0.50% 0.04% 0.02% 0.46% 0.07% 0.05% 0.52% 0.05% Administrative 8.34% 9.26% 7.79% 8.90% 5.27% 4.54% Supervisors and 0.39% 2.03% 0.17% 0.26% 2.15% 0.27% 0.30% 1.73% 0.19% Coordinators Operating 48.49% 30.68% 49.83% 30.13% 54.74% 32.51% Administrative 7.04% 9.54% 1.02% 5.32% 9.59% 1.36% 3.65% 5.69% 0.46% TOTAL 59.4% 40.6% 60.3% 39.7% 62.4% 37.6% Operating 28.46% 44.41% 6.30% 25.85% 45.70% 8.87% 34.53% 45.47% 7.24% *Data do not consider interns and apprentices. TOTAL 35.9% 56.5% 7.5% 31.5% 58.0% 10.6% 38.5% 53.5% 8.0% *Data do not consider interns and apprentices. BLACK EMPLOYEES, BY FUNCTIONAL CATEGORY AND GENDER (%)* PCD EMPLOYEES, BY FUNCTIONAL CATEGORY AND GENDER (%)* 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Functional cateFunctional categogory Black Black Black ry PCD WomPCD WomPCD Black men Black men Black men PCD Men PCD Men PCD Men women women women en en Women Directors 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.004% 0.00% Directors 0.00% 0.00% 0.002% 0.00% 0.002% 0.00% Managers 0.005% 0.00% 0.00% 0.003% 0.004% 0.00% Managers 0.006% 0.00% 0.00% 0.005% 0.008% 0.00% Supervisors and Supervisors and 0.03% 0.01% 0.02% 0.01% 0.02% 0.006% 0.03% 0.003% 1.29% 0.00% 0.03% 0.006% Coordinators Coordinators Administrative 0.10% 0.07% 0.10% 0.07% 0.12% 0.07% Administrative 0.08% 0.05% 0.07% 0.05% 0.07% 0.04% Operating 3.15% 1.29% 1.57% 4.08% 4.22% 1.62% Operating 1.33% 0.82% 0.78% 1.31% 0.001% 0.69% TOTAL 3.29% 1.36% 1.70% 4.16% 4.37% 1.70% TOTAL 1.44% 0.87% 2.15% 1.36% 1.33% 0.74% *Data do not consider interns and apprentices. *Data do not consider interns and apprentices BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 117 TOTAL NUMBER AND EMPLOYEE HIRING RATE* TOTAL NUMBER AND RATE OF EMPLOYEE DISMISSALS* 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Hired Fee (%) Hired Fee (%) Hired Fee (%) Fee Fee Fee Dismissals Dismissals Dismissals Men 15,864 15.25 13,889 13.18 14,917 13.84 (%) (%) (%) Men 13,461 12.94 11,426 10.84 15,715 14.58 by gender: Women 12,231 11.76 8,038 7.63 9,220 8.55 by Women 8,394 8.07 7,841 7.44 10,516 9.76 TOTAL 28,095 27.01 21,927 20.80 24,137 22.39 gender: TOTAL 21,855 21.01 19,267 18.28 26,231 24.34 Below 30 16,421 15.78 14,723 13.97 17,977 16.68 Below 30 years 11,791 11.33 10,225 9.70 15,474 14.36 years Between Between 30 and by age 9,204 8.85 7,926 7.52 9,428 8.75 30 and 50 10,688 10.27 6,993 6.63 6,045 5.61 50 years by age group: years group: Over 50 years 860 0.83 1,116 1.06 1,329 1.23 Over 50 TOTAL 21,855 21.01 19,267 18.28 26,231 24.34 986 0.95 211 0.20 115 0.11 years Africa 5 0.00 10 0.01 6 0.01 TOTAL 28,095 27.01 21,927 20.80 24,137 22.39 Latin America Africa 10 0.01 5 0.00 5 0.00 293 0.28 390 0.37 629 0.58 (except Brazil) Latin Brazil 20,977 20.16 18,381 17.44 22,094 20.50 by America 1,634 1.57 252 0.24 438 0.41 region: Asia 34 0.03 55 0.05 2,744 2.55 (except Brazil) Europe 74 0.07 49 0.05 87 0.08 Brazil 16,287 15.66 21,291 20.20 19,709 18.29 Middle East 472 0.45 382 0.36 671 0.62 by region: Asia 9,432 9.07 105 0.10 2,804 2.60 TOTAL 21,855 21.01 19,267 18.28 26,231 24.34 Europe 162 0.16 50 0.05 134 0.12 *The methodology for compiling data for hiring and termination rates was revised to consider the ratio of total BRF employees in each year (ie 104,035 in 2016, 105,408 in 2017 and 107,784 employees in 2018) , justifying the revision of historical data. Middle 570 0.55 224 0.21 1,047 0.97 East TOTAL 28,095 27.01 21,927 21.08 24,137 22.39 BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 118 MATERNITY AND PATERNITY LEAVE AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING BY FUNCTIONAL CATEGORY AND GENDER 2018 men 52,746 2018 Total number of employees entitled to maternity/paternity Functional category leave women 33,767 Men Women Total number of employees who took maternity/paternity men (A+E) 4,435 Board of Directors 2.7 5.3 leaves in the current year women (B+F) 3,239 Managers 8.5 6.3 men (start 2018, end 2018: A) 2,215 Supervisors and Coordinators 20.5 17.5 Total number of employees who have taken maternity/ women (start 2018, end 2018: B) 1,336 Administrative 10.4 10.2 paternity leaves, and whose leaves end in the current year men (start 2017, end 2018: C) 0 Operational 21.3 13.8 women (start 2017, end 2018: D) 554 Interns and trainees 15.7 16.5 Total number of employees who took maternity/paternity men (start 2018, end 2019: E) 2,220 TOTAL 20.3 13.5 leaves in the current year and whose leaves end in the women (start 2018, end 2019: F) 1,903 *For this information we used the asset base (Brazil December 2018), except for the following year categories of extension agents, technical consultants and sales. Total number of employees expected to return in the current men (A+C) 2,215 year. women (B+D) 1,890 men (2018) (G) 2,215 Total number of employees returning to work in the women (2018) (H) 1,883 reporting period after the end of maternity/paternity leaves men (previous year 2017) (I) 1,943 women (previous year 2017) (J) 1,895 Total number of employees who did NOT return to work in men ((A+C)-G) 0 the reporting period after the end of the maternity/paternity leaves women ((B+D)-H) 7 Total number of employees who returned to work after the men (L) (maximum value = I) 1,528 end of maternity or paternity leaves in the previous year, and remained employed for other 12 months, ending the current women (M) (maximum value = J) 1,085 year. men (G/(A+C)) 100% Feedback return women (H/(B+D)) 99.6% men (L/I) 78.6% Retention tax women (M/J) 62.5% * The information reflects the closing of the BRF staff on the last day of each year, considering the respective groups of employees. The methodology for compiling rates of return and retention has been revised and is shown in the table. BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 119 EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND SAFETY RATES BY REGION OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY RATES (EXCEPT EMPLOYEES) BY GENDER Region Taxes 2017 2018 Region Taxes 2017 2018 2018 2016 2017 Women Men Total Injuries with leaves n.a. 0 Injuries with leaves 7 5 Injuries with Rate of injury with leaves n.a. 0 Rate of injury with leaves 0.33 0.18 47 56 16 93 109 leaves Injuries with no leaves n.a. 0 Injuries with no leaves 24 278 Rate of injury 1.2 1.33 n.d. n.d. n.d. Rate of injuries with no leaves n.a. 0 Rate of injuries with no leaves 1.11 10.5 with leaves Africa Asia Injuries with no Lost Days Rate n.a. 0 Lost Days Rate 51 10 n.d. 125 0 0 0 leaves Occupational disease rate n.a. 0 Occupational disease rate 0 n.d. Rate of injuries Absenteeism rate n.a. 0 Absenteeism rate n.d. n.d. n.d. 3.39 n.d. n.d. n.d. with no leaves Number of deaths n.a. 0 Number of deaths 0 0 Lost Days Rate n.d. 1067 n.d. n.d. n.d. Injuries with leaves 124 51 Injuries with leaves n.a. 40 Occupational n.d. 0 n.d. n.d. n.d. disease rate Rate of injury with leaves 17.22 6.45 Rate of injury with leaves n.a. 3.72 Absenteeism Injuries with no leaves 1754 791 Injuries with no leaves n.a. 347 n.d. n.d. n.d. n.d. n.d. Latin rate America Rate of injuries with no leaves 243.33 100 Rate of injuries with no leaves n.a. 32.3 Number of Europe n.d. 2 0 0 0 (except Lost Days Rate 4325 100 Lost Days Rate n.a. 107 deaths Brazil) Occupational disease rate 1.8 n.d. Occupational disease rate n.a. n.d. Absenteeism rate n.d. n.d. Absenteeism rate n.a. n.d. Number of deaths 0 0 Number of deaths n.a. 0 Injuries with leaves 391 190 Injuries with leaves 0 0 MATHEMATICAL RATIO BETWEEN THE BASE SALARY FOR WOMEN AND MEN IN EACH FUNCTIONAL Rate of injury with leaves 2.26 1.12 Rate of injury with leaves 0 0 CATEGORY (%)* GRI 405-2 Injuries with no leaves 4373 2745 Injuries with no leaves 19 9 Functional Category 2016 2017 2018 Rate of injuries with no leaves 25.3 391.7 Middle Rate of injuries with no leaves 14.68 5.6 Brazil Board of Directors 82 90 99 Lost Days Rate 19039 137 East Lost Days Rate 0 0 Managers 93 96 97 Occupational disease rate 0.17 0.45 Occupational disease rate 0 n.d. Supervisors and Coordinators 106 108 97 Absenteeism rate 5.16 i.n.d.* Absenteeism rate n.d. n.d. Administrative 88 89 82 Number of deaths 1 0 Number of deaths 0 0 Operating 83 85 85 * Data only consider employees in Brazil. Regarding the data referring to the external market, currently each region carries out its respective control. BRF is working so that it can have the * Information not available at the time this report was closed. It will be reported in the next cycle. information fully centralized in a single system in the future. BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 120 HEALTH AND SAFETY RATES FOR WORKERS (EXCEPT EMPLOYEES) BY REGION EMPLOYEES COVERED BY Region Taxes 2017 2018 (5) Region Taxes 2017 2018 (5) PERFORMANCE AND CAREER ANALYZES Injuries with leaves n.a. 0 Injuries with leaves 1 0 Functional Years 2018 Rate of injury with leaves n.a. 0 Rate of injury with leaves 36.57 n.d. Category Functional category Men Women Total Injuries with no leaves n.a. 0 Injuries with no leaves 0 0 Total number of employees 66 5 71 Rate of injuries with no leaves n.a. 0 Rate of injuries with no leaves 0 n.d. Africa Asia Board of Number of employees Lost Days Rate n.a. 0 Lost Days Rate 57 n.d. 39 3 42 Directors evaluated Occupational disease rate n.a. 0 Occupational disease rate 0 n.d. Percentage 59% 60% 59% Absenteeism rate n.a. 0 Absenteeism rate n.d. n.d. Total number of employees 550 128 678 Number of deaths n.a. 0 Number of deaths 0 0 Number of employees Injuries with leaves 4 12 Injuries with leaves n.a. 21 Management 435 124 559 evaluated Rate of injury with leaves n.d. n.d. Rate of injury with leaves n.a. n.d. Percentage 79% 97% 82% Injuries with no leaves 4 0 Injuries with no leaves n.a. 0 Total number of employees 1,899 461 2,360 Latin America Rate of injuries with no leaves n.d. n.d. Rate of injuries with no leaves n.a. n.d. Number of employees Europe Supervisor 1,353 281 1,634 (except Lost Days Rate 165 n.d. Lost Days Rate n.a. n.d. evaluated Brazil) Occupational disease rate 0 n.d. Occupational disease rate n.a. n.d. Percentage 71% 61% 69% Absenteeism rate n.d. n.d. Absenteeism rate n.a. n.d. Total number of employees 5,588 4,814 10,402 Number of deaths n.d. 0 Number of deaths n.a. 0 Number of employees Administrative 4,301 3,275 7,576 evaluated Injuries with leaves 51 76 Injuries with leaves 0 0 Rate of injury with leaves 1.33 n.d. Percentage 77% 68% 73% Rate of injury with leaves 0 n.d. Injuries with no leaves 125 0 Injuries with no leaves 2 0 Total number of employees 58,025 34,460 92,485 Rate of injuries with no leaves 3.25 n.d. Rate of injuries with no leaves 14.78 n.d. Number of employees Middle Operational 5,485 2,894 8,379 Brazil evaluated Lost Days Rate 845 n.d. East Lost Days Rate 0 n.d. Percentage 9% 8% 9% Occupational disease rate 0 n.d. Occupational disease rate 0 n.d. Total number of employees 66,128 39,868 105,996 Absenteeism rate n.d. n.d. Absenteeism rate n.d. n.d. Number of employees evalNumber of deaths 2 0 Number of deaths 0 0 TOTAL 11,613 6,577 18,190 uated Percentage 18% 16% 17% * Data consider theglobal scope, but without considering interns, because they do not receive a formal performance evaluation of the company, their evaluations are indirectly carried out by their managers. 1 The method applied is based on the Brazilian standard NBR 14.280 and managed by means of Corporate Rule NC 20.1.003 Investigation and Analysis of Accidents, Incidents and Deviations. 2 The rate of non-retired injuries considers categories according to OSHA, being First Aid, Restriction to Work and Medical Treatment. 3 Deaths are included in injury rates, however, we did not have any deaths recorded in 2018. 4 The calculation of days lost, days means calendar days, and the beginning of the lost days count is one (1) day after the accident. 5 In 2018, the HHT (Man Hour worked) of third-party workers (except employees) was not accounted for, so the rates are not complete. BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 121 Quality and security PERCENTAGE OF VOLUME PURCHASED IN 2018 IN ACCORDANCE WITH INTERNATIONALLY RECOGNIZED STANDARDS AND CERTIFICATIONS GRI FP2 Supplier category within the Type of certified products Internationally recognized certification(s) Percentage of volume purchased from suppliers in Geographical origin supply chain purchased applicable to that category accordance with such certification(s) (%) Brazil (Uberlândia, European Directive on Soybean flair West Spring, Dourados, biofuels (EURED), ISCC, HAA 81% international certifications cited Grains, Bran and Oils Rondonópolis, Joaçaba) CCP, ISO14001, ISO18001, RTRS Brazil (Uberlândia, Degummed Soybean Oil West Spring, Dourados, GMP+ 100% international certifications cited Rondonópolis, Joaçaba) Condiments / Aromas / Brazil / Chile / Argentina / 67% international certifications cited and 100% BRF Food Ingredients¹ BRC / FSSC 22000 / IFS / SQF Emulsifiers / Dairy Europe / China standards Cuttings Bovine Beef / Swine Fat 67% international certifications cited and 100% BRF Raw Materials¹ Brazil / Chile / Canada BRC / FSSC 22000 / IFS / SQF / CMS Poultry standards Flexible and Rigid Plastic / Brazil / Uruguay / Spain / 47% international certifications cited and 100% BRF Packages¹ Cellulosic / Natural and Artificial BRC / FSSC 22000 / IFS / SQF Czech Republic / China standards Tripes 1 The above certifications are part of the GFSI Global Food Safety Initiative, a non-governmental organization that represents the highest level of internationally adopted standards for food safety management of industrially processed foods, including modern Food Defense and Food Fraud practices. VOLUME OF PRODUCTION IN CERTIFIED UNITS GRI FP5 2018 Total food production (tons) 4,186,139,515 Production of food manufactured in operating units certified by an independent organization in 1,197,152,784 accordance with internationally recognized standards of food safety management system (tons) Percentage 28.6% BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 122 Integrity GRI 205-2, 419-2 ANTI-CORRUPTION TRAINING BY FUNCTIONAL CATEGORY Functional Year 2017 2018 Category Employees* Notices Trained Notices Trained Total number of employees 72 70 ANTI-CORRUPTION TRAINING BY REGION Total number of employees 10 10 70 63 Directors reported/trained 2018 Region Employees* Percentage of employees Notices Trained 14% 14% 100% 90% reported/trained (%) Total number of employees 8 Total number of employees 598 675 Africa Total number of employees reported/trained 8 8 Total number of employees 57 57 675 627 Managers reported/trained Percentage of employees reported/trained (%) 100% 100% Percentage of employees Latin Total number of employees 3,829 10% 10% 100% 93% reported/trained (%) America, Total number of employees reported/trained 2,386 2,386 Total number of employees 2,903 2,894 except Brazil Percentage of employees reported/trained (%) 62% 62% Total number of employees Supervisors and 248 248 2,894 2,785 Total number of employees 80,965 reported/trained Coordinators Brazil Total number of employees reported/trained 80,546 80,546 Percentage of employees 9% 9% 100% 96% reported/trained (%) Percentage of employees reported/trained (%) 99% 99% Total number of employees 17,616 20,387 Total number of employees 9,418 Total number of employees 322 322 20,387 19,587 Asia Total number of employees reported/trained 9,305 9,305 Administrative reported/trained Percentage of employees reported/trained (%) 99% 99% Percentage of employees 2% 2% 100% 96% reported/trained (%) Total number of employees 456 Total number of employees 87,045 77,582 Europe Total number of employees reported/trained 428 428 Total number of employees Percentage of employees reported/trained (%) 94% 94% 17 17 75,477 75,477 Operating reported/trained Total number of employees 6,932 Percentage of employees 0% 0% 97% 97% Middle East Total number of employees reported/trained 5,866 5,866 reported/trained (%) Percentage of employees reported/trained (%) 85% 85% Total number of employees 108,234 101,608 Total number of employees 101,608 Total number of employees 654 654 99,503 98,539 TOTAL reported/trained TOTAL Total number of employees reported/trained 98,539 98,539 Percentage of employees 1% 1% 98% 97% Percentage of employees reported/trained (%) 97% 97% reported/trained (%) * Data consider active employees until December 2018, noting that new employees have 30 days to do the training related to * Data consider active employees until December 2018, noting that new employees have 30 days to do the training related to Compliance. Compliance. BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 123 SIGNIFICANT FINES DUE TO NON-COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND REGULATIONS IN Natural capital GRI 302-1, 305-7, 303-3, 303-2, 306-5 THE SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC SPHERES (R$ MILLION)¹ 2016 2017 2018² Monetary value of significant fines FUEL CONSUMPTION FROM NON-RENEWABLE SOURCES (GJ)¹ 1,167,369.05 745,274.14 3,580,940.96 paid in the period of the year 2016 2017 2018 Monetary value of significant fines received in the period of the year, and may BPF 178,710.10 76,513.32 16,555.46 793,600.00 561,079.00 776,000.00 or may not still be appealed. Diesel Oil 110,380.87 68,120.95 101,749.54 TOTAL 1,960,969.05 1,306,353.14 4,356,940.96 Natural Gas 184,186.94 881,504.50 533,669.81 1 The information provided includes data and facts at the national level. The 2018 targets for Labor Litigation were met. By 2019, the targets Gasoline 144.64 852.21 120,879.16 for litigation are: reduction of liabilities and reduction of financial impact. 2 In 2018, 3 non-monetary sanctions were also received due to non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic sphere, GLP 585,322.59 513,963.70 431,796.60 referring to three partial prohibitions to correct items of labor legislation. Animal welfare GRI FP11 Shale 99,716.27 92,873.61 80,246.23 TOTAL 1,158,461.41 1,633,828.29 1,284,896.81 PERCENTAGE AND TOTAL NUMBER OF ANIMALS RAISED AND/OR PROCESSED, ¹The methodology for calculating the data followed the Corporate Standard of Energy Excellence. Data from Brazil and Turkey were considered. BY SPECIES, TYPE OF BREEDING AND TYPE OF HOUSING 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 CONSUMPTION OF FUELS FROM RENEWABLE SOURCES (GJ)¹ Type of housing Turkeys (%) Pigs (%) Chickens (%) 2016 2017 2018 Negative Pressure 34 40 7 0 0 0 34 31 30 Cane alcohol 40.18 5.73 195,902.99 Positive Pressure 66 60 93 0 0 0 41 34 33 Biodiesel 0.00 0.00 5,196.09 Dark House 0 0 0 0 0 0 25 35 37 Collective Gestation 0 0 0 20 27 31 0 0 0 Vegetable or animal oil 227,357.03 195,083.91 48,927.57 Individual Gestation 0 0 0 80 73 69 0 0 0 Palm Kernel Shell 57,176.93 16,705.00 n.a.² * Below is the explanation for the above-mentioned terms: Biomass (reforestation Negative pressure: aviaries with yellow or blue curtains, with or without cooling in the air intake and with nebulizers, or aviaries with black/ 22,670,371.32 22,445,697.90 18,437,766.29 silver curtains without cooling and with nebulizers. In this system, greater control of temperature and humidity is possible, offering birds a wood) ³ better comfort condition throughout life. Positive pressure: aviaries working with curtains open using the maximum of the natural condition of the environment. In the first days TOTAL 22,954,945.46 22,657,492.54 18,687,792.94 of the lot, equipment is used to heat the installation, providing thermal comfort to the chicks. At high temperatures, they use fans and nebulizers to aid in room conditions. They provide an environment closer to the animals' usual environment. 1 The methodology for calculating the data followed the Corporate Standard of Energy Excellence. Data from Brazil Dark house: Aviaries with black curtains x silver and the presence of a cooling system (equipment to cool the environment) and nebulizers. and Turkey were considered. They work with the curtains closed; the air enters through one end and is forced out by the opposite end. In this system, the lighting is 2 Not applicable, as it referred to consumption in Thailand. supplied and controlled by the producer in order to guarantee the best condition for the animals in the different stages of production. 3 As of 2018, we will report all wood fuels as Biomass (reforestation wood). Provides better control over the temperature and ventilation of the facility, ensuring the birds are in thermal comfort. Collective gestation: the matrices remain the gestation period in collective bays (in a group) with freedom of movement and to express their natural characteristics. Individual gestation: the matrices remain the gestation period in individual bays. In spite of limiting the space of the matrices, this practice facilitates the individual control of the pregnant matrices and provides conditions to avoid quarreling among the animals. BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 124 ENERGY CONSUMED (PURCHASED) FROM NON-RENEWABLE SOURCES SIGNIFICANT ATMOSPHERIC EMISSIONS (TONS) 1,2 (GJ)¹ 2016 20173 2018 2016 2017 2018 NOx 1,285.28 i.n.d. 1,325.02 Natural Gas 403,064.07 513,693.72 150,617.58 SOx 131.42 i.n.d. 140.94 Oil 82,432.84 146,618.04 122,585.03 Persistent organic pollutants (POP) – i.n.d. – Nuclear 15,530.83 4,093.76 2,054.96 Volatile Organic Compounds (COV) – i.n.d. – Mineral Coal 268,427.45 229,411.27 163,577.19 Hazardous Atmospheric Pollutants (HAP) – i.n.d. – TOTAL 769,455.19 893,816.79 438,834.77 Particulate matter (MP) 2,323.71 i.n.d. 2,208.70 1 The methodology for calculating the data followed the Corporate Standard of Energy Excellence. Data from Brazil and Turkey were considered. For the decomposition of electric energy sources, the latest information provided by the energy CO 5,530.05 i.n.d. 9,697.63 agencies of the countries was considered. HC – i.n.d. – 1 Data consider emissions from Brazil, Kizad and Turkey. ENERGY CONSUMED (PURCHASED) FROM RENEWABLE SOURCES (GJ) ¹ 2 Data collection methodologies follow the following standards: Sampling: NBR 10700 Pipeline and stationary sample sampling planning; NBR 10701Determination of sampling points in ducts and chimneys of stationary sources; NBR 120202016 2017 2018 Gaseous effluents in pipelines and stationary source chimneys Calibration of the equipment used in sampling. Flow and Humidity: NBR 11967Gaseous effluents in pipelines and stationary source chimneys – Determination of humidity; NBR 10702 Hydropower 6,195,891.59 7,404,013.34 7,125,345.41 – Gaseous effluents in duct and chimneys of stationary sources – Determination of molecular mass on a dry basis; NBR 11966 – Effluents in pipelines and chimneys of stationary sources – Determination of speed and Flow. Biomass 222,807.26 154,994.21 132,132.50 3 Significant atmospheric emissions information for 2017 is not available. Wind 77,654.13 79,580.48 70,475.61 Photovoltaic 1,202.45 6,681.31 15,582.23 Geothermal 0.00 11,848.73 8,453.08 EMISSIONS SUBSTANCES THAT WIPE OUT THE OZONE LAYER (SDO) HCFC* GRI 305-6 TOTAL 6,497,555.432 7,657,118.07 7,351,988.83 1 The methodology for calculating the data followed the Corporate Standard of Energy Excellence. Data from Brazil and Turkey were considered. For the decomposition of electric energy sources, the latest information provided by the energy agencies of the countries was considered. 2016 1,720.47 2017 1,004.04 2018 906.76 *Data not audited yet BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 125 RECYCLED AND REUSED WATER* 2016 2017 2018 Total amount of water recycled by the organization (m³) 8,376,260.93 7,218,991.68 945,776.00 Total amount of water reused by the organization (m³) 13,730,264.45 5,403,590.53 5,988,409.50 Total amount of water recycled and reused by the organization 22,106,525.38 12,622,582.21 6,934,185.50 (m³) Total amount of water withdrawn (m³) 61,082,557.42 65,786,767.58 61,424,342.63 Ratio of the volume of water reused and recycled by the total 36.19% 19.19% 11.29% volume of fresh water withdrawn (%) * The water reuse decreased because the units stopped with the reuse, due to productive process issues. Data reported by the units. BODIES OF WATER AND RELATED HABITATS SIGNIFICANTLY AFFECTED BY DISPOSALS AND/OR WATER WITHDRAWAL* Source of consumption/withdrawal of Unit Collection (m³) Source flow (m³/s) water Concórdia Queimados River 3,543,908.90 14,065,056 Capinzal Santa Cruz River 2,887,795.00 13,140,000 Chapecó São José River 3,323,458.90 14,941,757 Carambeí São João River 2,580,075.62 17,250,192 *The criterion for defining this list as affected sources was the withdrawal of more than 5% of the total flow of the source (river) and withdrawals from water bodies that are considered, by experts, as particularly sensitive, due to their relative size, role or system condition that is rare, threatened or endangered – or because of the support they provide to a specific species of plant or endangered animal. One may notice that the water discharges are carried out in the same water bodies listed. Rio Santa Rosa, Marau River, Dourados were not reported because there is no catch above 5% of the average river flow and also because they do not fit the other indicator criteria. The Cuiabá River will no longer be reported, due to the demobilization of the Várzea Grande unit. Rio Iguaçu was excluded, as it was not considered a significantly affected source. The company is reviewing the water vulnerability analysis of its operations and related water sources, and the results will be published in the next RA cycle. There is no information on the value of biodiversity related to water bodies and the value of water bodies for local communities and indigenous peoples. In Brazil, all rivers are classified as a permanent protection area. BRF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE INDICATOR SYNTHESIS BRF STRATEGY QUALITY AND TRUST IMPACT AND VALUE GENERATION BUSINESSES REPORT 126 Credits GENERAL PROJECT COORDINATION – BRF Vice Presidency of Finance and Investor Relations SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GRI CONSULTANCY, COORDINATION EDITORIAL, CONTENT AND DESIGN Report Sustentabilidade PHOTOS BY Camila Picolo Laio Rocha Leonardo Wen Acervo BRF INFOGRAPHIC BY Cássio Bittencourt TYPOGRAPHIC FAMILY Gotham TYPOGRAPHIC FAMILY Ana Paula Cardoso
