COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2019 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 3 UN GLOBAL COMPACT STRATEGIC PLAN FOR VITAL WATERCOURSE IN AFRICA In 2019, a new strategic plan was approved aiming to enhance socioeconomic development and sustainable management of the Zambezi Watercourse shared by Angola, Botswana, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, Tanzania, Zambia and Zimbabwe. COWI led the development of the plan – a crucial element to balance the need for economic growth and the increasing risk of droughts and floods. Using a digital tool, the COWI team made a detailed socio-economic analysis for both historic and potential future climates, i.e. estimating the costs and economic welfare gains across various sectors, borders and stakeholders by modelling the water resources, and the agricultural and energy systems as an integrated system. 04 COMMITMENT FROM OUR CEO 16 ENVIRONMENT 06 SUSTAINABILITY AND CSR IN COWI 18 CARBON FOOTPRINT REPORT 2019 08 COWI’S BUSINESS MODEL AND CSR RISK ASSESSMENT 22 ANTI-CORRUPTION 11 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 24 ABOUT GLOBAL COMPACT 12 HUMAN RIGHTS 27 ABOUT COWI 14 LABOUR RIGHTS PUBLISHED BY EDITORIAL INPUT ENDED COWI Holding A/S February 2020. Parallelvej 2 2800 Kongens Lyngby Denmark Tel 56 40 00 00 Fax 56 40 99 99 www.cowi.dk www.cowi.com www.cowiholding.com COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 5 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMITMENT FROM OUR CEO In a world where growing cities and Second, we constantly work to further climate change are a reality, societies and enhance impact on the SDGs through customers need solutions that are effective our services to customers. This part will and sustainable, and that enable quality of have an increasing focus in coming years, life for the entire community. because this is where we can make the greatest impact. In COWI, sustainability is part of our vision and incorporated in our business model. In 2019, we focused on SDG 13, Climate Throughout our nearly 90-year history, we Action. In the coming year, we will follow have been committed to delivering solutions up on progress and develop new initiatives, with long-term societal, environmental and especially in relation to SDGs 6, 7, 9, 11 human interests in mind. and 13, as these are the goals to which COWI can contribute the most. In 2019, climate change, urbanisation and their many associated effects continued Sustainable growth is key to dealing with to be frontpage news, and thus ever the challenges facing the global community higher on the agenda of global leaders these years. New legislation and voluntary and businesses. standards will push the agenda further, and we welcome this development. It In COWI, we took several decisive steps is important to a rising number of our to work actively with the UN’s sustainable customers and necessary for the future of development goals and to contribute to the coming generations. a more sustainable society. Thus, in our day-to-day business, First, we decided to become carbon neutral short-term and long-term, we remain in 2020 by funding a carbon-offsetting fully and continuously committed to wind farm in Indonesia. The wind farm is a the United Nations Global Compact Gold Standard project, which is the highest and the sustainable development goals. possible classification. This Communication on Progress report is produced with reference to Next step is to continue to deliver actual the ten principles of the Sustainability reductions. The target is to cut our carbon Reporting Guidelines. emissions by 70 per cent before 2030, compared to 2008 levels. An action plan for reaching our target is now being developed. In 2030, the remaining 30 per cent will be offset to stay carbon neutral in our own operation. Lars-Peter Søbye, Chief Executive Officer COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 7 UN GLOBAL COMPACT well as metro, light rail and BRT (bus rapid together with the commitment of our custransport) solutions exemplify our comtomers represent and sustain the creativity AT THE END OF 2019, COWI mitment to working for more sustainable and innovation needed to meet these global HAD POLICIES COVERING mobility and liveability in cities. challenges. This is the core of our services THE FOLLOWING AREAS: and our business model, and this is where Further challenges are climate change, we have the greatest opportunity to pro› Sustainable development GROWING DEMAND FOR environmental degradation and the increasmote sustainability. › Transparency and anti-corruption COWI’S WIND EXPERTISE ing production of waste, which constitute › COWI Whistle-blower hotline Arcadis Ost 1 is one of the latest offshore wind farm threats that need to be overcome by, for POLICIES AND GUIDELINES › Business integrity developments born from the German renewable energy example, low-energy buildings, security As an integrated part of our project and › Diversity and inclusion support system. The wind farm will generate enough measures against adverse weather, and quality management system, we screen › Occupational health and safety (OHS). energy to power 290,000 households and plays an effective waste master plans. for health and safety, as well as for security important role in producing wind energy originating from and environmental outcomes of all projects All policies are available at: the sea regions. COWI was chosen to deliver the detailed In 2019, we consolidated our total capabilicarried out by COWI. https://www.cowi.com/sustainability design of monopile foundations for the wind turbines and offshore substation. In 2019, COWI staffed up its ties within offshore wind in one entity. Hamburg office to meet the growing demand for wind To formalise our focus, we have developed expertise in Germany. The unit will ensure that we unite our a number of policies and guidelines on outstanding capabilities across the COWI sustainability and CSR, which set out the the ten UNGC principles and describes Group in our efforts to accelerate the green overall framework for how we work on a our activities regarding the environment, transition and be a preferred partner for daily basis. These policies and guidelines human rights, anti-corruption and customers within the wind market. The are described in this report and underpin social responsibility. opening of an office in Taiwan and new the strong correlation that exists between and bigger office premises in Hamburg, our values and our business practices. In addition, this report serves to meet the Germany were other important steps CSR requirements of Danish legislation. SUSTAINABILITY on this strategic path. This report serves as the required annual Thus, it presents our business model with Communication of Progress for the the issues related to CSR. It explains how COWI’s specialist competencies and United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). we handle the issues, and how we follow up AND CSR IN COWI our engagement in societies’ challenges As such, its content is structured around on our CSR key performance indicators. OUR APPROACH Our chief potential for living CSR and for attractive employers for professionals lookThrough our services, COWI contributes to reducing environmental impacts lies in our ing for a career within the consulting engisustainable development. service delivery and in the solutions that neering industry. To this end, we promote we develop with and for our customers. diversity and cultivate a culture with clear Our vision is to create coherence in This is where we direct our efforts, because and high ethical standards. Both are critical tomorrow’s sustainable societies, and it to our efforts to attract talented candidates ANOTHER STEP TOWARDS projects providing sustainable solutions frames our approach to corporate social and retain outstanding professionals. SUPPLYING GREEN FUEL are our business. Preem, the largest fuel company in Sweden, is responsibility (CSR) and sustainability. Our SOLUTIONS MEET making big investments to convert its refinery in constant ambition is to create value for Naturally, we also focus on the sustainable GLOBAL CHALLENGES Gothenburg to process renewable raw materials. our customers, key stakeholders, COWI operation of our own facilities, and before COWI supplies solutions, knowledge and In 2019, it took yet another step, and further and society. This we do by enabling our 2030, we want to cut our carbon emissions modifications and adaptations are being made customers to meet their sustainability goals ideas for development of the modern world by 70 per cent. to the refinery to enable it to produce more fuel and thus make the societies in which we and the challenges it faces – among these, achieving sustainable growth. from renewables. The company enlisted COWI to operate more sustainable and more liveable. Our commitment to sustainability and cortake charge of the project. Because the diesel is porate social responsibility is an extension produced from renewable raw materials, it reduces We have a three-pronged approach where One set of challenges is related to the growof our fundamental values and mission. This ing world population and to the increasingly the greenhouse effect if it replaces fossil-based we integrate CSR and sustainability into: commitment is furthermore reflected in our high urbanisation rates across the globe diesel in cars and trucks. Preem’s refinery produces › Business conduct: The way we carry out our own activities. endorsement of the UN Global Compact as with ensuing pressure on infrastructure, diesel with up to 50 per cent renewable content. › Employee behaviour: The way we behave well as our support to the Code of Ethics of built environment, water and energy. These at the workplace and our obligation to act. the International Federation of Consulting four sectors frame COWI’s key services, › Business deliverables: The way we ensure Engineers (FIDIC). which are instrumental in providing future that the solutions we design for customers and sustainable solutions to the challenges. take environmental and societal impacts It is essential to COWI and to the realisation For example, COWI’s engagement in into consideration. of our strategy that we are among the most sustainable urban development planning as COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 9 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COWI’S BUSINESS 2018 was the first year that we reported on cases, we did not have figures from 2017 or our business model and discussed the CSR 2018. In these cases, 2019 will serve as the risks involved. Therefore, 2018 is the basebaseline year. MODEL AND CSR line year for the 2019 COP report. In some RISK ASSESSMENT SOCIETY HOW WE FOLLOW UP In early 2019, COWI acquired Arkitema, and › Management’s and employees’ from 2020, our colleagues in Arkitema will GLOBAL/NATIONAL ECONOMIES and knowledge of mission, vision and be included in the annual survey. the POLITICAL ENVIRONMENT constitute values is scored in COWI’s annual the framework conditions for all aspects SOCIETY of COWI’s market presence. The CSR engagement survey. risks presented by the framework are While knowledge of mission and vision ENGAGEMENT SURVEY MITIGATED by living COWI’s mission scored 71 in 2019, knowledge of values SCORING and vision and practising COWI’s five scored 74. COWI’s target score for 2020 is › Global/national values: integrity, respect, independence, 77, and we will therefore work on ensuring In our engagement survey, we professional capacity and freedom. In economies knowledge of our mission, vision and benchmark ourselves against addition, navigating a constantly changing values, especially through our onboarding similar companies. Scores in the › Political trends political environment calls for a flexible and engagement survey are as follows: programmes. Furthermore, we will include digitalised organisation which can adapt the questions regarding mission, vision and 0-60: low; 60-75: medium; and quickly to new project conditions. values in our annual engagement survey 75-100: high. CT TS every year instead of only every other year. RKE IMPA MA › Sustainable development › Geographies › COWI’s footprint › Customers MARKETS HOW WE FOLLOW UP completion is a result of a combination of a › COWI’s Executive Board applies the net increase in the number of employees in As a global player in diverse Transparency International Corruption COWI as well as timing of the rolling threeGEOGRAPHIES and with diverse Perception Index (CPI) to decision-making year training renewal deadline. CUSTOMERS, COWI’s employees face a on geographic presence. number of CSR risks ranging from their per› Customer › Employees and sonal security to the customers’ business The target for completion remains 75 per Countries with a CPI below 40 requires the requirements competencies environment and CSR approach. These cent in 2020. Due to not reaching the target intervention of the Executive Board. in 2019, we are strengthening our internal risks are MITIGATED by the Executive › Responsible project › Partners and their Board’s approval of project geographical communication related to follow-up on › Training courses in business integrity are management supply chains presence and COWI’s safety organisation. mandatory for all COWI staff. completion of training. L VA UE COWI is a signatory of the UN Global ES Compact, thus the business environment, All COWI employees undergo business Arkitema, acquired by COWI in early 2019, CR C VI including corruption, is a key focal point integrity training every third year. In 2019 will be included in the training courses. EA R TIO SE vis-à-vis customers. the degree of completion was 62 per cent The time plan for this integration has not N as opposed to 64 per cent in 2018. The decrease from 64 per cent to 62 per cent yet been finalised. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 11 UN GLOBAL COMPACT SUSTAINABLE SERVICES To supply our customers with state-ofthe art sustainable solutions, we need to be able to recruit and retain highly is the highest participation ever. The overall engagement score is 77 – yet another increase by one point compared to 2018, and the 2020 target of 77 has now been In 2019, 2,748 unique participants took part in COWI’s training activities via COWI Academy. In 2018, the number was 2,742. DEVELOPMENT GOALS COMPETENT EMPLOYEES and attract reached. (please see box about engagement score on page 9). KEY CONTENTS OF COWI’s services within infrastructure, stakeholders to discuss challenges strong and responsible PARTNERS. We MITIGATE the risk of losing such employees THE COWI ACADEMY energy, water and environment and facing societies and possible solutions. SUSTAINABILITY AS A TENDER through leadership and by creating a great › The type and severity of incidents reportCOURSES ARE: buildings contribute to several of the Therefore, SDG 11 will take priority AWARD CRITERION place to work. We MITIGATE the risk of ed in the COWI Whistle-blower system UN’s 17 sustainable development in our work with the SDGs and in attracting inappropriate partners through are assessed by the Executive Board and › Leadership goals (SDGs). We find that our consulour communication. › Project management New tender models are needed to realise the our screening process and by making sure reported to the Board of Directors. tancy services particularly contribute to › Business development UN sustainable development goals (SDGs). that our code of conduct is upheld. In 2019, there were two whistle-blower reaching the following five SDGs: We are committed to working with the › Onboarding (incl. vision, values, Models that intersect disciplines and include incidents compared to nine in 2018. Please › No. 6: Clean Water and Sanitation SDGs to create value for customers, obligation to act) sustainability as a competitive parameter. This HOW WE FOLLOW UP find more information concerning the COWI › No. 7: Affordable and Clean Energy society and our business. In 2019, we › Every year, we carry out an engagement › Policy and safety was one of the findings in March 2019 when Whistle-blower system on page 33. › No. 9: Industry Innovation started categorising all projects acsurvey to measure the overall engagement › Compliance training the Technical University of Denmark (DTU) and and Infrastructure cording to which SDGs they contribute of our employees. › All training activities in COWI Academy › Communication training COWI held a workshop on how to integrate › No. 11: Sustainable Cities to the most. In this way, we gain a More than 91 per cent of all employees took are monitored with regard to content › Financial management. SDGs in tender procedures. and Communities knowledge base which will enable us part in the 2019 Engagement Survey. This and participants. › No. 13: Climate Action. to plan our contribution to the SDGs in the best possible way. Among the ideas for how to bring SDG no. 11, Sustainable Cities and construction projects closer to the UN SDGs Communities, encompasses much of In 2020, we will launch an updated were tendering requirements such as fossilour expertise and it corresponds very sustainability dialogue tool, including free construction sites, reuse of construction much to our vision, which is to create all SDGs, to support our customers in waste and carbon footprint statements. coherence in tomorrow’s sustainable considering the relevant sustainability societies. In recent years, especially aspects and SDGs on a project. We The suggestions were but a small selection of VALUE CREATION provide the high-quality, innovative and sus› Quality management is ensured through tainable solutions that COWI’s customers ISO certification, recertification and our Scandinavian business lines have will offer the relevant solutions to supthe many ideas that were shared among some COWI’s success in the market depends started to build a thought-leadership port our customers in reaching their 80 professionals from Danish municipalities, expect. Responsible project management regular audits. on meeting CUSTOMER REQUIREMENTS position within sustainable growth of targets. Internally, we will follow up regions, consultants, customers, industries, entails that quality management is integratand supplying RESPONSIBLE PROJECT ed in every phase of project execution and In 2019, all of COWI became certified cities. We have held several seminars through sustainability and SDG training utilities and universities at the workshop. MANAGEMENT. The risk of not living up is therefore a strong mitigating factor. according to ISO 9001 and ISO 14001. and events with customers and other of project managers across sectors. to customer requirements or being able to Recertification audits are carried out every incorporate sustainable quality solutions HOW WE FOLLOW UP third year and follow-up audits are carried through diligent management is MITIGATED › Customer satisfaction is followed closely out in the two years in between. by ensuring that COWI has a vibrant and through the Net Promoter Score for the strong professional environment, which can entire business on a quarterly basis. IMPACT footprint and contributing to the SDGs › SDG 9: Industry, innovation and through actively working with and impleinfrastructure (15 per cent) COWI’s core business is to deliver projects menting the COP policies. › SDG 11: Sustainable cities and based on the requirements of customers communities (13 per cent) and society at large. Each project has an HOW WE FOLLOW UP › SDG 7: Affordable and clean energy impact and can contribute to achievement › COWI projects will be classified according (6 per cent) of the SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT to their relevance and contribution to › SDG 6: Clean water and sanitation GOALS if designed and realised in an achieving the SDGs. (5 per cent) innovative way. As a business, COWI also › SDG 13: Climate action (4 per cent). makes a FOOTPRINT in these societies. 2019 was the first year that we assigned › We measure COWI’s environmental impact In 2006, COWI signed the Global Compact. new projects to the SDGs. This registration Since then, we have strived to MITIGATE started in October 2019. By end of 2019, Please find a detailed presentation of COWI’s our impact on society by reducing our the primary registered SDGs were: environmental impact on pages 18-20. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 13 UN GLOBAL COMPACT HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY ON OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY The COWI Group is committed to providing a healthy and safe working environment for all employees, which also is essential to COWI’s overall 01 02 PRINCIPLE: PRINCIPLE: business performance. Businesses should support Businesses should make sure In COWI, health and safety include and respect the protection that they are not complicit in psychosocial wellbeing, safety when of internationally proclaimed human rights abuses. working on site, physical working human rights. environment in our offices and accident prevention. Our objective is to be a healthy and accident-free workplace. WORKING WITH DEALING WITH HUMAN RIGHTS in Sweden and the UK will transfer from HUMAN RIGHTS ON PROJECTS OHSAS 18001 to the ISO 45001:2018. We recognize that strong health The support of human rights is rooted To ensure that we do not have any adverse The time plan for certification for the rest and safety leadership is essential to in COWI’s culture and reflected in one impacts on human rights through projects of COWI Group will be decided in 2020. maintaining and developing a good RESEARCH SEEKS TO MINIMISE THE CARBON of COWI’s five guiding values, ‘respect’. in which we are involved, we operate acworking environment. FOOTPRINT OF LARGE CONCRETE STRUCTURES The respect value states: cording to three procedures: Due diligence, PRINCIPLE RELATING In 2019, COWI kicked off a new research project seeking to minimise cost supervision and obligation to act, described TO HUMAN RIGHTS To meet our objectives, we will: and environmental impacts when designing large concrete structures. Employee conditions and compliance › Not compromise a healthy and safe “We respect those we on the following page. with human rights are important to COWI. working environment for economic or The goal is to develop a theoretical basis for computer-based rigid-plastic work with, nature and Employees are introduced to these To ensure that we detect any human rights productivity reasons. analysis and design of solid reinforced concrete structures; uncover new knowledge on the mechanical behaviour of reinforced concrete in the trisociety. We respect procedures as part of COWI’s training violations on projects in which we are › Encourage employees to openly share axial stress states; enhance the knowledge about necessary ductility; and involved, we operate according each other in programmes. to two procedures: and discuss health and safety issues. provide valuable empirical insight into the behaviour of solid 3D structures › Emphasize that a healthy and decision-making and KEY ACTIVITIES AND OUTCOMES › Health and safety supervision: In COWI, safe working environment requires through full-scale testing. Potentially, the outcome of the research will help minimise the quantities of materials needed in large concrete structures, implementation. We Through COWI’s procurement system, we we seek to increase our influence on awareness from both management and such as cement. The three-year project is a collaboration between DTU project sites by offering supervision of respect friendship assess suppliers on human and labour safety and health conditions. This allows employees. Civil Engineering and COWI made possible by donations from COWIfonden, rights, ethical standards, social and environacross the organisation, mental policies, health and safety, diversity us to ensure that internationally accepted › Comply with all relevant health and the Innovation Foundation, DTU and COWI. safety legislation and codes of practice. independent of and anti-corruption. standards are enforced on a project. › Obligation to act: Employees at COWI hierarchy.” have the so-called obligation to act, meanMEANS AND ACTIONS: › Ensure structured risk assessments HEALTH AND SAFETY AT WORK ing that everyone is obligated to act if they within the areas where employees are Through our policy on sustainable develThe risk of physical work injuries is very COWI ACHIEVES SILVER AT MIND’S WORKPLACE see human rights violated on a project. exposed to hazards. opment, we integrate human rights in our low in COWI’s operations. In 2019, we had WELLBEING AWARDS IN THE UK business. In the policy, we commit ourselves 16 injuries with absence compared to 24 › Encourage all employees to contact to taking social aspects into account when in 2018. The two procedures are included in our their manager if they have work-related In 2019, COWI was recognised with a Silver Award for its carrying out projects, and to enhancing our project management training. health and safety concerns. commitment to workplace wellbeing. employees’ attention to and knowledge of In 2018, the Executive Board decided › Ensure that health and safety are an Mind’s Workplace Wellbeing Index is a benchmark of best policy and social conditions. that the COWI Group should be certified integral part of management meetings, according to ISO 45001:2018. The ISO POLICIES AND department/section meetings and other practice, celebrating the good work employers do to promote and This policy is integrated in our risk 45001:2018 project started in Denmark PRINCIPLES RELATING support positive mental health, and providing key recommendations relevant forums. assessment and training systems. We in 2018. In 2019, COWI Group has TO HUMAN RIGHTS on the specific areas where there is room to improve. › Actively involve employee representacontinue to raise awareness among our worked intensively om establishing and › Respect is one of COWI’s tives in health and safety matters. COWI’s local wellbeing initiatives kicked off in 2018, with a view to employees about the importance of COWI implementing COWI´s Occupational Health five values. growing and developing a good mental health culture in all UK offices. › Provide continuous health and safety not nefatively affecting human rights in and Safety management system for Danish › COWI Whistle-blower. leadership training for managers and 16 COWI employees are now trained mental health first aiders, our external activities, including the work employees. We expect to be certified in › FIDIC Code of Ethics adopted specific training for employees. able to provide support and information to employees. Health we do for customers, our procurement COWI A/S Denmark in 2020. As part of the by COWI. › Monitor health and safety procedures and wellbeing ambassadors run local events to raise awareness, practices and our partners. Internally, our project, COWI´s Group Occupational Health › Policy on occupational health to ensure compliance and continuous coordinate regional events and engage employees in a range of social focus is on the right to a safe workplace and Safety policy has been updated to and safety. improvements of the health and safety events. All of these volunteers are passionate about making positive with our health and safety policy as the reflect what COWI wants to obtain and how › Policy on sustainable development. management system. improvements in mental health and wellbeing. overall guide. the objectives are achieved. In 2020, COWI COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 15 UN GLOBAL COMPACT LABOUR RIGHTS 03 05 PRINCIPLE: PRINCIPLE: Businesses should uphold the Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and elimination of all forms of forced effective recognition of the right and compulsory labour. to collective bargaining. 04 06 PRINCIPLE: PRINCIPLE: ENVIRONMENTAL REQUIREMENTS Businesses should uphold Businesses should uphold the ENTERED THE DIGITAL DESIGN MODEL the effective abolition of elimination of discrimination Integrating environmental requirements into digital Photo: Skisse Gruben primary school – SPINN Arkitekter child labour. in respect of employment and project design work increases the likelihood of delivering occupation. climate-friendly solutions. In 2019, COWI carried out this integration as part of a pilot project in Norway. When Rana Municipality entered the early planning stage for a new primary school, it asked COWI for assistance, LABOUR RIGHTS ON PROJECTS The COWI Whistle-blower system is availaCOWI projects, but also their marketability and for the first time, environmental requirements for the The approximately 7,100 people working for ble for reporting observations or suspicion outside COWI. consumption of materials were incorporated into the COWI enjoy working conditions in line with of discrimination. building information modelling (BIM) application. international labour rights. We support and We enhance skills and competencies practise diversity and equal opportunities. DIVERSITY IS MORE through COWI’s in-house academy, which The integration paves the way for even more advanced Our employees are free to organise themTHAN A RIGHT offers a broad range of training programmes BIM modelling where sustainability plays a bigger part selves and bargain collectively as they wish, COWI is an international company with and courses on a wide number of subjects. than ever. and they are all paid a fair wage. projects all over the world. We view Business ethics are taught and debated as diversity as a competitive advantage, part of the project management training, COWI dissociates itself from all kinds because a breadth in employees gives us ensuring awareness as well as knowledge of child labour. The main challenge for new and interesting views and different of our whistle-blower system. We have decided to support the Gairatpur Baas Panchayat School, COWI in terms of labour rights is that aspects and perspectives to our business mainly for two reasons: We have seen what they have been able to potential violations of these often take and organisation. PARTNERING FOR TRAINING achieve so far, and donating about 20 per cent of their current annual POLICY: DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION place outside our sphere of influence. OF DEAF PEOPLE IN INDIA budget will provide them the stability they need to make a sustainable They frequently concern migrant labour in Today, we are 78 different nationalities at Indian law requires a mandatory spend change in the development of these villages. We also know it is COWI views diversity as a competitive advantage that the construction industry. We attempt to all career levels. We believe that everyone of two per cent of net profits on CSR difficult for them to find good teachers in scientific disciplines, and helps us achieve the best results for our customers. meet this challenge by working according should have equal opportunities regardless initiatives. Until March 2020, COWI India COWI India has plenty of well-educated engineers eager to share To meet our objectives, we: to the following guidelines. of gender, age, race, religion, nationality, partners with the Noida Deaf Society their knowledge. ethnic and social origin, disability, political (NDS), a non-profit organisation bringing When COWI has the management and sexual orientation. education and training to hearing impaired › aim to have a diverse workforce that mirrors the responsibility of the construction phase of in India. Through COWI India, we are diversity of our business and markets. a project, we are able to influence labour In 2019, we continued our talent manageable to contribute relevant education and POLICIES, PRINCIPLES AND TOOLS › give equal opportunities to everyone, regardless rights conditions at the construction site, ment process and set up a new and strong employment opportunities. RELATING TO LABOUR RIGHTS of gender, age, race, religion, nationality, ethnic and act if they are not aligned with national global recruitment function to identify and and social origin, disability, political and sexual and international ratified legislation. build talent as well as improve focus on Furthermore, in 2019, COWI India entered › Respect is one of COWI’s five values. orientation. diversity. We continue to be engaged in into a three-year agreement with the BAAS › COWI Whistle-blower. › ensure that our employment and recruitment If we are not in charge of the supervision relevant mentoring programmes Educational Trust (BET) in the rural area of › Policy on sustainable development. practices adhere to local legislation, wherever we of the project, we do not necessarily have with universities. Gairatpur Baas Panchayat. Our first financial › Policy on diversity and inclusion. work in the world. access to the construction site and are contribution will be used to build additional › Policy on occupational health and safety. › continuously improve equal opportunities in our therefore unaware of the human rights and/ KEY ACTIVITIES AND OUTCOMES classrooms where voluntary COWI experts › FIDIC Code of Ethics, adopted by COWI. employment and recruitment practices. or labour rights standards practised. The During 2019, we continued our activities can soon diversify their talents through › work towards creating a culture of tolerance and obligation to act described in the human to ensure that COWI employees have math and physic tutoring and popularisation All policies are available at www.cowi.com/sustainability and appreciation of difference. rights section also applies here. state-of-the-art skills and competencies, of engineering sciences. www.cowi.com/policies ensuring not only their performance on COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 17 UN GLOBAL COMPACT ENVIRONMENT 07 09 PRINCIPLE: PRINCIPLE: Businesses should support Businesses should encourage a precautionary approach to the development and diffusion environmental challenges. of environmentally friendly technologies. 08 PRINCIPLE: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. FROM WASTE TO ENERGY Malta generates about 600–615 kg waste per person, Environmental protection is the area where SUCCESSFUL CARBON CAPTURE In 2016, COWI started working on the which in 2018 corresponded to 218,000 tonnes COWI has the greatest potential to make a FACILITY IN NORWAY carbon capture project and ever since of waste. If treated wisely, most of it can be used difference and not only promote sustainable Three years after signing the Paris the first pilot in February, the facility has to generate energy. Thus, the Maltese government solutions to our customers, but also enable Agreement to prevent average global demonstrated stable operation, capturing decided to construct a modern, energy-efficient waste them to choose sustainable solutions. temperatures from rising by more than two 90–98 per cent of the CO2. In other words, incineration plant with an expected annual capacity of degrees Celsius, the world continues its the results are very promising. some 200,000 tonnes of waste. In 2019, COWI won the We seek to reduce our own impacts urgent search for cost-effective methods of client consultancy contract for the project. through carbon-neutral policies and reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. ACHIEVING THE WORLD’S FIRST initiatives regarding the efficiency needs of Carbon capture is defined as one of the ZERO CO2 GROCERY STORE our customers and our organisation. These methods we have to consider. In 2019, Lidl, a global grocery store chain, activities are described as part of the green engaged COWI in its efforts to make Lidl’s In connection with the launch of the first trial electrochemical zones in the groundwater accounts on the following pages. In February 2019, a newly established store on Gotland, Sweden, certified as version of the NollCO2 certification, COWI by installing electrodes in the groundwater pilot facility at the energy recovery plant of the world’s first completely climate-neutral examined ways for a Lidl store to meet the reservoir itself. POLICIES, PRINCIPLES It is part of our ambition to promote the Fortum Oslo Varme succeeded in capturing grocery store under the new NollC02 stringent requirements and produced a AND TOOLS RELATED voluntary participation of employees in its first CO2. (Zero CO2) scheme. roadmap for the project. At the project design Major advantages: 1) No chemicals or bacteTO ENVIRONMENTAL environmental initiatives as well as local stage, COWI headed the certification work rial cultures are injected and PROTECTION campaigns to increase the awareness of The facility is located near the Norwegian The scheme has been developed as an and ensured that the targets could be met by 2) zero groundwater is extracted. With milresource-conscious behaviour. capital of Oslo and receives waste from the important step in enabling Sweden to reach drawing up a climate budget and producing a lions of contaminated sites around the world › Respect is one of COWI’s municipalities around Oslo, from businesses its climate goals and is one of the toughest payment plan for any CO2 emissions that arise. and the subsequent risk of drinking water five values. KEY ACTIVITIES AND OUTCOMES and industries, as well as sorted domestic in the world. pollution, sustainable and low-cost cleaning › Policy on sustainable COWI’s focus is on all environmental issues waste from the UK. PROMISING RESULTS FOR methods are in high demand. development. ranging from analyses of environmental The certificate, which is awarded by the INNOVATIVE PURIFICATION OF › Policy on diversity and legislation and areas for improvement What cannot be recycled is incinerated, Sweden Green Building Council, requires CONTAMINATED GROUNDWATER The PhD project is headed by PhD student inclusion. to climate change mitigation measures, and the energy generated during the incinthe building to be climate-neutral from start In 2019, several years of research into a Bente Højlund Hyldegaard, COWI’s depart› Policy on occupational health solid waste, water supply and hands-on eration process is recovered to be used for to finish – it must have net zero CO2 emischeaper and more sustainable way of treating ment for Waste and Contaminated Sites, and and safety. solutions for saving species when carrying district heating and electricity. Even though sions throughout the construction process contaminated groundwater revealed very carried out in collaboration with the Technical › FIDIC Code of Ethics, out building or infrastructure projects. We the flue gas is thoroughly cleaned off all and when the store is in operation. promising results as an attractive alternative University of Denmark, the Capital Region adopted by COWI. strive to include environmental aspects and environmentally harmful components, waste to existing methods. of Denmark and the U.S. Army Corps of to upgrade and develop our skills in this incineration generates around 400,000 This means that the accumulated carbon Engineers. All policies are available at entire area to be able to propose new and tonnes of CO2 each year – equivalent to the dioxide debt is offset by various environThe new method goes like this: You treat www.cowi.com/sustainability more environmentally friendly solutions to annual emissions from 200,000 cars. mental measures such as locally produced groundwater contaminated with carcinogenic Depending on further funding, the next step and www.cowi.com/policies our customers. Below is a selection of such renewable energy. chlorinated solvents using an electric current. is to test the promising laboratory results in projects from 2019. In practical terms, this means establishing a real environment. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 19 UN GLOBAL COMPACT CO2 CO2 CO2 CO2 Photo: Eivind Haugstad Kleiven/DNT Scope 2 STRATEGY TO INCREASE PROTECTION OF INDIRECT NATURE ALONG TREKKING ROUTES The Norwegian Trekking Association (DNT) wants to make outdoor life even greener and implement a new sustainability strategy, and in 2019, the organisation Scope 3 Scope 1 Scope 3 asked COWI for assistance. INDIRECT DIRECT INDIRECT Among other things, the parties will work together on the new strategy and COWI will assist in defining parameters. The parameters will map everything from consumption of green energy in cottages to environmentally friendly ELECTRICITY transport, communication on sustainability and inclusion. CONSUMPTION PURCHASED GOODS AND HEAT SERVICES CARBON FOOTPRINT CONSUMPTION COMPANY VEHICLES (CARS) REPORT 2019 BUSINESS TRAVEL ON-SITE ENERGY In 2019, COWI decided to become carbon PRODUCTION neutral in 2020. The goal is to reduce own WASTE (E.G. SOLAR MANAGEMENT PANELS direct and indirect CO2 missions by 70% in CARBON FOOTPRINT 2019 DIVIDED IN SCOPES AND DIESEL 2030 compared to 2008. An action plan to GENERATORS) reach this target is in the making. The end target is zero emissions by 2050. 730 tons CO2 e; 3% EMPLOYEE COMMUTING The decision on becoming carbon neutral has been put into effect by initiating own SCOPE 1; 3 130 tons direct emissions measures for reducing CO2 emissions CO2 e; and following the PAS 2060 standard 13% SCOPE 2; indirect LEASED ASSETS for Carbon Neutrality. Carbon neutrality emissions (E.G. SERVERS) is reached by investing in carbon credit from energy offsets from a Gold Standard renewable production energy project, with the objective to SCOPE 3; gradually source fewer annual offset credits indirect 19 650 tons CO2 e; emissions when own mitigation measures gradually 84% from upstream increases towards year 2030. The chosen activities offset project is developed according to the UN Framework Convention on UPSTREAM DOWNSTREAM Climate Change (UNFCCC) methodology ACTIVITIES COWI ACTIVITIES and verification procedures, and the Gold Standard ensures increased focus FIGURE 1 CO2 emissions in 2019 for COWI group divided into scope 1, 2 and 3. See figure for explanation of the scopes. FIGURE 2 Scope 1, 2 and 3 with examples from COWI. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 21 UN GLOBAL COMPACT on environmental and socio-economic Generally, the data consists both of actual issues for sustainable development. The The GHG protocol is developed data on consumption and estimates. CO2 measured and calculated CO2 reductions factors for the consumptions are estimated CARBON FOOTPRINT 2019 PER EMPLOYEE PER CATEGORY in collaboration between World are verified by an independent verification Resources Institute (WRI) typically based on national average 6,0 and validation company accredited by the and World Business Council emissions or for energy the specific fuel UNFCCC. The sourced carbon credits have for Sustainable Development type. Actual data are gathered on energy unique serial numbers and are being retired (WBCSD). The new methodology consumption, transportation, waste 5,0 from the Gold Standard carbon credit requires the emissions mapped to management and water consumption for registry in the name of COWI to ensure cover scope 1, 2 and 3, as defined permanent COWI offices with more than 30 Tons CO2 e / employee transparency and to promote the voluntary employees. Furthermore, some central data 4,0 by the GHG protocol. Some action taken by COWI. emisisons, especially downstream on the consumption of goods is retrieved, and capital goods emissions, have while other is estimated. 3,0 As part of our reporting on the been excluded from the accounts. Communication on Progress, we have for The scopes are explained in the TOTAL CO2 EMISSIONS the last 13 years published our carbon figure on page 19 and examples of Total emissions amount to 23,500 tons 2,0 footprint for Denmark. Starting in 2018, we emissions from COWI is displayed. CO2 eq., which equals an emission of published our carbon footprint for the entire 3.2 tons CO2 eq. per full time employee. In 2018, we recorded a CO2 emission of 1,0 COWI organisation. 13,400 tons CO2 eq. The large difference The overall results of Carbon footprint report Overall the emissions are divided into the is due to the changes in methodology with 0,0 following categories; energy, business travel, reporting of e.g. employee commuting and for 2019 show that COWI group emitted United North Other COWI purchased goods. Furthermore, Arkitema Denmark India Norway Sweden Middle East Africa Lithuania Poland 23,500 tons CO2 covering all scopes. employee commuting, purchased goods Kingdom America countries group (approximately 500 employees) became and services and generated waste. The CO2 a member of the COWI group in 2019. METHODOLOGY emissions shown are in CO2 equivalents, Business travel Energy Employee commuting Purchased goods and services Waste mangement In 2019, COWI changed its methodology thus covering all greenhouse gases. The emissions vary from country to country to measure the Group’s CO2 emissions of both due to different energy sources and FIGURE 3 CO2 emission per full time employee per category per country. its business meaning going forward we will The change means that comparison differences in consumption. The following be using the recognised Green House Gas with previous years are only possible in graph shows the CO2 per full time employee ENERGY EMPLOYEE COMMUTING GENERATED WASTE (GHG) protocol. some categories. in different countries and from where the Emissions from energy consumption Employee commuting have been estimated COWI is a consulting company and CO2 emissions origin from. (heating, cooling and electricity) amount to based on assumptions of share of hence does not generate large amounts 4,920 tonnes CO2 eq. totalling 21 per cent transportation mean for each country. of waste from its offices. This is why just of our CO2 emissions. The emissions come The results estimate a CO2 emission of 0.3 per cent of the emissions stems from from a consumption of 65,300 MWh energy. 3,200 tonnes, equalling 13 % of the total waste management, totalling 60 tons CO2 In 2018 the consumption was 13,700 MWh emissions. A survey is expected for 2020 emissions. Furthermore, a large share which is a large increase, but this is due to to improve the data in this category. is recycled or incinerated with energy 1% improved data set and expanded scope. recovery, which saves CO2 emissions. 2% CARBON FOOTPRINT 2019 DIVIDED IN COUNTRIES Heating/cooling has not been regulated PURCHASED GOODS 3% 1% according to mean heat temperatures in AND SERVICES 3% the individual countries, and the results The category covers consumption of COWI is collaborating with Denmark can therefore fluctuate from year to year food and beverages, IT products, office HOLMRIS B8 in planting forests India around Denmark, with its first forest depending on the weather. equipment and supplies and water, as 4% project in Hasselager near Aarhus, Norway well as the transportation of these. Data is Denmark. The forests will be 5% BUSINESS TRAVEL completed based on economical values, Sweden planted by Growing Trees Network Emissions from road and rail, hotels and actual purchase data primarily depending Foundation and has multiple United Kingdom air amount to 11,760 tonnes CO2 eq. on our largest offices and then scaled on purposes besides absorbing CO2; 9% 46% totalling 50 per cent of COWI’s emissions. the number of employees, or estimations. North America as these forests are often planted This corresponds to 63 million kilometres Improved data collection of this category is on top of groundwater reserves, Middle East travelled. Per full time employee this equals expected in 2020. they also work as groundwater Africa 2,400 km driven and 6,300 km flown protection. Furthermore, the 13% in 2019. In 2018, this was respectively In 2019, the CO2 emission from the planted forests are public forests Lithuania 1,800 and 7,600 kilometres per employee, purchase of goods and services was enhancing biodiversity and the Poland hence there is an increase per employee estimated to 3,600 tonnes CO2 totalling 15 outdoor experience close to the 13% for road and rail travel due to improved per cent of emissions. The largest share cities. COWI purchases 5 trees Other countries data sets, but a decrease in air travel. came from the purchase of IT products for each new desk bought in Air travel, as always, accounts for a large followed by food and beverages. This Scandinavia and have in 2019 part of our climate impact: 35 per cent equals an emission of 500 kg CO2 eq. per planted 2,380 trees. FIGURE 3 CO2 emission per country. in 2019. full time employee. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 23 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Photo: CPH City & Port Development ANTI-CORRUPTION SMART ENERGY SYSTEMS IN FUTURE CITIES 01 PRINCIPLE: The 12 partners behind EnergyLab Nordhavn, one of Denmark’s biggest and most ambitious smart energy projects, presented Businesses should support their recommendations for how to accelerate sustainable and respect the protection and flexible energy systems in cities. A part of the answer is of internationally proclaimed intelligent and energy-efficient buildings. Together with the human rights. Technical University of Denmark (DTU), ABB and HOFOR, COWI engineers led the work on how smart buildings can optimise a city’s energy usage and support green living. Amon other things, the work demonstrated how intelligent management systems can pave the way to flexible energy usage in buildings and ensure greater integration of renewable sources. AGAINST ALL FORMS our business integrity policy and are familiar OF CORRUPTION with the COWI Whistle-blower system, We strongly believe and prove every day which can help the business and prevent that it is possible to achieve success future offences and unethical behaviour. without accepting or engaging in any form POLICIES, PRINCIPLES of corruption. We have a business integrity KEY ACTIVITIES AND OUTCOMES POLICY AND TOOL › violation of environmental AND TOOLS RELATING TO policy to support this belief, which states: In 2019, COWI’s business integrity compliprotection, health and safety GUIDELINE: COWI ANTI-CORRUPTION ance project continued to develop third-parlegislation. WHISTLE-BLOWER ty due diligence practice of customers and “We will not in our collaboration partners, and COWI’s global COWI wishes to maintain a high › unfair bidding procedures and › Integrity is one of COWI’s scientific misconduct. services or in any other business integrity training programme sucstandard of business ethics and › make the COWI Whistle-blower five values. encourages anyone to talk to their › Business integrity policy. activity, directly or cessfully continued in 2019 with mandatory line manager about concerns publicly available via www.cowi.com. › Corporate practice in business e-learning for all employees in COWI. indirectly, accept bribery, regarding business ethics. If they feel › continuously train our employees integrity. to maintain our culture of integrity extortion, fraud, collusion As part of our risk management system, uncomfortable doing so, they can use and honesty and inform them of the › COWI Whistle-blower. the COWI Whistle-blower system. › FIDIC Code of Ethics, adopted or any other undue twice a year, COWI reviews an internal list COWI Whistle-blower system. by COWI. of countries that our business lines define business activity.” as high-risk areas in terms of concerns To meet our objectives, we will: POLICY: BUSINESS INTEGRITY › ensure that any concerns raised related to personal security or business COWI wishes to maintain its impartiality Each entity in the COWI Group is required through the COWI Whistle-blower climate, the latter taking point of departure and independence, and contribute to implement business integrity manageare investigated, and appropriate in the Transparency International Corruption globally to a fair conduct of business, ment. This should be done in accordance action taken. Perceptions Index. We apply enhanced risk avoiding extraneous influence on with the FIDIC Code of Ethics, COWI’s busi› allow everyone, including employees, management, if exceptionally a project is selection, execution or compensation ness integrity policies and guidelines, and former employees, sub-contractors, carried out in one of those places. In 2019, procedures. We will not in our services the laws applicable in the company’s home agency staff and business partners, 101 countries were on the list, a minor or in any other activities, directly or country and the countries of operation. to use the COWI Whistle-blower. decrease from 102 in 2018. indirectly, accept bribery, extortion, › allow whistle-blower notifications fraud, collusion or any other undue In COWI, we believe that the adoption within: WHISTLE-BLOWER USE business activity. of good governance, transparency and › violation of law, regulations and The COWI’s Whistle-blower system funcaccountability into day-to-day business is internal policies. tions as it should, because it is used. Two To meet our objectives, we will: the best prevention against corruption. › misbehaviour with regard to cases were reported via our whistle-blower › continuously train our employees in COWI’s Whistle-blower system enables accounting and auditing. hotline in 2019 as opposed to nine cases in the area of business integrity. employees and external stakeholders to › fraud, theft and conflicts of interest. 2018. These were all reported to the Board › continuously develop and maintain report anonymously any violations of our › improper giving or receiving of Directors, investigated at corporate level proper tools to help and guide principles on business integrity and sustainof gifts. or passed on to local management for our employees. able development. It is important that our › discrimination and harassment. follow-up. employees have a joint understanding of COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 25 UN GLOBAL COMPACT ABOUT GLOBAL COMPACT Global Compact is an initiative launched in January 1999 by former UN Secretary – General Kofi Annan. It is a call to businesses worldwide to help build social and environmental frameworks that ensure open and free markets and help people everywhere secure a chance to share the benefits of the new global economy. The Global Compact encompasses ten principles spanning everything from international declarations on human rights and labour rights to environmental and corruption issues. MAN-MADE PENINSULA BEING BUILT IN GOTHENBURG, SWEDEN Masthuggskajen is one of Gothenburg’s biggest urban development projects and will form a new district with a mixture of urban dynamism and local life. One of the toughest challenges for the project is the construction of an artificial peninsula, which is to be built out into the river. The development of the new peninsula calls for extensive construction work of great technical complexity. Among COWI’s responsibilities are tender documents for a turnkey contract for the groundworks and the load-bearing structures. Other responsibilities include the coordination of technical solutions between the project and other nearby works at all stages from planning and design to completion. The area is part Photo: Kanozi Arkitekter of Älvstaden and the project is the first to be certified under Citylab, the Sweden Green Building Council’s certification system for sustainable urban development. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 27 UN GLOBAL COMPACT ABOUT COWI COWI is a leading consulting group that With our almost 90 years of experience in creates value for customers, people and the business, we have created landmarks in society through our unique 360° approach. many of the countries in which we operate. We supply services to customers within We are a leader within our fields of work, infrastructure, buildings, energy and the because our more than 7,100 employees environment and water. We aim to create are leaders within theirs. innovative and sustainable solutions for our customers through world-class compeTogether with our customers, we create cotencíes and close relationships. herence in tomorrow’s sustainable societies. Our stronghold is Scandinavia, but with offices all over the world, we combine global presence with local knowledge, which enables us to take on projects wherever our customers are. At any given moment, we are involved in more than 12,000 projects. ACHIEVING THE WORLD’S FIRST ZERO CO2 GROCERY STORE In 2019, Lidl, a global grocery store chain, engaged COWI in its efforts to make Lidl’s store on Gotland, Sweden, certified as the world’s first completely climate-neutral grocery store under the new NollC02 (Zero CO2) scheme. The scheme has been developed as an important step in enabling Sweden to reach its climate goals and is one of the toughest in the world. The certificate, which is awarded by the Sweden Green Building Council, requires the building to be climate-neutral from start to finish – it must have net zero CO2 emissions throughout the construction process and when the store is in operation. This means that the accumulated carbon dioxide debt is offset by various environmental measures such as locally produced renewable energy. In connection with the launch of the first trial version of the NollCO2 certification, COWI examined ways for a Lidl store to meet the stringent requirements and produced a roadmap for the project. At the project design stage, COWI headed the certification work and ensured that the targets could be met by drawing up a climate budget and producing a payment plan for any CO2 emissions that arise. FROM TOXIC LANDFILL TO LUSH NATURE For almost 30 years, Langøya was used as disposal point for toxic waste. The landfill is now closed, and a top cap has been installed to ensure that the waste does not pose a risk of further contamination to local groundwater or the surrounding sea. Additionally, the historical landfill had ambitions to become a natural habitat for endangered species. Three years ago, COWI began efforts to further rehabilitate the landfill site in order to transform it into a recreational area. Step one involved adding a thin layer of soil to the northern part of the landfill site, which was then sown. Big flakes of soil as well as seeds from neighbouring islands where brought to the landfill site. By the summer of 2019, some 110 square metres of red-listed dewberries and star thistles were in bloom – both species are red-listed in Norway. Observations also include the rare fly orchid.
