FURTHER DIGITAL FURTHER INCLUSIVE FURTHER SUSTAINABLE 2018-2019 Sustainability Report We are carrying forward the legacy of our founders, the Anatolian farmers who started the tradition of responsible banking 66 years ago, into the future with our sustainable banking activities. Supporting more than 350 thousand farmers, whom we have worked alongside with for three generations, Increasing the production of our SMEs and commercial companies and strengthening employment, Enabling our women to participate in production and the economy more effectively, Adding hundreds of thousands of new people to the nearly 111 thousand we have already introduced energy efficiency to, Supporting the development of our human resources and enhancing welfare in both business and private lives, Making all of our decisions according to Corporate Governance Principles, Observing the social and environmental impacts of the loans that we provide, Reducing our operational impacts on the environment, Carrying out projects and activities intended for social inclusion and development, Increasing financial access and production by digitalizing end-to-end, In brief, we are adding value to society, human and nature and as Turkey’s sustainable bank, we are working with all of our might for the future. Contents About Our Report 5 Chairman’s Message 7 STRATEGY and MANAGEMENT 8 Digital Transformation for Sustainable Banking 8 Sustainability Management Structure and Monitoring Tools 10 Stakeholder Engagement and Our Focus Areas 12 OUR CUSTOMERS 14 Sustainable Agriculture 16 Financing of Sustainable Manufacturing and Employement 20 Inclusive Finance 24 Energy Efficiency 28 OUR EMPLOYEES 32 Occupational Health and Safety 34 Employees’ Rights 35 Training and Development 36 Diversity and Equal Opportunity 37 OUR SHAREHOLDERS AND INVESTORS 38 Corporate Governance Performance 40 Social and Environmental Impact Management in Underwriting Process 41 OUR SOCIETY 42 Environmental Impact Management 44 Barrier-Free Banking 46 Support for Development through Education 46 Inclusivity in Culture and Arts 47 APPENDIX 48 Memberships and Endorsed Initiatives 48 Communication Platforms with Our Stakeholders 49 Foreign Borrowings 50 Awards 51 Performance Tables 52 Social Performance Indicators 52 Environmental Performance Indicators 59 United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Progress Statement 61 GRI Content Index 62 Contact Information 69 4 About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 5 ABOUT OUR REPORT We attach importance to the and December 31, 2019. This report has harmonization of our activities and been prepared in accordance with the processes with sustainability principles, GRI Standards: Comprehesive option. as well as determining the current situation and progress and guiding the Our report is also aligned with the future. In this context, we believe that requirements of the United Nations sustainability reporting in accordance Global Compact Principles (UNGC) and with global criteria is of critical importance includes our direct contributions to the in order to create strategies that comply United Nations Sustainable Development with sustainability principles, to measure Goals (SDGs) and their targets. the work done and to share it with all stakeholders. In the report, “Bank” and “Our Bank” all refer to Şekerbank T.A.Ş. unless specified As Şekerbank T.A.Ş., with our otherwise. The data and information sustainability reports published on a in the report covers Şekerbank T.A.Ş’s biennial basis, we present our Bank’s banking activities in Turkey, which economic, social and environmental operates with 238 branches, seven impacts on key stakeholder groups, regional directorates and the main our performance in these areas and headquarter in Istanbul. the support we give to sustainable development to our stakeholders. You may also contact us for any questions and comments concerning our report at This Sustainability Report, the fourth we surdurulebilirlik@sekerbank.com.tr. have published thus far, indicates our environmental, social and economic performance between January 1, 2018 For information about Şekerbank’s corporate profile, please visit: Mission, Vision and Values 2019 Annual Report Page 2 Shareholding Structure 2019 Annual Report Page 6 Please see our Financial Indicators 2019 Annual Report Page 11 2019 Annual Şekerbank: From Past to the Present 2019 Annual Report Page 12 Report. Digital Transformation Program 2019 Annual Report Page 18 GRI 102-45, GRI 102-46 About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 7 CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE In 2019, we accelerated the “Transformation Program”, which we launched in 2018 by taking the first steps to digitize and renew our Bank’s technological infrastructure from end to end. Thanks to this Program, we were able to enter into the difficult period caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, which accelerated digital transformation all over the world, stronger and better equipped. This Program also enabled us to maintain uninterrupted service, including in rural areas. We continue our digitalization journey in order to be better equipped and to make our sustainable banking activities more accessible during and after the new normal. In 2019, we accelerated the During the reporting period, we “Transformation Program”, which we continued to take an active role in launched in 2018 by taking the first international initiatives to support the steps to digitize and renew our Bank’s financing of socially inclusive and technological infrastructure from end environmentally sustainable growth. to end. Thanks to this Program, we With the United Nations Global were able to more strongly enter the Compact (UNGC) we signed in 2015, we challenging period caused by the adopted global sustainability principles Covid-19 pandemic, which accelerated and aligned our Bank’s strategy digital transformation all over the world. with the United Nations Sustainable We quickly adapted to the conditions Development Goals. The Sustainable of the pandemic period and continued Development Goals served as the to provide uninterrupted service to our main guidelines of our activities in the customers by prioritizing digital service reporting period as well. Today, we channel projects among our digital continue to increase our commitments transformation investments during to global goals by directly serving the reporting period. We continue our sub-targets of the 11 among the 17 investments and projects within the Sustainable Development Goals. scope of the “Transformation Program”, Dear Stakeholders, in order to be better equipped for the With our high level environmental, pandemic period that has not only social and governance performance With the beginning of 2020, the caused radical changes in every aspect in sustainability management, we Covid-19 outbreak, which the whole of life but will also establish the new have been entitled to be included in world had to face, has increased the normal that will occur afterwards. In this the Borsa Istanbul (BIST) Sustainability importance of sustainability more than way, we have ensured our sustainable Index in 2018 and 2019. Furthermore, ever. Within the scope of sustainable banking activities are more accessible. we became one of the 130 founding banking, we present Şekerbank’s signatory banks, with a total asset size economic, social and environmental The pandemic period has wreaked exceeding 47 trillion dollars, committed performance figures in 2018 and 2019 the highest economic damage to small to implementing the United Nations with our fourth sustainability report. businesses, tradesmen and farmers Environment Program Finance Initiative around the world. As Şekerbank, we (UNEP FI) “Responsible Banking The Covid-19 pandemic has been and have supported small businesses, Principles (Principles for Responsible continues to be a milestone that led tradesmen and farmers, who constitute Banking)”, launched at the United to radical changes not only in public our Bank’s traditional customer base, Nations General Assembly in New York health, but also in economic and with many campaigns and projects. in September 2019. social life, environment, production, With our campaigns that include grace income distribution and future-oriented periods for urgent needs, we have We provide Turkey’s contribution to approaches. This period indicates supported many people, including sustainable development under the farmers, tradesmen, SMEs and women main topics that can be summarized as an important repositioning and entrepreneurs, as well as healthcare supporting sustainable agriculture, local transformation for the banking sector, professionals, pharmacists, restaurants, production, employment and exports, which has begun to question its future tourism professionals, and stationeries. financing energy efficiency, ensuring with the 2008 global financial crisis. that more farmers, tradesmen, women In line with our pioneering role in entrepreneurs and SMEs have access to With the purpose of carrying our title sustainable banking, which has been financing, and encouraging widespread as ‘Turkey’s sustainable bank’ into the over the past 66 years since our savings. future in a better-equipped manner, establishment and during this period, we we have considered this period, which have maintained an exemplary model Respectfully yours, stands out for its uncertainties, as a we have presented in our strategic period for investment, renewal and orientation in the Turkish banking sector Dr. Hasan Basri Göktan improvement as is the case in all eras of towards sustainable finance, with a Chairman of the Board of Directors, economic turbulence. deep sense of responsibility. Executive Board Member About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 8 S T R AT E G Y A N D MANAGEMENT With the “Transformation Program”, we aim to increase the number of people who benefit from agriculture and SME banking, which are at the core of our strategy. We want to more effectively finance environmentally sustainable and socially inclusive growth and carry our goal of “supporting production” forward into the future. In this respect, we are combining our deep-rooted local experience with international digital applications and aim to offer an examplary banking model in both Turkey and throughout the globe. Digital Transformation for Sustainable Banking Founded on October 12, 1953, by all over the country. As Şekerbank, farming entrepreneurs, who were we continue to develop our “Anatolian members of hundreds of thousands Banking” mission in the perspective of beet cooperatives in Anatolia, of “sustainable banking” and achieve with the aim of supporting economic many firsts in the Turkish banking development and the agricultural sector in this field. industry based on rural development, Şekerbank offers an examplary model Thus, in 2019, we accelerated the in Turkey in the field of responsible “Transformation Program”, which banking by maintaining its same we launched in 2018 by taking the establishment mission for 66 years. first steps to digitize and renew our Bank’s technological infrastructure As a reflection of the collective culture from end to end. During the Covid-19 stemming from its foundation, our Bank pandemic, sustainability has become has always played a pioneering role more important than ever. Thanks to in supporting small producers in the the “Transformation Program”, we are Turkish banking sector, encouraging maintaining our activities in this field widespread savings and financing without interruption and are reaching production. out to much wider audiences. Thanks to these strong roots, we have We serve in each region of Turkey been supporting farmers, tradesmen through 238 branches and seven and SME customers for generations regional directorates, distributed throughout 67 provinces and 87 non-central districts, 72% of which are located outside of the three major In this report, in which we share our metropolises and most have been 2018-2019 sustainability performance, serving in the same address for more you can also read the summary and than half a century. Thus, we are stories about a number of positive taking our role in financial inclusion to effects of our digitalization investments a new level with our ongoing digital in the reporting period on our transformation investments. Through customers and during the pandemic of the on-site tablet banking that accesses 2020. those who are unable to physically visit our branches, we are able to offer On the other hand, we believe that financing opportunities to shopkeepers connecting the local with the global and farmers in coffee shops or in the serves all the goals of sustainability. field. We have developed the first With this awareness, we continue to mobile banking product range primarily take an active role in international directed to the farming and craftsmen initiatives in the field of sustainability. segments in Turkey. We combine our know-how in leading About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 9 platforms such as the In this context, we United Nations Global strategically continue Compact (UNGC), our activities under the Women’s Empowerment topics of sustainable Principles (WEPs) and agriculture, energy the United Nations efficiency and combating Environment Program climate change, financial Finance Initiative (UNEPinclusion and banking FI) with our expertise in for women, as well as local banking. Since 2010, supporting production we regularly report the and employment. We set carbon footprint resulting an example for our sector from our activities to and carry our ‘Turkey’s international investors sustainable bank’ through the Carbon title into the future by Disclosure Project (CDP). transferring our resources to environmentally We have been sustainable and socially implementing the social inclusive investments. and environmental management system prepared under the guidance of the International Finance Corporation (IFC), a member of World Bank Group, and its performance standards in all lending processes since 2009, encouraging the real sector to make sustainable investments. About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 10 We renewed our data center from end to end by increasing our technological infrastructure and our service’s quality within the “Transformation Program”, and moved our data center to the Headquarters. Our new data facility center is equipped with the most advanced physical and cyber security systems and sensitive technological equipment. Şekerbank’s new data facility center, which has adopted world-class standards in terms of digital data and processing security, also provides uninterrupted service against risk factors such as earthquakes, fire, heat, humidity and energy cuts. Sustainability Management Structure and Monitoring Tools Within the framework of our Banking Committee is affiliated with field for both senior management and sustainable development approach and the Board of Directors. Through our all employees, we ensure that our sustainability strategy, we believe in Sustainable Development Banking employees receive training to increase the importance of a good governance Division, we regularly inform all their knowledge and awareness structure in terms of creating long-term internal and external stakeholders on sustainable development, value for our Bank and for all of our about our Bank’s activities on behalf environmental issues and social stakeholders and in contributing to the of sustainable banking, as well as awareness when necessary. country’s targets. prepare all reports within the scope of sustainability management, and carry For this reason, the Sustainable out processes related to compliance Banking Committee, which was with regulations and policies established in order to develop the established at the Board of Directors sustainability activities within our level. Bank and to integrate the sustainable development approach into all While the Sustainable Development activities, coordinates all our operations Regulation plays an essential role in within this scope. The Sustainability the internalization of our vision in this Risk Management and Internal Control At Şekerbank, we conduct control mechanism, which is compatible with of these processes and mechanisms and inspection activities to assess, the structure and scope of our activities through the Internal Audit Department, measure, analyze and monitor the risks and is also responsive to changing Internal Control and Compliance that may arise from our strategies and conditions. We aim to ensure the Department and Risk Management activities by using the Internal Systems correct and effective functioning of all Department. Risk Management Structure Board of Directors Senior Management The Audit Committee’s assessment of the Internal Units within internal systems Systems in 2019 is included on pages 84-85 in our 2019 Annual Committees established by the Board of Directors within the scope of the Risk Management System Report, and detailed information on the Risk Management System Committees established by the senior management within the scope of the Risk Management System and Strategy is on pages 86-89. About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 11 Ethics Management We consider the fight against corruption control system is implemented through Line’, which protects employees’ and bribery to be one of our main our pertinent Internal Systems unit. confidentiality, to all employees in policies within the framework of our our internal communication portal ethical values and as an entity we must Additionally, the Internal Audit Group for the notification of such matters as manage diligently in our sustainability Head regularly audits operational violations of such regulations. During journey. The ‘Code of Ethics in Banking’ transactions in our branches. the reporting period, no notification was is one of the mandatory trainings Operational transactions were audited received regarding corruption in our assigned to our employees. in 83% of the branches in 2018 Bank. and 100% of the branches in 2019. In the 2018-2019 period, we provided Moreover, during this period audits As Turkey’s first bank to achieve 7,700 hours of training to approximately were carried out at the Headquarters a corporate governance score, 4,800 employees within the scope and focused on fraud investigation Şekerbank was the recipient of the of combating corruption (Methods using computer-aided remote control “ETİKA 2017 Turkey’s Most Ethical for Detecting and Preventing Fraud methods. Company” award for the third time in Banking, Features of Original in 2018. The Ethical Values Center Banknotes and Counterfeit Banknotes, In order to detect and prevent actions Foundation (EDMER) rewards Fight Against Laundering of Proceeds and transactions that may cause companies that are meticulous in of Crime and Financing of Terrorism, consequences against our Bank maintaining their activities in line with Fraud Investigation and Remote or our employees, we provide an business ethics and ethical values in Auditing Techniques etc.). Furthermore, ‘Employee Complaint and Notification company management. within the scope of ethics and compliance (Information and Internet Law, Information Crimes, Information Security, Competition Law and Consumer Rights in Bank Transactions, etc.), 3,500 employees received 6,700 hours of face-to-face and online trainings. As Şekerbank, we care not only about our employees but also senior management’s compliance with ethical principles. As a result, each newly elected Board Member signs a declaration of “Code of Ethics in Banking”, which reflects the corporate sensitivity of our Bank and includes the sector’s professional code of ethics. These 30 ethical principles that try to refer to every aspect of management and operations are also accepted as the bank’s business principles and compliance with these principles is one of the most important elements of our Human Resources Policy. If there is a concern of noncompliance with these principles or in case of any suspicion, a About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 12 Stakeholder Engagement and Our Focus Areas At Şekerbank, we carry out our activities with the vision of We continue the stakeholder materiality studies, which growth while creating value for all of our stakeholders. We we carried out in 2008 for the first time, with the review define our stakeholders as all persons and organizations meetings we hold every two years. In this reporting period, that our Bank is in contact with, who are affected by our differing from previous years, we describe our focus areas in products-services and activities, or that can affect our Bank’s four main stakeholder groups. With our positive performance achievement of its corporate goals with its actions and within the scope of our focus topics, we directly serve the decisions. sub-targets of 11 of the 17 goals set by the United Nations to achieve by 2030. Considering that different stakeholder groups’ evaluations about our Bank may differ depending on their interests, we communicate with all our key stakeholders on special platforms for them, informing our stakeholders about our activities and paying attention to obtaining their opinions on many issues, including our sustainability impacts. Details of these communication channels can be found in the Communication Platforms with Our Stakeholders table. About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 13 SUSTAINABLE OCCUPATIONAL AGRICULTURE HEALTH AND FO S CU EA SAFETY S AR FINANCING OF A S EMPLOYEES’ FO SUSTAINABLE AS CU DETERMINE OUR FOCU RIGHTS RE MANUFACTURING S TO SA OCES REA PR S NATIONAL AND INTERVIEWS WITH INTERNATIONAL DIFFERENT INCLUSIVE SECTOR ANALYSIS DEPARTMENTS AND TRAINING AND FINANCE MANAGERS FROM DEVELOPMENT VARIOUS LEVELS STAKEHOLDERS KEY GUIDANCE FROM SUSTAINABILITY INTERNATIONAL SURVEY WITH AN ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY EMPLOYEE DIVERSITY AND EFFICIENCY EXPERTS OUR CUSTOMERS OUR EMPLOYEES PARTICIPATION RATE EQUAL OF 83% OPPORTUNITY OUR ENVIRONMENSHAREHOLDERS OUR TAL IMPACT AND INVESTORS SOCIETY MANAGEMENT CORPORATE WORKSHOP WITH KEY GOVERNANCE PARTICIPATION OF THE STAKEHOLDERS COMMUNICATION PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS PLATFORMS WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS BARRIER-FREE BANKING PR S OC ESS REA TO SA DETERMINE OUR FOCU SUPPORT FOR S CU DEVELOPMENT AR FO EA SOCIAL AND THROUGH S AR EA ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT CU S EDUCATION S MANAGEMENT IN INCLUSIVITY IN FO UNDERWRITING PROCESS CULTURE AND ARTS GRI 102-40, GRI 102-42, GRI 102-43, GRI 102-44, GRI 102-47 About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix OUR CUSTOMERS About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 15 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT FOCUS AREAS TARGETS WE SUPPORT SDGs Sustainable Agriculture 2.3. By 2030, double the agricultural productivity and incomes of small-scale food producers, in particular women, indigenous peoples, family farmers, pastoralists and fishers, including through secure and equal access to land, other productive resources and inputs, knowledge, financial services, markets and opportunities for value addition and non-farm employment 2.4. By 2030, ensure sustainable food production systems and implement resilient agricultural practices that increase productivity and production, that help maintain ecosystems, that strengthen capacity for adaptation to climate change, extreme weather, drought, flooding and other disasters and that progressively improve land and soil quality 5.a. Undertake reforms to give women equal rights to economic resources, as well as access to ownership and control over land and other forms of property, financial services, inheritance and natural resources, in accordance with national laws 17.17. Encourage and promote effective public, public-private and civil society partnerships, building on the experience and resourcing strategies of partnerships Financing of Sustainable 8.3. Promote development-oriented policies that support productive activities, Manufacturing decent job creation, entrepreneurship, creativity and innovation, and encourage the formalization and growth of micro-, smalland medium-sized enterprises, including through access to financial services 9.3. Increase the access of small-scale industrial and other enterprises, in particular in developing countries, to financial services, including affordable credit, and their integration into value chains and markets 17.17. Encourage and promote effective public, public-private and civil society partnerships, building on the experience and resourcing strategies of partnerships Inclusive Finance 2.3. By 2030, double the agricultural productivity and incomes of small-scale food producers, in particular women, indigenous peoples, family farmers, pastoralists and fishers, including through secure and equal access to land, other productive resources and inputs, knowledge, financial services, markets and opportunities for value addition and non-farm employment 8.10. Strengthen the capacity of domestic financial institutions to encourage and expand access to banking, insurance and financial services for all 5.a. Undertake reforms to give women equal rights to economic resources, as well as access to ownership and control over land and other forms of property, financial services, inheritance and natural resources, in accordance with national laws 17.17. Encourage and promote effective public, public-private and civil society partnerships, building on the experience and resourcing strategies of partnerships Energy Efficiency 7.2. By 2030, increase substantially the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix 7.3. By 2030, double the global rate of improvement in energy efficiency 17.17. Encourage and promote effective public, public-private and civil society partnerships, building on the experience and resourcing strategies of partnerships About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix S U S TA I N A B L E AG R I C U LT U R E About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 17 Within the scope of the “Transformation Program”, which advances Şekerbank’s competencies in the field of financial inclusion, in 2019, we launched “Banki” tablet Project*, aimed at increasing the effectiveness of our Agricultural and Micro Customer Representatives in the field. Thanks to the project, we reached out to rural areas without branches and conducted loan applications in accordance with social distancing rules. We continued to provide uninterrupted service to our customers even when working with remote access due to the Covid-19 outbreak. The rapid rise in the world population and * As of October 2020, a total of 324 tablets are actively used, including the increase in the obtained by developing 129 businesses and 195 agricultural customer representatives. countries from the world GDP increased the number of people participating in consumption Sustainable Agriculture and consequently the food demand. On the other hand, the increase in agricultural areas in Figures* triggered by migration from rural areas to metropolises has revealed the future food 11% Share of agricultural 1.9 security problem at the highest level. loans in total cash TL loans Şekerbank’s founding purpose is to finance billion sustainable agriculture and it is the bank that +350 Volume of agricultural loans allocates the largest share in its portfolio to the thousand financing of agriculture in the Turkish banking The number of sector. Of our farmers to whom our Bank farmer customers 12 provides funds, 99% are small producers. For generations, over 350,000 farmers across Turkey continue production with the support employees of Şekerbank. 250 Regional Agricultural Sales As Şekerbank, considering the agricultural employees Managers sector as a strategic sector in the finance Agricultural of production today, we aim to realize our mission to support Anatolian farmers, 139 Banking Customer Representatives the source of our capital throughout our branches establishment, by enabling more resources Number of agriculture to be accessible through agricultural banking branches activities, thus also contributing to the development of our country. *As of year-end 2019 Stakeholder’s Review During the pandemic period, I received support only from Şekerbank, and set up my own greenhouse. The most important difference between Şekerbank and other banks is the approach of the employees, the reasonable price of the products and the basis on harvest time for farmers. Şekerbank meets all of the needs I expect from a bank as my guide in the right term with the right products. Fatih Özpak-Farmer Finike/Antalya About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 18 Reaching out to over 113 thousand Harvest Card: Preferred by 150 farming families! Thousand Farmers! Hasat Kart, which we developed to provide easy access to finance for farmers, meets the short-term cash needs of farmers with its two separate limits and enables them to purchase agricultural inputs such as diesel, feed, and fertilizer from contracted merchants. Payments are made once a year depending on the period when the producer provides agricultural income. We started a project that was the first of its kind in the world in 2014 called “Family Farming Banking” with which we aimed to prevent farmers abandoning their land for economic reasons, migration from rural areas to the city and the loss of land being divided due to inheritance. During the reporting period, with the applications included in As of the end of 2019, Şekerbank has approximately “Family Farming Banking” we continued to offer products 150 thousand Harvest Card customers. Farmers can use and services that mediates joint action in agricultural the cash limits offered with Hasat Card by taking cash input purchases by withdrawals from Şekerbank ATMs, as well as all banks ATMs and PTT ATMs or via Bank counters. conducting collective agriculture from merging small land to supporting rural development and from increasing efficiency in agricultural production to the reduction of costs. In the 20182019 period, through Family Banking, we reached out to 22 thousand farming families and provided 3 billion TL in new financing. Our Agricultural Customer Representatives have tried to identify the needs of cooperatives and producers on-site, by visiting them in every environment they are in whether it is the farm or the village coffee house. In this context, approximately 1,000 village visits were made and nearly 10 thousand farmers were interviewed. About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 19 Support the Manufacturer via TMO Support to Combating Climate Card! Change Through Energy Efficient Agriculture! We believe that achieving energy efficiency in agriculture will have a great impact on our country’s efficiency in total production and on reducing the impacts of climate change. Therefore, we aim to support our farmers to produce more efficiently by reducing their energy consumption through Agricultural EKOkredi, offered under our EKOkredi product, which finances energy efficiency. Thanks to the “Modern Irrigation Equipment Loan” we developed in this scope, we enable our farmer stakeholders to use less water in a more efficient way and therefore decrease their cost of production due to the savings on labor and energy for a better yield. With the Şekerbank TMO Card put into service in 2017, we continued to mediate the delivery of manufacturers’ products to TMO in 2019. Producers who receive the TMO Card from Şekerbank branches as soon as they request to can receive their products with TMO purchasing points without a stock cost. In 2019, TMO Kart was delivered to approximately 1,000 farmers and a product payment of approximately TL 6 million was made by Şekerbank. Harvest Support Loan Campaign TL 610 million loans were extended to approximately 26 thousand producers within the scope of the “Harvest Support Loan Campaign”, organized to provide much-needed funds by the producers to harvest their product, for which they exerted great effort to cultivate, and to sell when the price is fair and not Advertisement text: Şekerbank provides agricultural EKOkredi upto discounted when the product is 60 months, with payment dates adjusted to harvest seasons to abundant. support our farmers’ savings on energy and labor. About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix FINANCING OF SUSTAINABLE MANUFACTURING AND EMPLOYMENT About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 21 We are expanding our support for widespread economic growth by renewing our technological infrastructure and through digital channels are becoming even further accessible to SMEs, which account for 54% of the Bank’s total loans. Within the scope of the “Transformation Program”, with the “Customer On Board Phase” project, we reduced our processing time, which was previously completed in 30 minutes on average, to 7 minutes by reducing the number of signatures and documents necessitated. Financing of Sustainable Manufacturing in Figures Establishing an economic infrastructure that will ensure sustainable growth 54% in Turkey, encouraging value-added 5.6 Share of SME production in sectors with intense TL loans billion competitive power and supporting exports and employment are the top 80 SME Banking thousand loans priority in national economy programs. (approximately) Active SME During the reporting period, we customer continued to support productive SMEs TL 1.1 that have been the lifeline of the billion country’s economy in terms of its share in economic activity such as production, TL 2.3 Demand deposit in the SME banking billion segment investment, employment and exports. (17% increase) Today, the 54% share allocated by Time deposit volume Şekerbank for SME loans in its own loan portfolio is double the amount of the 31,136 in the SME banking segment The number of loan Turkish banking sector average. customers Stakeholder’s Review We import livestock from 10 countries in Europe and South America. Şekerbank was the first bank for our family business. Due to the advantages it offers during the pandemic period, Şekerbank was the only private bank we included amongst the banks we work with. We were impressed with the quality of service offered and the know-how of the branch employees regarding the bank’s products. A safe partner that serves as a safe harbor on rainy days is our family’s favorite bank, Şekerbank. İbrahim Ceren Company Owner About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 22 Loan with KGF Guarantee to SMEs As a bank that differentiates itself in its sector with its widespread customer base and deep-rooted expertise in SME banking, we have increased the volume of loans extended with the KGF guarantee within the scope of additional support packages for SMEs in this segment in cooperation with KGF that aims to provide financing for its customers who are unable to secure sufficient collateral, to TL 4.9 billion as of the end of 2019. More Than 55 Thousand Tradesmen and Businesses Prefer the “Üreten Card”! The number of “Üreten Cards”, which is the first commercial combo card product in the sector, in which Şekerbank enables tradesmen and businesses to both use it for their company expenditures and withdrawing credit from ATMs without going to the branch, has exceeded 55 thousand as of the end of the year. With the “Üreten Card”, we achieved a 45% increase in the bank’s commercial card turnover in 2019. About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 23 Transformation Program: End-to-End Automation in Loans With one of the most important objectives of our “Transformation Program” being to raise the quality of our assets, we have opened the Decision Support System to the usage of all of our branches. The system’s infrastructure provides accurate risk assessment and risk-sensitive limitation in the Bank’s target SME and agriculture segments. We took an important step toward sustainable growth with end-to-end automation, from entering the loan offer to the disbursement phase. In addition, we have increased our credit-underwriting rate to the best practices level by finalizing 75% of the offers in our branch locations. Furthermore, we implemented the statistical analytical models based on the data of our own SME customers with the “Transformation Program”. In this way, we accelerated our branches and increased customer satisfaction by offering automatic pricing specific to the customer. About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix INCLUSIVE FINANCE About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 25 Within the scope of our “Transformation Program”, we continue our efforts on establishing multiple and integrated channel structures under the priority of mobile channels. We are combining the digital world with our microfinancing lending model – the first and only one of its kind in Turkey. With this innovative approach, we are transforming the labor of the country’s women, who were not previously involved in the banking system, into production and economic added value. The number of active customers in Şeker Mobil Branch, which was renewed on the axis of providing perfect service to its customers, increased by 22%, while the number of transactions rose by 30% and volume of transactions by 29%. The rapid growth of the world’s population Inclusive Finance in has brought about the reduction in natural resources and future food supply risks, and Figures has made income inequality much more apparent in almost every country. In this context, not only governments, but also the 1,200 global financial sector, adopting more inclusive Number of women we strategies and promoting the equal distribution 1,150 provided “Financial Literacy Training” of resources has been one of the top priorities The number of (2019) in achieving sustainable development goals. producers we have provided microFulfilling our target of reaching the unbanked finance (2019) population, which is one of the main elements of our mission, by applying the international micro-finance lending method in our country, +5,000 The number of women we continue to reach out tradesmen, microwe have supported to enterprises and small farmer producers by supporting women producers and developing TL 900 become an employer in agriculture (3,140 million women in 2018-2019 digital banking channels. As of the end of period) Financing we have 2019, we have provided micro-finance support provided to women to more than 1,150 producers. entrepreneurs to date (40 million TL in 2018-2019 period) Stakeholder’s Review Women gain self-confidence by producing and earning, and this creates sustainable and positive effects in their lives. Contributing to our members economically, Şekerbank has carried out an essential activity in terms of social responsibility by contributing to the economy of both our region and our country by supporting women’s labor with various micro loans. Eda Hoşhan Founder and Chairwomen of “Battalgazi’nin Kalbi” Women’s Cooperative About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 26 Supporting Women Entrepreneurship Strengthening Women in Rural Areas! Entrepreneurship in Agriculture The more active participation of women in the economy, In 2018-2019, we supported the Strengthening Women production and social life is of critical importance in terms of Entrepreneurship in Agriculture program, initiated by the achieving development in our country as well as on a global Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry as part of “Family scale. Research shows that most of women in Anatolia Farming Banking”. This initiative aims to are unbanked. Supporting the rural female population is develop rural women also of great importance in terms of the education of girls, entrepreneurship. With reducing migration to metropolitan areas and continuity of 1,081 project owners from production. 17 provinces, we have supported more than 5 In 2019, we continued to support women’s entrepreneurship thousand women in total to and to increase women’s participation in education and be brought to the economy the workforce, especially in rural areas, by increasing as employers over the last financial inclusion and facilitating access to economic five years. As of the end of 2019, we provided TL resources. In 2019, we provided “Financial Literacy Training” 900 million in financing to to approximately 1,200 women within this context, based women entrepreneurs. Of on the fact that educating society is an important element this financing, TL 800 million of women’s empowerment. With these initiatives, we of was within the scope of supported many housewives to participate in the labor “Family Farming Banking”. market, and many women gained knowledge on basic financial issues. About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 27 Şekerbank: “Women’s SME Bank of the Year” Şekerbank received an honorable mention in the “Women’s SME Bank of the Year” category at the Global SME Finance Awards 2019 organized by SME Finance Forum. Account maintenance fee exemption and free transfer advantages were provided with the “Muhtarım Package”, while the mukhtars who applied to Şekerbank branches with a mukhtar identity document, were granted personal accident insurance Creating value with our strength with coverage of up to TL 5,000. In 2019, through a widespread branch we registered nearly network and upholding deep-rooted 4 thousand mukhtars to the group of relationships with locals! customers paying no fees and gave over We create value through our local banking competence and 2 thousand mukhtars our branches, 72% of which are located in Anatolia and most personal accident serving from the same address for more than half a century. insurance. In addition to these advantages; With the “Muhtarım Package”, Şekerbank has increased its we offered subscription fee-free credit facilities, and in support for the locally elected official mukhtars who hold 2019, we provided more than TL 15 million of funds to 555 an important place in our village and neighborhood culture. mukhtars. In this context, we have provided approximately TL 60 million of funds to nearly 2,500 producers. About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix ENERGY EFFICIENCY About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 29 We proudly celebrated the 10th anniversary of EKOkredi, one of the Bank’s most important offerings in financing sustainable development. Through EKOkredi, which expands further each year, from financing agriculture to insulation and renewable energy to waste management, we are focused on supporting Turkey’s sustainable development with opportunities brought on by advanced technology. In addition to reducing the negative effects caused by climate change, financing energy efficiency investments is one of the most important issues that the banking sector should EKOkredi’s 10-yearfocus on in terms of ensuring energy security both globally and locally. As a matter of fact, in history Turkey, which imports a large part of its energy, +159 supporting energy efficiency and renewable thousand +1 energy investments provides a significant Number of houses added value to the country’s economy. TL insulated within the scope of EKOkredi (14,000 in billion 2018-2019) As Şekerbank, we are one of the first banks to Nearly 111 Financing energy take into account the environmental and social thousand efficiency investments Number of customer impacts of lending activities in Turkey under the we financed (10,354 guidance of International Finance Corporation in 2018-2019) (IFC), a member of the World Bank Group. With 139 EKOkredi, which we developed in 2009 within million m3 the scope of financing energy efficiency, we 6.5 Savings in heating of the insulated buildings support all kinds of projects which increase (4 million m3 in energy efficiency such as insulation, solar and million tons 2018-2019) wind energy systems, waste treatment and Carbon emission management, natural gas conversion, A class 30.2 prevented by EKOkredi (0.4 million ton in 2018-2019) electrical devices, efficient heating and cooling billion kWh systems, efficient lighting systems and modern Energy saving through investments (1.6 billion irrigation equipment. To date, we have financed kWh in 2018-2019) the energy efficiency investments of nearly 111,000 SMEs, tradesmen, farmers and housing owners. Stakeholder’s Review We used EKOkredi to conduct the internal and external thermal insulation of our residential site. Our aim was to save heat energy and reduce environmental pollution. Thanks to the building insulation provided through EKOkredi, we have achieved a 20-25% reduction in our natural gas consumption. In addition, thermal insulation also ensures that less air conditioning is used in summer. In this case, we anticipate that the investment we made with EKOkredi will be returned within 3 years. We recommend EKOkredi, which has been the most beneficial and productive loan we have used so far, to all houses and housing estates. Bülend Kolkıran Villa Görkem Condominium Building Manager About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 30 International Award from EBRD! Şekerbank, the first bank that participated in “Turkey’s Residential Energy Efficiency Facility” (TuREEFF), held in cooperation with European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD), was awarded for EKOkredi in the 2019 TuREEFF Forum. Benefits of EKOkredi The Carbon Emissions Prevented The Energy Savings Achieved with EKOkredi* with EKOkredi* (CO2 million ton) (Billion kWh) 6.5 30.2 6.3 29.7 6.1 28.6 2019 2019 5.7 2018 26.5 2018 5.2 24.2 3.8 2017 17.2 2017 3.1 13.9 2.5 2016 2016 2015 2015 2014 20092014 2013 2013 20092012 *Cumulative results from 2009 to the present. About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 31 Collaborations for EKOkredi We cooperate with the IZODER (Association of Thermal Insulation, Waterproofing, Sound Insulation and Fireproofing Material Producers, Suppliers and Applicators) with the aim of financing energy-saving products and services. Thanks to the association’s technical consultancy, we have ensured that apartment and residential site managements, as well as the end consumers who receive insulation services throughout the country, will receive services in accordance with the “TS825 insulation standards” from the leading companies in the field of insulation material and applications. In addition, we offer our customers the opportunity to finance this service with favorable interest rates in the long term. Turkey’s “Sustainable Development” Representative As a result of an assessment conducted by Turkey’s Ministry of Development, Şekerbank’s project was named one of the best country applications in sustainable development and the green economy. Şekerbank participated in Rio+20 as the sole representative of the Turkish financial services industry in 2012. About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix O U R E M P L OY E E S About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 33 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT FOCUS AREAS TARGETS WE SUPPORT SDGs Occupational Health and Safety 8.8. Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working environments for all workers 17.17. Encourage and promote effective public, public-private and civil society partnerships, building on the experience and resourcing strategies of partnerships Employees’ Rights 8.8. Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working environments for all workers 17.17. Encourage and promote effective public, public-private and civil society partnerships, building on the experience and resourcing strategies of partnerships Training and Development 4.4. By 2030, substantially increase the number of youth and adults who have relevant skills, including technical and vocational skills, for employment, decent jobs and entrepreneurship 17.17. Encourage and promote effective public, public-private and civil society partnerships, building on the experience and resourcing strategies of partnerships Diversity and Equal Opportunity 5.5. Ensure women’s full and effective participation and equal opportunities for leadership at all levels of decision-making in political, economic and public life 8.5. By 2030, achieve full and productive employment and decent work for all women and men, including for young people and persons with disabilities, and equal pay for work of equal value 17.17. Encourage and promote effective public, public-private and civil society partnerships, building on the experience and resourcing strategies of partnerships About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 34 Within the scope of the work carried out diligently by our Business Continuity Committee, we ensured the health of our employees during the Covid-19 pandemic by establishing a flexible working arrangement, organizing the physical working spaces and providing access to digital platforms. Through the “Banki” tablet project developed as a part of the “Transformation Program”, we enable our customer representatives to attend meetings and to conduct research remotely. While our customer representatives were working remotely or in the field, accessing all the products and information in the bank, they both met customer needs easily and worked in accordance with social distancing rules. O C C U PAT I O N A L H E A LT H AND SAFETY At Şekerbank, we consider our employees as our most valuable asset. Providing our employees with a safe and healthy work environment is one of the most important priorities of our Bank. Within this scope, we carry out issues related to Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) in accordance with the Occupational Health and Safety Instructions. Within the scope of the instruction and the Occupational Health and Safety Law No. 6331, we define the responsibilities among occupational safety specialists, workplace physicians and departments. Within our Bank, the responsibilities regarding the OHS are managed by the Logistics Division, and the highest responsibility authority is the Executive Vice President Financial Control, Reporting & Budget Management. We raise our employees’ awareness by providing occupational health and safety trainings at all branches, regional directorates and headquarters, which has been obligatory since 2014. We provided 2,718 hours of OHS training to 657 in 2018 and, 2,804 hours for 558 employees in 2019. For detailed information on occupational health and safety, please refer to the Social Performance Indicators section. About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 35 E M P LOY E E S ’ RIGHTS We offer many financial and social benefits for our employees in order to provide them with better working conditions. We offer private health and life insurance to our full-time employees, along with social benefits such as compensation for moving, marriage benefits, maternity benefits, and a clothing stipend depending on their positions and when required. Through our flexible maternity leave practices, in order to ensure the regular attendance of our female employees, we support them in establishing a balance of family and work life. Accordingly, 94% of female employees who took maternity leave in 2018 continued working on with We respect the collective bargaining Şekerbank supports the Universal the Bank, while 93% of the female and union rights of all of our Declaration of Human Rights and employees who took maternity employees, and support the relevant complies with national laws. There leave in 2019 also stayed on with the communication efforts within the is absolutely no forced, compulsory Bank. We seek out our employees’ bank. In this context, as of 2019, or child labor in any of our Bank’s opinions about our Bank through 40% of our employees are covered locations, including sub-employer. No our satisfaction surveys, and through by union and collective bargaining cases of discrimination were received open communication channels. Our agreements. This rate has increased during the reporting period. 1,927 employees in 2018 and 634 by 3% compared to 2017. We do not employees in 2019 received 1,385 have operations where freedom of hours of training under the Law on association and collective bargaining the Protection of Personal Data, rights are at risk. which also includes employee rights. GRI 102-41 About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 36 Since the beginning of the Covid-19 pandemic, as Şekerbank, we have supported all Bank employees with online training of the “Next to Development” training series. We ensured that our employees are informed through online meetings, webinars and e-learnings about “Information about Coronavirus”, “Tips for Working Remotely” and “Matters to be Considered in the Return to Work Process”. We continued to contribute to the personal development of our employees by compiling useful resources and activities with the “Online Activity Guide”. TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT As Şekerbank, we create progressive, Training and Development systematic and innovative training programs in line with our strategies in order to increase the in Figures* performance of all our employees, contribute to their personal development and support 17 hours Training hours per their career advancement. Through the Career School (classroom training) and Şeker Academy 95% employee (e-training), in 2018-2019, we provided training Rate of our employees courses, which are designed specifically for our 70% attended at least one online event employees’ business units and will contribute Rate of our employees to their technical knowledge on banking, as attended at least one classroom training well as their personal development. In addition to these platforms, we continued 344 to enable our employees to enhance their Number of Programs 100% potential through additional training courses Offered at the Career School such as elective training, distance learning, The ratio of our training courses outside of the bank, and on employees subject the job transfer of experience. In 2019, we provided supplementary e-learning courses on 17,763 to performance evaluation hours the changes made to products and systems, Şeker Academy in accordance with the request from relevant online training business units. In this context, we have created participation e-education/ online exams. For detailed information on trainings, please refer to the *As of year-end 2019 Social Performance Indicators section. We measure and evaluate the goal management and sales performances of 100% of our employees in business units and branches with a transparent approach, through mechanisms such as the Şeker Kazan System (ScoreCard), “Competency Based Performance Evaluation System” and “Performance Measurement Performance System”. About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 37 DIVERSITY A N D E Q UA L O P P O RT U N I T Y At Şekerbank, we offer our 3,265 employees a fair work environment under our principles of diversity and equal opportunity regardless of age, religion, gender, nationality or disability. We ensure that our employees will not be discriminated against during their employment at Şekerbank, starting from recruitment to occupation. In this context, we guarantee the rights of our employees within our Human Resources Policy and Bonus Regulations. We are in compliance with the high rate of female employees in the banking sector considering the percentage of female managers at our Bank. 49.5% of our employees are females, and the ratio of female employees who are managers or have more senior titles is 43.5%. The salaries of our employees with the same title and seniority are similar, regardless of gender. The salaries of our female employees working in managerial and above positions are five points higher than male employees. In all of our activities, we observe legal requirements for the employment of disabled employees. Support to Orange the World Campaign We also supported the “Orange the World” call that was made as part of the “16 Days of Activism against Gender-Based Violence” by UN Women worldwide in 2019. We illuminated our headquarters building in the color orange from November 25 to December 10 to raise awareness of gender-based violence. About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix OUR SHAREHOLDERS AND INVESTORS About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 39 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT FOCUS AREAS TARGETS WE SUPPORT SDGs Corporate Governance 16.6. Develop effective, accountable and transparent institutions at all levels Performance 17.17. Encourage and promote effective public, public-private and civil society partnerships, building on the experience and resourcing strategies of partnerships Social and Environmental 8.8. Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working environments for Impact Management in all workers, including migrant workers, in particular women migrants, and those in Underwriting Process precarious employment 12.2. By 2030, achieve the sustainable management and efficient use of natural resources 12.8. By 2030, ensure that people everywhere have the relevant information and awareness for sustainable development and lifestyles in harmony with nature 17.17. Encourage and promote effective public, public-private and civil society partnerships, building on the experience and resourcing strategies of partnerships About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 40 The “Transformation Program” started in the reporting period, and an important phase of the Program was carried out during the Covid-19 outbreak. The Board of Directors, the decision-making body of our Bank, played an important role with a responsive and visionary approach. Thus, we quickly adapted to the conditions in the new normal period and continued to provide uninterrupted service to our customers by prioritizing non-branch digital service channel projects among our digital transformation investments during the reporting period. C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E PERFORMANCE As a Bank in Turkey to receive a We monitor our compliance with the A.Ş. (Kobirate) are given in the corporate governance rating and principles of corporate management table below. We continued our as the first Bank to be included at the Board of Directors level and activities with the aim of protecting in the Borsa Istanbul Corporate work for its improvement. In this and improving our corporate Governance Index in 2008, we context, we regularly track our management rating. conduct our activities under the corporate management rating by principles of fairness, transparency, requesting independent assessments accountability and within our on ‘Shareholders’, ‘Public Disclosure corporate management approach and Transparency’, ‘Stakeholders’ and efficient corporate structure that and ‘Board of Directors’ practices. we established with principles based The results of the evaluations made on responsibility. by Uluslararası Kredi Derecelendirme ve Kurumsal Yönetim Hizmetleri Sub Categories Weight 2018 2019 Shareholders 0.25 94.89% 94.91% Public Disclosure and Transparency 0.25 96.41% 95.75% Stakeholders 0.15 99.20% 99.20% Board of Directors 0.35 90.07% 90.47% Total 1.00 94.23% 94.21% The Declaration of Compliance with Corporate Governance Principles is on page 67 of our 2019 Annual Report, and explanations on the Board of Directors and Affiliated Committees are on page 71. About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 41 S O C I A L A N D E N V I R O N M E N TA L I M PA C T MANAGEMENT IN UNDERWRITING PROCESSES Şekerbank’s activities within the implement SEMS we review the environment, and we encourage scope of managing social and social and environmental impact the real sector to make sustainable environmental impacts are not limited and potential risks of the projects investments. to internal operations. Furthermore, related to the financial support we at Şekerbank, we evaluate the provide to tradesmen, commercial SEMS enables us to directly respond environmental and social impacts and corporate customers, except negatively to loan requests from of the projects we finance. We for individual customers, based some fields of activity that may have been implementing and on our Social and Environmental have social and environmental continuously developing the Social Management System. We conduct risks, negative effects that cannot and Environmental Management the SEMS in coordination with be eliminated, or are defined as System (SEMS), which is based our customers and significantly objectionable in international norms. on the analysis of the potential contribute to the enhancement of With these characteristics, SEMS environmental and social impacts their activities by raising awareness enables us to monitor credit risks of the loans provided and prepared and providing feedback on the within this framework and to perform under the guidance of International improvement of negative issues and effective risk management. In 2019, Finance Corporation (IFC) a member to ensure sustainability of the positive we provided 412 hours of training of World Bank Group since 2009, as measures; and by following up on to 458 employees within the scope an indispensable part of our lending the actions that need to be taken. of the Social and Environmental processes. In this way, we make a significant Impact Management in Underwriting contribution to the development Process. With our experience of being of our customers’ activities with one of the first banks in Turkey to the awareness of society and the About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix OUR SOCIETY About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 43 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT FOCUS AREAS TARGETS WE SUPPORT SDGs Environmental Impact Management 12.12. By 2030, achieve the sustainable management and efficient use of natural resources 13.3. Improve education, awareness-raising and human and institutional capacity on climate change mitigation, adaptation, impact reduction and early warning 17.17. Encourage and promote effective public, public-private and civil society partnerships, building on the experience and resourcing strategies of partnerships Barrier-Free Banking 8.10. Strengthen the capacity of domestic financial institutions to encourage and expand access to banking, insurance and financial services for all 17.17. Encourage and promote effective public, public-private and civil society partnerships, building on the experience and resourcing strategies of partnerships Support for 4.1. By 2030, ensure that all girls and boys complete free, equitable and quality Development Through Education primary and secondary education leading to relevant and effective learning outcomes 4.a. Build and upgrade education facilities that are child, disability and gender sensitive and provide safe, non-violent, inclusive and effective learning environments for all 17.17. Encourage and promote effective public, public-private and civil society partnerships, building on the experience and resourcing strategies of partnerships Inclusivity in Culture and Arts 10.2. By 2030, empower and promote the social, economic and political inclusion of all, irrespective of age, sex, disability, race, ethnicity, origin, religion or economic or other status 17.17. Encourage and promote effective public, public-private and civil society partnerships, building on the experience and resourcing strategies of partnerships About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 44 During the Covid-19 outbreak, as a result of the precautions we took to protect the health of our employees and customers, the population at our headquarters and branches decreased. Accordingly, our energy and water consumption from our activities has also decreased. In addition to our support for inclusion projects in culture and arts in the banking sector, we continued to support social development and make a positive impact on all segments of society in this challenging period through our Şeker Çocuk Magazine. E N V I R O N M E N TA L I M PA C T MANAGEMENT Combating Climate Our target to combat climate change is to reduce our emission rate by 5% the studies on the “Science Based Target” methodology, which is a joint Change until 2020, based on 2016. As a result venture of CDP-UNGC-WRI (World of moving to our new headquarters Resources Institute) and the World We have been reporting our building in 2016, we achieved a 10% Resources Foundation (WWF), in order performance to all of our stakeholders, reduction in our scope 1 and scope to develop more comprehensive especially international investors, 2 emissions. From 2017 to the end targets starting from 2020. through the Carbon Disclosure Project of 2019, we continued to reduce our (CDP), one of the world’s leading Scope 1-2 and 3 emissions. We follow platforms to combat climate change, by calculating our carbon footprint resulting from our activities every year since 2010. With our 2018 and 2019 reports that we prepared voluntarily, we preserved our grade B, which was also in the previous reporting period. In the 2018-2019 period, we continued to strengthen the infrastructure of our carbon footprint measurement system, to improve our energy management system aimed at data reliability, and to carry out activities to increase awareness among our employees. We provided one-hour training to 253 employees with the intent of the efficient and safe usage of generators in our branches. Within the scope of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) climate change, water security and sustainability, we provided a total of 2,307 hours of in-class and online training to our 2,085 employees. About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 45 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (ton CO2e) 14,000 (-2%) (-11%) 12,000 11,535 11,329 10,106 10,000 8,000 6,000 (-15%) (+1%) 4,000 3,839 3,246 3,292 (-26%) (-22%) 2,000 1,648 1,212 944 0 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 2017 2018 2019 For detailed information on our Scope 1-2-3 explanations and our energy and emissions, please refer to the Environmental Performance Indicators section. CDP 2019-2020 Climate Change Program and our related data verification reports are available on the links below. CDP Climate Change 2020 Please click to access our report. Green House Gas Emissions Verification 2019 Please click to access our report. CDP Climate Change 2019 Please click to access our report. Green House Gas Emissions Verification 2018 Please click to access our report. Water Footprint We have been reporting our performance to all our stakeholders, especially international investors, through the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Water Program, by calculating our water footprint resulting from our activities every year since 2010. We received the “CDP Turkey Water Leadership” award for the work we have done on responsible water use in 2016. Our score in both 2018 and 2019 reports, which we prepared voluntarily, was B-. For detailed information on our water data, please refer to the Environmental Performance Indicators section. CDP 2019-2020 Water Program and our related data verification reports are available on the links below. CDP Water 2020 Please click to access our report. Water Verification 2019 Please click to access our report. CDP Water 2019 Please click to access our report. Water Verification 2018 Please click to access our report. About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 46 BARRIER-FREE BANKING In line with our responsible banking approach, we implemented a “BarrierFree Banking” project in order to enable our clients with special needs to access our products and services more easily. Within the scope of the project, we offer both our existing clients with special needs, and clients who wish to work with us, priority and free use of several services provided by our Bank. For the implementation of the service, we first provide e-training on sign language for our employees so that they can provide direct services to our clients with special needs, and we also make arrangements at our branches and ATMs to allow our clients with special needs to receive services without effort. In the reporting period, we completed the audio menu enhancements to facilitate the access of our visually impaired customers to our banking products and services via our ATMs. SUPPORT FOR DEVELOPMENT T H R O U G H E D U C AT I O N Şeker Çocuk our magazine reached approximately one million children. (Şeker Child) Magazine We also publish the Braille Alphabet Şekerbank’s periodical magazine version of the magazine (published Şeker Çocuk (Şeker Child) has in the tactile writing system used been in publication for 36 years. Its by people who are blind or visually content mainly addresses primary impaired) and deliver to schools and school students, and aims to support rehabilitation centers for visually their fundamental education. The impaired children. “Şeker Çocuk” magazine reaches thousands of magazine received a Special Prize as children in Turkey, through 238 the Best Social Responsibility Project Şekerbank branches in 67 provinces at the Third TCMA Capital Markets and 87 districts, hundreds of primary Awards, organized by the Turkish schools in villages, kindergartens in Capital Markets Association (TCMA) Child Protection Institutions and in in 2018. hospitals. During the reporting period, About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 47 I N C L U S I V I T Y I N C U LT U R E AND ARTS Dokunduğum Renk (The Color I Touch) Project As Şekerbank, we sponsor the “Dokunduğum Renk (The Color I Touch)” project, which was developed by the Istanbul Modern Museum to benefit visually impaired children through various workshops and movie screenings with the help of specialists. Through the project, which we have been sponsoring since 2011, we have reached out to more than 4,000 visually impaired children, teenagers and adults, 1,200 of them in the reporting period. With the “Dokunduğum Renk (The Color I Touch)” project, we aim to improve life quality and to contribute to the discovering of their own creative paths. Açıkekran Şekerbank Açıkekran New Media Arts Gallery, Turkey’s first culture-art initiative that emphasizes new media and video art, continued to host contemporary art through its branches in 2019. Açıkekran platform, exhibited works that are also exhibited in some of the world’s most reputable art institutions at nine Şekerbank branches in eight Anatolian cities, namely Istanbul Merkez Branch, Ankara Küçükesat and Kızılay, Tekirdağ Alpullu, Ordu, Izmir, Bodrum, Mardin and Edirne. Through the project, we have reached millions of people since 2011. About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 48 APPENDIX Memberships and Endorsed Initiatives We are a founding member of the Business Council for Sustainable Development (BCSD Turkey) which is Turkey’s representative of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). Since 2013, we have been leading the association’s Sustainable Finance Working Group and we are working to organize a special summit and raise awareness in this area every year. National and International Organizations, Associations and Chambers Business Council for Sustainable Development in Turkey (BCSD Turkey) Corporate Communications Professional Association (KİD) Association of Advertisers (RVD) The Banks Association of Turkey (BAT) Corporate Governance Association of Turkey (TKYD) Turkish Green Building Council (ÇEDBİK) Financial Literacy and Inclusion Association (FODER) Institute of International Finance (IIF) Endorsed Initiatives United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) United Nations Environment Program Financial Initiative (UNEP-FI) United Nations Women’s Empowerment Principles (UN WEPs) Carbon Disclosure Project Climate Change and Water Programs (CDP) Role of The Financial Sector In Sustainable Growth Working Group (BAT) Business Leadership Criteria on Carbon Pricing (CPLC) About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 49 Communication Platforms with Our Stakeholders KEY STAKEHOLDERS Communication Platforms All authorized communication channels, Public Disclosure Platform e-bulletins, OUR CUSTOMER call center, branches, website, social media accounts, promotional campaigns, special customer meetings, art activities Employee satisfaction survey, corporate performance system, meetings, e-mail OUR EMPLOYEES announcements, e-mail newsletters, Şeker.Net portal and “I have a suggestion” platform OUR SHAREHOLDERS AND General Assembly meetings, Public Disclosure Platform, annual and interim reports, CMB Corporate Governance Principles Compliance Report, press INVESTORS releases, financial statements, reporting OUR SOCIETY Public Disclosure Platform, website, meetings, legal compliance and annual (Public and Regulatory Authorities, reports, individual interviews, various working groups, Press Releases, social National and International Financial media accounts, memberships, panel discussions and forums, conferences, Institutions, Media, Non-Governmental Regional Offices and Branches Organizations, Local Community) GRI 102-43 About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 50 Foreign Borrowings In 2018 and 2019, we raised a total of TL 1,293,316,000 in funds from financial institutions within the purpose of on-lending in SME, agriculture, women entrepreneurs, energy efficiency, micro finance and foreign trade financing. The breakdown of these funds we raised according to segments and the contributing institutions are shown in the chart below. Financing SME and SME Backed Covered Bond / FMO – Dutch Development Bank Agriculture 15% SME Backed Covered Bond / EIB European Investment Bank SME and Micro ETDB – Eco Trade and Development Bank Finance IFC International Finance Corporation 31% KfW German Development Bank AFD French Development Agency Financing SMEs FMO Dutch Development Bank 19% SME Backed Covered Bond / IFC International Finance Corporation EBRD European Bank for Reconstruction and Development OeEBDevelopment Bank of Austria Energy Efficiency GCPF Global Climate Partnership Fund 15% FMO Dutch Development Bank IFC International Finance Corporation Financing SME and Women Entrepreneurship TSKB & IBRD Türkiye Sınai Kalkınma Bankası & International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 5% FMO Dutch Development Bank Financing Foreign Subordinated Bond Trade and Others Syndication 14% About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 51 Awards 2018 Product Award Awarding Organization Şeker Çocuk* Best Social Responsibility Project award Turkish Capital Markets Association (TCMA) Corporate Reputation / ETİKA Turkey Ethics Awards Center for Ethical Values (EDMER) Ethics ** * “Şeker Çocuk” magazine, distributed free of charge to children via the Bank’s branches and village schools across Turkey, received a Special Prize as the Best Social Responsibility Project at the Third TCMA Capital Markets Awards, organized by the Turkish Capital Markets Association (TCMA). ** As the first bank in Turkey to receive a corporate governance rating, Şekerbank won the ETİKA 2017 Ethics Award for the third time. ETİKA Turkey Ethics Awards is organized by the Center for Ethical Values (EDMER) to recognize business ethics and ethical values in companies. 2019 Product Award Awarding Organization SME*** SME Finance Awards 2019 SME Finance Forum EKOkredi**** Turkey’s Energy Efficiency Program of EBRD Housing (TuREEFF) *** Şekerbank received an award in the “Women’s SME Bank of the Year” category at the Global SME Finance Awards 2019 organized by SME Finance Forum. *** With EKOkredi, which we developed to support all investments in energy savings, we have productive partnership with international development banks and funds. These partnerships continue to bring rewards to both our Bank and our customers. As the first bank that participated “Turkey’s Energy Efficiency Program of Housing” (TuREEFF), held in cooperation with European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD), Şekerbank was awarded with EKOkredi on November 26, 2019 TuREEFF Forum. At the TuREEFF Forum, in which Şekerbank SME Banking Marketing Manager also participated as a panelist, our customers, Zafer Hakan Yapı İnşaat, Modern Air Conditioning, Elvan İnşaat, Eldem AŞ and Neyka Nakliyat were also awarded with their projects that increase energy efficiency in residences, as well as our Bank. About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 52 PERFORMANCE TA B L E S Social Performance Indicators Number of Employees 2017 2018 2019 Female Male Female Male Female Male Full-time 1,771 1,813 1,777 1,759 1,613 1,641 Part-time 3 4 4 7 4 7 Total number of employees 1,774 1,817 1,781 1,766 1,617 1,648 Total 3,591 3,547 3,265 Number of Employees by Age 2017 2018 2019 and Gender Female Male Female Male Female Male >50 Years old 12 63 13 77 10 75 30-50 Years old 1,140 1,299 1,173 1,323 1,144 1,281 <30 Years old 622 455 595 366 463 292 Total number of employees 1,774 1,817 1,781 1,766 1,617 1,648 Number of Newly Hired 2017 2018 2019 Employees by Age and Gender Female Male Female Male Female Male >50 Years old 4 9 1 5 0 5 30-50 Years old 108 162 69 113 40 49 <30 Years old 180 182 177 142 68 63 Total number of new employees 292 353 247 260 108 117 About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 53 Number of Employee Turnover by 2017 2018 2019 Age and Gender Female Male Female Male Female Male >50 Years old 3 18 3 25 6 30 30-50 Years old 175 198 130 163 190 154 <30 Years old 94 77 95 109 88 61 Total number of employee 272 293 228 297 284 245 turnover Top Management by Age and 2017 2018 2019 Gender Female Male Female Male Female Male >50 Years old 0 3 0 3 0 3 30-50 Years old 1 7 1 7 1 7 <30 Years old 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total number of top managers 1 10 1 10 1 10 Directors and Upper Level Employees Breakdown by Age 2017 2018 2019 and Gender Female Male Female Male Female Male Top management (GM and EVP) 1 10 1 10 1 10 Group managers 1 4 0 5 1 4 Managers 104 252 106 258 91 244 Directors 581 596 613 613 543 566 Total number of top managers 687 862 720 886 636 824 About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 54 Number of Employees Benefitting 2017 2018 2019 from Maternal/ Paternal Leave Female Male Female Male Female Male Number of employees benefitting 112 0 148 0 121 0 from maternal/paternal leave Number of employees returning 108 0 139 0 113 0 from maternal/paternal leave Ratio 96.4% 0% 93.9% 0% 93.4% 0% Turnover Ratios 2017 2018 2019 Female Male Female Male Female Male >50 years old 27% 27% 24% 34% 52% 38% 30-50 years old 17% 17% 11% 12% 16% 11% <30 years old 18% 28% 13% 18% 14% 17% All Employees (Female /Male) N/A N/A 11% 14% 16% 13% All Employees N/A N/A 13% 15% Employees under Collective 2017 2018 2019 Bargaining Agreement Female Male Female Male Female Male Number of employees under 737 592 762 578 730 572 collective bargaining agreement Total 1,329 1,340 1,302 N/A= Not Available GRI 102-41 About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 55 Occupational Health and Safety 2017 2018 2019 (Employees) Female Male Female Male Female Male Number of accidents 4 4 3 0 8 5 Number of fatalities related to work 0 0 0 0 0 0 Number of occupational disease cases 0 0 0 0 0 0 Absenteeism 0 0 0 0 36 2 Accident frequency rate 2.78 2.78 2.08 0 5.55 3.47 Occupational disease rate 0 0 0 0 0 0 Lost workdays rate 0 0 0 0 0.27 0.13 Absenteeism rate 0 0 0 0 0.145 0.008 Occupational Health and Safety 2017 2018 2019 (Subcontractors) Female Male Female Male Female Male Number of accidents 0 1 0 0 2 0 Number of fatalities related to work 0 0 0 0 0 0 Number of occupational disease cases 0 0 0 0 0 0 Absenteeism 0 0 0 0 0 0 Accident frequency rate 0 0.69 0 0 1.38 0 Occupational disease rate 0 0 0 0 0 0 Lost workdays rate 0 0 0 0 0 0 Absenteeism rate 0 0 0 0 0 0 Calculations and Explanations: Absenteeism rate: Calculated without 104 weekends and 15 days public holidays. Annual leaves are not included. Accident frequency rate: Calculated based on the daily 8-hour working time of all employees for 30 days. Weekends, public holidays, annual leaves, etc. are not included. (Total working hours: 750 persons*40 hours*4 weeks*12 Months = 1,440,000) Lost workdays rate: Number of occupational accidents causing lost working days * 200,000 / total working hours About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 56 Occupational Health and Safety 2017 2018 2019 Training Female Male Female Male Female Male Number of employees participating 132 158 301 356 308 250 in training Total amount of training (hours) 1,056 1,264 1,252 1,466 1,580 1,225 Average hours of OHS training per 0.60 0.70 0.70 0.82 0.98 0.74 employee Other OHS Indicators: The OHS boards established in our Bank’s Head Office and our Ankara Service Building, where the Central Anatolia Regional Directorate is located, meet quarterly to make decisions regarding the health and safety of the employees and ensure their implementation. The Boards represent all employees in these locations. In other locations, legal requirements (risk analysis studies, preparation of emergency action plans, training etc.) within the scope of Law No. 6331 are systematically fulfilled. There are no high OHS risks in our sector and our Bank. OHS issues are not included in our Collective Bargaining Agreement. OHS issues are executed within the scope of Law No. 6331. Our Supply Chain (GRI 102-9) As a Bank, we aim to reflect our sustainability approach to our entire value chain. While carrying out the procurement of products and services within the framework of the existing “Regulation on Purchase-Sale and Bidding Transactions”, we prioritize local companies in the selection of suppliers to support the national economy. We are working with suppliers in many different categories, including office supplies, maintenance and repair services, drinking water and cargo services. As of the end of 2019, 84.2% of 284 suppliers from which we purchase products and services are local suppliers. Local Communities (GRI 413-2) We do not have any operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities. Employee Training 2017 2018 2019 (Face-to-Face Trainings) All Employees Female Male Female Male Total hours of training provided 65,663 33,481 45,759 24,613 27,894 Number of employees participated 8,378 4,118 5,176 3,300 3,170 Average hours of training per 18.29 18.67 25.74 15.22 16.93 employee About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 57 Trainings 2017 2018 2019 Number of programs offered at the career school 627 503 344 (Classroom Trainings) Number of attendees at the Şeker 34,226 17,708 17,763 Academy (Online Trainings) Environmental Protection Awareness Trainings 2018 2019 Number of Number of (Classroom and Online Trainings) Total Hours Participants Total Hours Participants CDP Climate Change, Water Security and Sustainability 1,504 1,654 581 653 Trainings Environmental and Social Impacts in Underwriting Process N/A N/A 458 412 Efficient and Safe Usage of 190 190 63 63 Generators in Our Branches N/A= Not Available About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 58 Other Trainings 2018 2019 (Classroom and Online Trainings) Number of Number of Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Total Hours Total Hours Participants Participants Methods for Detecting and Preventing Fraud in Banking 464 563 128 159 Fight Against Laundering of Proceeds of Crime and 1,159 1,992 2,635 2,953 Financing of Terrorism Features of Original Banknotes 146 869 55 327 and Counterfeit Banknotes Counterfeit Banknotes 129 452 73 256 Fraud Investigation and Remote 12 42 23 161 Auditing Techniques Total 1,910 3,918 2,914 3,856 Number of Number of Employees’ Rights Participants Total Hours Participants Total Hours KVKK (Law on the Protection of 1,927 1,031 634 351 Personal Data) Trainings Number of Number of Ethics and Compliance Participants Total Hours Participants Total Hours Information Technology Law N/A N/A 95 95 Cyber Crimes N/A N/A 85 85 Internet Law N/A N/A 86 86 Information Security and 399 858 2,369 5,159 Awareness Trainings Competition Law 304 304 107 107 Consumer Rights in Bank Transactions N/A N/A 84 84 Total 703 1,162 2,826 5,616 About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 59 Environmental Performance Indicators Green House Gas Emissions (ton CO2e) 2017 2018 2019 Scope 1* 3,839 3,246 3,292 Scope 2** 11,535 11,329 10,106 Scope 3*** 1,648 1,212 944 Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1+2+3) 17,022 15,787 14,342 Greenhouse Gas Emissions per employee (Scope 1+Scope 2/number of employees) 4.28 4.08 4.10 2018-2019 Scope 1 * Conversion factors for fuels (natural gas, coal, generator (diesel oil, gasoline), etc.) were derived from the data provided by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). The references used were IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories Table No: 2.4 in Chapter 2: Stationary Combustion. * Conversion factors for mobile combustion fuels (company vehicles (diesel oil, gasoline), etc.) were derived from the data provided by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). The references used were IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories Table No: 3.2.1 and No: 3.2.2 in Chapter 2: Mobile Combustion. Scope 2 ** IEA CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion, 2017 Edition source prepared by International Energy Agency (IEA) for electricity consumption emission factors was used. Scope 3 *** Scope 3 ‘Defra 2019 Emission Factors’ prepared by the UK government for conversion factors of paper consumption and air travel data in calculations of greenhouse gas emissions. Scope 3 Material Use / Business Travel – Air were used. Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions calculations for personnel services, the IPCC’s emission factors for fuels and the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources prepared by the Ministry of Energy and the Lower Thermal Values of the Equivalents of Oil Equivalent Conversion Table. 2019: *** Refrigerant gases conversion factors were derived from the “Defra 2019 Emission Factors Scope 1 Refrigerant & other” prepared by the UK government. 2018: *** Refrigerant gases conversion factors were derived from the “Defra 2017 Emission Factors Scope 1 Refrigerant & other” prepared by the UK government. 2017 Scope 1 * Defra 2017 Emission Factors prepared by the UK government for the emission factors of fuel consumption (such as natural gas, diesel, gasoline). Scope 1 Fuels source is used. ‘Defra 2017 Emission Factors’ prepared by the UK government for the emission factors of refrigerant gases. Scope 1 ‘Refrigerant & other’ and 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories, Volume 2, Chapter 1 sources were used. Scope 2 ** IEA CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion, 2017 Edition source prepared by International Energy Agency (IEA) for electricity consumption emission factors was used. Scope 3 *** Scope 3 ‘Defra 2017 Emission Factors’ prepared by the UK government for conversion factors of paper consumption and air travel data in calculations of greenhouse gas emissions. Scope 3 Material Use / Business Travel Air and (https://www. gov.uk/government/publications/greenhouse-gas-reporting-conversion-factors-2017) were used. Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions calculations for personnel services, the IPCC’s emission factors for fuels and the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources prepared by the Ministry of Energy and the Lower Thermal Values of the Equivalents of Oil Equivalent Conversion Table. About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 60 Energy Consumption 2017 2018 2019 Natural gas* (m3) 538,185 461,947 415,707 Coal* (ton) 105.2 116.5 54.2 Electricity** (kWh) 20,682,200 20,312,064 18,120,445 Diesel* (liter) 736,592 573,973 624,715 Gasoline* (liter) 107,302 66,094 91,571 Total energy consumption (GJ) 125,098 111,545 104,664 Energy consumption per employee (GJ/number of employees) 34.83 31.24 32.06 * Density and conversion coefficient values for natural gas, coal, gasoline and diesel, ‘Regulation on Increasing Efficiency in 2017 the Use of Energy Resources and Energy’ (Official Gazette: 27 October 2011/28097: VAL.03 / 09 / 2014-29108), ANNEX-2 : ‘Lower Thermal Values of Energy Resources and Conversion Coefficient to Petroleum Equivalence’ table. 2018 2019 ** Since the supply unit for electricity is invoiced in kWh, kWh GJ conversion is made while the energy conversion is performed. 1 kWh = 0.0036 GJ conversion factor was used for this conversion. Water Consumption 2017 2018 2019 Network water (m3) 52,608 50,200 55,080 Total water consumption (m3) 54,058 51,700 56,603 Water consumption per employee (m3/number of employees) 15.05 14.48 17.34 Recycled or reused water is not used within Şekerbank. No water source is significantly affected by withdrawal of water by Şekerbank. About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 61 United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Progress Statement Principles Report Section Page Number Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Human Rights Page 35 Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Labor Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Human Rights Page 35 Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Energy Efficiency Page 28 Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Environmental Impact Management Page 44 Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Technologies Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Sustainability including extortion and bribery Management Structure Page 10 and Monitoring Tools About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 62 For the Materiality Disclosures Service, GRI Services reviewed that the GRI content index is clearly presented and the references for Disclosures 102-40 to 102-49 align with appropriate sections in the body of the report. The service was performed on the Turkish version of the report. GRI Content Index GRI 101: FOUNDATION 2016 GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016 Location of Disclosure Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization Page 69 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Page 8 102-3 Location of headquarters Page 69 102-4 Location of operations Page 8 102-5 Ownership and legal form Corporation 102-6 Markets served Page 8 102-7 Scale of the organization Page 5, 8 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Page 52-53 102-9 Supply chain Page 56 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain No significant changes 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Page 44 102-12 External initiatives Page 9 102-13 Membership of associations Page 48 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Page 9 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Page 12-13 Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Şekerbank Ethical Principles are available on our website. 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Page 11 About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 63 Governance 102-18 Governance structure Page 10 102-19 Delegating authority Page 10 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics Page 10 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics Page 13, 49 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees Annual Report 2019 Page 71 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Annual Report 2019 Page 71 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Annual Report 2019 Page 64 102-25 Conflicts of interest Şekerbank Conflict of Interest Policy 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, Annual Report 2019 Page 66 and strategy 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body Annual Report 2019 Page 58 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance Annual Report 2019 Page 63 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts Page 13 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Page 12 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics Page 12, 13 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting Page 10 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Page 13, 49 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns Page 13 102-35 Remuneration policies Şekerbank Renumeration Policy 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Şekerbank Renumeration Policy 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration Şekerbank Renumeration Policy 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio Annual Report 2019 Page 126 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio Annual Report 2019 Page 126 About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 64 Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Page 13 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Page 35, 54 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Page 13 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Page 13 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Page 13 Reporting Practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Page 5 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries Page 5 102-47 List of material topics Page 13 102-48 Restatements of information No restataments 102-49 Changes in reporting No changes 102-50 Reporting period Page 5 102-51 Date of most recent report 2016-2017 102-52 Reporting cycle Every two years 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Page 69 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Page 5 102-55 GRI content index Page 62-68 102-56 External assurance Page 45 About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 65 GRI 200-300-400 TOPIC SPECIFIC STANDARDS 2016 GRI 200 ECONOMIC STANDARDS SERIES Location of Disclosure Indirect Economic Impacts 103-1 Explanation of the material topics and its boundary Page 5, 13 GRI 103 MANAGEMENT 103-2 The management approach and its components Page 17, 21, 25, 29 APPROACH 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Page 17, 21, 25, 29 GRI 203 Indirect 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Page 17, 21, 25, 29 Economic Impacts 2016 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Page 17, 21, 25, 29 Anti-Corruption 103-1 Explanation of the material topics and its boundary Page 5, 13 GRI 103 MANAGEMENT 103-2 The management approach and its components Page 11, 58 APPROACH 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Page 11 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Page 11 GRI 205 Anti205-2 Communication & training about anti-corruption policies and procedures Page 11, 58 Corruption 2016 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Page 11 About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 66 GRI 300 ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS SERIES Location of Disclosure Energy 103-1 Explanation of the material topics and its boundary Page 5, 13 GRI 103 MANAGEMENT 103-2 The management approach and its components Page 29, 44, 60 APPROACH 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Page 29, 44 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Page 60 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization Page 60 GRI 302 Enerji 2016 302-3 Energy intensity Page 60 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Page 60 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services Page 60 Water 103-1 Explanation of the material topics and its boundary Page 5, 13 GRI 103 MANAGEMENT 103-2 The management approach and its components Page 45 APPROACH 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Page 45 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Page 60 GRI 303 Water 2016 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Page 60 303-3 Water recycled and reused Page 60 Emissions 103-1 Explanation of the material topics and its boundary Page 5, 13 GRI 103 MANAGEMENT 103-2 The management approach and its components Page 44-45, 59 APPROACH 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Page 44-45 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Page 45 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Page 45 GRI 305 Emissions 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Page 45 2016 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Page 59 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Page 45 About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 67 GRI 400 SOCIAL STANDARDS SERIES Location of Disclosure Employment 103-1 Explanation of the material topics and its boundary Page 5, 13 GRI 103 MANAGEMENT 103-2 The management approach and its components Page 35, 37, 54 APPROACH 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Page 35-37 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Page 54 GRI 401 Employment 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to part-time employees Page 35 2016 401-3 Parental leave Page 54 Occupational Health and Safety 103-1 Explanation of the material topics and its boundary Page 5, 13 GRI 103 MANAGEMENT 103-2 The management approach and its components Page 34, 55-56 APPROACH 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Page 34 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees Page 56 403-2 Types and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and GRI 403 Occupational absenteeism, and work-related fatalities Page 55 Health and Safety 2016 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation Page 56 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Page 56 Training and Education 103-1 Explanation of the material topics and its boundary Page 5, 13 GRI 103 MANAGEMENT 103-2 The management approach and its components Page 36, 56-58 APPROACH 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Page 36 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Page 56 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance GRI 404 Training and programs Page 36, 56-58 Education 2016 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews Page 36 About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 68 Location of Disclosure Diversity and Equal Opportunity 103-1 Explanation of the material topics and its boundary Page 5, 13 GRI 103 MANAGEMENT 103-2 The management approach and its components Page 37, 52-53 APPROACH 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Page 37 GRI 405 Diversity and 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Page 52-53 Equal Opportunity 2016 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Page 37 Non-Discrimination 103-1 Explanation of the material topics and its boundary Page 5, 13 GRI 103 MANAGEMENT 103-2 The management approach and its components Page 35 APPROACH 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Page 35 GRI 406 Non406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Page 35 Discrimination 2016 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 103-1 Explanation of the material topics and its boundary Page 5, 13 GRI 103 MANAGEMENT 103-2 The management approach and its components Page 35, 54 APPROACH 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Page 35 GRI 407 Freedom of Association and 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association Collective Bargaining and collective bargaining may be at risk Page 35 2016 Local Communities 103-1 Explanation of the material topics and its boundary Page 5, 13 GRI 103 MANAGEMENT 103-2 The management approach and its components Page 46-47 APPROACH 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Page 46-47 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, GRI 413 Local and development programs Page 49 Communities 2016 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities Page 56 About Our Report Strategy and Management Our Customers Our Employees Our Shareholders and Investors Our Society Appendix 69 Contact Information ŞEKERBANK T.A.Ş. İstanbul Ticaret Sicil Memurluğu Ticaret Sicil No: 536973 Emniyet Evleri Mahallesi Eski Büyükdere Caddesi No: 1/1A 34415 Kağıthane-İstanbul T: 212 319 70 00 Please send us your questions and suggestions. surdurulebilirlik@sekerbank.com.tr Sustainability and Reporting Consultant Sercom Consulting www.sercomconsulting.com Disclaimer The information and analyses provided in Şekerbank T.A.Ş. Sustainability Report (the report) is based on reliable resources at the time of its content development, and the aim of this report is only provision of information. The company, its managers, employees and other parties who worked on the production of the report, can not be held responsible for any damages, loss, costs or expenses arising from the use of information provided in this report. All rights reserved. Şekerbank T.A.Ş. owns the copyright of all materials presented in this report. 100% recycled paper is used for the publication of this sustainability report.
