Absa Bank Kenya PLC Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 Contents List of Abbreviations 4 Introduction 6 The Absa Group today 8 Absa presence 9 Absa Kenya key philosophy 10 Letter from the Chairman 12 Letter from the Chief Executive Offcer 13 Absa Bank Kenya PLC Sustainability programme approach 14 Economic, Social and Governance outlook for Kenya 16 Value Creation 20 Case Study: Business Led 36 Case Study: Internal Led 52 Case Study: Society Led 66 COVID 19 response 72 Ideas for you to drive sustainability 78 4 List of abbreviations Acronym Description AIR Annual Integrated Report BBK Barclays Bank of Kenya CIB Corporate Investment Banking ESG Environmental, Social and Governance GDP Gross Domestic Product ICT Information and Communications Technology IFC International Finance Corporation IPF Insurance Premium Financing ITC International Trade Centre IVR Interactive Voice Recognition KES Kenyan Shilling KGBS Kenya Green Building Society MKO Magical Kenya Open NFI Non-Funded Income NSE Nairobi Stock Exchange ROE Return on Equity ROI Return on Investment SDGs Sustainable Development Goals SMMEs Small, Medium and Micro-Enterprises SME Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises UN United Nations UNEP United Nations Environmental Programme UNPRB United Nations Principles for Responsible Banking USD United States Dollar WHO World Health Organisation Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 5 Losing a job due to the pandemic is quite unfortunate. The MCR team supported 52 families with food items, putting a smile on the family’s faces and living to the mantra of being a Force for Good. Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 6 Introduction Absa Bank Kenya Plc strives to be a force for good by making a difference in its communities, which benefts both people and the planet. We are privileged to have over 100-year track record of serving our people. Over the years we have endeavoured how best to contribute to society through broad based initiatives that uplift all our stakeholders. This upliftment drives our growth as a business, ensures profitable returns to our shareholders and continued growth and development of our staff. The sustainability journey we have embarked on enables us to remain relevant in society and strengthens our ability to respond to an ever-increasing competitive landscape . We frame this concept as shared value. We conduct our activities through the lens of our strategy. We assist customers to create, grow and protect wealth by offering an integrated set of banking and insurance products and services delivered through our customer facing businesses. and and (RBB) (CIB) Capturing Consumers Capturing Instituitions Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 7 We drive Force for Good through our people Shared Value embodies the way we do business. It covers all the aspects of our business practices; we seek to be responsible and ethical in our business conduct and within our operations. This business-led approach permeates our Bank and inspires the way we think about stakeholders and the creation of shared value. It is a key motivator of our intention to offer our financial products and services in a responsible manner which has led us to be signatories to the Principles for Responsible Banking at Group Level and to the UN Global Compact Kenya Chapter. The aim of this document is to summarise the sustainability journey we have already travelled, as well as key aspects we aim to focus on ensuring enhanced business value creation in the future. Case studies are presented to further articulate the knowledge gained throughout this journey and the inspiring stories of our people. This report should help the reader understand how we have defined and intend on measuring value creation in the future. It should be read as a showcase of our work and not as a supplement to the Integrated Annual Report (“IAR”). You can find a copy of the 2019 IAR here: https://www.absabank.co.ke/content/dam/kenya/absa/pdf/Investor-Relations/Annual-Reports/integrated-report-2019.pdf Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 8 The Absa Group today We are creating an organisation that We are an African group, inspired can make better decisions faster, is by the people we serve and aligned and engaged at every level. It determined to be a Group that is is headed by leaders who inspire the globally respected and that Africa whole organisation to action and who can be proud of. We are committed give our employees an emotional sense to fnding local solutions to uniquely of belonging and commitment. local challenges and everything we do focuses on adding value. Purpose Bring your Possibility to Life We believe in possibility, in the actions of people who always find a way to get things done. We believe in creating opportunities for our customers to make their possibilities real and supporting them every step of the way. Aspirations Values We are driven by our purpose and guided by our promises. For our people, we will create a culture that appreciates, 1. We drive high performance to achieve sustainable results. We live by our values. unifies and differentiates us from our competitors. 2. Our people are our strength. For our customers, we will create unprecedented, 3. We are obsessed with the customer. seamless experiences to engage and delight them. For society, all our employees will lead with a 4. We have an African heartbeat. conscience... doing the best for people and the planet. Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 9 Absa presence Customers are served through an Botswana extensive branch and self-service terminal network, digital channels, fnancial advisors, relationship Ghana bankers and dealerships, originators, alliances and joint ventures. Kenya Mauritius 14 countries 1 Mozambique 38 472 employees Uganda 1 016 branches 9 763 ATMs Seychelles 115 708 point-of-sale devices South Africa Tanzania2 Zambia 1 Representative offices: Nigeria and Namibia. Other Offices: United Kingdom and United States. 2 Absa Bank Tanzania and National Bank of Commerce combined. Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 10 Absa Kenya key philosophy Being the best in customer experience is our vision Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 11 Absa’s Values underpin our culture and we Our attitudes continue on our journey to embed these as z Brave we unite under the Absa brand. z Passionate z Ready We drive high performance to achieve sustainable results. Our brand attributes z Accessible z Dynamic Our people are our strength. z Aspirational We are obsessed with Our way of life the customer. z Easier z Faster We have an African heartbeat. z Better Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 12 Letter from the Chairman Over the last 100+ years attainment of the Sustainable Although our initial strategy is during which our business has Development Goals (SDGs), to make remarkable gains in operated in this country, we have cementing our commitment to the four high impact goals, we developed a deep understanding continue impacting the society in plan to include four additional of the fundamental challenges the right way. SDGs as part of our focus. These affecting our society, including include the medium impact goals access to quality education, set under SDG 7 (Affordable healthcare and social services, and clean energy), 9 (Industry unemployment and slow innovation and infrastructure), economic development, 11 (Sustainable cities and Charles Muchene corruption and poor governance, communities) and 15 (Life on Chairman as well as climate change. land), respectively. Our commitment to be an Sustainability has become active Force for Good in our increasingly important to us as The Board of Absa Bank communities has also grown over we run our day-to-day business Kenya Plc is cognizant of the years and our Citizenship We selected four high impact activities and navigate through the large array of societal agenda has evolved accordingly. goals as our primary focus the current macro-economic challenges facing us More than ever, with our new namely, Quality Education challenges presented by the including access to quality Absa brand, and our renewed (goal 4), Decent Work and COVID-19 global pandemic. We education, healthcare and purpose to bring possibility to Economic Growth (goal 8), continue to make deliberate social services, issues life for all our stakeholders, we Reduced Inequalities (goal 10) efforts to pursue and enact of corruption and poor are deliberate about providing and Responsible Consumption sustainable business practices governance, economic sustainable financial solutions and Production (goal 12). These while fostering the success of development and job and supporting enterprises and goals are underpinned by our our people and our country. creation within the Kenyan facilitating economic growth. contribution to SDG 16 (Peace economy, as well as the I am indeed excited by the and justice strong institutions) impact of climate change. In December last year, the production of this report, and 17 (Partnership to achieve Board deliberated and approved which is part of our renewed the goals), respectively. our commitment and strategy commitment towards the to contribute towards the sustainability agenda. Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 13 Letter from the Chief Executive Offcer Last year reinforced this More so during this COVID-19 our loan relief program to commitment by becoming a period, we are alive to the fact reduce their monthly financial signatory to the United Nations that businesses do not operate obligations and to improve their Principles for Responsible in a vacuum; they are built by cash flows. Banking at a Group Level, as people, operated by people and Internally, the culture shift well as the United Nation Global serve people daily. Therefore, towards sustainability is gaining Compact Kenya Chapter in one can argue that successful momentum and has seen many September last year. businesses are those that, at of our sustainability initiatives the core, care about the people. This affirms our pledge to work come to light. These include, This is a mantra that we strongly with our colleagues, customers among others, pursuing Edge Jeremy Awori believe in and one that we have and all other stakeholders to certification by undertaking an Chief Executive Officer upheld throughout this tough drive sustainability and ensure assessment of all 85 Absa sites season. that the value chains are and repurposing and upcycling adhering to sustainable business As part of this, we have taken a of gently used furniture forming As a responsible corporate practices. As such, playing a proactive approach to respond part of a circular economy. citizen and one of the shaping role in society is one of to the challenges that our country’s leading financial In conclusion, we are in the the key guiding principles for our customers may be facing due services institutions, process of determining our new purpose and strategy, at the to the COVID-19 pandemic. For Absa Bank Kenya PLC is baseline condition and we will heart of which is growth. those in the Small and Medium passionate about Kenya’s soon start tracking the changes Enterprises (SME) sector, the sustainable economic With this in mind, our ambition that we have made in the society backbone of our economy, our development. In line with as Absa Group is to become a through our business activities commitment has been to hold this, we are constantly leading, purpose-orientated, and operations. We look forward their hand every step of the reviewing our strategy African bank that is deeply to seeing what further positive journey. This includes equipping to enable us to make rooted in the countries it serves impact we can make and how our them with information and meaningful contribution and which recognises that our combined efforts will transform solutions to help them adapt to to the country’s economic own sustainability is directly our communities. the new way of doing business, priorities. linked to the sustainability of assisting them with insights the communities, in which we and cushioning them through operate. Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 14 Absa Bank Kenya PLC Sustainability programme approach We embed sustainability through four pillars Business and New and Corporate existing Stakeholder Enterprise Social memberships communication functions Investment and and reporting inititiatives (Citizenship) capabilities Executed through partnerships and collaboration Aligned to our corporate strategy and global goals With the aim to achieve our purpose of ‘Bring your possibility to life’ Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 15 We support our strategic goals through sustainability initiatives We will bring our brand promise bringing possibilities to life alive through aligning sustainability initiatives to the key strategic goals and other areas of priority in sustainability Employees Investors Governments Embed a new culture Ensuring that our bank Contribute to the Kenyan underpinned by the Absa remains well capitalized and economy while at the same Kenya way of easier, faster, give shareholders return on time aligning to the national better to become among the investment while ranking well on agenda to drive sustainable top 10 best places to work sustainability indexes development Customers Communities Suppliers Deliver exceptional customer Support people in local Increase the supply chain experience and relevant communities where we operate awareness of corporate propositions with a renewed while ensuring our business sustainability and responsible focus on products with a helps protect the environment business practices social and environmental through curbing climate change focus and reducing our environmental foot print Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 16 Economic, Social and Governance outlook for Kenya We recognise the challenges facing ordinary Kenyans We seek to be responsive to our social context, aiming to address and influence the root causes of the social challenges we face in society, being a “force for good”. 2.6% 1/3 30% 17% 17mn 0.2 of the annual GDP, of students that of students that of young people in of the Kenyan out of 100 people is allocated to the access higher graduated from Kenya are jobless population live in have access to long-term fiscal education are secondary school poverty fibre internet cost of managing women can access higher solutions floods and education droughts in Kenya 50k 23 25% 2mn 46mn hectares of forest days is what it takes of the Kenyan people live in people Nairobi is are lost each to start a business population have no informal expected to have year through in Kenya (compared access to grid and settlements by 2100 (12th deforestation. In to half a day in New off-grid energy and slums in largest city in the 2009 just 6% of the Zealand) solutions Nairobi world) country was covered in forest Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 17 Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 18 Economic, Social and Governance outlook for Kenya The articulation of our contribution to society Our contribution to society in 2019 can be defined under key headings, namely our people, our social investment into youth, women and communities, through our internal improvement initiatives introduced into our operations, support of our suppliers and by our contribution made to the countries tax base. Our people Social investment in youth, women and communities 10.5 40% of the senior 48% 155k 541 100 the average length of of Absa Kenya staff, youth Ssholarships management staff, internships offered employment (years) are women benefciaries through provided through a are women by the bank ready to work KES 65Mn fund 90% 10bn 3 200 50mn of the employees would 90% retention of our top in remuneration for women spectators around the world have recommend Absa our staff members entrepreneurs talent seen a ‘’New Kenya’’ Kenya as a great benefted by through Magical place to work SheTrades KE Kenyan Open 100 100 5 599 hours of men benefted by the teens benefted by the Absa Teens xy program training (program to Program provided to our enable men to deal (program for the kids of colleagues in 2019 with emotional related the employees) challenges) Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 19 Our internal operations Our suppliers Tax contribution 60% 1 000+ 85 of our employees have access to new computers have been earmarked facilities in which we operate have 3.6bn 77mn 89% of our suppliers 4.0bn water purifcation for donation to 66 been audited in corporate tax paid paid to our paid to women are local companies. units which are institutions in 2019. anticipation of edge by Absa Bank Kenya suppliers in 2019 suppliers in 2019 Helping us to boost eco-friendly Distribution to certifcation in 2019 economic growth commence in 2020. Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 20 Value Creation From the internal perspective, we ensure the continued development of our staff. We promote equality in the workplace through policies targeted at gender and marginalised groups, which ensures an economically viable business. The businesses main touchpoint with society is through our customers. This is primarily achieved by the responsible provision of loans and management of their deposits. Based on the type of products on offer to our customers, under the SDGs we facilitate the provision of affordable and clean energy, and improved implementation of innovative technologies. This allows us to track our contribution to SDG 7 and 9 respectively. This has shown to facilitate the growth and development of these businesses, stimulating further economic development, job creation (SDG 8) and a reduction in inequalities (SDG 10). Based on the type of projects we fund, we indirectly assist the Christine Mwai-Marandu, Country Corporate Credit Director using an Absa ATM development of sustainable cities and communities (SDG 11) as well as the promotion of responsible consumption and production (SDG Our shared value approach is contextualised by three 12). This is emphasised through the customers onboarding process, facets, namely being Business-led, Internal-led and focused on the use and implementation of cleaner production Society-led. The framework presented in the circle processes and subsequent reduction of environmental footprints. diagrams outlines our perceived linkages between these Influence is also extended to improve the businesses approach to three facets of our business. The linkages to the respective supply chain, staff and customers engagement. sustainable development goals (SDGs), is indicative of the contribution each facet makes to building our businesses intrinsic value. Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 21 Outcome: Alignment of the SDGs to the corporate strategy and our choices Business Led Society Led Internal Led Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 22 Value Creation Outcomes: Alignment of the SDG’s to the corporate strategy and our choices In the diagram below, we reflect our contributions through three lenses: Business Led Internal Led Society Led Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 23 Our Governance Structure Our Sustainability Agenda is led by the Country Management Committee (CMC), capacitated through the establishment of a sustainability committee which reports directly to CMC. Clear KPIs have been set and are driven by the Sustainability Steering Committee throughout the organisation to ensure the realisation of our objectives. It is acknowledged that for our Sustainability Agenda to be a success it needs to touch on all facets of the organisation, requiring a holistic approach to implementation in order to achieve our set KPIs. Once achieved we are convinced we will realise our Corporate Strategy and create the value required to maximise growth, transformation and the returns sought by the organisation and society. Oversight Board Corporate Country Management Board of Directors Governance and Committee Nominations Committee Members Execution and Management Sustainability Steering Business and Sustainability Team Committee Enterprise functions Sustainability Champions Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 24 Value Creation Our Governance Framework Sustainable banking practices have always been part of our culture. Absa Bank Kenya Plc has a history of investing in strategic partnerships with global organisations to stay abreast of international best practices. To realise both past and future sustainability initiatives, Absa Bank Kenya Plc have further aligned themselves with key international bodies and identified key enablers to realise their sustainability agenda. Absa Bank Kenya Plc are currently signatory to the following international conventions ensuring the business’s sustainability practices are aligned to or adhered to international best practice initiatives: Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 25 Sustainable Finance is a Kenya Bankers Association The SDGs are a call for action by all countries led initiative whose objective is driving a banking to promote prosperity while protecting the sector that is not only efficient and profitable, environment. They recognize that ending poverty but is also alive to the wider societal concerns of must go hand-in-hand with strategies that build environmental and economic sustainability and economic growth and address a range of social social good. needs including education, health, equality and job opportunities, while tackling climate change and working to preserve our ocean and forests A call to companies to align strategies and The Principles for Responsible Banking are a operations with universal principles on human unique framework for ensuring that signatory rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption, and banks’ strategy and practice align with the vision take actions that advance societal goals society has set out for its future in the Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris Climate Agreement. A joint initiative of the UN Global Compact and UN The Shared Value approach reconnects business Women developed in 2010 to provide a holistic success with social progress, positing that it is framework to empower women and girls in the not only possible but indeed preferable from a workplace, marketplace, and community. The seven business perspective to focus on creating both Principles, are based on real-life business practice, economic value for its shareholders and for and seek to elaborate on the gender dimension of society – summed up succinctly as profit with corporate sustainability, the UN Global Compact’s purpose – Prof Michael Porter and Mark Kramer Ten Principles and broader UN Goals and Values, such as the Sustainable Development Goals. Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 26 Value Creation Our Key Stakeholders Those directly and indirectly impacted on by our business were considered when defining our sustainability strategy and setting key performance indicators. Maintaining a clear focus on these ultimate beneficiaries of our value creation is key to ensuring we realise a tangible difference in the way we operate and contribute to society. Customers Employees Society Regulators Investors Government Management Direct Direct Direct Direct Direct Direct Indirect Stakeholders Stakeholders Stakeholders Stakeholders Stakeholders Stakeholders Stakeholders Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 27 The process used to defne our sustainability strategy Our theory of change model illustrates how our business activities contribute to societal impacts. We have developed our theory of change model through an interactive engagement based on the human centred design methodology. The theory of changes defines: z What change we want to see in society as a result of our operations, z What needs to be invested to realise this change, z The defined roles and responsibilities of each enabler unit to ensure alignment, z Clear linkages with the corporate strategy to generate growth, transformation and returns targeted, and z Linkages between each of the 6 capitals enabling the setting of clear Key Performance Indicators (KPIs). This process comprised representatives from all functions of the organisation. Key ownership of the outcomes of this process remained with the Board, driven by the Sustainability Steering Committee and the Managing Director. The key outcome of this process was the adoption of 10 SDGs namely SDG 4, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 15, 16, 17. These SDGs were selected based on shared value to the business, society and operating environment. Problem statement Opportunity mapping Voice of the customer defned undertaken unpacked Opportunities Voice of the Customer z Green economy z Food security z Untapped youth z Lack of leadership Interviews held z Tech savvy youth z Urbanisation z Under served start-ups z Technology z Women in the economy z Skills development z Business clubs z Climate change Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 28 Value Creation As an institution we support all seventeen global goals with varied focus and impact on each. Our priority goals were further disaggregated based on high, medium and moderate impact. High impact SDGs show close alignment to existing initiatives being undertaken and should realise early gains in the creation of targeted value for the bank and society as a whole. While we focus on the full implementation of these high impact goals, we will create the required systems and protocols and invest in the training of staff required to inculcate the medium impact initiatives into the standard way of doing business. Sustainable Development goals, which High Impact we are going to prioritise, based on there relevance to our organisation and the immediate opportunity. Enablers Sustainable Development Goals, where we are going to prioritise our work based Medium Impact on their relevance for our organisation and the opportunity. Sustainable Development Goals, which we Moderate Impact are not going to implement directly, but are committed to safeguard. Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 29 Defning materiality Through ongoing engagement with stakeholders and mapping of key business objectives we isolate the material environmental, social and economic aspects which need to be managed by the business. Assessing areas of critical focus and impact Very High Importance Intersection between stakeholders and our perception illustrates Absa Kenya Perception areas of Corporate purpose Very Important Where: Economic material topics Social material topics Important Environmental material topics Important Very Important Very High Importance Stakeholder Perception Source: GRI 101 (Stakeholder inclusiveness and materiality) Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 30 Value Creation Our material matters Additionally, we also divide these material aspects based on alignment to specific SDGs, the boundary of influence, as well as our current status of implementation, allows us to plan and prioritise interventions required to realise our objectives under each SDG. SDGs Material topic Current state Boundary 1. Training and upskill our employees Absa Kenya 2. Training and education of our external stakeholders ~˜ Absa Kenya 1. Diversification of our portfolio, funding renewable energy ~˜ Absa Kenya 2. Adoption of renewable energy internally in our operations ~˜ Absa Kenya 3. Identification and management of risks and opportunities in clean energy business Absa Kenya 1. Funding industries and businesses linked with the Kenyan economic growth and national sustainable Kenya targets ~˜ 2. Our economic value distribution Kenya 3. Risks management and opportunities identification due to climate change Absa Kenya 4. Our indirect economic impacts Kenya 5. Economic impact in our supply chain Absa Kenya 6. Economic impact and benefits to our employees Absa Kenya 7. Economic impact, accessibility and benefits to our customers Kenya Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 31 Our material matters SDGs Material topic Current state Boundary 1. Diversification of our portfolio, funding innovation, industries and infrastructure ~˜ Absa Kenya 2. Identification and management of risks and opportunities in innovation, industries and infrastructure Absa Kenya businesses ~˜ 3. Identification and management of our current and future economic, social and environmental indirect Kenya impact of our businesses and initiatives 1. Diversification of our portfolio, funding financially excluded groups Absa Kenya ~˜ 2. Introduction of employee internal policies and initiatives for reducing inequalities by gender, Absa Kenya employee category, age and disabilities 3. Introduction of customer accessibility policies and initiatives for reducing inequalities by gender, age Absa Kenya and disabilities ~˜ 1. Diversification of our portfolio, funding initiatives that support sustainable cities and communities ~˜ Absa Kenya 2. Identification and management of our current and future economic, social and environmental indirect Kenya impact of our businesses and initiatives 1. Reduction of our operational environmental footprint ~˜ Absa Kenya 2. Responsible consumption of resources: Energy and Water Absa Kenya 3. Assess and management of our environmental and social indirect impacts Kenya Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 32 Value Creation Our material matters SDGs Material topic Current state Boundary 1. Identify and support initiatives to promote biodiversity Absa Kenya 2. Identification and management of our current and future indirect impact of our businesses and Kenya initiatives on biodiversity 1. Management of internal operational incidents Absa Kenya 2. Deployment of the Human Rights policies in our daily operation Absa Kenya 1. Support sustainable initiatives through the building of strategic partnerships Absa Kenya ~˜ Where: Good progress ~˜ Moderate progress Not enough progress Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 33 Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 34 Value Creation Strategic KPIs set We have set our internal key performance indictors with measure of success as follows: Our SDGs Commitment Goal or Target Target date impacted 1 Diversifcation of our portfolio and increase our funding and capital Increase portfolio and capital 2025 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 allocation for initiatives that support; allocation by atleast 10% 1. Renewable and clean energy 2. Industries, innovation and infrastructure 3. Financially excluded groups 4. Sustainable cities and communities 5. Responsible consumption and production 6. Value chains 2 Increase diversity in the supply chain focusing on Women, Youth Achieve 30% diversity 2022 8,10 and Persons with disability 3 Investing in the future of the youth through skills development with Train 1 Mn youth 2023 4, 8, 10 our ReadyToWork program 4 Become a net zero carbon footprint company by 2040 Achieve Net Zero 2040 12 5 Increase biodiversity and encourage environmental responsibility Plant 10 million trees 2025 15, 8 through planting trees 6 Empower our suppliers and create awareness on Corporate Train all suppliers on 2021 8, 16 sustainability and responsible business practices sustainable Business 7 Direct and indirect economic contribution to the Kenyan economy % of contribution to economy Continuous 8 through our current and future funding Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 35 Strategic KPIs set Our SDGs Commitment Goal or Target Target date impacted 8 Become one of the best place to work in Kenya Top 10 2025 8 9 Investing in training and upskilling the future skills and Train all employees on atleast 2021 4, 8, 16 competencies of our employees one future skill 10 Increase proportion of women within all levels: junior, management Attain 50% across all levels 2025 10 and board positions: Gender parity 11 Assess and manage our indirect environmental and indirect social Reduce and mitigate negative 2021 8, 12 impacts impact 12 Adherence to governance and control policies internally and Embed ESG across all our Continuous 16 through the supply chain policies and frameworks 13 Continued partnerships for the goals No of partners and value Continuous 17, 8 created for society and business Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 36 Case Study Business Led Business Women Strengthening Empowerment z Combating illicit z SME development financial flows z Supply chain z Environmental risk z Customers z Conduct risk Customer Protection Our business focuses on creating ongoing value amongst our z Financial Crime z Terrorism customer base. This is fostered through the implementation of z Anti-bribery and responsible lending practices, and the innovation of products to Anti-corruption service specific customer needs. z Data protection To inculcate this customer-centric approach, we also focus on z Cyber security the management of our own business processes responsibly. This allows us to live our goals, in so doing demonstrating to Capacity Production our staff why aspects like environmental, social and governance Building Innovation protocols imposed are good for business and society. z SME development z Wezesha Biashara z Timiza We continue to hone our skills, innovate, and empower z Absa One account marginalised groups within our business, extending this into the greater supply chain and customer base. Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 37 Business strengthening and customer 06 Anti bribery protection We continue to work closely with the Central Bank of Kenya and Financial Reporting Centre to ensure that as a financial institution, we are 05 Sanctions not used as a conduit for illicit financial flows. Bespoke training sessions are rolled out on an ongoing basis to ensure adherence. These types of programmes assist us in contributing to SDG 16. 04 Legislative breaches Combating Illicit Financial Money laundering 01 Flows 03 Terrorist fnancing Corruption 02 Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 38 Business Led Cyber security and data protection concerns To ensure that Absa mitigates against all possible cyber security and data protection concerns, continuous and rigorous training has been implemented at all levels of work and across departments. The cost of the training material is covered by Absa Group Limited as the material concern had already been developed with access to this online training platform provided to all staff due to the transition. Absa Bank Kenya Plc also circulates ongoing refresher training via email. Absa Bank Kenya Plc measures the success of this training undertaken through exams undertaken by staff, the efficacy of which is being tracked through the internal reduction of cyber security crimes in the Bank. Skills / experience • Data Protection – Ensure Legal Compliance • Cyber Resilience – Customer Protection • Cyber Readiness – Customer Protection • Cyber Security Awareness – Financial Crime and Fraud Protection Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 39 Women Empowerment Colleagues* We have distinct approaches to female empowerment across Absa Kenya is committed to promoting gender across all levels all facets of the business. Staff anchor how we engage with our ensuring we surpass the constitutional one-third threshold set valued customer base; supply chain assists us with delivering as an international benchmark on this mandate. Empowering our customer base allows us to broaden the market for our services. Customers We track our loan portfolio by gender to track our empowerment of women through the provision of inclusive fnancial solutions. Supply Chain We manage a women empowerment initiative in partnership with the International Trade Council (ITC) that seeks to support women entrepreneurs Benefts of women empowerment z Reduced inequalities z Increased economic stimulus z Community upliftment z Reduction in poverty Prof. Margaret Kobia (Cabinet Secretary for Public Service, Youth and Gender Affairs) with Jeremy Awori (MD Absa Bank Kenya PLC) during SheTradesKE event. Absa Bank Kenya PLC announced a KSh10 billion fund to advance credit to women-owned small and medium enterprises over the next five years as part of the new customer value propositions under the Absa brand. The women fund is part of the bank’s commitment towards advancing diversity and inclusion by empowering women with * For more information on how we engage women in our staff compliment, refer to financial resources and capacity building to grow their businesses. page 60. Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 40 Business Led Women in Business Forum Women in business is our overarching Achieved to date: proposition that seeks to support women entrepreneurs to establish, expand, diversify and improve their businesses by providing Over 3K them with four key resources, namely: women entrepreneurs have received business training Access to Finance 50 businesses listed on e-bay Access to Information SME Academy in partnership with United States Access to Markets international University Africa Access to Mentorship and Coaching Responding to SDGs Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 41 Prof. Margaret Kobia (Cabinet Secretary for Public Service, Youth and Gender Affairs) with Jeremy Awori (MD Absa Bank Kenya PLC) signing a partnership during the SheTradesKE. Looking on (from left right): Elizabeth Wasunna (Business Banking Director), Caroline Ndungu (Marketing and Corporate Relations Director,Absa bank Kenya), Winnie Ouko (Absa bank Kenya Board Member) and Patricia Ithau ( (Absa bank Kenya Board Member). Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 42 Business Led Partnership with the International Trade Council (ITC) Our partnership with ITC is part of our Women in Business propositions and seeks to equip local women entrepreneurs with new skills, connect them to international trade opportunities while providing access to credit facilities. We have pledged to train 10,000 women by 2021 under our partnership with ITC. The partnership was launched in 2016 and since then we have been able to train over 4,500 women and offer Shs 1.25bn in loans for women in SME business. We have also committed to lend an additional 10bn to women led businesses. Partnership journey 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Launch Webinar Training Training Achieve the goal • Wezesha Biashara • Access to Credit • Business Club Seminars • Access to Credit • Training and exposing Campaigns • SMEs in Conversations • In-house training women to international • Basics on Finance workshops markets Training • SME Academy training • Wezesha Biashara • Facebook/Twitter Live • 1,431 Trained • Textiles and Apparels • Re-loaded Women Chats • ICT Conference Proposition • Business Club Webinars • Goal – 1500 • ITC /BBK Conference Seminars • 2 Webinars; 44 • Webinars countries represented – • 408 Trained • 659 Trained 175 participants • Women conferences • Trained – 400 Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 43 Business Led Small and Medium Entrepreneurs We recognise that SMEs in our region accounts for 40% of GDP and employ more than three-quarters of the working population in the country. A robust and diverse SME sector drives sustainable and inclusive economic growth and innovation. However, 70% of SMEs fail within the first five years because of various challenges including lack of access to capital, limited market access, lack of skills transfer, changes in technology, retention of talent amongst others. Our SME proposition seeks to address these issues by providing bespoke products as well as supportive non-financial value-added services. We have leveraged on partnerships with the Kenya Association of Manufacturers (KAM), the Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KNCCI) and the International Trade Centre (ITC) to drive growth in our SME businesses SME development Developed bespoke products Wezesha Biashara and Ecosystem drive launched in 2018 Capacity building New fnancial literacy initiatives targeted, strengthened and coordinated to have greater impact, effectiveness and effciency. Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 44 Business Led Capacity building Absa Bank Kenya Plc has partnered with the United States International University (USIU) to launch an SME Academy. • Tailored to SME Entrepreneurs • Aim to Strengthen Businesses and position it for growth • The frst cohort graduated in January 2020 • Classroom training by successful entrepreneurs, mentoring and coaching for participants • For SME running for 3-5 years Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 45 Wezesha Biashara loans • Unsecured LPO financing upto Shs 12mn • Unsecured Working capital for Shs 10mn • Savings feature on Timiza with returns of up to 5% Interest • Unsecured business loans up to Shs 10mn • Invoice discounting up to Shs 50mn • Mortgage offering includes 100% financing, and interest rate of 11.75% Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 46 Business Led Timiza: Sustainable fnance z Encourage responsible lending by driving savings behavior for Timiza customers aged 18-24 years. z Reduced loss rates on Timiza by having a savings led strategy to this age group as opposed to Youth credit. z Savings led strategy improves the probability of youth building a good credit history early on, by avoiding adverse reporting caused by default on credit. z Timiza offers the cheapest mobile credit in the Kenyan market. Bridging Finance z Cheap and accessible finance on the backdrop of reduced private lending resulted in Timiza for the mass advancing 21B since 2018 to the mass market to supplement household income such as market school fees, health emergencies and general household needs. z 1.4B disbursed to SME / MSME type customers who borrow for business on Timiza. Access to cheap z Cost of credit for Timiza is the lowest in the market enabling increased access to finance. credit to SME and z Timiza supports Kenya’s growth engine by making available cheap loans to this financially MSME underserved sector that is the mainstay of Kenya’s economy. Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 47 Absa One Absa One is our flagship current account available for both Business and personal customers. The account is designed on the principle of simplicity. It removes traditional entry barriers such as monthly fees and minimum balances driving access while delivering business growth. Key features: • No maintenance fees • No minimum balance • Access to Absa app with biometric access offering enhanced security. • Access to Absa chequebook and vertical debit card • Instant debit card and Pin issuance at all our branches countrywide • Unsecured loans of up to KShs 10mn for Business customers and KShs 6mn for Personal customers • Guaranteed 0.3% cashback on POS transactions done on the Absa Vertical card. Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 48 Business Led Response to the Government’s Big Four agenda Finance is a key enabler for social and economic development. Financial inclusion is central to poverty reduction by providing effective access to affordable, convenient, quality and sustainable financial services. Financial intermediaries are therefore important players in the economy as they provide a critical intermediation role for diverse players in the economy. This contributes to the overarching national development goals as stipulated in Vision 2030 and the government’s big four agenda on affordable housing, manufacturing, universal health care and food security, all key sectors for Absa. Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 49 Promotion of affordable housing Supporting growth of the manufacturing sector There is a huge housing deficit in Kenya. To address this gap, the A survey conducted by the Strathmore Business School in 2019 government seeks to enable the provision of affordable housing. Part established that most manufacturing businesses in Kenya operate of the strategy for increasing access to housing involves financiers sub-optimally due to diverse challenges such as; high energy costs, partnering with contractors to deliver 500,000 units through the lack of access to funds, lack of automation, high cost of technology, National Housing Development Fund. Absa Bank Kenya has been shortage of skilled workforce and lack of market for goods. Yet, the shortlisted as a strategic financier to this initiative which we estimate national government’s goal is to increase the manufacturing sector’s as valued at US$7Bn (Shs 700bn). contribution to GDP from 8.4% in 2017 to 20% by 2022. In addition, the government created The Kenya Mortgage Refinance Company (“KMRC”) in April 2018 to provide secure longterm funding to primary mortgage lenders (Banks and Saccos) in order to increase the availability and affordability of housing loans to Kenyans. Absa Kenya is one of the shareholders of KMRC. Absa Bank Kenya PLC envisages a project pipeline in the region of US$100mn (Shs 10bn) over the next four years from this initiative, which we believe will go a long in way in addressing the housing supply problem in Kenya. In addition, working with the National Housing Corporation (NHC), Absa Bank Kenya is one of six banks involved in the capital raise required to finance the second round of the Boma Yangu programme. This is a long-term debt facility to enable registered individuals to finance their dreams of purchasing a house under the affordable housing initiative. Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 50 Business Led Represented sectors Some of the products and services offered to the manufacturing Absa Bank Kenya facilitates this growth through the provision of sector include: finance to big entities, and through ongoing support provided to the SME sector. Manufacturing represents the largest proportion of our business portfolio and in 2019, we provided credit to the tune of Shs 30.2bn to this sector. Mobile and Digital Building Forex Food and Leather and Chemicals and Mining and Beverages Footware Allied Mortgage Construction Energy, Pharmaceutical Paper and Electrical and Automotive and Medical Board Electronics Equipment Deposits Card Plastics and Services and Timber, Wood Textiles and Rubber Consultancy and Furniture Apparel Credit Insurance Agriculture/ Fresh Produce Manufacturing support Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 51 Supporting universal health coverage Absa Bank Kenya PLC has provided basic infrastructure and support to suppliers to hospitals and clinics, as well as providing loans to doctors, pharmacists and other medical practitioners. Financing is also provided for healthcare equipment through an asset-based financing arm of the bank managed by corporate banking. This product offering is called MEDS. The bank also offers a health insurance plan managed by ‘bancassurance’. This health insurance is distributed through the bank in association with medical underwriters. Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 52 Case Study Internal Led Our People Diversity and Inclusion z Our new culture z Staff empowerment z Development programs z Women empowerment z Employee value proposition Production Effciencies Responsible Consumption z Capacity building z Buildings assessment We endeavour to create value within our organisation through z Process improvement z Water purification the empowerment of our work force, with a specific focus on z Waste recycling women. This is further extended into support provided within the supply chain and our customer base. This is achieved through the ongoing focus on operational improvements which protect our key stakeholders, as well as the fostering of core partnerships which enable us to achieve our goals. Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 53 Our culture Transformation Journey 2017 UGRs Customerfocus Unwritten Ground Rules BTR 2018 Personalmastery 1 Purpose 4 Priorities Growth Grow ow owth 4 Enablers iChange 2019 +++ Goodto Leadership infuence & 1 Measure Great customer obsession of success 2016 Personalchange weChange 2020 +++ Future Fit Organisation Future Skills Our purpose: Our core measure of success: Our top priority: To bring POSSIBILITY to life To bring POSSIBILITY to life CUSTOMER OBSESSION Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 54 Internal Led Our culture Transformation Journey defned iChange programme is focused on building an agile workforce strengths, understand their purpose and appreciate how these that is capable of adapting to a changing business environment two fundamental elements combine to influence personal, team while remaining customer-centric. The programme is designed to and, ultimately, business performance.²The programme has played raise the capacity of employees to deal with ongoing change within a significant role in our ambition of creating a Strengths-based our operating environment and inspire them to embody the change organisation where everyone feels that their contribution to the they would like to see – ‘Be the Change’. The programme also growth of our business is meaningful. This is one of the initiatives helped employees equip themselves to mindfully manage their own that have significantly contributed to creating a high-performance transitions. culture across the business. Additionally, through the programme, colleagues were able to articulate our new 5-year strategy and UGRs – Culture is simply defined as: the way things are done clearly understand the role they play in its execution. This was around here. Our Culture is therefore driven by unspoken cues brought to life through the call to action of ‘Be The Reason’ (BTR) that unconsciously dictate the way we do things as a business. for ‘Growth Transformation and Returns’ (GTR)abbreviated as BTR These Unwritten Ground Rules (UGRs) either enable or hinder us for GTR. from achieving our service objective of consistently delighting our customers. In order to deliver the service objective, we have Good to Great – in preparation for the Brand launch we began a developed a 5-Star service standard aptly named PACTS (Personal, series of campaigns to crystalise our new Brand Identity. Leading Agile, Consistent, Timely, Solution Based) as our signature initiative at the Speed of Trust the programme support to strengthen our for customer service going forward capability and embed our leadership credo – leadership in Absa is a behaviour not a position or grade. This culture forms a key building BTR (Be The Reason) – One of the top priorities of our five-year block in actualising our desire to implement distributed leadership strategy is transforming our business into an aspirational, vibrant and devolving decisions to as close to the customer as is practical. and fun place to work; a place where colleagues really look forward to coming to work every day to make a difference. The BTR (Be The Reason) Discovery Programme helped colleagues to discover their Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 55 weChange The journey to becoming a Future Fit (Fluid) organisation. Equipping colleagues to align their Preparing colleagues to adopt future Formation of Future Skills Clubs Strengths and Purpose to bring skills and prepare for the future world and Development of a Future Skills possibilities to life of work Alphabet Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 56 Internal Led Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 57 Colleague development plan Group Driven ABK Driven Graduate Talent Program Mind the Gap Programme Sustain Programme (Group level MD/SX) Mind the Gap is a one-year modular Join our The Sustain Leadership Programme is carefully tailored to meet the Senior Programme designed to prepare our Top A Team Talent in Middle Management for the next Leadership Challenges. The Programme is leadership level. designed to expose and prepare our senior Recognising the need to refresh talent at leaders for their next roles. The delivery approach in the Programme the entry level and have a strong pipeline includes different learning methods, for succession with focus on future Transform (Director level) assignments, exposure and experiential skills, we have put in place a Graduate The Transform Programme is a personalized learning. Management Programme. This Programme learning journey that accelerates the aimed to inject freshness, innovation and participants leadership. Strengths Coaching Programme key skills in the bank. As part of the journey to becoming a • Data Science ADI Programme (Hippo VP/D) strengths based organisation, our sales • Computer Science teams are taken through Strengths • Software engineering Africa Development Initiative (ADI) is a Coaching using the Strengths Methodology. • Actuarial, Statistics, Mathematics Leadership Development Programme. To help them leverage their strengths for • Banc assurance higher performance. • Agric specialist Leap Programme (BA4/AVP) • Investment Banking Leap Programmeme provides the learners Thought Leadership Sessions Duration: 12 months contract the confidence and influence to lead Thought Leadership sessions provide Number recruited: 7 successfully, at a personal and business a platform for experienced seasoned Skills: Technology, Investment Banking, level. The Programmeme includes both local business leaders to share their Leadership e-commerce, Big Data Analytics, Innovation and global experiences journey with the Senior Managers. and Artificial Intelligence, Entrepreneurship. Over 5000 Candidates applied for the Graduate Talent Programme Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 58 Internal Led Enhancing Employee value proposition (EVP) Absa Teens Program – The Absa teen program targeted 13-19 year olds whose parents work in the bank. The teens were taken through topics including: Strengths Self Discovery, Social Media Management, Mental wellness, Sustainability and future skills Bespoke Training for Men : The XY Program The XY program was designed to support men on vulnerability, diversity, relationships, mental wellness and personal finance matters Colleague development program preparing for the ‘new world’ aimed at equipping colleagues to achieve their career ambitions and sharpen entrepreneurial skills. Career development path focusing on an individual’s unique talents and strengths Entrepreneurial path focusing on Financial Planning, Investment and Entrepreneurship training which involved visits to our clients’ manufacturing companies and farms to experience the practical implementation of business plans. Country management is leading the initiatives to integrate Fun/ Vibrancy in the workplace and e.g. chill zones, TGIF (Thank God it’s Friday), Functional activities (hikes; Quiz competitions etc. Introducing Medical As A Service (MaaS) which encompasses the merger of Wellbeing to medical as a comprehensive health solution and the introduction of Reward based on Wellness points. The program involves Influencing colleagues to embrace holistic wellbeing through proper nutrition, physical, social and mental fitness. Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 59 Process improvement measures Training spend and hours Training modules across the bank focus on continuous skills 5 hours 599 development of staff, and reduction of risks associated with ever total hours of changing market dynamics. These trainings are constantly reviewed training conducted especially with the launch of new products and services to market. in 2019 Articulation of Products Improved Customer Awareness training hours Staff skills development enabling them to articulate Staff enabled to provide customers with pertinent information on product 23% provided to management products and services on or service processes offer training hours Results Driven Culture transformation 46% provided to women in 2019 Staff skills enhanced to Equipping staff with knowledge and improve response time skills to inculcate the Absa culture for clients in line with and includes: strategy on client focus increase in overall 10% People rotation programme training spend year Online training on year Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 60 Internal Led Women in our operations Gender parity vs return on equity Gender diversity is an issue of increasing social relevance and proven enabler of better 60% 25% financial performance. Absa Kenya is committed to promoting gender diversity at board level and all other levels ensuring we surpass the 50% 20% constitutional one-third threshold set as a benchmark. 40% 15% % Woman % ROE 30% 10% 20% 5% 10% 0% 0% 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 % staff who are woman % of woman on management level % woman on the board ROE Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 61 IFC Edge Green Building assessment on all facilities Absa Bank Kenya Plc has completed an assessment of 85 facilities for energy, water and build material efficiency using the Edge application. Once the recommendations received are implemented, we expect to realize the benefits through 30% reduction in the cost of operations, improved health and wellbeing of our staff, and improved levels of productivity. Effciency Effcient use of energy, water and other resources Environmental Reduced waste, pollution and environmental degradation Health Protection of occupant health Productivity Improved employee productivity Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 62 Internal Led This initiative is undertaken in partnership with the Kenya Green Building Society (KGBS) whom we have joined as a platinum member. All the facilities have been assessed for efficiency in terms of energy, water and building materials used. The knowledge gained will also be used in our mortgage and commercial property financing proposition. This will drive a positive impact in the environment as well as drive financial performance through the green economy. The focus on the implementation of resource efficiency within the customer base, further facilitates the bank’s ability to respond directly to SDG 8, 10, 11 and 12. With the future establishment of bespoke product offerings which focus on the implementation of renewable energy solutions, water treatment, implementation of new innovative technologies to improve process efficiency (increased rate of production using less power and water), will in the future allow the bank to also respond to SDG 6, 7, 9 and 13. Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 63 Replacement of Water Dispensers In response to SDG 12 the bank focused on how best to internalise the principles of resource efficiency. One of the key resources consumed in all buildings is water. We chose to replace the existing water dispensers with water purification units which are eco-friendly. The cost of implementing this new system was also free to the bank. The provision of these water purification units eliminates time-intensive tasks such as planning water delivery, and both the storing and removal of plastic bottles from our workspace. Moreover, with an integrated supply, we have made the sustainable choice by avoiding the collection and delivery of large plastic water bottles therefore reducing our business’ carbon footprint. Our staff have embraced the use of the new dispensers, making use of provided cups and mugs when drinking water, further eliminating the need for Styrofoam cups to be insourced. This programme was launched not only as a cost saving and environmentally friendly initiative but also to foster staff wellness. This was achieved through the further education of staff around water use and water savings initiatives to be implemented at home, and the importance of water in their overall health and wellbeing. These new dispensers were primarily rolled out to 60% of our staff during phase 1 of the project. Phase 2 will be finalised by December 2020 which will provide access to all staff. Plastic water bottles no longer required Carbon footprint reduction Cost savings 100+ bottles 56% 20% Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 64 Internal Led Pilot lab Contribution to the Circular Economy Improved Production Effciencies Absa Bank Kenya Plc focuses on the minimisation of waste streams from the business’s operations. A significant contribution to this All transitioned computers and furniture are being repurposed initiative is the recycling of E-waste, furniture, billboards, plastic in partnership with Computer for Schools Kenya and Fun Kidz. and steel waste. This is currently linked to the rebranding exercise This facilitates the upcycling of this equipments and furniture at from Barclays to Absa which was recently completed. This approach schools for educational purposes. enables the banks to contribute to SDG 4, 8 and 12 respectively. Prior to donating the equipment, the ICT department ensures all data is removed from the hard drives, thus customer and supplier information remains secure. Currently 1000+ computers will be donated to 66 institutions. Reduced Footprint Foster Responsible Consumption Patterns Circular Economy Focus on Alternative Use Options Stimulate Alternate Economic Activity Pilot lab set-up in Kikuyu Township Primary School in March 2020 Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 65 Supplier development Objective Outcome Future Action Taken Focus Areas To empower our This has led to a We have become suppliers on driving The overall objective signatory to the UN strategic sustainability remains being sustainable businesses development plan Global Compact, UNEP through the SDGs, customer centric in Financial Initiatives, and for our suppliers in everything we do UN Global compact partnership with set clear objectives in principles underpinned Strathmore Business achieving milestones by the shared value School. against the SDGs concept To facilitate the building of sustainability awareness within our staff, customer and supply chain, various initiatives were launched to enhance our expertise. It is envisaged that the ongoing rollout of responsible banking principles across our procurement processes, will enhance customer and supply chain awareness of these issues, improve our financial performance and social returns. Training and development of staff and suppliers, took the form of online training sessions and virtual workshop sessions. Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 66 Case Study Society Led Youth Enterprise Empowerment Development z Ready To Work z Enterprise Supply Chain z Scholarship Programme Development (ESD) z Internship Programme We recognise that we do not operate in a vacuum, thus societal needs inform how we respond to our customer base and broader Colleague society. Sponsorships Engagement Key focus areas in the Kenyan context which require specific z Magical Kenya Open z WEMA Force for good intervention include youth empowerment, job creation and z Nairobi Innovation Week (Shilling for Shilling) assistance of our customer base to become more economically resilient. This has led us to formulate strategic partnerships to develop bespoke campaigns aimed at capacitating these groups, providing them with the skills and opportunities to succeed. Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 67 ReadyToWork ReadytoWork program is a soft skills program that prepares young people to be work ready. Started in 2016, the programme includes an online skills development course with four modules; work skills, people skills, money skills and entrepreneurial skills. Partnerships We work together with various organisations to disseminate information as per our expertise. In 2019, we partnered with the Public Service commission to induct about 6,000 interns. Working with the basis of the ReadytoWork Programme we imparted the cohort of interns with vital information to prepare them as they went Whether you’re searching for a job, starting your to work in various parastatals and ministries. own business or getting back into the job market, prepare yourself for the work world with a digital learning experience that will Other partners we have collaborated with include the University of teach you four essential skills: Nairobi, CARE International and Kenya Girl Guides Association. • Work Skills • People Skills Youth reached through Programme • Money Skills • Entrepreneurial Skills As of 2019, the Programme had reached over 415,000 individuals. Start your journey to the career you want and go from learning to earning. We engaged in several activities in the course of the year, in an effort to expand the reach of the Programme. These included engaging in forums hosted by 9 universities comprising 11,000 young persons. Register for the modules. Complete the course. Take on the world. readytowork.absa.africa Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 68 Society Led Youth Empowerment Scholarship Programme A partnership with the Higher Education Loans Board (HELB) we also provide scholarships. We have supported students access university education in local universities. A total of 574 students all representing the 47 counties with a 56-44% male to female gender split respectively from 56 local universities, and a 4% representation of PLWDs. These have benefitted from the scholarship fund of over KES.167 Million for the past three years. Apart from covering tuition fees, our scholarship also covers upkeep costs and provides a laptop for studies. Internship Programme As an organisation we provide internships and placements to young people after going through the Readytowork programme. The internship programme that has seen 170 young people to date access internship positions within the bank; 28% of the ones we brought on board as interns in 2018 were retained as employees in 2018. Scholarships 2019 44% 50% 4% Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 69 Enterprise Development Enterprise Supply Chain Development (ESD) is an Enterprise and Supply Chain Development (ESD): Unlocking lending to innovative solution that provides unsecured funding SMEs in corporate value chains using non-traditional bank lending solutions to SMEs on the strength of their contracts and to provide finance and build capacity through our Business Development relationship with Absa’s Corporate clients. With the Support (BDS) framework. introduction of the interest rates cap, SMEs have experienced a credit crunch that has denied them access to much needed capital. ESD therefore provides an innovative response to this issue and is potentially Our strategy: to Transform Our ambition: to build capacity the next big thing in SME funding. It’s a great example and grow business through and help our SME clients grow of the value of ecosystem banking in Absa Bank Kenya. ecosystem approach to thus giving them an opportunity Absa launched its ESD solution in January 2017 ,more banking to join and serve larger than 100 SMEs have been supported to deliver on ecosystems their procurement needs. In 2019, we funded SMEs to the tune of KShs 691mn and this year we are targeting KShs 1bn. The Absa ESD solution is offered Our Client Value Proposition is based on 3 pillars under three key pillars: financing; capacity building and access to markets. Lending based on forward To customers within our looking cash flows existing corporate client’s value chain Where lending is uncollateralized and is within a ‘closed loop’ system Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 70 Society Led Magical Kenya Open The Magical Kenya Open (MKO) was founded in 1967 and is one of the oldest and most prestigious sporting events in the country. In 2019, the golf tournament was elevated from the European challenge tour to the elite European Tour. As the lead sponsor, Absa committed Shs 100 Million to this tournament. The tournament attracted an elite group of competitors to the Karen Country Club from 13 to 17 March, 2019. 17,000 spectators graced the greens while over 550 million homes across the world followed through live and recorded broadcasting. We are proud to have hosted elite players like Thomas Bjorn of Denmark who is a former Ryder Cup European Team Captain. We supported eight of the 14 Kenyan professionals and the leading Kenyan amateur player at the tournament. We also hosted some of our customers to experience the activities that happen on the side-lines of the tournament. Additionally, we had a golf clinic for children at the Possibilities Fan Zone, a move to grow the sport into the future. In the end, it was the impressive 22-year-old Italian, Guido Migliozzi who swung his way to the top in his first tournament in Africa. He was presented with the Absasponsored and now the official Kenya Open Winner’s Jacket by H.E President Uhuru Kenyatta at the closing ceremony. Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 71 Nairobi Innovation Week The Nairobi Innovation Week (NIW) is an annual event that aims to support and accelerate the innovation and entrepreneurship ecosystem in the region. The theme for 2019, which was the 5th edition, was Innovation and Kenya’s Big Four Agenda focusing on food security and nutrition, enhancing manufacturing, universal healthcare coverage and affordable housing. Absa Bank Kenya was the title sponsor for this event which was held from 10-14 June, 2019. Our support to the innovation week is anchored on our drive to bring possibilities to life and create shared value by offering a forum for innovative ideas with social Impact. Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 72 COVID 19 response Our footprint across the African continent is significant, and we have an extensive retail network that reaches into thousands of communities. This places an enormous responsibility on us to provide good leadership, and to support our clients and customers during this difficult time. The Kenyan Government declared banking an essential service. This meant we are a vital part of the infrastructure that ensures that food, medical supplies and equipment are paid for, that employers can pay their people and the relief measures can be effected. We have a vital role to play, and we will fulfil this role with a high level of commitment and to the best of our ability. Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 73 The continued health and safety of our people is therefore critical to the success of the Kenyan National COVID plan. The steps we took to enhance hygiene and cleanliness of all our facilities will remain in place. None of us have faced a challenge of this type and magnitude before, so we will keep strengthening our response. Our thoughts are also with you as our clients, customers and stakeholders during this difficult time. Should you experience any difficulties in respect of your debt obligations, please contact us in order for us to explore how best we can assist given your circumstances. Our telephonic service channels remain open, and our customer service consultants are available, and some of our branches will also remain open. We are also working together with banking sector peers, regulators and the government to look at industry-wide economic relief measures for customers and clients. We encourage you to use our digital banking channels (Banking Apps and Websites) as much as possible to limit possible exposure to the Coronavirus. They are convenient, secure and safer. Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 74 COVID 19 response Employee safety and wellness has been a top most priority Wellness support partnering Daily S elf S creening completed by colleagues to fast track treatment and with wellness players for care calls to staff on overall wellbeing and help manage anxiety levels 60% care in case of need of colleagues C ontinuity Management enabled to work Instituted rotational teams to ensure continuity in case of adverse infection rates remotely Distribution of PPEs to mitigate the risk of transmission in the working environment Driving productivity through digital tools and broad based virtual methods for enhanced daily communication with colleagues Enhanced our cleaning and sanitation procedures to allow for regular and thorough cleaning and disinfection of shared spaces S upport to kit home offices 56% with offce suitable furniture and PC’s of colleagues “permanently” working from home Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 75 We are open for business Customer testimonials “Getting a bank that 56K understands you, listens to their clients and tells Lending you they have your back accounts is really important at this time” – Packaging business Repayment holiday extended to 40%+ of total loan accounts ”In a way, the relief is like a cushion which has provided us a resting place” KShs – Wholesale dealer 57bn “It was a big relief of loan value considering I was to pay my monthly commitment with no cash flow” Catering Representing 28% of the loan book Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 76 COVID 19 response Ensuring uninterrupted business continuity 99.8% +12 improvement in our Uptime on Alternate Branch NPS Channels Score to 52 30% improvement in onboarding Turn Around Time Instituted 100% rotational working of branches open arrangement for back-office Elevated Technology and cyber surveillance Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 77 Force for good to protect lives and livelihoods KShs 50m involvement and Food donation to Laikipia county and Eliud KShs 13m shilling for shilling contribution to COVID-19 fund Kipchoge Foundation WEMA Force for Good colleague fund 4 national hospitals supplied Building out the SME Ecosystem: 200,000 masks to Boda Boda Over 4000 umbrellas to with 210,000 masks – KNH, KShs 3.6 bn advanced to SMEs riders and Newspaper vendors. policemen countrywide KUH and Coast General Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 78 Ideas for you to drive sustainability Green commuting Green home Walk or cycle to work Compost old food scraps to reduce your carbon emissions z Company to provide bicycles and a bike rack at the office for Grow your own veggies and herbs employees to use Eat less meat z Make use of public transport z The fastest way to reduce your carbon emissions is to reduce your Car pooling meat intake z Create a roster for colleagues within your team and where they live Recycle your technology responsibly so they can know who to contact with regards to car pooling z Bring it to the office and there will be a collection box which goes Work-from-home policy for recycling z To completely halt commuting emissions Greywater system can be implemented capturing water from showers to water your garden Green aesthetics Get a desk plant z Bringing nature into the office is a known reducer of stress. Not only will it bring some life to your desk, but it will improve the air quality of your office and keep your mind sharp. Invest in a reusable water bottle z Not only will this save you money, but it will remind you to stay hydrated and be more productive. Normalise repeating outfts z Working a corporate job can put people under pressure to always look their best. But this does not have to be at the expense of the planet! We need to break the stigma of always having the newest, shiniest clothes. z Instead of buying new clothes try thrift shopping or supporting local brands Absa Bank Kenya PLC | Sustainability Commitment Report 2020 www.absabank.co.ke Absa Bank Kenya is regulated by the Central Bank of Kenya
