GRI Index and UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 IPG GRI Report Organizational Proﬁle UN Global Compact GRI Indicator Reporting Level Description Reference / Response Principle Alignment 102-1 Complete Report the name of the Interpublic Group of organization Companies, Inc. Read detailed response 102-2 Complete Report the primary activities, IPG operates in all major brands, products and services world markets – our companies specialize in consumer advertising, digital marketing, communications planning and media buying, public relations and specialized communications disciplines. Read detailed response 102-3 Complete Report the location of the 909 Third Avenue, New organization's headquarters York, New York 10022 Read detailed response 102-4 Complete Report the number of countries IPG is a global company where the organization operates, with offices in over 110 and names of countries where countries. either the organization has significant operations or that are Read detailed response specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report 102-5 Complete Report the nature of ownership and IPG is a publicly traded legal form company. Read detailed response 102-6 Complete Report the markets served We are one of the world’s (including geographic breakdown, premier global advertising sectors served, and types of and marketing services customers and beneficiaries). companies. Read detailed response 102-7 Complete Report the scale of the IPG is a global company organization, including: total with employees and number of employees, total number operations in more than 110 of operations, net sales or net countries. revenues, total capitalization broken This website uses cookies and similar technologies to understand how you use our website and to create a better down in terms of debt and equity, Read detailed response experience for you. To learn more about the technologies used and your choices, please read our Privacy Notice. You may adjust your cookie settings at any timequantity of cookie through our products or services preferences tool. Accept Reject provided Do you agree to the use of cookies for the purposes described above? 102-9 Complete Describe the organization’s supply Understanding and chain. Monitoring the Conduct and Impact of our Supply Chain Read detailed response 102-10 Complete Report any significant changes There have been no during the reporting period significant changes during regarding the organization’s size, the reporting period in structure, ownership, or its supply IPG's size, structure, chain, including: Changes in the ownership, or supply chain. location of, or changes in, operations, including facility Read detailed response openings, closings, and expansions Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations) Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination 102-11 Complete Report whether and how the The precautionary approach precautionary approach or principle generally applies to is addressed by the organization manufacturing, rather than service companies. Since IPG is a provider of marketing services, we do not consider the precautionary approach. Read detailed response 102-12 Complete List externally developed economic, IPG is committed to good environmental and social charters, corporate citizenship. principles or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes Read detailed response or which it endorses 102-13 Complete List memberships of associations IPG takes its role as a and national or international corporate citizen seriously. advocacy organizations to which the This includes membership organization holds a position on the and leadership roles in trade governance body, participates in associations as well as projects or committees, provides community organizations substantive funding beyond routine that impact the lives of membership dues, views communities where our membership as strategic employees live and work. This website uses cookies and similar technologies to understand how you use our website and to create a better experience for you. To learn more about the technologies used and your choices, please read Read detailed our Privacy response Notice. You may adjust your cookie settings at any time through our cookie preferences tool. Accept Reject Do you agree to the use of cookies for the purposes described above? Strategy UN Global Compact GRI Indicator Reporting Level Description Reference / Response Principle Alignment 102-14 Complete Provide a statement from the most Message from Michael senior decision-maker of the Roth, Chairman and CEO of organization about the relevance of Interpublic sustainability to the organization and the organization's strategy for Read detailed response addressing sustainability Ethics and Integrity UN Global Compact GRI Indicator Reporting Level Description Reference / Response Principle Alignment 102-16 Complete Describe the organization's values, Interpublic’s Code of Principle 10: principles, standards and norms of Conduct forms the Anti-Corruption behavior such as codes of conduct foundation of how we and codes of ethics interact with one another, with our vendors and with our clients. It helps ensure that we operate ethically and transparently as we perform our jobs. Read detailed response Governance UN Global Compact GRI Indicator Reporting Level Description Reference / Response Principle Alignment 102-18 Complete Report the governance structure of Our Proxy Statement the organization, including provides detailed committees of the highest information on our governance body. Identify any governance structure. committees responsible for decision-making on economic, Read detailed response environmental and social impacts Stakeholder Engagement UN Global Compact GRI Indicator Reporting Level Description Reference / Response Principle Alignment 102-40 Complete Provide a list of stakeholder groups Note this response will be This website uses cookies and similar technologies to understand how you use our website and to create a better experience for you. To learn more about theengaged technologies the and byused your choices, please read cross-referenced organization for our Privacy Notice. You may adjust your cookie settings at any time through our cookie preferences tool. Disclosures 102-40,102-42 Accept Reject Do you agree to the use of cookies for the purposes described above? and 102-43 Read detailed response 102-41 Complete Report the percentage of total The percentage of IPG employees covered by collective employees covered by bargaining agreements. collective bargaining is zero – 0 percent. Read detailed response 102-43 Complete Report the organization’s approach Note this response will be to stakeholder engagement, cross-referenced for including frequency of engagement Disclosures 102-40,102-42 by type and by stakeholder group, and 102-43 and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken Read detailed response specifically as part of the report preparation process. 102-44 Partial Report key topics and concerns that Sustainability is a key have been raised through priority for IPG as it is for stakeholder engagement, and how our stakeholders, including the organization has responded to employees, clients and those key topics and concerns, shareholders. including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that Read detailed response raised each of the key topics and concerns. Reporting Practice UN Global Compact GRI Indicator Reporting Level Description Reference / Response Principle Alignment 102-45 Complete List all entities included in the Please see Part 1 Item 1, organization’s consolidated financial Business, Page 2 of IPG statements or equivalent 10K, which can be accessed documents. Report whether any at the following link: entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or Read detailed response equivalent documents is not covered by the report. The organization can report on this Standard Disclosure by referencing the information in publicly available consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. 102-46 Partial a .Explain the process for defining Interpublic completed a the report content and the Aspect comprehensive materiality This website uses cookies and similar technologies to understand how you use our website and to create a better Boundaries. b. Explain how the process. experience for you. To learn more about the technologies used and your choices, please read our Privacy Notice. You may adjust your cookie settings at any timeorganization has implemented through our cookie the preferences tool. Accept Reject Reporting Principles for Defining Read detailed response Do you agree to the use of cookies for the purposes described above? Report Content. 102-47 Complete List all the material topics identified This year, IPG transitioned in the process for defining report to the GRI Standards. content Read detailed response 102-48 Complete Report the effect of any There are no restatements restatements of information of information provided in provided in previous reports, and previous reports. the reasons for such restatements Read detailed response 102-49 Complete Interpublic has expanded its a. Report significant changes reporting boundary each from previous reporting year since 2014. periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries Read detailed response 102-50 Complete Reporting period (such as fiscal or We are reporting on a calendar year) for information calendar year cycle. provided Read detailed response 102-51 Complete Date of most recent previous report IPG published its last sustainability report in March of 2019. We update the Sustainability and Purpose information on our website on a frequent basis. Read detailed response 102-52 Complete Reporting cycle IPG reports annually. Read detailed response 102-53 Complete The reporting organization shall Jemma Gould, Senior report the following information: Director, Corporate The contact point for questions Responsibility and regarding the report or its contents. Communications 212-7041327, Jemma.Gould@Interpublic.c om Read detailed response 102-54 Complete Report the GRI Content Index for This report provides a GRI the chosen option. Report the Standards Content Index reference to the External Assurance and references the GRI Report, if the report has been Standards. externally assured. GRI This website uses cookies and similar technologies to understand how you use our website and to create a better recommends the use of external Read detailed response experience for you. To learn more about the technologies used and your choices, please read our Privacy Notice. You may adjust your cookie settings at any timeassurance through ourbut it ispreferences cookie not a tool. Accept Reject requirement to be in accordance Do you agree to the use of cookies for the purposes described above? with the Guidelines. 102-55 Complete GRI Content Index The reporting The Content Index can be organization shall report the found here: following information: https://www.interpublic.com /gri-index a. The GRI content index, which specifies each of the GRI Read detailed response Standards used and lists all disclosures included in the report. b. For each disclosure, the content index shall include: i. the number of the disclosure (for disclosures covered by the GRI Standards); ii. the page number(s) or URL(s) where the information can be found, either within the report or in other published materials; iii. if applicable, and where permitted, the reason(s) for omission when a required disclosure cannot be made. Management Approach UN Global Compact GRI Indicator Reporting Level Description Reference / Response Principle Alignment 103-1 Complete Explanation of the material topic Unless otherwise noted, the and its boundary. boundary for the disclosures in our report represent the entire Interpublic entity as described in our 10K annual report. Read detailed response 103-2 Complete Number of grievances about labor We provide our employees practices filed, addressed, and with a number of different resolved through formal grievance approaches to express mechanisms concerns about their work environments. Read detailed response This website uses Economic cookies and similar technologies to understand how you use our website and to create a better Performance experience for you. To learn more about the technologies used and your choices, please read our Privacy Notice. You may adjust your cookie settings at any time through our cookie preferences tool. Accept Reject Do you agree to the use of cookies for the purposes described above? UN Global Compact GRI Indicator Reporting Level Description Reference / Response Principle Alignment 201-1 Complete Direct economic value generated Direct economic value and distributed generated and distributed Read detailed response 201-3 Partial Coverage of the organization's Please see link below for defined benefit plan obligations more information on IPG's defined benefit plans. Read detailed response Indirect Economic Impacts UN Global Compact GRI Indicator Reporting Level Description Reference / Response Principle Alignment 203-2 Complete Significant indirect economic Sustainability in all its forms impacts, including the extent of -environmental impacts responsibility, good corporate citizenship, ensuring sociallyresponsible business practices --is important and integral to the way we do business around the world. See also: Lowe Lintas and Lifebuoy Create Hand Sanitizing Stations in India 10/29/2018 Read detailed response Anti-Corruption UN Global Compact GRI Indicator Reporting Level Description Reference / Response Principle Alignment 205-1 Complete Total number and percentage of Interpublic assesses 100% Principle 10: operations assessed for risks related of our operations for risks Anti-Corruption to corruption and the significant related to corruption. risks identified Read detailed response Energy This website uses cookies and similar technologies to understand how you use our website and to create a better experience for you. To learn more about the technologies used and your choices, please read our Privacy Notice. You UN Global Compact may Indicator GRI adjust Reporting your cookie settings Level Description at any time through our cookie preferences tool. Reference / Response Principle Alignment Accept Reject Do you agree to the use of cookies for the purposes described above? 302-1 Partial Energy consumption within the Note this response is crossorganization referenced for 302-1, 302-3, 302-4, 305-1, 305-2, 305-4, and 305-5. Read detailed response 302-3 Partial Energy intensity Note this response is crossPrinciple 7: referenced for 302-1, 302-3, Environment 302-4, 305-1, 305-2, 305-4, and 305-5. Principle 8: Environment Read detailed response 302-4 Partial Reduction of energy consumption Note this response is crossPrinciple 8: referenced for 302-1, 302-3, Environment 302-4, 305-1, 305-2, 305-4, and 305-5. Principle 9: Environment Read detailed response 302-5 Complete Reductions in energy requirements To streamline our of products and services operations and reduce unnecessary usage of energy, water, and natural resources, IPG focuses on our people. Read detailed response Emissions UN Global Compact GRI Indicator Reporting Level Description Reference / Response Principle Alignment 305-1 Partial Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) Note this response is crossPrinciple 7: emissions (Scope 1) referenced for 302-1, 302-3, Environment 302-4, 305-1, 305-2, 305-4, and 305-5. Principle 8: Environment Read detailed response 305-2 Partial Energy indirect greenhouse gas Note this response is cross(GHG) emissions (Scope 2) referenced for 302-1, 302-3, 302-4, 305-1, 305-2, 305-4, and 305-5. Read detailed response 305-3 Complete Other indirect greenhouse gas Smart travel policies – Principle 7: (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) Report traveling less where Environment gross other indirect (Scope 3) GHG possible, traveling lighter This website uses cookies and similar technologies to understand how you use our website and to create a better emissions in metric tons of CO2 and traveling smarter – is a Principle 8: experience for you. To learn more about the technologies used and your choices, please read our Privacy Notice. You may adjust your cookie settings at any timeequivalent, excluding through our cookie indirecttool. preferences shared goal that we have Environment Accept Reject emissions from the generation of committed to. Do you agree to the use of cookies for the purposes described above? purchased or acquired electricity, heating, cooling, and steam Read detailed response consumed by the organization (these indirect emissions are reported in Indicator G4-EN16). Exclude any GHG trades, such as purchases, sales, or transfers of offsets or allowances. Report gases included in the calculation, if available. Report biogenic CO2 emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent separately from the gross other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions. Report other indirect (Scope 3) emissions categories and activities included in the calculation. Report the chosen base year, the rationale for choosing the base year, emissions in the base year, and the context for any significant changes in emissions that triggered recalculations of base year emissions. 305-4 Partial Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Note this response is crossPrinciple 7: intensity referenced for 302-1, 302-3, Environment 302-4, 305-1, 305-2, 305-4, and 305-5. Principle 8: Environment Read detailed response 305-5 Partial Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) Note this response is crossPrinciple 8: emissions referenced for 302-1, 302-3, Environment 302-4, 305-1, 305-2, 305-4, and 305-5. Principle 9: Environment Read detailed response Employment UN Global Compact GRI Indicator Reporting Level Description Reference / Response Principle Alignment 401-1 Partial Total number and rates of new Note this response is crossPrinciple 6: employee hires and employee referenced for 102-8, 401-1, Labour turnover by age group, gender and 401-2, 404-2, and 404-3. region Read detailed response 401-2 Partial Benefits provided to full-time Note this response is crossemployees that are not provided to referenced for 102-8, 401-1, temporary or part-time employees, 401-2, 404-2, and 404-3. by significant locations of operation This website uses cookies and similar technologies to understand how you use our website and to create a better Read detailed response experience for you. To learn more about the technologies used and your choices, please read our Privacy Notice. You may adjust your cookie settings at any time through our cookie preferences tool. Accept Reject Do you agree to the use of cookies for the purposes described above? Training and Education UN Global Compact GRI Indicator Reporting Level Description Reference / Response Principle Alignment 404-2 Partial Programs for skills management Note this response is crossPrinciple 6: and lifelong learning that support referenced for 102-8, 401-1, Labour the continued employability of 401-2, 404-2, and 404-3. employees and assist them in managing career endings Read detailed response 404-3 Partial Percentage of employees receiving Note this response is crossPrinciple 6: regular performance and career referenced for 102-8, 401-1, Labour development reviews, by gender 401-2, 404-2, and 404-3. and by employee category Read detailed response Diversity and Equal Opportunity UN Global Compact GRI Indicator Reporting Level Description Reference / Response Principle Alignment 405-1 Complete Composition of governance bodies Diversity and Inclusion have Principle 6: and breakdown of employees per been priorities for IPG for Labour employee category according to more than a decade. gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators See also: of diversity IPG Hosts Inclusion Forum Call 11/01/2018 IPG Leaders Participate in 3 % Conference 11/13/2018 IPG to Host National Day of Understanding Focused on Issues of Race, Ethnicity and Inclusion 12/06/2018 Read detailed response Human Rights Assessment UN Global Compact GRI Indicator Reporting Level Description Reference / Response Principle Alignment 412-2 Complete Total hours of employee training on IPG understands the Principle 1: human rights policies or procedures importance of training, Human Rights concerning aspects of human rights particularly as it relates to that are relevant to operations, ensuring a workplace that including the percentage of operates ethically and employees trained transparently and is also free from any type of This website uses cookies and similar technologies to understand how you use our website and to create a better harassment. experience for you. To learn more about the technologies used and your choices, please read our Privacy Notice. You may adjust your cookie settings at any time through our cookie preferences tool. Accept Reject Read detailed response Do you agree to the use of cookies for the purposes described above? Supplier Social Assessment UN Global Compact GRI Indicator Reporting Level Description Reference / Response Principle Alignment 414-1 Partial Percentage of new suppliers that Please note this response is Principle 4: were screened using human rights cross-referenced for 308-1 Labour criteria and 414-1. Principle 5: Read detailed response Labour Principle 8: Environment Public Policy UN Global Compact GRI Indicator Reporting Level Description Reference / Response Principle Alignment 415-1 Complete Total value of political contributions Although personal political by country and recipient/beneficiary activity is welcome, as employees we may not make political contributions by or in the name of IPG or any of its subsidiaries. Read detailed response     Careers Contact Sitemap Terms of Use Privacy Notice CCPA Privacy Notice GDPR Cookie Settings © 2020 IPG
