INTRODUCTION INTRODUCTION Information System Contents/Editorial Policy 01 Corporate Statement 02 Corporate Statement Editorial Policy Message from the President 03 The fundamental approach The Integrated Report 2020 has been compiled based on the International Integrated Reporting Framework proposed by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC), with WHO WE ARE that demonstrates Sojitz’s presence the theme of maximizing “two types of value”: “value for Sojitz” and “value for society,” and The Story of Sojitz’s Value Creation an awareness of the creation of business value from both financial and non-financial Sojitz’s Value Creation Model 10 perspectives in accordance with the Message from the President. In addition, in this Business Ingenuity 12 Corporate Strategy unprecedented crisis—the corona crisis—this report visualizes the resilience that Sojitz has Capacity for Growth 14 cultivated to date, and its creativity for the future. We have striven to edit this report in a way Creativity 18 that allows Sojitz to be better understood from the perspectives of all its stakeholders. Examples of Value Creation 20 Related Websites The Hassojitz Project 24 The Cover of This Report “Hassojitz” expresses the message that we will achieve the steady growth set out in WHERE WE’RE GOING WHO WE ARE Medium-term Plan 2020 – Commitment to Growth, and that we will continue to take on the challenge of value creation with new ideas, focusing on taking further strides forwards. Taking on the Challenge of Future Growth 26 The Story of Sojitz’s Value Creation Performance Highlights (Financial/Non-Financial) 28 Sojitz’s Current Foundation and the Processes Note on Forward-Looking Statements • Financial That Will Generate Value for the Future Corporate website The information about future performance (forward-looking statements) in this integrated Message from CFO 30 report is based on information available to management at the time of its disclosure. https://www.sojitz.com/en/ Accordingly, readers are advised that actual results may differ from forward-looking Accumulating Quality Assets 32 statements due to a wide variety of factors including, but not limited to, the timing at which • Non-financial the COVID-19 pandemic ends, conditions in the Company’s principal overseas and domestic Sustainability markets, economic conditions, and changes in foreign currency exchange markets. Towards Sustainable Value Creation 36 Focusing on Our Long-term Vision 38 WHERE WE’RE GOING Working to Achieve the Sustainability Strategies That Create Value for Future Growth Challenge 40 Priority Initiatives Human Resources Strategies Based on Integrated Thinking Working to Maximize Employee Capabilities 42 United Nations Global Compact That Will Achieve “Two Types of Value” Corporate Governance Sojitz signed the United Nations Global Compact Sustainability Message from the Chairman 46 (UNGC) to clarify our ideals in its global operations, Special Feature: A Round Table Discussion https://www.sojitz.com/en/csr/ including respect for the environment and human rights with the Outside Directors 47 Corporate Strategy through businesses that comply with international Towards the Establishment of a Highly Sound, Transparent and Effective Management Structure 50 standards as well as the laws of countries and regions. Compliance 57 Financial Strategy Non-financial Strategy The UNGC calls for companies to exercise leadership as Risk Management 58 members of the international community and pursue Message from CFO • Sustainability sustainability through their businesses. Sojitz joined the Directors/Audit & Supervisory Board Members 60 Executive Officers 63 Accumulating Quality Assets • Human Resources UNGC in 2009. We support the 10 principles of the • Corporate Governance UNGC in the areas of human rights, labor, the HOW WE GET THERE Corporate Governance environment, and anti-corruption, and practice these https://www.sojitz.com/en/corporate/governance/ principles through our business activities. Division Business Reports 64 Key Topics 66 The Guidance for Collaborative Value Creation Automotive Division 68 Sojitz agrees with the Guidance for Collaborative Value Aerospace & Transportation Project Division 70 Creation issued by Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade Machinery & Medical Infrastructure Division 72 and Industry. We consult the Guidance for Collaborative Energy & Social Infrastructure Division 74 HOW WE GET THERE Value Creation in all our IR activities, including this Metals & Mineral Resources Division 76 Integrated Report, with the objective to receive Chemicals Division 78 Driving Value Creation evaluation of our corporate values through constructive Foods & Agriculture Business Division 80 Strategic Business Development dialogue with investors and shareholders. Retail & Lifestyle Business Division 82 Industrial Infrastructure & Urban Development Division 84 Sustainable Development Goals The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) call for the FINANCIAL SECTION Nine Business Divisions resolution of 17 worldwide priority social issues by 2030. 11-Year Financial Summary 86 Under the leadership of the United Nations, the goals Aerospace & Machinery & Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Operations 88 Automotive Transportation Project Medical Infrastructure were adopted in 2015 by 193 member nations. Given the Performance at Consolidated Subsidiaries and mediumto long-term expectations stakeholders have for Business Overview Equity-Method Associates 107 the resolution of these issues, Sojitz took the SDGs into Country Risk Exposure (Consolidated) 108 Energy & Metals & https://www.sojitz.com/en/business/ Chemicals account when formulating the Group’s CSR Focus Areas Consolidated Financial Statements 109 Social Infrastructure Mineral Resources (current Key Sustainability Issues (Materiality)). Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 115 Independent Auditor’s Report 182 Foods & Retail & Industrial Infrastructure Task Force on Climate-Related Financial DiscloAgriculture Business Lifestyle Business & Urban Development sures (TCFD) DATA Climate change is a major issue in international society, Organization Chart 184 one which Sojitz is emphasizing as a management issue. Principal Operating Bases 185 We endorse the proposals of the Task Force on Main Subsidiaries and Associates 188 Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), and are DATA Corporate Data 190 making efforts to disclose the impact of climate change On Publishing the Integrated Report 2020 190 on our business activities and to implement specific Communication with Investors and Shareholders 191 Principal Operating Main Subsidiaries measures to overcome it. Financial Data Corporate Data Bases and Associates Reports and Presentations Sojitz’s Approach to Dialogues During the COVID-19 Pandemic 191 https://www.sojitz.com/en/ir/reports/ Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 1 INTRODUCTION INTRODUCTION Corporate Statement Message from the President Building stable earnings foundations and a solid financial base with the management capabilities that we have cultivated, Sojitz will demonstrate our creativity and resilience in Sojitz Group Statement continuing to take on the challenge of value creation. The Sojitz Group creates value and prosperity by connecting the world with a spirit of integrity. Sojitz Group Slogan I express my sorrow at the loss of life and offer my heartfelt condolences to the families who have lost their loved ones due to COVID-19, and pray for the earliest possible recovery for those who have fallen ill or are facing difficult circumstances. I also wish to convey my deep respect and Sojitz Guiding Principles gratitude to all the healthcare workers who are facing this pandemic on the medical front lines. To fulfill the role of a general trading company The Sojitz Group aims to create value for our stakeholders by aligning our strong, capable individuals under the following 5 principles: The cornerstone of our business is to deliver what people need, where they need it, when they need it. The disruption to the flow of people and goods that is a consequence of the corona crisis 1. Trust: Build enduring trust. has caused the economy to stagnate. In these 2. Innovation: Innovate with foresight. circumstances, we feel it is more important than ever to fulfill our role as a general trading 3. Speed: Strive for speed. company, ensuring that business continues and does not come to a stop. I believe our top 4. Challenge: Take calculated risks. Masayoshi Fujimoto priority in this role is to protect the safety and Representative Director, health of our employees, customers, and 5. Perseverance: Persevere until successful. President and CEO business partners. With the recent spread of infection, our first move as upper management was to protect our employees from infection by taking the lead in enacting precautionary measures with the necessary care and speed. More specifically, we effected a strengthened flextime system even before the WHO’s declaration of a pandemic in order to 2 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 3 INTRODUCTION Message from the President have employees avoid congestion on public Through our business than its planned completion date in order to take in opportunities associated with decarbonization. In transportation, and then from March we instructed all Making contributions to prevent the spread as many COVID-19 patients as possible, as the virus terms of decarbonization initiatives, we announced of our Tokyo HQ employees to telework as a general of infection and enhance medical care spread in Turkey. policies in May 2019 relating to the coal interests rule. Later, based on the government’s plan of action There have been many people infected in this business and the coal-fired power generation and requests to businesses, we implemented a policy We have also been carrying out initiatives to prevent the global pandemic, and I am proud that Sojitz can business: 1. Reducing the assets of our thermal coal to ensure that the number of people working in the spread of infection and to enhance medical care both in support medical frontliners who are struggling with interests to half or less by 2030; 2. In principle, not office was at 20% or lower.* Under the declared state Japan and overseas through our Group’s businesses. limited personnel and suppliers. As a company that is acquiring new thermal coal interests; and 3. Not of emergency, we encouraged employees who could There was a period when masks were almost engaged in medical care industry, we are driven by a undertaking new initiatives in the coal-fired power not send their children to daycare or telework impossible to acquire as the outbreak of infections great sense of responsibility. generation business. We have been progressing with comfortably due to family responsibilities to take escalated. This mask shortage is undoubtedly still these policies, and we sold one of our thermal coal paid leave as necessary. We also established fresh in people’s minds. At the time, Sojitz received A look back at FY2019: interests in Australia in March 2020. “Coronavirus Special Leave” as a new leave system an urgent request from its daycare business Meeting generally our forecast of real profits We are also concentrating on our initiatives to to ensure employees would have enough paid leave regarding a shortage of protective face masks for reinforce corporate governance. Following the General at the end of the fiscal year. daycare workers. In response, we worked with FY2019 was the second year of Medium-term Shareholders’ Meeting in June 2020, we have added We strive to take the initiative in creating new Daiichibo Co., Ltd., a Sojitz Group company, to Management Plan 2020 (hereinafter referred to as an outside director. This means that outside directors workstyles and environments that enable our manufacture masks to prevent the spread of “MTP2020”), and saw a difficult business environment now make up over 40% of the Board of Directors. We employees to safely perform at their best. In the infection, as well as further our Group business. with the world economy decelerating due to trade have also appointed Mr. Norio Otsuka, an outside current situation with coronavirus, we are combining Daiichibo had already made preparations to allocate frictions between China and the U.S. For Sojitz, all director, as Chairman of the Board of Directors. Each of telework with in-office work that incorporates social fabric used for other products towards mask businesses involved in raw materials—such as our outside directors offers objective opinions and distancing practices. production, and we were able to distribute masks not chemicals, iron, and steel—experienced a slowdown, level-headed counsel, and moving forward I wish for us In addition, we have instructed the COOs of our just to the front lines of our daycare business, but and our automotive and fertilizer businesses struggled. to create a Board that is unencumbered by business divisions on the front lines to keep in close also to all Sojitz Group employees. In addition, a sluggish market meant that we revised conventional constraints. We hold daily discussions on contact with our customers and partners both in Japan In addition, in May 2020, we opened the our performance target for the financial year the status of the Nomination Committee and the and overseas, and to consider the impact of this illness Basaksehir Çam & Sakura City Hospital, a downwards, from ¥72.0 billion to ¥66.0 billion, when Remuneration Committee, and strive to further individually and respond in a flexible manner. public-private partnership hospital management we announced our financial results from the third strengthen our supervisory function and ensure * As of end of July 2020, we are operating with up to 50% of our project in Istanbul, Turkey. This hospital was opened quarter. As planned, we focused on thorough cost transparency in our management. employees working in-office. and became fully operational four months earlier reduction and asset replacement mainly in the power These initiatives are evaluated by global ESG generation business. As a result, we were able to reach assessment organizations. In the future, we will raise our revised target of ¥66.0 billion in real profits. awareness together as a company and continue with However, we did suffer losses at the end of the year these initiatives, making them a driving force to further due to the sudden fall in oil and gas prices. increase our corporate value. Basaksehir Çam & Sakura City Hospital Additionally, we faced increased tax costs due to a decrease in projected income from the effects of the Heading into FY2020: Number of beds: 2,682 Total project cost: Approx. ¥200.0 billion pandemic in FY2020, which was reflected in our final Unwavering perseverance in a difficult Investments and loans from Sojitz: Approx. ¥30.0 billion profit for the year of ¥60.8 billion. environment to achieve growth through Consequently, in terms of profitability, our ROA investments and loans was 2.7% and our ROE was 10.2%; the ROE exceeded our MTP 2020 target of more than 10%, but the ROA While the difficult management environment of FY2019 fell slightly short of our 3% target. We predict that this is behind us, FY2020 is going to be even tougher. The difficult business environment caused by the corona automotive, retail, and raw material (steel, and crisis will continue in the future, but improving the chemicals) fields are experiencing a partial suspension profitability of each of our business divisions will lead and slowdown of business activities due to the impact to an improved ROE. of lockdown restrictions and suspended and slowed The management and control center operations worldwide. In particular, we expect that in Commitments on the measurements of the future there will be restrained purchasing of non-financial issues vehicles, houses and condominiums among other durable goods. Performance is expected to be In addition, FY2019 was also a year in which we steadily impacted by a declining demand in the steel industry, carried out initiatives on the non-financial front. which includes the automotive industry. Considering Sojitz is working towards achieving our long-term these conditions, when we calculated the initial vision for 2050, the Sustainability Challenge. In order full-year forecast for the year at the beginning of to do so, we are holding dialogues between each FY2020, we assumed there would be a reduction of The exterior of the hospital Hospital room business division and outside experts, as well as ¥23.0 billion due to the impact of the COVID-19 continuing to deeply discuss the risks and pandemic. Moreover, in anticipation of business sales 4 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 5 INTRODUCTION Message from the President and alliances, structural reform expenses of ¥5.0 billion accomplish this aim. Of course, the timing of any in August 2020, the dividend forecast for FY2020 was were incorporated into forecasts as a restructuring fund monetization may be slightly delayed as a result of ¥10.0 per share. The consolidated payout ratio will be to strengthen our earnings foundation and finances, changes in the external environment, but we can see 40%. Sojitz maintains its basic policy of paying stable and so our initial full-year forecast of profit is ¥40.0 projects that will start operations and monetize within dividends on an ongoing basis, and this ratio takes billion. Three months on from the start of the year, we one or two years. It is precisely because we are in a into consideration the idea that performance levels have seen many of our major business activities difficult environment that I feel we are correct in the affected by COVID-19 will not be permanent, combined generally progress in the way we assumed they would measures that we have continually carried out thus far. with the fact that we predicted a profit of ¥40.0 billion at the start of the year. However, we expect that there for the full fiscal year, based on guidance from the start will be a drop in demand and slow recovery in the iron Proving our resilience by enhancing our of the year. We will continue to increase revenue as we and steel industry (including the automotive industry), growth foundation have before, even during the corona crisis, ensuring that which will impact our performance. Therefore, to my we stay on track with the speed of our growth cycle and great regret, we have revised our forecast of profit for As we face the rampant spread of COVID-19 around increase our corporate value, which I hope will lead to the year to be ¥30.0 billion, based on our financial the world, I have been prompted to reflect back on rising share prices and dividends. results in the first quarter of FY2020. Sojitz at the time of the financial crisis in 2008 that That being said, even in this pandemic, we will shook the global economy more than 10 years ago. maintain our policy to pursue profit growth through The Sojitz Group now is very different to what it Dividends per Share/Payout Ratio earnings contributions from investments and loans, was in the past. Dividends per share Payout ratio which have driven of growth up until now. First, for nearly ten years we have continued In the three years of MTP 2020, Sojitz has come to management that emphasized cash flow as part of our MTP 2017 MTP 2020 focus our efforts on making investments and loans of financial strategy. As a result, even during the corona Payout ratio of about 25% Payout ratio of about 30% around ¥300.0 billion. Now, as the second year has crisis, we see that our financial foundation remains (Yen) (%) ended, we have invested and loaned ¥170.0 billion, unshaken. In addition, generations of executives— 20 80 and expect to invest around ¥100.0 billion in the myself included—have shifted the focus of our 17 17 remaining year; we still have sufficient strength to business portfolio from resource to non-resource 15 60 businesses, such as renewable energy and hospital 11 10 management. Through this shift we aimed to construct 10 8 40 Changes to Sojitz’s earnings and profit structure Example: Financial crisis in 2008 − > Spread of COVID-19 (FY2020) a stable earnings foundation, focusing our efforts on 30.2 34.8 30.0 25 24 building up our earnings capacity in non-resource 5 20 Profit for the year (Billions of Yen) fields. At the same time, we sold assets not only from Resource business Non-resource business projects with low asset efficiency, but also from 0 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 0 (Forecast) projects where asset value had increased, all the while (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 80.0 80.0 simultaneously accumulating quality assets. Impact of Impact of the financial Looking at our stable earnings foundation and COVID-19 + 62.7 crisis in 2008 on income (Domestic real estate, 60.8 Structural reform strong financial foundation today, we can see how our “Two types of value” in the post-corona era 60.0 60.0 expenses textiles, automobiles, etc.) Changes to our (¥(36.0 billion) + past efforts have come to fruition. These achievements earnings portfolio ¥(5.0 billion)) are proof of Sojitz’s resilience. We plan to continue our People’s values will continue to change significantly Management that basic policy to make carefully-selected investments post-corona. The evolution of supply chains and 40.0 emphasized finances 40.0 30.0 Constructing a and loans, accumulating quality assets with speed by distribution systems will accelerate even more, and stable earnings 19.0 foundation unifying management and on-site frontline workers in the Fourth Industrial Revolution will become a reality. 20.0 20.0 (Renewable energy, Turkish hospital, order to continue to drive the improvement of the In the past, we have seen Japanese companies fertilizer, etc.) quality of our assets. pursue “optimal production” by setting up overseas 0 0 supply chains to cut production costs, consequently FY2007 FY2008 FY2019 FY2020 Results Results Results Forecast Paying stable dividends on an ongoing basis concentrating production to specific regions. This is in accordance with our basic policy an issue in Japanese industry as a whole that has come to light during this corona crisis, and I believe Risks presented due to the financial crisis in 2008 Strengthening our non-resource businesses Finally, with regard to shareholder returns, the yearly that we must quickly rethink this model of production. • Inventory risk: Loss of retained inventory accompanying sudden decline in demand • Constructing a stable earnings foundation (with around 70–80% of our income from non-resource businesses) dividend for FY2019 was ¥17.0 per share, and the To a certain extent, it may even be necessary to • Exchange risk: Exchange losses accompanying sudden depreciation of currencies in emerging countries • Continuing our existing businesses, including our aircraft and consolidated payout ratio was 34.8%. We also return to domestic production in Japan. Alongside a fertilizer businesses, in addition to growth investments in the Turkish hospital business and the renewable energy business, etc acquired 30 million shares of treasury stock, a first for review of our supply system, I believe that it is Sojitz. Similarly, in FY2020, we aim to make stable, important to focus our efforts both on assessing Sojitz’s response to risks after the financial crisis in 2008 Reviewing our resource businesses ongoing payouts to our shareholders at a quality goods even at a higher price, and on correctly • Implemented a thorough risk management system for inventory • Promoting reviews of upstream energy interests consolidated payout ratio of around 30% in conveying their value. and exchange risks • Selling Australian thermal coal interests and strengthening our • Emphasized financial foundation management coking coal business from a sustainability standpoint accordance with the basic policy of MTP 2020. The As we move towards a post-corona era in this effects of COVID-19 are still unclear in some areas, but final year of MTP 2020, we are considering 6 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 7 INTRODUCTION Message from the President investments in fields related to healthcare and aims, and this is also the ideal form of “prosperity” set infrastructure, including electrical power. In addition, out in the Sojitz Group Statement. we plan to expand our retail business even further, While the corona crisis has highlighted the power focusing on Southeast Asia, as we work towards of the digital world, we have also been reminded of stable monetization. the importance of human interaction and face-to-face In this context, I am focusing my attention on communication. As a general trading company that is strengthening primary industry, namely agriculture. close to and deeply rooted in people’s daily lives, we During the recent corona crisis, the movement of will continue to strengthen our unique trading people and goods across national borders has slowed company know-how, networks, and functions. In considerably, and the inclination towards national doing so, I wish to pursue the “prosperity” envisioned protection has become stronger. As part of this, I think by Sojitz. that improving the food self-sufficiency rate is likely to be an urgent issue. Training talent who will create new value My aim is also to create employment in rural areas. The Japanese economy is heavily concentrated in urban In April 2019, I made a visit to observe a Chinese areas, and depopulation has become a major issue in automobile manufacturer. In fact, I visited this same rural areas. Local industry is gradually disappearing, and factory around 15 years ago when I was the general jobs are vanishing. This creates further regional manager of the Automotive Division. It was very surprising disparity. I believe that our general trading company to see the remarkable progress in vehicle efficiency and must lead efforts to stop this negative spiral, creating an factory equipment. What Japan had worked on for around economy that is rooted in local communities together 50 years had been accomplished in just 15 years. I felt with a variety of stakeholders. firsthand the rapid speed of industrial progress. This may be idealistic, but I think it would be In this age, human resources are the driving force beneficial to build a structure that could change the that will create new value. It is critical that our current agricultural system in Japan by enabling employees carefully discern the quality of goods “agricultural corporations” to make general public without being bound by preconceived notions of the offerings. If we were to manage the risks of abundant past. In FY2019, we started an initiative called the harvests and failed harvests as a business while “Hassojitz Project,” which brings together young generating good profits, this would lead to an employees so they can freely exchange business ideas increase in the number of people employed at and transcend the boundaries of their departments. “agricultural corporations,” increasing the active The project aims to identify the strategies and issues population in local areas. we should focus on in the present by first envisaging For example, it’s known that in Vietnam there is a the social environment of 2050 and then backcasting large percentage of tenant farmers among the farming from this time. with readiness to achieve these ideas. We look to our Looking towards a new era population. In February 2020, Sojitz invested in an As we encounter the drastic changes of our time, employees to consider which networks can be used to agricultural start-up to support “industrialization” that we expect our employees to make fresh discoveries address familiar needs, and to think about how to Sojitz has continued to respond to rapidly changing will carry out data-driven farming, without relying on with a youthful perspective, and to take responsibility change our social structures. In addition to times. Cultivating our function as a general trading farming experience. Our partner offers demonstrating self-reliance and inquisitive thought, company by assessing the needs of the market and environmentally-friendly solutions that can improve our employees must have the ability to take a generating new ideas, we have built a relationship of productivity, from developing IoT and AI service backcasting approach—to think about the ideal future trust with all of our many stakeholders through our software in the agricultural field to creating hardware and then work backwards. To cultivate such talent, we diverse businesses. It is no exaggeration to say that devices. In addition to promoting smart agriculture in are introducing a system that encourages growth by our growth strategy has been supported by these Vietnam, Sojitz will utilize its long-cultivated network providing opportunities for overseas experience and unique functions and our strong business foundation. in the food and agricultural sectors in Vietnam and education programs that transcend the boundaries In the future, we will further reinforce our other regions, to accelerate the development of a between business divisions. Additionally, we offer business foundation and our functions by finding high added-value food and retail businesses. Through on-site management experience at businesses in opportunities in change and continuing to take on these added-value businesses, I would like to Japan and overseas from early on in an employee’s challenges with new ideas. We will also pursue ways contribute to the creation of employment in local career. My mission is to foster young employees in an of contributing to the development of our areas and to stimulate the economy. open organization with speedy decision-making, and stakeholders. In the coming era, we will keep These are also activities that are directly linked to to create an environment that will cultivate truly global generating “two types of value” and achieve the 17 goals of the SDGs. We will pursue value for our “Genba-ryoku*” unique to Sojitz. sustainable growth so that Sojitz Group can continue various stakeholders as we build up the profits of our * Genba-ryoku: Refers to the combined capabilities of Sojitz Group creating prosperity for all of our stakeholders. company through our business activities. A general members working on the ground–in offices, at project sites, in Visiting an overseas operating company and cultivating “Genba-ryoku” meetings with customers and clients, and in other places of work trading company’s mission is to achieve both these through exchanges between on-site employees. around the world. 8 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 9 WHO WE ARE The Story of Sojitz´s Value Creation Creating “two types of value” We Aim to Maximize Value for Sojitz and Two Types of Value Business Sojitz aims to create “two types of value.” The first is “value for Sojitz,” which means enhancing our business foundation and sustained growth, and the second is for Society—”Two Types of Value.“ “value for society,” which includes the development of local economies and environmental preservation. Strengthening human resources Ingenuity Together with our stakeholders, the Sojitz aims to maximize “two types of value” and bring sustainable History Human resources are the greatest business assets for a growth to both the Sojitz Group and society, based on the Sojitz Group Statement. trading company. We are working to understand needs P.12 We are aware of the different perspectives of Sojitz and society, and believe that maximizing value for around the world and to enhance our human resource both will lead to the creation of value and prosperity, which is the aim of our Group Statement. capabilities to create value based on the keywords of “genba-ryoku,” “speed” and “innovation,” making this a source of value creation for Sojitz. Sojitz’s Value Creation Model Prosperity Exercising our capabilities through new ideas Capacity for Growth We are always exercising our capabilities through trading, investments in interest, and business investments, with new ideas, looking ahead to the future and quickly expanding our business in advance Two Types of Value of the fast-moving changes in the external environment and the diversification of needs. Changing Management Plans Creating Common Values P.14 Value for Sojitz Value for Society Practicing strategies and governance • Enhanced business foundation • Development of local economies that will create sustained growth • Sustained growth • Environmental preservation and Sojitz anticipates business opportunities and risks respect for human rights through based on the uncertainty of the external environment, business activities and engages in disciplined investments, loans and risk management. In so doing, we create clusters of Creativity revenue-generating businesses and construct a foundation for sustained growth. The World Building a robust business foundation Value Creation Process Determine Business locations and partnerships that reach countries needs across the world, trust-based relationships with customers P.18 Our in different regions that have grown over many years, and People brand power: the solid business foundation that Sojitz has built up supports sustained growth. Exercise capabilities Business Foundation Innovate Speed up Business Expertise Relationships with Customers Human Resources Examples of Value Creation Strategies Intellectual capital Social and Human capital Practical abilities relationship capital Talented people who P.20 on the front lines Relationships of can create value Domestic mutual trust with Business and Overseas customers and the ability Expertise Governance Bases to make proposals Relationships Natural Capital with Human Brands Every environmental Domestic Customers Finances Brands resource that Hassojitz Project Resources Finances and Overseas supports lifestyles Bases and industry Financial capital Social and Social and Business Foundation Disciplined financial relationship capital relationship capital management Visibility that Synergy created by P.24 demonstrates the our global network Trust Company´s unique strengths 10 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 11 WHO WE ARE In an age that seeks wealth Business The Silver Shoe given to Eating Sojitz by Nike, Inc. Ingenuity We boast a top-class market share in businesses that manufacture and sell compound chemical fertilizer in South-east Asia, and are working on a variety of food-related businesses, including grain and meat, in different countries around the world. As a major trading company, we Determining the needs of society with foresight, are also focusing our efforts on the first bluefin tuna cultivation in Japan. Convenience store Sojitz has developed numerous businesses that (Vietnam/Ministop) Bakery business enrich people’s lifestyles by providing necessary (Philippines) Wearing Admiral British shoes functions. We will continue to create timeless value Sojitz General Merchandise Corporation for society and contribute to the development of Living Shopping center industries in the future as we have in the past. (Saga Prefecture/Mallage) In addition to operating spinning plants where integrated manufacturing (including dyeing and sewing) is possible, we handle synthetic fibers such as polyester and rayon, Our condominium business, created in the 1960s, Fertilizer manufacturing plant which are used to make fabrics for clothes. We have also develops construction and sales. We also handle (Thailand/Thai Central contributed to the development of foreign brands, plywood, wood products, and housing equipment used Chemical Public) including NIKE, Admiral, and McGREGOR, in Japan. in condominiums, and more. In addition, we are involved in activities such as operating domestic Creating shopping centers, attracting tenants, managing buildings, and event promotion, as well as working on the development of convenience stores in Vietnam. Industrial salt (India/Archean Chemical Industries) We are proactively focusing on our renewable energy business, constructing power plants around the world. We are also Coal-mining site contributing to the development of global industries, including (Australia/Sojitz 787 Dreamliner (U.S./Boeing) ground-breaking work in the creation of plastics that serve as raw Transporting Development) materials for manufacturing, and the production and trade of iron ore, coal, rare metals, industrial salt, and more. Dealership business (U.S.) We have been involved in areas such as automobile assembly and the dealership business for many years, and have worked on our sales representative business in the fields of aircraft, transportation, and maritime shipping for more than 60 years. We develop all-in-one solutions using our expertise in infrastructure construction, including Solar power plant managing operations of private jets, railway maintenance, Railcar maintenance (Japan/Chita-Mihama Fertilizer plant and airport operations. business (Canada) Solar Power Plant) (Turkmenistan) The History of Sojitz 2003 2005 1943 1982 Nissho Iwai-Nichimen Holdings Corporation established through Sojitz Holdings Corporation 1892 Company name changed Company name changed the transfer of shares by Nichimen Corporation and Nissho Iwai Corporation. (Nichimen Corporation and Nissho Iwai Corporation merged with subsidiary Sojitz Corporation and Japan Cotton Trading Co., Ltd. established to Nichimen Co., Ltd. to Nichimen Corporation Nichimen included in Nissho Iwai-Nichimen Holdings Corporation’s scope company name changed to Corporation of consolidation as wholly owned subsidiaries.) Sojitz Corporation 1862 1896 1943 Iwai Bunsuke Iwai & Co., Ltd. Company name changed Iwai Sangyo Shoten founded established to Iwai Sangyo Co., Ltd. 2004 Co., Ltd. New Business Plan Announced 1874 1927 1928 Nichimen Corporation and Nissho Iwai Corporation, both wholly owned Suzuki & Co., Suzuki & Co. Nissho Co., Ltd. established as successor subsidiaries of Nissho Iwai-Nichimen Suzuki & Co., Ltd. Ltd. founded went bankrupt company of Suzuki & Co. 1968 Holdings Corporation, merged to form a /Nissho Co., Ltd. Nissho Iwai Corporation established through new company named Sojitz Corporation. 1917 a merger between Nissho Co. and Iwai Sangyo Co. Nissho Iwai-Nichimen Holdings Corporation Became top Japanese general trading company in annual import and export volume name changed to Sojitz Holdings Corporation. (Net sales in 1919 equivalent to 10% of Japan’s GNP at the time) 12 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 13 WHO WE ARE In a management environment that will test our resilience Capacity Medium-Term Medium-Term Medium-Term Post Medium-Term for Growth Management Plan 2014 Management Plan 2017 Management Plan 2020 Management Plan – Change for Challenge – – Challenge for Growth – – Commitment to Growth – (April 2012 – March 2015) (April 2015 – March 2018) 2020 (April 2018 – March 2021) Aiming to expand and create business Endeavoring to link prior initiatives For a company that Continuing to face new challenges areas made up of clusters of revenueto growth while engaging in continually grows and change to drive reforms generating businesses in order to ambitious undertakings to achieve through further challenges for a growth phase establish Sojitz´s unique strengths steady growth going forward Sojitz has continued to address Three-Year Business Plan New Business Plan New Stage 2008 Shine 2011 key challenges— improving asset Introducing the nine-division Continuing with quality through asset replacement, system, accelerating speed investments and loans and Demonstrating Sojitz´s (April 2002 – September 2004) (September 2004 – March 2006) (April 2006 – March 2009) (April 2009 – March 2012) presence in the market strengthening earnings capacity, management, and creating a strengthening functions, enhancing risk management, and stable foundation towards further growth fostering human resources Financial Targets Financial Targets Financial Targets Promote rationalization, Complete Sojitz´s reconstruction Consolidated net Build a more robust management Establish a strong earnings strengthen Sojitz´s by strengthening the management Profit for the Year Profit for the Year Profit growth of approx. profit for the year foundation and quickly foundation by (attributable to the owners of the Company) (attributable to the owners of the Company) financial standings and improve profitability restore market confidence foundation and working to achieve sustained growth improving earnings quality ¥45.0 billion or more ¥60.0 billion or more 10% from the previous year ¥100.0 billion or more Profit for the year ROA: 2% or above ROA: 2% or above (attributable to the owners of the Company) Further improving Sojitz has focused on ¥75.0 billion or more ROA and ROE Sojitz more than achieved Sojitz accomplished optimizing its asset portfolio Net DER: 2 times or lower ROE: 8% or above the financial targets for the restructuring of management and building a strong ROA: 3% or above Net DER: 1.5 times or lower 3-year total for investments by resuming dividends and final fiscal year of the plan in the plan´s second year, one radically disposing of preferred earnings foundation through improving earnings quality in and loans: ¥180.0 billion 3-year total for investments ROE: 10% or above A company that meets the expectations shares, and obtained an year early investment-grade rating order to increase its resilience Consolidated payout ratio and loans: ¥300.0 billion Positive core cash flow of its employees to market changes of approx. 20% Shareholder Returns: Consolidated over medium-term management plan period and society Total Assets: payout ratio of approx. Maintaining at over ¥2 trillion 25% Net DER: 1.5 times or lower (Billions of yen) Profit (loss) for the year JGAAP IFRSs (%) 80.0 (attributable to owners of the Company) (left scale) Medium-Term Management Plan 2014 Medium-Term Management Plan 2017 16 Medium-Term Management Plan 2020 ROE ROA (right scale) Strengthen foundations Tackle new challenges on the Achieve steady growth in pursuit of growth path toward future growth Financial crisis in 2008 70.4 COVID-19 pandemic 60.0 60.8 12 58.8 announced 62.7 56.8 Resilience becomes the challenge as responses are unable to catch up 43.7 with market changes 40.0 8 40.8 36.5 33.1 Minimizing impact 30.0 by supporting 27.3 non-resource businesses 20.0 19.0 4 16.0 13.4 8.8 0 0 (1.0) (33.6) (412.5) FY2004 FY2005 FY2006 FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 FY2021 (Forecast) 14 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 15 WHO WE ARE Capacity for Growth Evaluations from the market and outside the company 6 Business Foundations As of the end of March 2020 Human Our Market Position ROE and PBR Finances Financial Capital Resources Human Capital ROE (%) (%) ROE PBR (Times) 20 16.0 0.79 0.90 Disciplined financial management Talented people who can create value Trading 0.73 company 14.0 0.80 B 12.0 0.63 0.63 10.2 0.70 Total assets Number of Group employees Number of management positions 15 0.56 0.56 11.7 (consolidated) for locally hired employees 10 Trading company Trading company Trading company E 10.0 8.0 4.7 0.47 0.48 0.46 6.8 7.6 10.0 0.60 0.53 0.50 Around ¥2.2 trillion 18,839 35 Trading C A Sojitz market 6.0 3.8 6.5 6.5 0.40 (for around 1,300 locally hired employees) company Total equity D capitalization 4.0 0.30 ¥600.0 billion 5 Approx. ¥320 billion 2.0 0.20 (As of March 31, 2020) 0.0 0.10 Around Number of employees Percentage of people with (0.3) (non-consolidated) experience overseas 0 (10) (5) 0 5 10 15 (2.0) 11.3 12.3 13.3 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 19.3 20.3 0.00 Rate of increase/decrease in profit (loss) (%) Profit for the year ¥60.8 billion 2,460 Around 40 of all employees % (80% of these before they were 40 years old) Female recruitment ratio Total Shareholder Return (using share values from the end of the previous fiscal year as the record date) Cash Flow for new graduates in Number of female managers (Past 2 years) career track positions Fiscal year March 31, 2015 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 March 31, 2020 Together with core CF and FCF, approximately 30% (Achieved for the third 27*→ 46 (aiming to increase this to 54 ¥60.0 billion in positive Total Shareholder Return 118% 119% 124% 126% 119% 69% consecutive year since April 2018) by the end of FY2021) * As of the year ended March 31, 2016 Domestic Rating and Overseas Social and Relationship Capital Disciplined Initiatives That Support Bases Medium-Term Management Plan 2017 (end of FY2017) Medium-Term Management Plan 2020 (as of the end of July 2020) Our Capacity for Growth Synergy created by our global network JCR BBB+ (Stable) A(Stable) Advanced cash flow management Number of bases Group companies R&I BBB (Stable) BBB+ (Stable) We emphasize continuous cash flow S&P BBB(Stable) BBB(Stable) management while we focus on growth through investments and loans. In addition to controlling our free cash flow, we are Bases in Japan: 5 Companies in Japan: 126 overseas: 81 overseas: 299 introducing core cash flow control Bases Companies indicators and promoting monitoring in all our companies and on the front lines ESG Awards and Commendations based on the MTP 2020, which began with (As of the end of June 2020) the year ended March 2019. Relationships with Customers Brands Social and Relationship Capital Thorough risk management Based on our experience overcoming Relationships of mutual trust with customers difficult situations in our external environment, especially business and the ability to make proposals For the second year running, Sojitz was selected as a constituent brand of the Dow Jones Sojitz was selected as a constituent of the FTSE4 Good Index Series and FTSE Blossom The inclusion of Sojitz in any MSCI Index, and the use of MSCI logos, trademarks, service marks or index names herein, do not integration processes and the Financial Visibility that demonstrates the Company´s unique strengths constitute a sponsorship endorsement or promotion of Sojitz by crisis in 2008, we are gaining a careful Sustainability Indices (DJSI) World and Asia Japan Index provided by FTSE Russell for MSCI or any its affiliates. The MSCI Indexes are the exclusive property of MSCI. MSCI and the MSCI Index names and logos are understanding of risk return and creating a Pacific listings, which are Socially Responsible three consecutive years. trademarks of service marks of MSCI or its affiliates. risk management system that can cope Business Investment-focused global stock price indices Sojitz was selected as a constituent of the MSCI Expertise Intellectual Capital that enjoy high recognition around the world. with possible future changes in our Japan Empowering Women Index (WIN) for four consecutive years. operating environment. In the year ended March 2013, we established a Controller Practical abilities on the front lines Office for our business divisions and promoted stronger risk management on the front lines. In the year ended March Natural Capital 2019, we set up an M&A Management Office, and are aiming to enhance our For the second year running, Sojitz was In 2019, Sojitz was recognized with a Sojitz has been selected as a Nadeshiko Brand selected for the “Silver Class” award in S&P leadership level “A-” from CDP in relation to company for four consecutive years in recognition systems to increase value after investing. Every environmental resource Global´s corporate sustainability ratings. climate change. of its efforts to empower women in the workplace. that supports lifestyles and industry 16 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 17 WHO WE ARE In a world economy that faces new paradigms Sojitz demonstrates its comprehensive strength through business such as trading and investment, and we are always acquiring new functions so we can continue to expand the business areas of our nine divisions. Creativity We are creating company growth and a sustainable society with flexible ideas unique to Sojitz as we gain an understanding of ever-changing social needs and accurately determine opportunities and risks with an eye to the future. Social Challenges (Opportunities and Risks) A project portfolio-based Automotive Division In Japan • Demographic changes business model that meets Aerospace & • Increase in natural disasters • Improved productivity needs and solves social issues Transportation Project Division • Development of AI/IoT technology Overseas • Progressing urbanization Machinery & • Climate change Medical Infrastructure Division • Lack of resources 6 Business • Changes in global economic strength • Technological progress Foundations • Diversification of values Finances Speed up Energy & Value for Society Social Infrastructure Division Disciplined financial • Development of local economies management • Environmental preservation and A relationship of Acquiring respect for human rights through mutual trust with all Human new functions business activities Resources our stakeholders Talented people who Sojitz Group Statement can create value Trading Creating service Demonstrating our comprehensive Two Types Domestic Innovate Business and solutions The Sojitz Group creates and Overseas Bases Expanding investment Creating in 9 divisions Resources Metals & Mineral Division strength of Value value and prosperity by Synergy created by our global network new business promising Creating common value connecting the world fields opportunities Relationships with a spirit of integrity. with Customers Relationships of mutual trust with customers Chemicals Division Value for Sojitz E x e is e capabrcilities and the ability to make proposals • Enhanced business foundation • Sustained growth Corporate activities carried Brands Foods & Agriculture Business Division out with an awareness of stakeholder opinions Visibility that demonstrates Shareholders Local Customers the Company’s Retail & Lifestyle Business Division and investors communities unique strengths Industrial Infrastructure & Consumers Governments NGOs Business Urban Development Division Public offices NPOs Expertise Practical abilities Educational Financial Employees Key Sustainability Issues (Materiality) institutions institutions on the front lines Sustainability Challenge Seeking Sustainable Growth (Sustainability Management) Human Local Human • Initiatives to achieve a low carbon and decarbonized society Rights Environment Communities Governance Resources Resources • Initiatives respecting human rights, including supply chains P.36 18 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 19 WHO WE ARE Creativity Examples of Value Creation that Value for Society Demonstrate Our Functions and Strengths Comment from our partner (Shikoku Electric Power Company) When it comes to the solar power generation The outcome of our annual CO2 reductions in Sojitz’s business in Huatacondo in the Republic of Chile, operational renewable energy power generation assets we have made use of Sojitz Corporation’s business (in comparison to coal-fired power generation) 0.55 million tons development and management functions, as well Energy & Social Infrastructure Division as the knowledge that we have cultivated up until Approx. now, to realize both our first solar IPP business • An outcome equivalent to planting around 40 million trees Renewable Energy Business overseas and the first Japanese electric power IPP business in South America. Following on this Making use of the networks unique to a trading company to pursue sustainability project, we are coming together with Sojitz Corporation to form a partnership in the off-shore for society and for business wind power business in Taiwan. As we aim for As emerging and developing countries experience Global primary energy consumption further growth, we want to strengthen our economic growth, there is an increased demand for energy, (tons of oil equivalent) relationship to contribute to the spread and together with a heightened awareness of its environmental (Billions) Oil Gas (Billions) OECD China development of renewable energy overseas. impact. In this context, we anticipate rising demand for 20.0 Coal Nuclear power 20.0 India Rest of Asia Hydrogen Renewable Africa Other renewable energy. Sojitz has cultivated development opportunities and networks in the solar power generation energy Common Values Constructing a stable energy-sharing system business through participation in the business in Japan and that makes sustainable development possible overseas; in recent years, we have focused our efforts on 10.0 10.0 Value for Sojitz expanding markets and sources of electric power, including participation in the off-shore wind power generation The business model of Sojitz’s Renewable Energy Business business in Taiwan and the biomass power generation business in Japan. Strengthening these initiatives will enable • Stable earnings from the Development us to contribute to the construction of a stable energy 0 1970 1980 1990 2000 2010 2020 2030 2040 0 1970 1980 1990 2000 2010 2020 2030 2040 energy business system that makes sustainable development possible. Reference: The BP Statistical Review of World Energy data 2018 • Exercising our self-development capabilities to the fullest extent • An enhanced brand as a • Optimizing projects and stable manager Speed up Cash Flow Management maximizing value Business Foundation • Achieving cash flow 1 Owned assets associated Power generation management that will with renewable energy Acquiring Partial sell-down Finances new functions business management accelerate growth through business companies: Creating cash Around ¥59.0 billion flow through • Partner strategy • Contracting primary business the asset such as asset management Practical application, Trading business • Contributing to turnover-oriented increased asset • Acquiring stable business Human Resources starting with our solar power efficiency earnings business model generation business New ideas Business 3 investment 2 Growth Expanding Creating investments Domestic Number of renewable new business promising and Overseas energy projects: fields opportunities Bases 19 Continuous Networks constructed asset Results and Forecasts Relationships replacement with through project E x e is e Customers development capabrcilities Net power-generation capacity Changes in investments and loans and Investment recovery 1 We acquired management know-how by developing and (MW) Solar power Wind power Biomass (Billions of yen) Investments and loans Investment recovery Made up of power entering the market in Germany in 2010, and Japan in 2013 Brands sources with little 500 25.0 environmental impact 2 We used our partners and our Japanese/international network to develop 12 projects in Japan, and joined in the solar power generation business overseas General development capabilities cultivated in countries such as Mexico, Chile, and Peru Business through the development Expertise of our solar power 3 We will use the developmental and management know-how that we have 250 12.5 generation business cultivated in the solar power generation business to press forward and expand in overseas markets. We are also focusing on diversifying power sources, and Natural Solar power, engaging in on-shore wind power generation in Ireland and the U.S., and wind power, off-shore wind power generation in Taiwan. In the future, we will focus our Capital biomass efforts on managing our renewable energy business in an efficient and 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 sophisticated manner by incorporating AI and the IoT 20 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 21 WHO WE ARE Creativity Examples of Value Creation that Demonstrate Our Functions and Strengths Machinery & Medical Infrastructure Division Automotive Division / Machinery & Medical Infrastructure Division / Foods & Agriculture Business Division Hospital Project in Turkey Contributing to improved quality of life by AI and IoT Business providing high-quality medical infrastructure We have participated in a hospital construction and facility management Examples of our main initiatives during the Constant innovation to achieve further growth period of Medium-term Management Plan 2020 project in Turkey since 2017. This is one of the world’s largest PPP* hospital facility management projects involving a Japanese company; construction We aim to improve the productivity of our existing businesses by • FinTech services (Japan) that will create was completed four months ahead of schedule, with the formal opening in making use of digital technology, and are also cultivating new opportunities for automobile financing May 2020, enabling us to ameliorate the lack of beds caused by the business fields through collaboration with startups that have new • Connected car-related business (Japan) that makes increase in COVID-19 patients. Sojitz is managing this project as well as technology and services. In so doing, we will keep pace with the use of IoT solutions • AI medical diagnostic support (U.S.) cooperating with Japanese companies to accelerate the development of changes in business models that come with the digital revolution • Mobile app-based bus booking service (India) derivative healthcare services, and will establish a business model that and new technology, and obtain and strengthen functions that • Farming platform (Vietnam) incorporates hospital management and surrounding businesses. will create even more revenue. In addition, we will enter the area of smart healthcare and the medical treatment platform business, creating diverse services that will contribute The open Basaksehir Çam & Sakura City Hospital to improved health maintenance for the people of Turkey. (Turkey) * Public-Private Partnership: A business that involves collaboration between the public and Energy & Social Infrastructure Division private sectors. Myanmar Telecommunication Sojitz’s Capabilities Displayed Two Types of Value: Creating Common Values Infrastructure Business Value for Sojitz • Obtained management expertise by engaging in this project Contributing to the development of local • A project portfolio in the • Increased opportunities for the creation of new businesses in surrounding areas and communities by providing an environment fields of medicine and elsewhere using this project as a starting point infrastructure, both in Japan in which it is easy to connect to a wireless network and overseas Value for Society Sojitz entered the telecommunication infrastructure business in • Business management Local communities Improved access to healthcare accomplished through a Myanmar in November 2019. As smartphones become more combination of strong Consumers Increased life expectancy through contribution to resolve medical services shortage popular in Myanmar, there has been a steady increase in data networks and expertise Customers Increased sales opportunities accompanying the provision traffic. On top of this, the frequency bands for 5G need more base of infrastructure relating to this project stations than for 4G, and so we expect the demand for telecom towers in Myanmar to grow rapidly. Sojitz will contribute to improving the living environments of local communities by, for example, providing an environment with a reliable Internet connection in localities in Myanmar that either have no electricity Foods & Agriculture Business Division or have little electricity. We will also focus our efforts on Three Wheat-related developing surrounding businesses centered on telecom towers as well as securing long-term, stable earnings. A telecom tower in Myanmar Businesses Sojitz’s Capabilities Displayed Two Types of Value: Creating Common Values Contributing to the development of a diverse food culture by providing food in a reliable and safe manner • Increased value for telecom Food culture in ASEAN countries is changing as economies grow. Sojitz is tower business, including Value for Sojitz strengthening our ability to collaborating with leading local businesses in the Philippines to achieve • Secured long-term, stable earnings provide electric power • Business development opportunities in surrounding businesses centered on telecom towers our wheat flour milling business and ingredient wholesaling business, as • Advanced financial functions well as to create value chains for the distribution of wheat, i.e. for our • Developed surrounding Value for Society businesses centered on Local communities An environment with a reliable Internet connection packaged bread business, which has yielded a Japanese-style “soft telecom towers, such as texture.” By introducing Japanese technology and expertise, we are distributed power generation Customers Development of other localities using Sojitz’s project Bakery business (the Philippines) and a smart city, through our development capabilities responding to people’s need for the reliable and safe provision of food, project development functions and contributing to the development of food culture in the Philippines. 22 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 23 WHO WE ARE The Hassojitz Project What does society truly require? Creativity Challenges for the World of 2050 Bringing the backcasting approach to the company at large, and to the next generation of leaders Focusing on the theme of megatrends identified in the project, project members discussed business strategy in summer sessions, which were attended by business division COOs. The project members also gave presentations during training sessions in which employees at each position in the chain of command, including general managers, participated as a group. The participants were able to polish their ideas based on the The day of the presentations opinions they received here, and were also able to draft strategies for business creation together with members of management. Studying the perspective of managers provided a good opportunity for project members to re-examine the business areas in which they are involved every day by utilizing backcasting. This initiative has spread beyond Japan and traveled overseas. Presentation by Business division Overseas staff who are working on the front lines around the world are overseas staff COO training giving the same kinds of presentations, and lively discussions have taken place at the head office between the Japanese project members and overseas staff. In addition, the winning team is taking part in activities aimed at conveying the pleasure of the trading company business to university students who will become the leaders of tomorrow. Speaking about our future in 30 years’ time, the team has given presentations to students on the theme of establishing businesses using backcasting. We started the Hassojitz Project (also known as Hassojitz PJ 2019, Special lecture at a university subtitled “Challenges for the World of 2050”) in 2019 as a means to achieve two types of value—generating continued growth for The challenge for Sojitz in 2020 is implementing our plan as we transform ourselves… Sojitz and contributing to society—through an approach rooted in strategic thinking. The thoughts, perspectives, and ideas of the young Sojitz employees who will lead the company in the future Comments from a participating member serve as the foundation for the project, and project activities are During the project we repeatedly analyzed and organized megatrends and made use of progressing across the entire company. backcasting, and I am applying these skills a great deal in my everyday work. In the future I will proactively take on challenges and transform my ideas into reality as we work towards making the winning proposal into a business. Sojitz: Turning ideas into reality The project begins Soichiro Shimada The winning team from FY2019 (President’s Award) MVP from the winning team; Project Promotion Section, *Soichiro Shimada pictured second from right Overseas Business Department We started the Hassojitz Project in 2019 by bringing teams of close to 10 people. The intention was to together young employees through an open call promote lateral cooperation that overcame the vertical throughout the company. In the project, the employees organization of a typical trading company. These young Realizing our ideas through backcasting were asked to conceptualize business in the world of the employees wasted no time taking part in enthusiastic future by imagining society, the world at large, and discussions regarding business ideas and models in In these uncertain times, it is nearly impossible to make predictions about environment in order to turn ideas into new businesses. We will make use megatrends in 30 years’ time. The young employees areas and themes that were determined to be the future, but if we are too focused on the current environment and of a backcasting approach—working backwards from the future to the immediate restrictions, we will not be able to generate the growth that will present—to pursue a variety of initiatives that will generate new value. We then gave presentations to the President and other promising. By doing so, they were able to keenly allow to make great strides in the future. Sojitz is envisaging the future in consider the creativity of each of our employees to be invaluable, and we executives about their innovative ideas. The project has experience the importance of front-line capabilities, 30 years’ time with the intent of identifying changes in the business will continuously innovate to bring their ideas to life. served as an experiment for generating the impetus that speed, and innovation. Carefully identifying expanding will move Sojitz Group in new directions in a way that business areas and preparing to create businesses that incorporates the ideas of young employees. are expected to grow were two major themes. We hope Backcasting Future Creation of high-growth In the project, young employees in their twenties that balancing both top-down and bottom-up businesses and thirties who work in different business areas formed approaches will lead to management reforms. Closing the gap through Project timeline • DX (digital transformation) Fostering talent • Acceleration of globalization April 2019 June August October December • A more in-depth perspective on sustainability, etc. Providing • The project members • Mid-term presentations • Final presentation session • Hassojitz exchanges • Collaborative lecture with (39 young employees) and award for winning team with overseas employees an outside university Now Forecasting new value begin working in 6 teams • Division COO summer session 24 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 25 WHERE WE’RE GOING Taking on the Challenge of Sojitz is currently implementing the Medium-Term Management Plan 2020 “Commitment to Growth” (MTP 2020) over three years starting from April 2018. Through this plan, we are further strengthening our business foundation and accumulating clusters of revenue-generating businesses, establishing a strong corporate body Future Growth that will make sustained growth possible. This will also lead to further strides forward during and after our next medium-term plan. April 2012 – March 2015 (April 2015 ‒ March 2018) April 2018 – March 2021 Strengthen Tackle new challenges Foundations in on the path toward Achieve steady growth Post Medium-Term Pursuit of Growth future growth Management Plan Medium-Term Medium-Term Medium-Term 2020 Management Plan 2014 Management Plan 2017 Management Plan 2020 Change for Challenge – Challenge for Growth ーCommitment to Growth Performance Highlights Progress in the year Financial Targets Financial Targets Looking back on two years of MTP 2020 Financial Targets ended March 2020 Profit for the Year Profit for the Year (Financial/Non-financial) • Continued and increased the (attributable to the owners of the Company) (attributable to the owners of the Company) Accumulation of value of investments and loans P.28 ¥45.0 billion or more ¥60.0 billion or more Profit growth of quality assets centered on non-resources ROA: 2% or above ROA: 2% or above • Investments and loans for good-quality assets • Implemented continuing asset replacement approx. 10% from the previous year Shortfall Financial Strategy Net DER: 2 times or lower ROE: 8% or above Initiatives • Continuous asset replacement • Made effective use of the M&A Management Office 3-year total for investments and loans: 3-year total for investments and loans: Supporting ¥180.0 billion ¥300.0 billion Steady Growth Profit for the final year of Message from CFO Shareholder Returns: Consolidated Disciplined balance • Posted stable cash flows towards the MTP (attributable to payout ratio of approx. 20% Net DER: 1.5 times or lower owners of the Company): sheet and cash positive cash flow over medium-term Shortfall P.30 Total Assets: Maintaining at over ¥2 trillion Shareholder Returns: Consolidated payout ratio of approx. 25% flow management management plan period ¥75.0 or more billion Accumulating Taking on the Challenging ourselves • Constructed systems to promote ROA Quality Assets Challenge of in new areas Further Growth • Acquiring and strengthening innovation • Initiatives involving inter-divisional cooperation 3% or above Shortfall P.32 new functions Non-financial Strategy • Held stakeholder dialogues with experts • Announced endorsement of the ROE Promotion of Sustainability sustainability management Sustainability Challenge and the TCFD • Made good progress based on the policies for initiatives related to the 10% or above Cleared coal-fired power generation business P.36 and the thermal coal interests business • Introduced a variety of measures to A Foundation maximize employee capabilities Positive core cash flow • Maintained high-level awards and That Supports Human resources over medium-term Human Resources commendations from external management Doing well Sustained development organizations, such as the Certified Health & Productivity Management plan period Growth Organization (White 500) and Nadeshiko Brand P.42 • Set up an Internal Audit Committee • Constructed governance systems for acquired companies NET DER: Strengthening governance • Further strengthened corporate governance systems, e.g. increased 1.5 times or lower Doing well Corporate Governance the number of Outside Directors and appointed an Outside Director as Chairman of the Board. P.46 26 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 27 WHERE WE’RE GOING Performance Highlights (Financial/Non-Financial) (As of March 31, 2020) Financial Indicators (JGAAP and IFRSs) Non-Financial Highlights Note: The reported figures are based on JGAAP for the years ended March 31, 2010 and March 31, 2011, and IFRSs for the years ended March 31, 2012 through March 31, 2020. Profit (Loss) for the Year (Attributable to Owners of the Company) and Return on Equity1 (ROE) Total Assets and Return on Assets (ROA) Social Data Profit (loss) for the year (attributable to owners of the Company) ROE Total assets ROA Year Ended March 31, 2018 Year Ended March 31, 2019 Year Ended March 31, 2020 (Billions of yen) JGAAP IFRSs (%) (Billions of yen) JGAAP IFRSs (%) 80.0 30.0 3,000.0 4.0 Number of employees (consolidated) 17,917 18,634 18,839 70.4 2,350.4 2,297.1 2,230.3 Number of employees (non-consolidated)1 2,343 2,410 2,460 Reversal of 60.8 25.0 2,117.0 2,190.7 2,150.1 2,220.2 2,297.4 60.0 deferred tax 56.8 2,056.7 2,138.5 3.0 Male 1,818 1,837 1,844 assets due to 3.0 2.7 20.0 2,000.0 2.5 corporate tax 40.8 Female 525 573 616 33.1 36.5 reforms 40.0 27.3 15.0 1.9 2.0 Female career-track employees (Number of female managers) 176 (33) 213 (40) 246 (46) 10.2 1.7 11.7 1.5 Percentage of female managers (%) 3.1 3.8 4.4 10.0 10.0 1,000.0 1.2 16.0 13.4 7.6 20.0 6.8 0.7 1.0 4.7 6.5 5.0 0.6 Average years of employee service 16.0 15.8 15.8 (0.3) 3.8 6.5 Male 16.6 16.7 16.9 0 (1.0) 0 0 (0.0) 0 Female 14.0 13.2 12.6 (10.0) 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 (5.0) 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 (Years Ended March 31) (As of/Years Ended March 31) Percentage of disabled employees (%) 2.00 1.89 2.20 Percentage of annual paid holidays taken (%) 57.1 61.8 68.4 Net Interest-Bearing Debt and Net DER Risk Assets2 and Ratio of Risk Assets to Total Equity Number of employees taking childcare leave2 32 30 50 Net interest-bearing debt Net DER Risk assets Ratio of risk assets to total equity Percentage who return to work after childcare leave (%) 100 100 93 (Billions of yen) JGAAP IFRSs (Times) (Billions of yen) JGAAP IFRSs (Times) Personnel turnover (%) 3.5 2.7 3.1 1,200.0 6.0 500.0 2.0 Number of new graduates hired 106 121 126 380.0 Male 68 63 68 400.0 350.0 350.0 360.0 330.0 340.0 320.0 330.0 320.0 1.5 Female 38 58 58 310.0 800.0 700.6 676.4 4.0 643.3 640.2 629.6 571.6 611.1 603.5 584.7 613.2 300.0 Employees’ union membership rate (%) 60 60 50 1.0 1.0 0.9 Notes: 1. Includes full-time contract employees. 200.0 0.9 0.7 2. Number of employees who commenced childcare leave within the fiscal year. 400.0 2.1 2.0 0.8 2.0 0.6 0.6 0.6 0.6 0.6 1.7 0.5 1.4 1.1 1.1 1.1 1.1 100.0 1.0 1.0 0 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 0 0 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 0 Human Resources Development (As of March 31) (As of March 31) Year Ended March 31, 2018 Year Ended March 31, 2019 Year Ended March 31, 2020 Total Equity and Equity Ratio1 Cash Dividends per Share and Consolidated Payout Ratio3 Number of employees receiving training (cumulative total)3 approx. 9,000 approx. 21,000 approx. 21,000 Total equity Equity ratio Cash dividends per share Consolidated payout ratio Total training hours3 approx. 40,000 approx. 40,000 approx. 43,000 (Billions of yen) JGAAP IFRSs (%) (Yen) JGAAP IFRSs (%) Hours of training3,4 18 18 19 700.0 618.2 40.0 20.0 50.0 586.4 579.1 17.0 17.0 Overseas trainee program users 27 30 31 600.0 550.9 550.5 520.3 40.0 Short-term 22 23 22 500.0 459.9 30.0 15.0 34.8 26.0 27.9 27.4 Long-term 5 7 9 382.6 24.0 25.3 25.7 25.0 26.9 23.5 24.6 11.0 30.2 30.0 400.0 330.0 330.0 20.7 22.7 Notes: 3. Training refers to employee training, including self-development training, conducted by the Human Resources Department, and e-learning, ISO 14001 environmental 20.0 10.0 18.4 8.0 8.0 24.2 standards and CSR training programs provided by other departments. The large increase in the number of people participating in training from the year ended March 2019 300.0 17.8 15.1 6.0 20.0 was due more training menus, which in turn was thanks to the promotion of applied e-learning. 15.6 4: Excludes Directors, Executive Officers, Audit & Supervisory Board Members and employees who retired as of March 31 200.0 4.0 10.0 5.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 10.0 100.0 0 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 0 0 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 0 Environmental Data (As of March 31) (Years Ended March 31) Unit Year Ended March 31, 2018 Year Ended March 31, 2019 Year Ended March 31, 2020 Cash Flow Profit (Loss) for the Year per Share Electricity consumption1 MWh 2,590 2,501 2,563 Free cash flow Core cash flow (Attributable to Owners of the Company) CO2 emissions1,2 t-CO2 1,358 1,2533 1,1953 (Billions of yen) JGAAP IFRSs (Yen) JGAAP IFRSs 56.3 CO2 emissions from distribution4 t-CO2 8,146 7,341 8,918 80.0 66.0 63.1 60.0 48.9 Waste discharged5 tons 242 232 190 48.0 46.4 43.4 54.3 45.4 25.3 Recycling rate5 % 97 97 96 40.0 22.5 18.3 12.4 40.0 32.6 5.5 4.8 26.4 29.2 Notes: 1. Scope of data: Sojitz Corporation Head office, satellite office, Osaka Office, and branches (Hokkaido, Tohoku and Nagoya) 21.8 2. CO2 emissions coefficient: We use the most recent actual emissions coefficient announced by the Electric Power Council for a Low Carbon Society (ELCS). 3. Breakdown of CO2 emissions: Scope 1: (Direct emissions from use of fuels such as city gas) 13 t-CO2 0 1.3 20.0 12.8 10.8 Scope 2: (Indirect emissions from use of purchased electricity and heat) 1,182 t-CO2 4. Scope of data: As per the Act on the Rational Use of Energy, CO2 emissions from distribution in Japan for which Sojitz Corporation is considered to be the cargo owner (40.0) (31.3) 0 (0.8) 5. Scope of data: Waste from office operations of Sojitz Corporation (Head office, Osaka Office) (56.7) Reference: CO2 emissions by Group companies in Japan and overseas in the year ended March 31, 2020 totaled 1,040,100 tons. Scope 1: 924,207 t-CO2 Scope 2: 115,893 t-CO2 Scope of Data: Sojitz Corporation (including offices and branches), Group companies in Japan, Group companies overseas. (80.0) 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 (20.0) 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 *Due to the effect of the spread of the novel coronavirus, we have limited the scope to the 14 domestic and overseas consolidated subsidiaries with large amounts of (Years Ended March 31) (Years Ended March 31) emissions for FY2019. (Based on FY2018 results, about 90% of Sojitz Group is covered.) Notes: 1. Under IFRSs, total equity is equity attributable to owners of the Company, and is used as the basis for calculating return on equity, the equity ratio, and net DER. For environmental and social data, including the above, and related third-party assurance, please refer to our website: 2. The method of measuring risk assets mainly for goodwill was revised in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019. Figures for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, have been https://www.sojitz.com/en/csr/employee/data/ restated to reflect this change. and 3. Dividends per share represent the annual dividends per share of common stock of Sojitz Corporation. Consolidated payout ratio is calculated based on the number of https://www.sojitz.com/en/csr/environment/environmental_performance_data/ shares as of March 31, and is not presented for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012 due to the net loss. 28 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 29 WHERE WE’RE GOING Message from CFO Improving the success rate of our investments be able to reach our goal of “maintaining a positive three-year core cash flow.” We also expect a net DER of 1.1 investment for future growth, I don’t believe that there must be a strict target amount. by solving problems through in-depth analysis in as of March 31, 2021, and even if our total equity does fall due to a strong yen and declining stock prices, I believe On the other hand, to increase our rate of success in investments and loans and achieve further profitable while continuing to maintain stable financial foundations. that we can continue to maintain sufficient financial health. growth it is important that we establish a business plan based on thorough market analysis and multifaceted During FY2019, we announced Balance Sheet and Cash Flow Management for Each of Our Divisions (summary hypotheses. Then, we can proceed by ascertaining the of investments and loans and asset replacement (recovery)) functions that Sojitz should provide based on market Impact of the COVID-19 pandemic as part of the improved information disclosure that we have needs, and verify the feasibility of our plan. I think that the Steadily exercising our capability so historically conducted. P.35 Our aim is to communicate only way to succeed in business investment is to earnestly we can maintain stable financial conditions how each of our nine divisions builds a suitable portfolio by consider the question of what people want, carry out even in the COVID-19 crisis implementing well-balanced, continuous asset replacement thorough analysis of trends in demand, and carefully In FY2020, we expect market demand to shrink due to the in each division, without being dependent on specific establish key performance indicators (KPI) and key goal impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, and therefore our core sectors. We will strive to disclose information continuously indicators (KGI). In particular, market analysis and operating cash flow temporarily decrease. Even in such an and proactively so we that can reduce the knowledge gap post-merger integration (PMI) are becoming more and environment, I believe that there are no concerns on the between us and our investors, enabling our share value to more important due to a shift from resource-centric financial front for the Sojitz Group. Our profit for the year in be accurately evaluated. portfolios to non-resource-based portfolios. We will FY2019 remained at ¥60.8 billion, less than the previous continue to construct a corporate system that can properly year. However, from the perspective of ensuring liquidity support business projects and ensure that our criteria for Investment and loans policy we can secure cash reserves of ¥300.0 billion and a investments and loans are reasonable. Additionally, in new commitment line of ¥100.0 billion and U.S.$1.6 billion. We Steadily building up cash-generating assets areas of business such as digital transformation, which is are also going ahead with shift to long-term borrowings by thorough market analysis and further subject to remarkable market changes, we will promote the with short-term borrowing limits. In terms of risk strengthening of post-merger integrations transfer of authority to the COOs of business divisions, in management, since the financial crisis in 2008 we have The Sojitz Group had achieved stable growth by increasing order to advance decision-making with a sense of speed to promoted enhanced management systems, including those profits for seven years in a row up to FY2018. We also ensure that we do not miss any chances. to manage inventory positions and exchange, which has made investments of ¥81.0 billion during FY2019, mainly in In addition, the key to increasing the value of enabled us to minimize losses. the automotive, airport operations, and renewable energy investment and loan projects is skilled PMI work. The M&A In order to continue quickly responding to the fields. “Making investments and loans worth ¥300.0 billion Management Office is promoting a more efficient changing circumstances, we have adopted a policy in cumulative over the 3 years” is the goal set out in MTP investment and loans process through due diligence. It is through which we are managing our financial conditions 2020, but considering the tough circumstances in which we also proceeding with the establishment of ideal PMI in as we maintain an adequate funding capacity and cash find ourselves, we anticipate that our investments and collaboration with the Controller Offices within our business reserves for expected risks, and are also securing funds in loans in FY2020 will come to around ¥100.0 billion, divisions through a series of trial and error. We are also an appropriate manner from, for example, major meaning that the total for the three years of MTP 2020 will systematically focusing our efforts on disseminating and correspondent financial institutions with whom we be around ¥260.0 billion — somewhat lower than planned. teaching PMI skills by repeatedly holding information maintain a good business relationship. Of course, we will However, our plan is ¥100.0 billion of investment and loans sessions based on a M&A playbook in which our M&A hold on to positive cumulative core cash flow and free in the final year of MTP 2020, and I want to approach this know-how has been compiled. cash flow over the three years of MTP 2020, which will in a flexible manner. We must take into account the mean that our fundamental policy of maintaining financial delayed negotiations that have resulted from the Capital efficiency stability will not change. COVID-19 crisis, and, although we need constant Aiming for increased shareholder value Cash Flow Allocation by reducing the risk premium Looking back at the second year of MTP 2020 (FY2019) (As of the end of June 2020) Sojitz’s cost of capital is 7–8%. I acknowledge that Continuously maintaining positive core cash flow MTP 2020 3-year initiatives to bring down our risk premium, one of our FY2018 FY2019 through disciplined balance sheet Results Results cumulative forecast equity costs, are essential in an environment in which it is and cash flow management (FY2018–FY2020) difficult to significantly increase our ROE. Rather than Core operating This year was the second year of MTP 2020, and we cash flow*1 ¥79.0 billion ¥80.0 billion About ¥200.0 billion irresponsibly increasing leverage to make our ROE seem ensured that our core cash flow was positive and our net Asset replacement ¥92.0 billion ¥35.0 billion About ¥200.0 billion bigger, we will ensure sound financial health with thorough (Investment recovery) DER was 1.06 times; we managed our investments within New investments risk management accomplished through disciplined ¥(91.0) billion ¥(81.0) billion About ¥(260.0) billion and loans others the scope of the cash flow generated, and were able to Shareholder returns balance sheet and cash flow management, as we steadily Seiichi Tanaka implement disciplined balance sheet and cash flow others *2 ¥(17.0) billion ¥(33.0) billion About ¥(70.0) billion focus on reducing costs in individual projects and business Representative Director, management. As a result, over the past two years we have Core cash flow*3 ¥63.0 billion ¥1.0 billion Positive divisions. Of course, we will, carry out initiatives to Executive Vice President, CFO generated a surplus of around ¥60.0 billion in total Free cash flow ¥54.0 billion ¥5.0 billion Positive enhance our information disclosure to our investors and together with our core cash flow and free cash flow. FY2020 other stakeholders, and I also wish to hold close dialogues *1 Core operating cash flow = Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities – will be the final year of MTP 2020, and during this single Changes in working capital with our stakeholders and focus our efforts on year we anticipate a negative core cash flow due to our *2 The results from FY2019 and the 3-year cumulative forecast include acquisition of strengthening our resistance to volatility and on steady treasury stock. funding of business projects; however, I foresee that we will *3 Core cash flow = Core operating cash flow (excluding changes in working capital) income growth rather than panicking at the + Investing cash flow (including asset replacement) – Dividends paid – Purchase of treasury stock dramatically-changing external environment. 30 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 31 WHERE WE’RE GOING Accumulating Quality Assets Constructing a Sustainable Growth Cycle Investment Policy by “Improving” Our Assets In MTP 2020, we aim to ensure the thoroughness and addition to developing a structure for continuously enhancement of our business model verification and risk improving business value by ensuring steady earnings identification at the project conceptualization stage, in from investments. Sojitz is using disciplined balance sheet and cash flow management to accumulate quality assets that will generate high quality profits and cash at the same time as achieving growth investments and shareholder Investment Policy in MTP 2020 returns; in so doing, we are constructing a growth model that will firmly maintain a stable financial foundation. 1. Acquire, expand, and utilize functions When we make investments and loans, we aim to ensure the thoroughness and enhancement of our Basic Disciplined investments and loans 2. Expand, enter, and create markets business model verification and risk identification at the project conceptualization stage, in addition to Maintaining a positive three-year core cash Policy 3. Broaden range of new fields to create more flow for the entire Company developing a structure for continuously improving business value by ensuring steady earnings from robust division boundaries investments. Projects Eligible for Investments and Loans Disciplined Balance Sheet and Cash Flow Management • Businesses in line with the company’s concept of sustainability • Investments and loans based on company-wide and division • Business with potential to implement investment objective strategies, businesses whose investment objective is clear and add value • Businesses that allow Sojitz to exit at own discretion We will aim to improve our ROA by constantly way that ensures true quality assets. In addition, we emphasizing profit efficiency as we make new are focusing our efforts on MTP 2020’s quantitative investments, without relaxing our discipline with regard target of maintaining a positive cash flow. Our goal is to cash flow; we are also carefully assessing the to achieve a growth cycle that will continue to Multidimensional examination of business models from the conceptualization stage business cycle while carrying out portfolio generate quality profits while maintaining financial management that will promote asset replacement in a discipline in this way. Competitive Scale Profitability Stability Safety Expandability Feasibility Timeline Creativity Liquidity advantage Create quality profits and Realize a growth model through cash out of quality assets effective CF management via continuous BS management • Improve ROA through continuous asset replacement and accumulation of quality assets Manage growth investments and Measures for Investments and Loans shareholder returns with cash • Expand total equity and improve ROE generated via operating activities • Keep net DER to below 1.5 times • Improve ratings to enhance funding quality and asset replacement (Core CF>0) 1 Further Improving Investment Quality—Investment Process Corporate departments support business divisions in we have established an M&A Management Office and the entire process, from generating proposals, making also set up an organization needed to strengthen the investments to managing businesses. The entire project portfolio and closing power of each division. Asset company participates in the process, including We screen project creation opportunities in the initial replacement Core CF deliberations by the Finance & Investment Deliberation stage of the investment process and steadily Quality profits implement projects that we believe will lead to (profit generated Council and supervision by the Board of Directors. Quality assets Interestwith high Generated cash Asset replacement Furthermore, as part of our efforts to maximize the prospects, revenue, and growth to improve the success efficiency) bearing effects of our investments and loans, since April 2018, rate of our investments. Total debt assets Net DER: Low-profit 1.5 times assets, etc. or lower Net Profit Total equity Expanded total Investment Process equity Shareholder returns Growth investment ④ Business Management Improve ROE ① Project Creation ② Investment Decision ③ Investment Improve ROA & Monitoring • Considering project creation • Making investments decisions • PMI (management integration) • Monitoring performance and opportunities in line with based on quantitative and • Building and improving status of measures for value Deeper-level BS management MTP 2017 MTP 2020 strategies qualitative analysis* addition (performance in (Target) business management • Asset and business value increases the final fiscal year) • Identifying risks structures • Grasping issues and • Asset management focused on risks •ROA 2.5% •ROA 3% or above implementing countermeaand returns •ROE 10.0% •ROE 10% or above sures • Goodwill control, etc. • Deciding to continue with or • Increased resilience to interest and withdraw from businesses foreign exchange rate fluctuations PMI Support • Net DER control • Continuous asset replacement * Sets internal rate of return (IRR) hurdles in order to select projects that can be expected to produce returns commensurate with the risks and evaluate business feasibility 32 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 33 WHERE WE’RE GOING Accumulating Quality Assets 2 Measures for Improving Success Rate of Investments Carrying out continuous balance sheet and cash flow management for our investments and loans We are carrying out continuous asset replacement and continuing to make and recover investments and loans. Investment Process ① Project Creation ② Investment Decision ③ Investment ④ Business Management & Monitoring Cumulative Results for the Three Years of MTP 2017 Cumulative Results/Forecast for the Three Years of MTP 2020 Asset replacement Investments and loans Asset replacement Cumulative results Forecast for the The role of the M&A Management Office (established in April 2018) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) Investments (performance) for the two years of MTP 2020 three years of MTP 2020 Investments and loans: and loans 200.0 200.0 • Providing specialized support for promoting business investments and M&A ① ② ③ ④ ¥ 315.0 billion Investments and loans: Investments and loans: About • Detecting and resolving major issues early by participating from initial stages of project development ① ② ③ ④ 100.0 100.0 ¥ 172.0 billion ¥260.0 billion Asset replacement Asset replacement (recovery): Asset replacement • Accumulating know-how for executing PMI and providing appropriate advice and ① ② ③ ④ (recovery): (recovery): instructions for formulating PMI plans for individual projects 0 16 17 18 ¥ 111.0 billion 0 19 20 21 (forecast) About (Years Ended March 31) (Years Ended/Ending March 31) ¥ 127.0 billion ¥200.0 billion Establishing structures to increase the value of businesses (front-line) ① ② ③ ④ Changes in portfolio under MTP 2020 Business divisions carry out PMI after executing M&A to post-investment management and personnel structures We are concentrating our investments and loans in non-resource fields. bring about synergy after executing investments and even before purchase agreements are concluded. We The investment and loans plan in MTP 2020 calls for 90% of loans and maximizing project growth. Apart from the M&A have continued to implement these structures since the investments to be made in non-resource businesses. Management Office, each corporate department first year of MTP 2020. supports PMI by the business divisions by developing Ratio of Resource to Non-Resource Assets Under Total Assets MTP 2020 Balance Sheet and Cash Flow Management (Unit: billions of yen) Resource Non-resource Other Division name Recovery Cash out Core CF Strengthening business management support through periodic monitoring ① ② ③ ④ ¥380 billion ¥350 billion Core operating ash flow Recovery New investments and loans Recovery Shareholder return Year ended Contributions To increase the value of the business and strengthen the Finance & Investment Deliberation Council monitors the March 2015 amount 0 35.0 70.0 0 35.0 70.0 competitiveness and earning power of the business situation. Then, depending on the management Total: approx. Automotive 28.0 (16.0) 12.0 ¥2,300 billion after investment, the business division reports regularly situation, the Council deliberates whether to continue Aerospace & 68.0 (28.0) 40.0 Transportation Project on the state of the management of the business and the the business or to sell it or withdraw from it. Machinery & 2.0 (4.0) (2.0) ¥1,570 billion Medical Infrastructure Energy & Social Infrastructure 38.0 (48.0) (10.0) Implemented as required Implemented annually Examples Metals & Mineral Resources 52.0 (28.0) 24.0 ¥260 billion ¥250 billion Flexible review of plans and implementation Corporate Departments review all • Managing credit exposure Chemicals 30.0 (8.0) 22.0 of countermeasures after investment, investment proposals, forming improvement • Managing budget and performance centered around the COO policies and reconsidering business policies. Year ended Foods & Agriculture Business 13.0 (9.0) 4.0 • Building personnel structure If an investment proposal conflicts with exit March 2020 • Establishing regulations Total: approx. Retail & Lifestyle Business 21.0 (10.0) 11.0 rules, the Finance & Investment Deliberation ¥2,230 billion • Preparing a structure for consolidating Industrial Infrastructure & 14.0 (11.0) 3.0 Council decides whether the business financial results Urban Development should be continued, or the investment 20.0 (60.0) (40.0) • Supporting settlement of accounts Other should be discontinued. ¥1,720 billion • Effectively using funds within Sojitz Group Total 286.0 (222.0) 64.0 *See page 64 and the following pages for information about the recovery and cash out of each business division. Changes in profit structure 3 Continuous Asset Replacement to Achieve Positive Core Cash Flow The timing of any monetization may be slightly delayed due to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, but overall we will steadily continue to build a stable revenue base with our key focus on non-resource businesses. We will accumulate period earnings and continuously between the timeline and profitability. One of the replace assets to create funds for accumulating quality quantitative targets of MTP 2020 is “Maintaining a Core business New business (resource) (resource) invested from FY2015 or later assets with a view to sustainably boost growth and positive three-year core cash flow.” We were in the Results and forecast of contributions Results and forecast of contributions Core business New business (non-resource) (non-resource) invested from FY2015 or later to revenue due to investments and to revenue due to investments and earnings. To replace assets, we will withdraw assets from black in the second fiscal year of MTP 2020, and are (Billions of yen) loans made under MTP 2017 loans made under MTP 2020 projects with no potential for future growth and reinvest making favorable progress according to plan. 80.0 in high profitability projects while striking a balance Core cash flow trends P.28 Results for Results for Forecast for Results for Results for Forecast for FY2018: FY2019: FY2020: FY2018: FY2019: FY2020: About About About About About About 40.0 ¥ 6.0 billion▶¥13.5 billion▶¥6.0 billion ¥ 2.0 billion ▶¥0.5 billion▶ ¥5.0 billion Balance of loans Balance of loans Balance of loans Balance of loans and investments: and investments: and investments: and investments: 0 FY2014 ¥180.0 billion ¥145.0 billion ¥85.0 billion ¥160.0 billion FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 results results results forecast (Note) Excluding one-time profit/loss 34 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 35 WHERE WE’RE GOING Sustainability Towards Sustainable Value Creation To continue creating these “two types of value” in the future, Sojitz has determined 6 Key There are universal issues of which we should be aware in the medium and long term. From these, Sustainability Issues (Materiality) to focus on in our business over the mediumto long-term. Based on Sojitz has established themes for that require individual support, such as decarbonization and these issues, we are striving to integrate solutions to global environmental and social problems with respecting human rights, including within our supply chains, based on the demands and changes of our corporate activities and build systems for such integration. the times. We will pursue effective sustainability by combining universality and flexibility based on change. Key Sustainability Issues (Materiality) Sustainability Challenge Respect the human rights of people Contribute to the global Develop and grow together with involved in our businesses environment through our businesses local communities Formulation of Long-term Vision for 2050 Sojitz respects the human rights of people Sojitz strives to preserve the environment Sojitz promotes businesses that grow involved in its businesses. This applies not and create businesses that are both highly together with local communities. We work In April 2018, we established our long-term vision: only to Sojitz employees, but also to competitive and environmentally friendly to reduce environmental and social “Sustainability Challenge.” In order to achieve this Sustainability Challenge everyone affected by Sojitz‘s businesses by pursuing environmental sustainability in burdens on local communities through our vision, we will strive to expand our low-carbon throughout its supply chains. Should there its businesses. We work to minimize our businesses. Through ongoing be any instances of child labor or forced environmental burden with initiatives that communication with local communities, businesses over the next 10 years and broaden our We will strive to create labor, we will rectify them. include preventing climate change, we strive to achieve business initiatives to ensure human rights are always respected. sustainable growth for both reducing CO2 emissions, and preserving sustainability, address local problems, and The MTP 2020 is a preparatory phase for us to Sojitz and society by working to biodiversity. support children’s education. achieve the Sustainability Challenge; our management help achieve a decarbonized will lead us in understanding and assessing the CO2 society through our business emissions from our business activities, and we will accelerate the creation of businesses that contribute to activities, and by responding to the achievement of a low-carbon society. human rights issues, including Business those within our supply chains. Human Rights Environment See the Sojitz website for information on related initiatives. https://www.sojitz.com/en/csr/priority/challenge.php Sojitz Group Statement The Sojitz Group creates value Resources and prosperity Local by connecting the world with Communities a spirit of integrity. A Cycle to Promote Sustainability Sojitz strives to understand external trends and perspectives in the process of pursuing sustainability, and these are then reflected in our policies and business activities. In addition, through appropriate disclosure, Foundation Human Resources Governance we are putting into practice a cycle that allows all of our stakeholders to gain a deeper understanding of Sojitz’s activities, and to offer us further new opinions. Dialogue / Understanding external trends Policy creation and opinions • Organizing relevant points of contention • Stakeholder Dialogue and approaches Develop, supply and use Promote opportunities for Emphasize effectiveness and • Workshops by outside lecturers • Creating policies sustainable resources* diverse human resources transparency • Awareness gained through ESG • Organizing risks and opportunities by division Sojitz pursues the development, supply, and workplace diversity Sojitz strives for corporate governance dialogues and external assessments A cycle to promote and use of sustainable resources. We The greatest business asset is a diverse and transparency by strategically linking strive to conserve resources, propose workforce. We strive to build a positive Group activities, including compliance and Disclosure sustainability suitable energy mixes, and provide a efforts to achieve mediumto long-term Action work environment, to establish systems for • Disclosure through mediums such as stable supply of resources. hiring, evaluating and training employees, business sustainability. integrated reports and websites • Periodic monitoring by the Sustainability Committee and to promote diversity in the workplace • Keep frameworks such as TCFD and SASB • Deliberation of new finance and investment proposals * Includes energy, mineral, food, water, forest, through active involvement of human in mind, as they are emphasized by investors • Reflection in organization appraisals marine, and other resources resources with diverse values. an awareness of frameworks, etc. 36 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 37 WHERE WE’RE GOING Sustainability Focusing on Our Long-term Vision Sojitz's current approach to sustainability, The Long-term Vision and Medium-term Progress in FY2019 and the clarification of any issues Management Plan 2020 Working to help achieve a decarbonized society Based on the Sojitz Group Statement and management Based on our Key Sustainability Issues (Materiality), Our management holds dialogues with our business policies, Sojitz seeks to create “two types of value,” which are universal challenge, we have established divisions and external experts, which has deepened which take into account the external environment such as flexible themes for individual initiatives according to discussions about Sojitz’s risks and opportunities, taking social expectations. circumstances and the demands of the times. Notably, into account external movements including SASB* and “Two types of value” means achieving “value for these include decarbonization and supporting human the social change that is being brought about by the Sojitz” and “value for society” at the same time, which rights, including in our supply chains, which are themes trends of CO2 reduction and decarbonization. FY2020 is allows us to further expand Sojitz’s business foundation, we must be aware of as a general trading company. the final year of our preparatory period, and so this year and to plan our contribution to a sustainable society. With regard to these, we have established a long-term we will establish more concrete measures based on past When we are creating “two types of value” in practice, vision for 2050, the Sustainability Challenge, and keep discussions in which we gave close consideration to we organize issues that are common to both Sojitz and Stakeholder Dialogue (February 2020) the idea of backcasting in mind when carrying out these areas. society into Key Sustainability Issues (Materiality). initiatives. * The U.S. Sustainability Accounting Standards Board. Sustainability When establishing these, we referenced international We consider Medium-term Management Plan 2020 issues of companies that investors are looking at are specified for each The experts who participated in our dialogues industry. norms such as the SDGs, as well as confirming the to be the preparatory period for this Sustainability Hiroshi Komiyama opinions of our stakeholders. As environmental and social Chairman of the Institute, Mitsubishi Research Institute, Inc. Challenge. We aim to change and grow into a business Initiatives respecting human rights, including our issues become increasingly severe on a global scale, we Chairman, The Platinum Society Network that will contribute to the achievement of a low-carbon supply chains hold periodic dialogues to ensure that stakeholders’ Akitsugu Era society in 2030, and are solidifying our initiatives to In addition to carrying out activities to raise awareness opinions and expectations of Sojitz are reflected in Group BlackRock Japan Co., Ltd. ensure the respect of human rights. Managing Director of Sojitz’s policies, we undertake risk analysis of our initiatives, and are working to clarify issues in a way that supply chains. Toshihide Arimura will lead to sustainable corporate management and Professor, Faculty of Political Science and Economics, Waseda University increased corporate value. The Process of Establishing Key Sustainability Issues and Determining Our Long-Term Vision Leading up to 2050 Promote the Integration of these Goals Define Sustainability Within Sojitz Clarify Issues Long-Term Vision (2050) with Business Activities Derive sustainability issues through (1) Backcasting from our long-term vision Develop a perspective and process for creating value consideration for international norms Establishing individual initiative themes (2) Flexible responses to changes in the social environment and the external environment and the demands of the times External Environment Medium-Term Management Plan 2020 Long-Term Vision Key Sustainability Issues (such as societal Create “Two Types of Value” expectations) (Materiality) Sustainability Goals Promotion of Sustainability Challenge Prosperity Business Working to realize a decarbonized society Corporate Statement Two Types of Value Human Rights Build foundation for low-carbon businesses Expand Decarbonized business Creating Common Values Value for Sojitz Value for Society • Enhanced business foundation • Sustained growth • Development of local economies • Environmental preservation and Environment New Value respect for human rights through business activities Respect for human rights Resources Gradually expand initiatives for the respect of human rights in supply chains The World Local Communities Determine needs Our People Sustainability goals for all other Key Sustainability Issues Prosperity Innovate Exercise capabilities Sp e e d up Foundation Strategies Structure for Implementation Human Resources Domestic Business and Overseas Expertise Governance Bases Relationships with Customers Human Resources Finances Brands Sustainability Committee Business Foundation Governance Deliberation by Finance Monitoring of Reflection in Management Policies Trust & Investment progress toward goals organization appraisals Deliberation Council Dialogue / Incorporating external Disclosure Dialogue / Incorporating external trends and perspectives trends and perspectives Appropriate Periodic dialogues with stakeholders Stakeholder Dialogue information disclosure Stakeholder Dialogue Always checking new stakeholder needs and Codes of conduct Referencing SASB’s the demands of the times Referencing international norms and initiatives from the SDGs, etc. Endorsement of the TCFD materiality by industry 38 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 39 WHERE WE’RE GOING Sustainability Working to Achieve the Sustainability Challenge Initiatives for Low Carbon and Decarbonization Initiatives Respecting Human Rights, Including Our Supply Chains The Sojitz Group is “working to achieve a decarbonized cooperate with a wide range of stakeholders, proactively In developing a wide range of businesses across the MTP 2020 Progress society through our business activities,” as set out in the disclose information, and improve our transparency. globe, the Sojitz Group supports the International Bill of We are focusing our attention on risk assessment, in Sustainability Challenge, and we are promoting initiatives Human Rights and the International Labour Organization addition to ensuring that our policies, including the Sojitz that link business to measures against climate change, (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Group Human Rights Policy and the Sojitz Group CSR such as our renewable energy business. Work. We are promoting our initiatives in accordance with Action Guidelines for Supply Chains, are well known. In August 2018, we declared our endorsement of the the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Making our policies known final recommendations of the TCFD,*1 and are striving to We distribute handbooks to each Group company and supplier. *1 The TCFD recommends disclosure in relation to risks and opportunities linked to climate change based on four themes: Entire Implementation Process Risk assessment governance, strategy, risk management, and metrics and targets. Establish and Improvements/ The Business & Human Rights Resource Centre, a British NGO, share policies* Risk assessment remedial action Disclose results maintains a database with examples of environmental and human rights risks. Using this, we identify sectors in which general Note: Please see the Sojitz website for more details on the Sojitz Group environmental and human rights risks could easily occur and then Governance Risk Management Human Rights Policy, Environmental Policy, and CSR Action check any applicable circumstances in our supply chains. From Guidelines for Supply Chains now on, we will check the circumstances of initiatives related to We scrutinize climate-related risks and opportunities and discuss Sojitz assesses and identifies CO2 emissions risks in each of our https://www.sojitz.com/en/csr/relatedpolicies/ risks with regard to these areas, and focus our efforts on their influence on our business strategies based on promotion Group-operated businesses. In addition to the deliberation amelioration and relief as necessary. and implementation systems centered on the Sustainability process for investments and loans, which involves managing Committee (Committee Head: CEO). individual business risks, we also hold dialogues with stakeholders Trends in the Occurrence of General Risks Areas in which there are numerous cases of environmental and human rights risks The details of these proceedings are regularly reported to and regular meetings between our business divisions and Mining interests Raw materials, the Management Committee and the Board of Directors, and the management to discuss and confirm the effect of climate-related Representative supply chains Interests and and cultivating product manufacturing, Wholesale Retail and service latter supervise and give direction when necessary. risks and opportunities on our businesses. forestry development raw materials production Pollution of oceans Pollution of oceans Appropriation of land Excess waste General environmental and and rivers and rivers Strategy social issues in supply chains Labor issues Deforestation Labor issues Labor issues Labor issues Information leakage Conflict minerals Regional health problems High-risk business areas Conducting Scenario Analysis Oil, natural gas, minerals Based on external investigations and internal analysis, we are working on scenario analysis of the business fields believed to present the Lumber, palm oil, sugar greatest risks and opportunities to our Group’s business activities, management strategy, and financial planning. The scenario analysis*2 is then Textiles analyzed to determine financial impact. Chemicals *2 Please see the Sojitz website for our scenario analysis https://www.sojitz.com/en/csr/environment/tcfd/ In the future, we expect to carry out scenario analysis for physical risks in terms of the impact of climate change. Food Communications Establishing metrics and targets for carrying out scenario analysis: the coal interests business and the power generation business Coal interests business Power generation business We analyze the value of Sojitz’s assets by assuming prospective demand We analyze the impact of carbon prices, demand fluctuations by the type of electric power, and the cost competitiveness of Sojitz’s System to Promote Sustainability and Approaches to Investments and Loans Method and value in a number of scenarios set in the years until 2040, including assets in a number of scenarios set in the years until 2040, including the 1.5°C scenario. the 1.5°C scenario. Although there are concerns that some of our assets relating to our The power plants that will be affected by carbon prices and We have established a Sustainability Committee, chaired Sustainability Issues (Materiality). We will also strive to Financial thermal coal interests will lose their value, we are implementing a policy demand fluctuations are limited in number, and we do not believe by our CEO, to enable us to promote management that understand external trends through dialogues with Impact to reduce our thermal coal assets by at least half by 2030, and so the that those plants that will be affected will be impacted financially as impact will be limited. a result of the effects of asset degradation. considers the perspective of sustainability. In addition, stakeholders and other activities, with the aim of the policies and issues that are discussed by the increased clarity regarding the areas that we should Contributing to decarbonization Sustainability Committee are referred or reported to the check and keep in mind as a Group. We expect an increased supply and demand for renewable energy in all of the scenarios that the Group is analyzing. The Sojitz Group thinks Management Committee and the Board of Directors; the of decarbonization as a business opportunity, and we are focusing our efforts on our renewable energy business. Board of Directors supervises this process, and offers System to promote sustainability Main achievements in FY2019 instruction as to how to deal with any issues as necessary. The Board of Directors • Joined one of the largest off-shore wind power generation businesses in Taiwan The Sojitz Group makes numerous investments and Report Supervision/Direction • Joined biomass power plant project in Tomakomai, Hokkaido loans, and through this is constructing a sustainable growth foundation and portfolio. Such new finance and Management Committee Metrics and Targets investment proposals are deliberated by the Finance & Report Investment Deliberation Council, which confirms whether Finance & Investment Change in Thermal Coal Interests Assets Sustainability Committee Policies for initiatives related to the coal interests business there is a possibility that alternatives will expand and Deliberation Council and the coal-fired power generation business (Billions of yen) Favorable Reducing threaten the feasibility of a business in the long term, and Checks new finance and Confirms and reports about the progress assets held Reducing the assets of our thermal coal interests to half or less by 2030 60.0 whether a business is experiencing increased investment proposals conformity of company-wide (compared to our assets at the end of March 2019) 50.0 in March 2019 from the perspective sustainability policies with the In principle, not acquiring new thermal coal interest to half or less international pressure to scale back, especially in the area of sustainability business strategies of the divisions 40.0 Not undertaking new initiatives in the coal-fired power generation business 30.0 of carbon emissions. Corporate (we have no current projects) 20.0 During the period of MTP 2020, we will go beyond Sustainability Office 10.0 Under the above policies, we sold part of our thermal coal interests in March 2020. 0 the themes set out in our Sustainability Challenge and March 2019 March 2020 March 2031 Business Divisions/Corporate discuss a variety of individual themes relating to the Key 40 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 41 WHERE WE’RE GOING Human Resources Working to Maximize Employee Capabilities Basic approach on human resource strategy workstyle reforms. This fiscal year is the final year of the For the Sojitz Group, the value we create is directly tied to Plan, and it is also the period in which we will ensure the Message from the COO for the Human Resources Department, General Affairs & IT Operation Department our greatest asset—our people. The Sojitz Group will various offensive and defensive initiatives we have create new value and businesses amidst the diverse implemented over the last two years have spread and taken people, cultures, and values in the world, and advance our root throughout the whole company. We will also create an activities by developing talent who can create “two types of value”—value for society and value for Sojitz. Under environment that enables our employees to make even greater strides in the next medium-term management plan. We will accelerate innovation Medium-term Management Plan 2020, Sojitz is pursuing sustainable growth through maintaining current earnings A specific example of this is the Hassojitz Project, which we began as an initiative to develop the people who will be on the front lines through a foundations, strengthening business functions and continuing to invest in further growth. responsible for leading our sustainable growth. P.24 This project saw several project teams, made up of members true experience of diversity Even in a time when it is difficult to make predictions from different organizations, work towards creating new for the future, maximizing the potential of each of our businesses while respecting each other’s approaches, ideas, Toshiaki Kasai human resources through a human resource strategy, values, and experiences. This multi-stage project is truly the COO, Human Resources Department, General Affairs & IT Operation Department together with strengthening governance and managing embodiment of diversity management. Looking to the risks, is essential for us to achieve sustained growth. future, we will encourage changes in personal actions that Particularly, we aim to develop people who can respond to will lead to the creation of “two types of value,” and in so the rapidly changing business environment with a sense of doing will continue to focus on developing our human “Generating profits through business while also being able we also introduced a system that allows employees to be speed, take on challenges without excessive fear of failure, resources—namely, “Sojitz people” who can exercise their to provide value with an understanding of other parties’ transferred to an operating company outside of their and persevere as they overcome difficulties. capabilities in practical business settings. standpoints”—this is a vital quality for human resources in a affiliated division as a trainee. The company that receives As we create opportunities for each of our employees trading company. It is crucial to have people who possess them and the incoming trainee intentionally create a situation Our human resource strategy in MTP 2020 to take on challenges that go beyond their previous work the resourcefulness, abilities, and life experience to balance in which they must acknowledge differences between each and human resource management for our next MTP and increase the productivity of our organizations through the interests of different parties in a complicated situation, other’s common sense and customs, providing a good Our human resource strategy in MTP 2020 consists of the diverse workstyles, we will continue to pursue challenges and face challenges with determination on the front lines of opportunity to personally experience diversity. Learning from development of future leaders, diversity management, and for further Sojitz Group growth. business. In order to cultivate future leaders with such the difficulties and failures that they experience in difficult attributes, I want to ensure that our employees experience situations will lead to subsequent growth. This initiative diversity in the truest sense while they are young. transcends divisions, and in so doing fosters future leaders Human Resource Strategy in the Medium-Term Management Plan 2020 A trading company that is expanding its business from the perspective of the whole company. I am confident around the world can provide value to customers only after it that enabling this well-functioning cycle will allow us to foster Challenges in human resource management The three pillars of the is able to accept diverse global values. This is because even and improve the level of future leaders who possess the human resource strategy if the other party is of a different culture or has different requisite resourcefulness, abilities, and experience to lead Management Challenges in the Medium-Term Creation of business customs and there are linguistic barriers, gaining an Sojitz in the future. Future leaders to manage Tokyo HQ and group companies • Initiatives regarding our corporate governance code Management Plan 2020 innovation understanding of the subtleties of their standpoint and In addition, we are carrying out the Hassojitz Project • Securing talent who can continue to provide new value for the world feelings is a step forward to promoting business. P.24 as a separate initiative from these systems. This is an • Developing future leaders regardless of age, gender, and nationality Sojitz has two trainee systems for our young employees open-application, cross-organizational project that seeks to • Making up for the shortage of next manager candidates (in their late 30s to early 40s) to enable them to experience such diversity. The first is a bring ideas to life. It sees employees from different age Appropriate treatment and advancement of employees who can Development three-month overseas trainee program, which employees groups utilize backcasting to create a vision of the future with of Future Leaders create value and generate profits with an eye to a yearly net profit of 100 billion yen participate in within the first five years after they enter the new ideas, providing for the creation of catalysts to broaden • Appropriate treatment and further improvement of the capabilities Company. The second is a long-term trainee program, which their outlook as they set higher goals. Cultivate talented of those in management positions Achievement individuals to take a leading • Fostering employees who can actualize new ideas role for sustained growth sends employees overseas for at least one year. In FY2019, In parallel with these measures, we are focusing our of sustainable Improving the mental and physical health of employees, controlling attention on creating a talent development system that can the risk of loss of talent Human Resources Composition Simulation seamlessly advance the careers of each of our employees. growth and • Promoting the Sojitz Group health management policy Earning (Conceptual Image) certifications and commendations Using a system that deliberately has employees experience Challenges on the front lines Diversity New way, both successes and failures, I want to encourage employee New value 2030 (Conceptual Image) motivation and growth by continually providing Organizational relationships • Improvement initiatives based on employee surveys Management Number of employees: opportunities in which employees can feel as if they have • Increase cross-organizational communication All employees with Hire and develop mid-career employees around 3,000 where there is shortage of employees truly grown. Additionally, we are trying to gain a better Promoting business optimization diverse backgrounds • Improving meeting efficiency can excel Utilization of employees picture of ourselves through a variety of data, including • Raising organizational efficiency to avoid overlapping tasks within Earlier development reemployed after retirement employee surveys and 360° surveys, to visualize our the company of managers who have been managers • Choosing IT tools/methods for effective knowledge-sharing strengths and value. I would like to cultivate skills in our Continuing our culture of taking on challenges employees that will contribute to further innovation from a • Reviewing our evaluation systems to stimulate challenge Development of managers • Thoroughly implementing comprehensive evaluations Work Style Reforms to run businesses mediumto long-term perspective, through accumulated Improving the career path for administrative employees Improving individual Improvement in ingenuity based on verified results. By cultivating such skills, • Improving and broadening the career opportunities for we will foster future leaders who can create “value for society administrative employees and organizational productivity and supporting physical productivity and customers” and “value for Sojitz,” and further expand • Introducing a career system enabling talented and motivated Young Mid-level Managers Top Reemployment employees to progress and mental health of employees employees employees Management these two types of value. 42 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 43 WHERE WE’RE GOING Human Resources We are taking on the challenge of achieving business growth by having young With all our employees excelling with their individual strengths, we will achieve and energetic employees gain experience in our operating companies. “New way, New value” through engaging with new ideas and challenges. Development of Future Leaders Diversity Management Actions to improve business management capabilities which we have invested and steadily accumulate Approach to diversity management workplace, we have set the goals of (1) keeping the To expand our business, which is made up of over 400 earnings. To this end, we provide opportunities for Each of our employees has diverse values, and we are percentage of new female college graduates hired for Group companies around the world, we face the critical highly motivated and competent employees, regardless making use of their strengths as we focus our efforts on career-track positions at 30% (achieved), and (2) increasing issue of continuously and systematically fostering future of age, to gain early experience in business creating an environment in which employees can take on the number of female managers to 54 by March 2021 (46 as leaders who can manage the operating companies in management and decision-making in difficult situations. challenges based on new ideas, enabling us to continue of end of March 2020). In the past three years, three women demonstrating our competitiveness. We have set up a have been promoted to general manager positions, and two specialized Diversity Management Section within the of these women also play active roles as Outside Directors and Talent development by the Machinery & Medical Infrastructure Division Corporate Sustainability Office, and the progress of Audit & Supervisory Board Members for Group companies. initiatives are periodically reported to the Management We offer a coaching training program so that female Contributing to Turkey’s medical infrastructure Committee and the Board of Directors. managerial candidates can improve their skills for managing Sojitz has established the Basaksehir Çam & Sakura City Hospital, a public-private partnership hospital organizations. We have also introduced a system (subsidized management project in Istanbul, Turkey. As COO, I work in all aspects of front-line business management to Promoting diversity management childcare) that offers assistance to women returning to work establish this hospital project . In order to respond to the spread of COVID-19, the hospital was opened in May We are focusing on implementing the Sojitz Commitment to after giving birth. This system aims to support the wishes and at the request of the Turkish government. We overcame a proliferation of challenges, including the restrictions on going out, and I am happy that we were able to move from construction of the facilities to operation in a IkuBoss, which seeks to support growth by understanding careers of employees returning after childcare leave. There short period of time. Seeing the local people benefit from this hospital, I feel that we are contributing to Turkish the diverse values and strengths of our fellow employees. All are examples of employees who have made use of this society. The strong foundation of this Japanese-Turkish partnership project has been established over 25 years, of our general managers have undergone related training. system and have been promoted to management. and our local partners and the Sojitz team will continue to work together to make these bonds even stronger. The number of men taking childcare leave has also These initiatives have been recognized, and we have Shohei Goda increased, and there are cases in which male employees been selected as a Nadeshiko Medical Infrastructure Department, Machinery & Medical Infrastructure Division taking childcare leave has led to a change in the way Brand company for the fourth managers think, while simultaneously giving their employees year running, and as a constituent a better sense of belonging within the organization. of the MSCI Japan Empowering A long-term trainee system that transcends the off-the-job training, which includes participation in university In terms of promoting the success of women in the Women Index “WIN.” boundaries between divisions and language training, in addition to the on-the-job training We have added a higher-level challenge to our current carried out during their regular work. From FY2019, we have overseas trainee system to further accelerate the training of added to this, and created a new system through which Aiming to strengthen our earnings capacity and create a flexible workplace future leaders. Until now, we have sent young and employees are sent to companies that are not under the environment where diverse human resources can perform to the best of their mid-career employees to overseas subsidiaries and purview of their division. These trainees carry out assistant Work Style Reforms capabilities while maintaining a healthy mind and body. operating companies belonging to the employee’s division. duties for management ranks in the company to which they The goal is for these employees to gain wide-ranging have been sent, which will promote early training for To maintain and promote employee health autonomously can flexibly choose where they work. Making knowledge and form personal connections through management level candidates across the whole company. We believe that the physical and mental health of our use of these initiatives, we swiftly encouraged staggered employees and their families is important to maintaining working hours and teleworking from February as measures Example of an overseas long-term trainee high levels of motivation for work. In FY2019, we achieved against COVID-19. When the state of emergency was 100% of our employees having heath checks to encourage announced, we shifted to a policy of telework for all head the prevention and early detection of disease for the office employees in an effort to avoid the risk of infection Trainer second year running, and were once again recognized as a among employees and continue our business. In spite of I will be accepting our first trainee at Sojitz Certified Health & Productivity Management Organization the challenges posed to usual forms of communication Corporation of America’s Lima Office (White 500), a commendation for companies that practice under these circumstances, we will seek new workstyles I want this trainee to greatly broaden his horizons, Sent to gain confidence, and expand his expertise based on excellent health management. From now on, we will unique to Sojitz to overcome the COVID-19 crisis, his experiences in Peru. I also expect that sending a continue to enhance systems that offer support from both a combining direct communication settings and virtual Trainee trainee here will serve as a catalyst for building physical and mental health perspective. communication settings in a well-balanced fashion. connections between Peru and Sojitz’s head office. I will be sent from our head office to Peru as a long-term trainee. Samir Chara Responding quickly to the COVID-19 crisis Making practical use This is a valuable opportunity to experience a Sojitz Corporation of through the workstyle reform policies that of the telework system America, Lima Office foreign culture and the values and business we have implemented I’m now able to apply my trends unique to this area. I will learn about We are introducing a superflex system, which removes core commuting time to housework Peru as a trading company person whose role time and enables employees to choose their working hours and reading, and I’ve become far is to connect the world, and do my best to at their place of work according to the working style of their more aware of how to effectively open channels for trade. Gives guidance to allocate my limited time. division, such as those which do business with regions in Dongil Kim Yukiko Matsuoka Trade Management Section, Risk Management Planning Department different time zones. On top of this, we have made use of Section Manager, Group and Overseas the teleworking system that we introduced in January 2020, Office, Corporate Planning Department creating a system in which employees working 44 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 45 WHERE WE’RE GOING WHERE WE’RE GOING Corporate Governance Special Feature A Round Table Discussion with the Outside Directors Sojitz’s value creation in a time of great change and the role of corporate governance Questions put to the outside directors directly following Message from the Chairman the General Shareholders’ Meeting We will demonstrate our “Sojitz Identity” and promote initiatives to enhance corporate governance through in-depth discussions with our Board of Directors, making the most of their diversified experience and knowledge. Norio Otsuka (Outside Director) Chairman of the Board of Directors I became Chairman of the Board of Directors in June further, and consequently lead us to decide on the next 2020. As an Outside Director, over the last two years I medium-term management plan characterized by have advised on numerous business management and Sojitz’s unique capabilities. execution matters at Sojitz. I will renew my commitment Second, holding more in-depth discussions on to bear the substantial responsibility of leading specific business matters with the Board of Directors. discussions as we work towards Sojitz’s sustained growth Sojitz has nine business divisions in addition to in this time of uncertainty, and I am also pleased to take corporate departments, and each of these has a variety up this opportunity for new challenges. of functions. How has each organization conducted Using my knowledge of management and business to date, and what issues do they now face? manufacturing that I have acquired through years of How will we proceed with the final year of the current experience, I will wholeheartedly work to the best of my medium-term management plan, and with what vision ability to further enhance the transparency and will we take on the challenge of the next medium-term effectiveness of Sojitz’s governance and to increase its management plan? By examining our daily business and corporate value. growth strategies against this vision, I want to be As we move forward with discussions, I would like proactive about identifying improvements and areas of to focus on two issues: reform. Taking into account our company-wide growth First, making good use of each board member’s strategies, I want to hold discussions to protect Kayoko Naito Norio Otsuka Naoko Saiki knowledge, experience, and ideas when holding front-line businesses toiling day-to-day, and to offer a Outside Director Outside Director Outside Director discussions. Members of Sojitz’s Board of Directors and supportive push forward to those taking on new Main posts held concurrently Main posts held concurrently Main posts held concurrently the Audit & Supervisory Board have diversified challenges. Through these continued discussions, I experiences and knowledge, and I would like to believe we can move forward with policies to strengthen Counsel of Oh-Ebashi LPC & Partners Advisor, NSK Ltd. Visiting professor of Graduate School of Supervisory Officer of Tokyo Infrastructure Outside Director of Idemitsu Kosan Public Policy, The University of Tokyo promote board discussions in a way that puts this the corporate governance carried out by Sojitz Energy Investment Corporation Co., Ltd. Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member expertise to good use. I believe that stimulating management up until this point. Member of The Japan-Mekong Business External Member of the Board of of Development Bank of Japan Inc. discussions in this form will foster our “Sojitz Identity” Cooperation Committee, The Japan Taisei Corporation Chamber of Commerce and Industry (JCCI) 46 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 47 WHERE WE’RE GOING A Round Table Discussion with the Outside Directors Reappointment / New appointment as Directors strong awareness of governance and compliance, as Sustained value creation well as take appropriate risks and boldly take on Otsuka: Today’s General Shareholders’ Meeting challenges in new fields that transcend the boundaries Saiki: Expanding on Mr. Otsuka’s remarks, I believe that reinforced my feeling that the world is changing. I am between the current business divisions. In addition, I people are at the core of any organization, whether that very fortunate to be an outside director for Sojitz and to believe that the governance of overseas Group organization is a government or a trading company. We be involved in deciding its next Medium-term companies will become more important in these must grow as an organization and continue to develop Management Plan during this period when we‘re at a uncertain circumstances. Amid the COVID-19 pandemic, our people. A strong company is a company in which critical tipping point. the movement of people has ceased, and it has become each employee and management fully shares the Naito: It’s not just COVID-19; environmental and racial harder than before to obtain information about on-site company vision, and which focuses on its work with high issues are commanding global interest, and people’s conditions, which are changing daily. In these aspirations and a sense of unity. I believe human values are changing significantly. In this context, Sojitz is circumstances, I want to back initiatives that will ensure resource development is key to strengthening an expanding its business around the world, and I feel that governance is even more effective. organization, so I want to hold proper, in-depth highly motivated in my role to offer proposals that can discussions about policies that relate to talent further advance the Company. Making use of each person’s expertise development, including diversity and workstyle reform. Saiki: For ten months in the last fisical year, as and knowledge I also believe that it is vital to promote constructive Corporate Advisor I have observed meetings of the dialogue with investors. Management Committee, Finance & Investment Saiki: Just now I talked about gathering, analyzing and Otsuka: Regarding human resource development, the Deliberation Council, a training retreat for executive assessing information, and speaking from my Nomination Committee promoted discussions about officers and general managers, respectively. Sojitz is a governance. This does not mean merely creating an experience in making and implementing national succession plans as a key topic in the last fiscal year. company that is overflowing with youthful energy, and I outward semblance of structure; I feel that there is a policies, in order for this information to lead to real These plans are more than just a framework for believe it is a company that has incredible potential. I very forward-looking attitude towards governance, and action we need to present the big picture. This big selection. I consider them to be human resource am humbled work for Sojitz as an outside director, and I board of members want to work on initiatives of picture should be sufficiently based on the results of development plans, and I am holding active discussions feel that this is a rewarding and worthwhile job. lndeed, efficiency and substance. For example, I see an analysis and assessment, and then we must hypothesize with President Fujimoto on this front. There are people other outside directors have said, the world is facing a extremely positive and proactive attitude towards many different scenarios, decide our next move, and on the Nomination Committee with diverse number of serious issues. I want to increase Sojitz’s information disclosure as well as external information create a plan B. It is vital that we have crisis experiences, and I want to hold further in-depth corporate value by providing actionable advice to sharing. management when we do this; not only do we need risk discussions that make use of their insights. achieve sustainable growth under these circumstances. Naito: I also feel that every member of senior management to prevent risks from materializing, we Naito: The company vision mentioned by Ms. Saiki will management shares the idea that governance is vital, must also ensure there is a crisis management system be deeply important to future discussions in the Assessment of Sojitz’s corporate governance and and wants to work to develop it further. Actually, there that minimizes the negative impact of natural disasters Remuneration Committee. Creating “two types of points for strengthening governance in the future has been a step forward in reinforcing the supervisory and other uncertain hazards. value”—“value for Sojitz” and “value for society”—is function of the Board of Directors by adding Ms. Saiki as Naito: The opinions I would like to offer as an Outside part of the Sojitz Group Statement, but I want to closely Otsuka: Over the past two years, I’ve gained a greater a new outside director and appointing Mr. Otsuka as the Director are from the perspective of legal compliance, investigate whether it is possible to assess the creation understanding of the various businesses, and the Chairman of the Board of Directors. soft law, and general world trends. For example, recent of both these types of value properly with the current substance of my communications with senior Saiki: The international community is facing extremely racial issues have resulted in a sweeping human rights remuneration system. I would also like to hold in-depth management of the Company has deepened volatile and unclear circumstances. Sojitz is expanding movement across the world that stresses the importance discussions about the remuneration system, based on significantly. From these communications, I think that globally, therefore it is immensely important to gather, of each and every person being equally respected as a the direction of Sojitz’s aims in the next Medium-term everyone shares an awareness of increasing the level of analyze, as well as assess information in order to fellow human being. In the course of conducting business Management Plan. identify and manage risks. However, now is not the time and decision-making, there are no explicit stipulations as to take a completely defensive position. To achieve to whether these decisions will be based on such factors. sustained growth, I believe that Sojitz will now have However, I believe that factoring in this perspective is increasing need for “offensive governance,” i.e. to very important, and I want to offer opinions and deepen manage risks while taking on challenges in a quick and discussions with these trends in mind. decisive manner. Otsuka: Sojitz is not just involved in trading, it is also Otsuka: In the General Shareholders’ Meeting today, continuing to enhance its functions through business there were some questions about Sojitz’s strengths. investment and business management. I would like to Even though Sojitz is rather smaller, compared to other use my experience in business management to be even general trading companies in terms of assets, I think more useful, including areas such as human resource that we can use this to our advantage as our astute development. When it comes to training people, action can quickly lead to business. Building on the manufacturers have internally consistent systems for strengths that Sojitz has cultivated, we want to make this training. This should be useful for business management a Board of Directors that can create a Medium-term carried out by a trading company, and I would like to Management Plan appropriate for Sojitz—a mission we hold discussions with those on the front lines so we can will do all we can to achieve as outside directors. create a training program suited for Sojitz that conveys Naito: I would also like the Company to maintain a the necessary know-how and experience. 48 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 49 WHERE WE’RE GOING Corporate Governance Towards the Establishment of a Highly Sound, Transparent and Effective Management Structure Basic Concept approval of the Group’s important managerial and Corporate Governance Framework (As of end of August 2020) Sojitz strives to improve its corporate value over the executive agendas, from a Group-wide and mediumto Shareholders (General Shareholders’ Meeting) medium to long term based on the “Sojitz Group long-term viewpoint. In addition, we have established Appoint, Dismiss Appoint, Dismiss Appoint, Dismiss Statement.” (“The Sojitz Group creates value and prosperity the Finance & Investment Deliberation Council for the by connecting the world with a spirit of integrity.”) review and approval of investments and loans, the Board of Directors Deliberation and Advisory Bodies Audit & Supervisory Board In order to materialize this, based on its belief that the Human Resource Deliberation Council for the review Directors Suggests Audits Audit & Supervisory Board Members Nomination Committee Outside Audit & enhancement of its corporate governance is an and approval of major human resource matters, and Remuneration Committee Supervisory Board Members Outside Directors In-house Directors important issue of management, Sojitz has built a internal committees to handle issues to be addressed Audit Report to Report to corporate governance structure in its effort to establish from cross-organizational perspectives, as executing Internal Audit Committee Department Accounting Auditors a highly sound, transparent and effective management bodies all directly reporting to the President & CEO. President and Submits Proposals on Cooperation structure, while also working toward the fulfillment of its The term of Directors and Executive Officers is set to Most Important Cases CEO and Reports to management responsibilities and accountability to its one year, in order to respond swiftly and appropriately shareholders and other stakeholders. to rapid changes in the business environment and clarify Directors Management Committee Conduct Accounting Audit Executive Officers Responsible for their responsibilities to management. Business Divisions, Corporate Executive Officers, etc. Board of Directors Internal Committees 1) Management and Business Execution System 2) Monitoring and Supervisory Functions for Finance & Investment Deliberation Council Internal Control Committee Sojitz employs an executive officer system for the Management Human Resource Compliance Committee purpose of, clarifying authority and responsibilities, and Sojitz appoints multiple Outside Directors for the Submit Proposals on Deliberation Council Execution of ensuring the smooth and swift execution of business purpose of receiving appropriate advice and proposals Major Business Sustainability Committee through the separation of managerial decision-making on management of the Group from an outside, objective Security Trade Control Committee from business execution. The Board of Directors is the standpoint and to reinforce the supervisory function of Business Continuity Management Committee highest decision-making body reviewing and resolving the Board of Directors. In addition, Sojitz ensures Executing Organizations Business Divisions / Corporate fundamental policies and most important cases appropriateness and transparency with regard to the Departments / Domestic and Overseas Bases Conducts Internal Audit concerning the management of the Group. The Board appointment of Directors and remuneration by having of Directors also supervises business execution through Outside Directors serve as the chairs of the Nomination proposals of important matters and regular reports from Committee and the Remuneration Committee, both Simplified Corporate Governance System Chart (As at the end of June 2020) the executing body. As the executing body, Sojitz has advisory bodies to the Board of Directors. Organizational layout A company with an Audit & Supervisory Board Adoption of executive Present established the Management Committee, chaired by Sojitz is a company with an Audit & Supervisory The number of Directors 71 (of which 3 are Outside Directors) officer system the President, who is also the Chief Executive Officer. Board, which independently oversees and audits the Chairman of the Board Outside Director Norio Otsuka Optional advisory committees Nomination Committee and of the Board of Directors Remuneration Committee established The committee is responsible for the review and operations of the Group. The number of Audit & 52 (of which 3 are Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members Supervisory Board Members) Accounting Auditors KPMG AZSA LLC Term of office of Directors according https://www.sojitz.com/en/corporate/ 1 year Corporate Governance Report3 to articles of incorporation governance/governance/ Note:1. As per the articles of incorporation, the number of Directors is 10 or fewer. 2. As per the articles of incorporation, the number of Audit & Supervisory Board Members is 5 or fewer. Initiatives to reinforce corporate governance 3. Please see our corporate website or the “Corporate Governance Report“ for details about the state of our compliance with the Corporate Governance Code. FY2019 From June 2020 effective audits and monitor the independence of the Audit Structure Audit & Supervisory Board Members, Accounting Auditors Accounting Auditor. Increased number In-house Outside Proportion In-house Outside Proportion and the Audit Department boost the effectiveness of They also receive audit plans and reports on the status of Outside Directors their respective audits by exchanging information to of audits from the Internal Audit Department, and submit (composition of the Board of Directors) 4 2 from outside 33% 4 3 from outside 43% ensure their efforts are complementary and efficient. opinion statements on audit results. Sojitz has thus established a system for ascertaining the status in a timely Chairman of the Audits by Audit & Supervisory Board Members and appropriate fashion, based on cooperation with the In-house Directors with no right of representation Outside Directors Board Pursuant to the Corporate Audit Standards established Accounting Auditor and the Internal Audit Department. Increased number by the Audit & Supervisory Board, Audit & Supervisory of female officers Male Female Proportion of Male Female Proportion of Board Members attend important meetings such as Accounting Audits (total number in the Board of Directors and Audit & 10 1 females 9% 9 3 females 25% those of the Board of Directors, Management Committee and Finance & Investment Deliberation Sojitz has appointed the independent auditing firm KPMG AZSA LLC to conduct accounting audits in Supervisory Board) Council. In addition, based on audit plans and task accordance with the Companies Act, as well as audits of Committee Chair (Outside Director) assignments, Audit & Supervisory Board Members financial statements, quarterly reviews and internal Outside Directors In-house Directors Accounts Nomination and for the oversee and audit the operations of the Sojitz Group by control audits in accordance with the Financial Remuneration Outside In-house Outside In-house majority of performing audits using means such as interviewing Instruments and Exchange Act. Committees Outside 2 2 3 1 Directors Directors and other members of senior management regarding business execution, reviewing important Internal Audits documents relevant to major business decisions, and Based on an audit plan adopted by the Board of checking business reports from subsidiaries. Directors and under the command of the Internal Audit Composition of Outside In-house Outside In-house Audit & Supervisory Board Members receive Committee, the Internal Audit Department conducts Audit & Supervisory Board 4 1 3 2 explanations about audit plans and regular audit reports audits covering the business divisions, corporate from the Accounting Auditor, which they use to conduct departments, and consolidated subsidiaries. 50 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 51 WHERE WE’RE GOING Corporate Governance The Composition of the Board of Directors Outside Officers. Sojitz has formulated our own Independence Standards for Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members A general trading company deals in a widespread and Independence Standards for Outside Officers, in Sojitz judges Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members to be independent by confirming that varied range of businesses. For such a company to addition to the provisions of the Companies Act and they do not fall under any of the following standards, in addition to the independence standards prescribed by financial make correct decisions and oversee its management standards for independence of officers set by financial instruments exchanges. correctly, they will need to consider diversity, including instruments exchanges. Sojitz confirms that all our 1. A major shareholder of Sojitz (a shareholder holding 10% or more of Sojitz’s total voting rights) or a member of business personnel thereof gender and nationality, when selecting company Outside Officers meet these standards. 2. A major creditor to Sojitz (a creditor from whom Sojitz owed an amount exceeding 2% of consolidated total assets in the most recent fiscal year) or a member of business personnel thereof directors, and select several people with a wealth of 3. A major business partner of Sojitz (a business partner whose transaction amount with Sojitz exceeded 2% of Sojitz’s annual consolidated revenue in the most experience, great knowledge and advanced expertise Advisory bodies to the Board of Directors recent fiscal year) or a member of business personnel thereof 4. A party whose major business partner is Sojitz (an entity whose transaction amount with Sojitz exceeded 2% of its annual consolidated net sales in the most recent from both within and outside the company. (Nomination Committee, Remuneration Committee) fiscal year) or a member of business personnel thereof Sojitz has established the following advisory bodies to 5. An attorney, certified public accountant, certified tax accountant, consultant or other professional who received money or other property from Sojitz for his/her services as an individual, in an amount exceeding ¥10 million annually on average over the past three fiscal years, other than remuneration of directors or Audit & Procedure for nominating Directors the Board of Directors. Supervisory Board Members (if such money or property was received by an organization, such as a corporation or partnership, this item refers to a person who In line with the above nomination policy, the Board of Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee belongs to the organization that received money or other property from Sojitz in an amount exceeding ¥10 million annually on average over the past three fiscal Directors deliberates on the experience and quality as an years or in an amount of 2% of the annual total revenue or consolidated net sales of the organization, whichever the greater.) Proposing and deliberating Proposing and deliberating 6. A person who receives donations or grants from Sojitz in an amount exceeding ¥10 million annually (if such donations or grants are received by an organization, officer with respect to each Director candidate based on standards and methods for remuneration standards of such as a corporation or partnership, this item refers to a member of business personnel of the organization.) the results of discussion at the Nomination Committee appointing director candidates directors and executives, and 7. A person who serves as Sojitz’s accounting auditor or a person who is engaged in auditing Sojitz’s activities as an employee of the accounting auditor Role and company executive various systems pertaining to 8. A person who has fallen under any of the above items 1. to 7. in the past three years and resolves the candidate proposal for submission to candidates, and deliberating the evaluation and 9. A spouse or relative within the second degree of kinship of a person falling under any of the above items 1. to 8. (limited to the person holding the position of the General Shareholders’ Meeting for approval. the appointment of candidates. remuneration. officer or other important positions) 10. A spouse or relative within the second degree of kinship of a member of Sojitz’s business personnel (limited to the person holding the position of officer or other Committee Outside Directors: 3 Outside Directors: 3 important positions) or any of its consolidated subsidiaries Policies on appointment and standards for members In-house Directors: 1 In-house Directors: 1 11. A person whose term of office as Outside Director or Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member of Sojitz exceeds eight years independence of Outside Officers Committee Outside Director Outside Director 12. A person with concerns about his/her independence, such as having constant and substantial conflict of interest with general shareholders as a whole in chair Norio Otsuka Kayoko Naito performing the duties of outside director or Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member Sojitz places importance on the independence of Overview of the Board of Directors (Since the General Shareholders‘ Meeting of June 18, 2020) Attendance in the year ended March 31, 2020 (Times attended/times held) Affiliation Name Position Board of Audit & Nomination Remuneration Reason for Selection as an Executive Appointed Members Directors Supervisory Board Committee Committee Masayoshi Fujimoto assumed office as Representative Director, President & CEO in 2017 after holding important positions including president of an overseas operating company of Sojitz, regional general Representative Director, 100% 100% 100% manager of the Machinery Division, Americas, and an Executive Officer assigned to Corporate Planning. Masayoshi Fujimoto currently promotes Medium-term Management Plan 2020 with themes of “Achieve Masayoshi Fujimoto Nomination Remuneration steady growth” and “Challenge for future growth.” Sojitz has once again appointed Masayoshi Fujimoto as a Director predicated on its judgment that he will best demonstrate his management skills in order to President & CEO (18/18) (5/5) (7/7) create a new business foundation for the future and maximize corporate value under his strong leadership in this challenging business environment, with the rapid decline in the global economy. Representative Director, Seiichi Tanaka has been engaged in the finance-related operations of Sojitz for many years, and as CFO since 2016, he has contributed to increasing corporate value through 100% promoting improvement in the quality of assets and enhancement of financial standing. In particular, his management style, which emphasizes cash flow, has helped Sojitz to build Seiichi Tanaka Executive Vice President, up a solid management base under difficult circumstances on a global level. Based on his accomplishments through the execution of his duties to date as well as his specialized CFO (18/18) knowledge and abundant experience, Sojitz has appointed Seiichi Tanaka as a Director predicated on its judgment that he remains qualified to perform his duties as a Director. Ryutaro Hirai has held important positions, including in machinery-related business and as an Executive Officer assigned to Human Resources & General Affairs, and President & Representative Director, CEO for Asia & Oceania. He is currently promoting global business development as an executive management of the Business Group (Automotive, Aerospace & Transportation Ryutaro Hirai1 Project, Machinery & Medical Infrastructure, Energy & Social Infrastructure, Metals & Mineral Resources). The decision to appoint him was made due to his ability to contribute to Executive Vice President increasing Sojitz’s corporate value, based on the deep insight he has cultivated through his work, his familiarity with in-house human resources, and his abundant experience. After holding important positions in the textile business, corporate planning and business divisions, Masao Goto has gained extensive management experience overseas as the Senior Managing Executive President & CEO for China. He is currently using his knowledge as an executive management of the Business Group (Chemicals, Foods & Agriculture Business, Retail & Lifestyle Masao Goto1 Business, Industrial Infrastructure & Urban Development), and working to strengthen Sojitz’s revenue base. Sojitz has appointed Masao Goto as a Director predicated on its judgment Officer that he will be able to play a role in the enhancement of Sojitz’s corporate value based on his deep insight and abundant experience developed from having served in these positions. Remuneration Kayoko Naito has served as an Outside Director of Sojitz since 2018. As an attorney, she has advanced and specialized knowledge in the fields of international law and corporate Nomination (chairman) 100% 100% 100% law. She provides appropriate and useful advice and suggestions at the Board of Directors meetings, based on a wealth of experience, results, and insights, from an objective Kayoko Naito2 Director perspective independent from senior management engaged in business execution. Sojitz has appointed Kayoko Naito as an Outside Director predicated on its judgment that she Outside Independent (18/18) (5/5) (7/7) will continue to considerably contribute to strengthening corporate governance. Nomination Norio Otsuka served as Director, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Chairperson of NSK Ltd., and has abundant experience and deep insight regarding management (chairman) Remuneration 100% 100% 100% developed through promoting worldwide growth strategies and strengthening corporate governance. Since 2018, Norio Otsuka has played an appropriate role as an Outside Norio Otsuka2 Director Director by supervising business execution as well as providing sound advice from a practical perspective, and Sojitz has appointed him as an Outside Director predicated on its Outside Independent (18/18) (5/5) (7/7) judgment that he remains qualified to perform his duties as an Outside Director. Naoko Saiki has had a career at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in positions such as Director General of the Economic Affairs Bureau and Director General of the International Legal Affairs Nomination Remuneration Bureau. In addition to her skills in economic negotiations, she has a high level of insight into international affairs, economics, and culture. Sojitz expects her to utilize her experience and Naoko Saiki1,2 Director insight, having been at the forefront of diplomatic negotiations, in the management of Sojitz and to fulfill a role as an appropriate supervisor of Sojitz’s management from an independent Outside Independent and objective point of view on business execution. Accordingly, Sojitz has appointed her as an Outside Director predicated on its judgment that she will be able to play an appropriate role. Junichi Hamatsuka has abundant experience with Sojitz’s corporate activities and knowledge of global business management, having been engaged in corporate departments such as finance, Audit & Supervisory Board 100% 100% accounting and risk management at Sojitz and holding important positions including CFO for the Americas. Since he has experience and knowledge within Sojitz, has performed his duties appropriately Junichi Hamatsuka Member (Full-time) since assuming the position of an Audit & Supervisory Board Member of Sojitz in June 2016, and has contributed to the improvement of the audit functions of the Audit & Supervisory Board and the (18/18) (19/19) Board of Directors, Sojitz has appointed him as an Audit & Supervisory Board Member predicated on its judgment that he will continue to be able to monitor and supervise the management of Sojitz. After serving as general manager of the Corporate Accounting Department, Masaaki Kushibiki has been in charge of risk management as an Executive Officer and Human Audit & Supervisory Board Resources, General Affairs and IT Operations as a Managing Executive Officer. Because he has expertise and broad knowledge cultivated through his extensive business Masaaki Kushibiki1 Member (Full-time) experience at Sojitz, Sojitz has appointed him as an Audit & Supervisory Board Member predicated on its judgment that he will appropriately fulfill his duties as Audit & Supervisory Board Member. Kazunori Yagi has been considered competent and appointed because he supervises the Company’s management and gives appropriate advice within and outside of the Board of Audit & Supervisory Board 100% 100% Directors from an independent standpoint and objective viewpoint as an Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, based on his experience holding important positions at Kazunori Yagi2 Member Outside Independent Yokogawa Electric Corporation, including roles in accounting, finance, and corporate planning and as a Director. He has also served as an Outside Director at several other (18/18) (19/19) companies, and has abundant experience in corporate management, as well as expertise in auditing as a member of the Certified Public Accountants and Auditing Oversight Board.* Audit & Supervisory Board 100% 100% Hyo Kambayashi supervises the Company’s management and give appropriate advice within and outside of the Board of Directors from an independent and objective viewpoint Hyo Kambayashi2 Member Outside Independent as an Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, based on his experience holding important positions in audit firms as a Certified Public Accountant, his experience and insight (18/18) (19/19) as the management of a risk consulting company, along with highly specialized expertise in the area of internal control, and thus has been appointed. Michiko Nagasawa has held important positions in the field of justice, as well as having experience as an Outside Director at other companies. Because she has a high level of Audit & Supervisory Board insight and supervisory skills related to management based on her abundant experience in corporate law as an attorney, Sojitz has appointed her as an Audit & Supervisory Board Michiko Nagasawa1,2 Member Outside Independent Member predicated on its judgment that she will appropriately fulfill her duties as an Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member and contribute to the improvement of the Sojitz’s corporate governance and the enhancement of audits by the Audit & Supervisory Board Members. Notes: 1. Information for Ryutaro Hirai, Masao Goto, Naoko Saiki, Masaaki Kushibiki, and Michiko Nagasawa represents their statuses after they were appointed as directors and *Appointments are completed as of August 2020 Audit & Supervisory Board Members on June 18, 2020. 2. They were selected as independent officers because they meet Sojitz's standards for independence and have no special interest relationships with the Company. 52 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 53 WHERE WE’RE GOING Corporate Governance Assessment of Effectiveness Remuneration of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members Analysis and assessment of the effectiveness of the Board of Directors Remuneration of the Board of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members will be determined within the scope of Each year, Sojitz analyze and assess the effectiveness of the Board of Directors as a whole in order to improve its the remuneration limits decided at the Sojitz Ordinary General Shareholders’ Meeting. Remuneration of Directors will functions. Based on the results of the assessment on the effectiveness of the Board of Directors for the fiscal year ended use the remuneration standards of other companies in the same business and Sojitz’s past records as benchmarks, and March 31, 2019, we performed the following tasks in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020. will be determined by the resolution of the Board of Directors following deliberation by the Remuneration Committee, an advisory body to the Board, chaired by an Outside Director. Remuneration of Audit & Supervisory Board Members will, in principle, be determined through discussions held by the Audit & Supervisory Board. Initiatives in • Following up on the progress of the Medium-term Management Plan by the Board of Directors the Fiscal • Explanations by Chief Operation Officers (COOs) of business divisions on the positioning of investments and loans within their respective business divisions, in order to enhance the effectiveness of the decision-making Remuneration of Directors and Audit & Note: 1. Directors‘ maximum remuneration: Resolved at the Ordinary General Shareholders‘ Meeting held on June 27, 2007 Year Ended process. Additional supplementary explanations such as on the points of discussion by the Finance & Investment Supervisory Board Members (Year ended March 31, 2020) (Millions of yen) Internal Directors: ¥550 million per year (excluding salary as Deliberation Council by the In-house Director who chairs the Finance & Investment Deliberation Council. Performance-linked employee) Outside Directors: ¥50 million per year March 31, Number of Basic remuneration remuneration 2. Audit & Supervisory Board Members‘ maximum remuneration: • Attendance by Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members at prior explanations given to Outside Directors persons Total 2020 to be paid Cash*1,2 Shares*3 Cash*1 Shares*3 Resolved at the Ordinary General Shareholders' Meeting held on regarding Board of Director proposals as well as the holding of regular consultations among Outside Officers in June 27, 2007 ¥150 million per year an aim to promote communication between Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members. Directors (Total) 7 306 30 51 22 411 3. Performance-linked share remuneration for Directors: Resolved at the Ordinary General Shareholders‘ Meeting on June 19, 2018 • Reports to the Board of Directors on items for discussion and consideration at the Nomination Committee Directors (Internal) 5 282 30 51 22 387 Persons eligible for delivery of Sojitz shares: and Remuneration Committee Directors (excluding Outside Directors and non-residents in Japan) Outside Directors 2 24 24 Executive Officers (excluding non-residents in Japan) • Visits, such as by Outside Officers to a paper-manufacturing company Audit & Supervisory Upper limit of cash contributed by Sojitz: ¥700 million in total for in Vietnam in December 2019, in order to deepen the understanding Board Members (Total) 5 106 106 three fiscal years of the wide-ranging business of Sojitz and the Sojitz Group and Upper limit of the number of Sojitz shares subject to delivery to Audit & Supervisory Directors: 3 million points (equivalent to 3 million shares) for three provide opportunities for communication with business personnel. Board Members (Internal) 1 37 37 fiscal years Outside Audit & Supervisory The total amount of the aforementioned share remuneration Board Members 4 68 68 represents the amount reported as expenses for FY2019 associated Visit by Outside Officers to with the share delivery points regarding the System (Board Incentive a paper-manufacturing company in Vietnam (Note) Figures are rounded down to the nearest million yen. Plan (BIP) Trust). Basic remuneration (share) refers to the “fixed portion“ with no link to business performance within the remuneration to be paid under the System. The results of the analysis and assessment for the year ended March 31, 2020, and the tasks ahead are as follows. Image of remuneration structure Performance-linked Performance-linked remuneration shall amount to Basic remuneration (fixed) remuneration (fluctuates) 1. The Board of Directors discussed how to proceed with the assessment of the effectiveness of the Board of Directors for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020. approximately 30% of the basic remuneration for each fiscal 10 ： 3 Analysis & 2. A written survey and an individual interview were conducted for all directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members. year where the consolidated net profit reaches the targeted 9 ： 1 2 ： 1 Assessment Method The results of this survey were then assessed by a third party (an outside consultant). consolidated net profit for the year. Basic remuneration is set at 3. The analysis and assessment outcome based on the results of the third-party assessment and individual interviews was reported to the Board of Directors for a discussion on tasks to be addressed. a general ratio of 9:1 cash to shares, while performance-linked Cash Shares Cash Shares remuneration will generally have a 2:1 ratio of cash to shares. 1. Roles and responsibilities of the Board of Directors 6. Support system for the Board of Directors 2. Composition of the Board of Directors 7. Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee, Survey Items 3. Management of the Board of Directors which are advisory bodies to the Board of Directors Structure of Director remuneration except Outside Directors 4. Decision-making process of the Board of Directors 8. Items concerning Outside Directors Remuneration for directors is made up of two parts: a fixed portion and a performance-linked portion. The fixed portion 5. Supervision by the Board of Directors 9. Suggestions for improving effectiveness, etc. consists of basic remuneration (cash) and basic remuneration (shares) and is not linked to business performance while The aggregated survey results showed that the overall average score exceeded the standard, and the third-party the performance-linked portion is made up of performance-linked remuneration (cash) and performance-linked Outline of assessment was favorable as detailed below. It is therefore confirmed that the Board of Directors is functioning remuneration (shares) which is connected to business performance. Basic remuneration is made up of a cash amount Assessment Results appropriately and effectively as described below. commensurate with the rank of the Director as well as the allowance of a set number of share delivery points. Performance-linked remuneration consists of an amount of cash and the allowance of share delivery points based on • From such findings as the clarification of the responsibilities of each Director, active discussions including Outside Officers, appropriate proceedings by the chair, prior information sharing, and the support framework of the newly established Board the consolidated net profit for each fiscal year in the time period in question. For share remuneration, after the Director Meeting Operation Office, it can be concluded that the effectiveness of Sojitz’s Board of Directors is fairly high. resigns from their office, their total number of shares will be fixed at a rate of 1 share delivery point = 1 Sojitz share. • While an increase in the number of Outside Directors and a transition to a seven-person framework, comprising of four In-house Directors and three Outside Directors, is proposed at the June 2020 General Shareholders’ Meeting, some Contents of basic remuneration Excerpts from have called for an increase in the number of In-house Directors while maintaining the ratio of Outside Directors at A fixed amount determined by the director‘s rank. (cash) Third-Party one-third or more of all Directors, due to the diverse nature of general trading company business. As a globally developing company, diversity is required in the backgrounds, gender and nationalities of the Board of Directors. Calculation method for basic Fixed share delivery points = Basic share remuneration by rank ÷ Monthly average closing price of Sojitz shares at the Tokyo Assessment remuneration (shares) Stock Exchange in July 2018 (Basic share remuneration by rank = A fixed amount determined based on the Director‘s rank) • Improvements have been seen in the support framework for Outside Officers such as through an acceleration in the Observations sharing of information, including main meeting materials, via the utilization of IT and attendance of Outside Officers at Individual amount of performance-linked cash remuneration = (consolidated net profit attributable to the parent company in Calculation method for the Finance & Investment Deliberation Council. performance-linked remuneration each fiscal year x β%*1 x aggregate sum of rank-based points for all Directors eligible) ÷539) x (rank based points*2 for each • Comments were heard wishing for fuller explanations regarding business content and business strategy upon assuming (cash) Director ÷ aggregate sum of rank-based points for all Directors) (any fraction less than ¥1,000 shall be rounded down) office. Enhanced training framework for new officers planned to be appointed is required in the future. Calculation method for Performance-linked share delivery points = (consolidated net profit attributable to the parent company in each fiscal year x α%*1 • Some have called for discussions on mediumto long-term improvement of corporate value, management strategies performance-linked remuneration x aggregate sum of rank-based points for all Directors eligible) ÷539) x (rank-based points*2 for each Director ÷ aggregate sum of and management plans to be performed from more diversified perspectives. (shares) rank-based points for all Directors) ÷ monthly average closing price of Sojitz shares at the Tokyo Stock Exchange in July 2018 Based on the results of the assessment on the effectiveness of the Board of Directors for the fiscal year ended March 31, Note: 1. The value of coefficients α and β shall be adjusted according to the targeted consolidated net profit for the year in each fiscal year, and shall be set and disclosed along 2020, in order to further enhance the effectiveness of the Board of Directors, we have confirmed the continuation of the with said targeted consolidated net profit for the year after being resolved by the Board of Directors. For fiscal 2020, the value of α shall be set at 0.065 and the value of β following tasks. shall be set at 0.130 • Discussions at the Board of Directors, depending on the stage of advancement, on the progress of the Medium-term 2. Each Director‘s rank-based points. Tasks Ahead to Management Plan or the formulation status of the next medium-term management plan. Further Increase • Reports made outside of the Board of Directors meetings by each COO of business divisions based on the review of Rank Rank-based points The upper limit of the individual Additionally, the upper limit of the individual the Effectiveness the Medium-term Management Plan 2020, covering quantitative and qualitative targets in the annual budget and the performance-linked cash remuneration for each performance-linked share delivery points allotted challenges and specific measures to achieve such targets. Director Chairman of the Board 86 Director is as follows. to each Director is as follows. of the Board • Regular holding of independent Outside Officers meetings comprised only of Outside Officers as well as consultations Chairman of the Board: ¥37 million Chairman of the Board: 54,000 points Vice Chairman 73 between the President & CEO and In-house Directors on management issues to share understanding. Vice Chairman: ¥31 million Vice Chairman: 46,000 points President & CEO 100 President & CEO: ¥43 million President & CEO: 63,000 points • Continuation of on-site inspections and visits to bases by Outside Officers in order to deepen their understanding of the wide-ranging business of the Group. Executive Vice President 73 Executive Vice President: ¥31 million Executive Vice President: 46,000 points Senior Managing Executive Officer: ¥28 million Senior Managing Executive Officer: 42,000 points Senior Managing Executive Officer 67 54 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 55 WHERE WE’RE GOING WHERE WE’RE GOING Corporate Governance Compliance Remuneration for Outside Directors Remuneration for Audit & Supervisory Board Members Basic Compliance Policy Child Care and Caregiver Leave Act and the Equal Since Outside Directors operate from an independent Based on their role as the supervisors of Directors, the The Sojitz Group has established the Sojitz Group Employment Opportunity Law, business owners are viewpoint, their remuneration does not include Audit & Supervisory Board Members do not receive Compliance Program, which sets out procedures for obligated to prevent power harassment, sexual performance-linked remuneration and is limited to basic performance-linked remuneration and only receive basic achieving thorough compliance, and has also harassment, and harassment pertaining to pregnancy, remuneration (cash) only, as determined by the decision remuneration (cash). As a general principle, this is discussed formulated the Sojitz Group Code of Conduct and childbirth, childcare and nursing care leave, and other of the Board of Directors after deliberation by the and determined by the Audit & Supervisory Board. Ethics, which provides common criteria for conduct that such matters. Sojitz has continued with its activities in Remuneration Committee. applies to Group officers and employees globally. establishing systems as well as offering operational The Compliance Committee, chaired by the Chief activities such as training in order to maintain positive Compliance Officer (CCO), is at the core of the workplaces that are free from all such harassments. Training Policy for Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members to deepen their Group-wide compliance system to ensure adherence to Moreover, based on the action plan formulated by the Supervisory Board Members understanding of the Group’s extensive business laws, regulations and corporate ethics, which includes Compliance Committee, Sojitz provides counsel on Sojitz takes the following initiatives to enable Directors activities, each COO holds business and initiative measures such as appointing compliance supervisors measures for preventing recurrence of compliance and Audit & Supervisory Board Members to briefing sessions, and in order for them to deepen and forming compliance committees at Group issues as well as assistance and guidance to Group appropriately fulfill their roles and responsibilities. their understanding of the latest macroeconomic companies and overseas operating sites. companies on implementing the code. Specific activities • The Group provides newly appointed Directors and conditions, Sojitz’s research institute holds monthly Moreover, to help prevent or quickly detect violations in the year ended March 31, 2020 included the following: Audit & Supervisory Board Members with briefing sessions. In addition, Sojitz provides other opportunities for lectures by lawyers on the legal of compliance regulations, Sojitz has created an internal necessary information on an ongoing basis. reporting system; all Sojitz Group employees are • Discussions and exchange of ideas between the CCO obligations and responsibilities of Directors and Audit • Sojitz offers Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board informed of a hotline that provides access to the CCO and Presidents of Group companies & Supervisory Board Members, as well as programs Members opportunities to attend seminars, etc. held and outside legal counsel; a consultation desk where • Regular liaison meetings among the compliance targeting company management, such as third-party by external organizations such as the Japan committee secretariat members can be contacted; and officers of Group companies consulting sessions. Association of Corporate Directors and the Japan the multi-lingual Sojitz Ethics Hotline, which is available • E-learning programs on the Sojitz Group Code of • In order for internal and Outside Directors and Audit & Audit & Supervisory Board Members Association. 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. In addition, to prevent Conduct and Ethics for executives and staff corruption, Sojitz has established and introduced the • E-learning program on EU General Data Protection Holdings of Listed Shares Exercising of voting rights Sojitz Group Anti-Corruption Policy and the Sojitz Group Regulation (GDPR) for officers and employees Policies for shareholdings Based on the significance of holding shares of listed Anti-Corruption Guidelines, and is also introducing • Seminars and briefings on preventing harassment and Each year, Sojitz conducts a quantitative assessment of companies, we exercise our voting rights based on whether corresponding regulations overseas and in Group corruption listed shares held in each company as part of its or not they contribute to sustainable growth and improved companies. In November 2019, Sojitz obtained • Training programs for new employees, newly-hired shareholding policy to ensure that dividends or related corporate value over the mediumto long-term for both ISO37001 certification (Anti-bribery Management mid-career professionals, employees on overseas profit earned from those shares exceeds the shares’ equity the Company and the investment target. We also have a Systems), the international standard for preventing assignments, and others cost (WACC). The Group also conducts a qualitative system of monitoring the status of exercise of voting rights. bribery. Sojitz was the first Japanese company to obtain assessment, looking at whether the shares help improve its this certification. Furthermore, subject to the revised The Compliance Committee met a total of four times, corporate value. Based on these assessments, it examines Listed Shares Held as Part of Shareholding Policy Labor Measures Comprehensive Promotion Act, the once in each quarter, in the year ended March 31, 2020. the value of retaining these shares. Sojitz retains those that (Fiscal Year-end) are deemed to be worthwhile, seeking ways to achieve (Shares) greater impact and benefit from those shares. Meanwhile, 300 246 236 229 221 205 for those shares which are deemed to now lack significant Security Trade Control Compliance Framework 200 value, Sojitz sets a deadline to improve their value, or, if To maintain international peace and security, the Sojitz there is no indication these shares will improve, examines Group is adamantly opposed to acts of terrorism and the Board of Directors Management Committee 100 the possibility of divestiture. The Board of Directors and development of conventional weapons and weapons of the Management Committee conducts this assessment for mass destruction, and we have taken all the necessary 0 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Reporting each lot of shares held in each company. measures to oppose any threats to world security. As the Note: Listed and unlisted shares held by the Company Security Trade environment surrounding security trade control Compliance Committee Control Committee ceaselessly changes together with the movements of the Chairman Chairman Internal Controls committees and organizations. Specific measures in each global situation and geopolitical risks, we have • Chief Compliance Officer • Representative Director Sojitz endeavors to implement internal control systems area are handled by the relevant committees (Compliance established the Security Trade Control Subcommittee, (CCO) Secretariat in accordance with the Basic Policy Regarding the Committee, Sustainability Committee, etc.) and which is chaired by a Representative Director, to Secretariat • Legal Department (Trade • Legal Department (Compliance Establishment of Systems for Ensuring Appropriate subcommittees (Disclosure Subcommittee, Information strengthen Sojitz Group initiatives. Along with this move, Administration Section) Compliance Section) Execution of Sojitz Group Business Operations, which Security Subcommittee, etc.) in addition to the risk we also formulated the Sojitz Group Basic Policy on Subcommittees the Board of Directors adopted on April 24, 2015. management framework. Sanctions and Export Controls to serve as the Group‘s • Information Security With regard to overall internal control systems, the In addition, pursuant to the internal controls reporting basic policy on the preservation of international peace Subcommittee Chairman: COO of the Internal Control Committee, an executive body under the system set out in the Financial Instruments and and security, with the aim of complying with and prevent Human Resources Department, General Affairs control of the President, leads maintenance and Exchange Act, Sojitz has instituted a Basic Policy to violations of export transaction regulations and legal & IT Operation Department improvement by periodic monitoring implementation and Ensure Appropriate Financial Reporting, and the sanctions in different countries. The Sojitz Group will enforcement, identifying issues, considering Internal Control Committee monitors the progress of strive together to contribute to world peace and comply Reporting countermeasures, instructing the responsible departments assessments of internal controls over financial reporting with all laws and regulations. about the countermeasures and improvements related to to improve the reliability of financial reporting. The Head Office Consolidated Overseas regions internal control systems and frameworks throughout the Internal Control Committee met five times in the year group companies Company, and implementing these countermeasures and ended March 31, 2020, and reported the details of its improvements in cooperation with the relevant meetings to the Board of Directors. 56 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 57 WHERE WE’RE GOING Risk Management Basic Policies of Risk Management funding risks, disaster and other risks and system risks, Individual Risks As a general trading company, the Sojitz Group is are managed in the same manner as quantifiable risks, Category Status of response engaged in a diverse and globally dispersed range of with the status of the risks and other issues being Quantifiable risks businesses. Due to the nature of its businesses, the reported to management based on the Risk • The Group minimizes market risks through such means as matching assets and liabilities (e.g. long and short commodity Group is exposed to a variety of risks. In compliance Management Policy and Plan formulated by the COOs Market risks exposures) and hedging with forward exchange contracts, commodity futures/forward contracts, and interest rate swaps. with its Basic Code of Corporate Risk Management, the of the divisions responsible for managing those risks. The Group: Sojitz Group defines and categorizes risks, and manages In MTP 2020, we have added and are monitoring new • Implements safeguards (e.g. collateral and guarantees) as warranted by the customer’s credit status. • Uses a system for assessing receivables to pick out certain customers for inquiry from among those customers with business receivables, them according to the nature of each risk. For risks related to the use of websites or social media and Credit risks based on certain standards; regularly ascertains credit risk; and estimates provisions for doubtful accounts for individual receivables. quantifiable risks such as market risks, credit risks, other media (such as those requiring crisis management • For risk associated with deferred payments, loans, and credit guarantees, periodically assesses whether profitability is business investment risks and country risks, risk assets or efforts to protect personal information) and risks commensurate with risk, and takes steps to improve profitability or limit credit risk. are calculated and reported to management. related to product quality control (quality control • The Group closely examines business plans and carefully assesses feasibility when deliberating on investment projects. The Group also sets hurdle rates using internal rate of return (IRR) and selects those projects where profitability is commensurate with risk. Non-quantifiable risks, such as legal risks, compliance measures arising from diversification of the areas in Business investment risks • After investment, in order to ascertain issues at an early stage and minimize loss from withdrawal or restructuring, the Group sets risks, environmental and social (human rights) risks, which we do business). conditions for withdrawal and determines whether projects meet these conditions. • The Group assigns country risk ratings and sets net exposure limits to avoid concentrated exposure to any single country or region. Country risks • In countries that pose substantial country risk, the Group hedges against country risk on a transaction-by-transaction basis, through such means as purchasing trade insurance. Risk Measurement and Control At present, governments of various nations around The goals of risk measurement are (1) to manage the world are setting out financial and monetary policies Difficult-to-quantify risks quantified risk assets within the strength of the Company and measures to prevent the spread of infection, • The Group ensures stable funding by maintaining good business relationships with financial institutions and by keeping the long-term debt ratio at a specified level. (total equity), and (2) to maximize earnings in line with striving to minimize the impact for when this is over, but Funding risks • To provide additional financial flexibility and liquidity, the Group maintains long-term commitment lines and a long-term the level of risk exposure. Based on that recognition, the there are concerns that these circumstances will multi-currency borrowing facility agreement with effective period provisions. Sojitz Group manages risks with a focus on both safety continue for a long period of time, or even that they will • The Group sets a long-term vision and objectives regarding Key Sustainability Issues (Materiality), covering the duration of MTP 2020. The Sustainability Committee oversees progress on these objectives, and the Finance & Investment Deliberation Council confirms and profitability. The Sojitz Group’s objective for risk worsen. Even with this changing outside environment Risks related to environmental risks, social risks, and other risks related to sustainability when deliberating on potential finance and investment projects. control is to keep the ratio of risk assets to total equity surrounding Sojitz’s business, we are conducting proper environment / society • Additionally, the Group has established an Environmental Policy, Human Rights Policy, and CSR Action Guidelines for Supply (human rights) Chains. It works to mitigate risk by ensuring these policies are observed throughout the Group, sharing them with suppliers, within 1.0 times. This ratio has been well within the risk management, calculating risk assets by factoring in conducting risk assessments, and working to fix discovered issues. For climate-related risks, the Group pays close attention to target value since the year ended March 31, 2010. As we stress to stock price and exchange rate volatility and government policies and regulatory trends worldwide, analyzing their impact on the Group‘s business. pursue disciplined investment under MTP 2020, since country credit ratings. Even in a stressed environment, Legal and compliance risks / • The Group has formulated a compliance program and has established the Sojitz Group Code of Conduct and Ethics. The Litigation risks Compliance Committee promotes rigorous regulatory compliance on a Group-wide basis. the year ended March 31, 2019 we have been revising we are ensuring that the ratio of risk assets to total • The Group has prescribed regulations and established oversight entities, mainly the Information Security Subcommittee, our method of measurement, mainly of goodwill, to equity remains well within 1.0 times. In addition, as a pertaining to the appropriate protection and management of information assets. make it more suitable for growth investment. Risk assets countermeasure to tail risk, Sojitz creates stress Information system and • The Group has implemented safeguards, such as installation of backup hardware, to protect against failure of key information are measured quarterly and reported to the Board of scenarios for key businesses to analyze the impact on information security risks systems and network infrastructure. Additionally, the Group is strengthening its safeguards against information leaks through such means as installing firewalls and taking other steps to prevent unauthorized access by outsiders, implementing antivirus Directors and the Management Committee, and each our business portfolio under stress. measures, and utilizing encryption technologies. business department receives the results of an analysis of • The Group has prepared disaster response manuals and infectious disease manuals, conducts disaster response drills, and has the main factors behind any changes, to be applied in Disaster Risks established an employee safety confirmation system and a business continuity plan (BCP). With regard to COVID-19, we are Implementation status of risk management training placing first priority on preventing infections and the spread of COVID-19 inside and outside of the company, maintaining the day-to-day risk management activities. With the current Sojitz organizes yearly training for all its employees with the safety of all our Group employees and stakeholders and implementing a variety of countermeasures. COVID-19 pandemic, the economic environment is objective to foster a thorough risk management mindset. Risks related to websites, • The Group monitors and has set administrative guidelines for the terms of use and protection of personal information on Sojitz rapidly worsening around the world, but the Sojitz Group • Participants (total number): 2,670 (as of the end of March 2020) social media, and other media Corporation and Sojitz Group companies’ official websites and social media accounts. • Training contents: Spreading awareness about rules, case studies, plans to continue its risk control efforts to maintain the measures for preventing/reducing credit/country risks or market Risks related to product • As Sojitz Group‘s business investments bring more manufacturing business and other new sectors under the Group umbrella, the quality control Group monitors the status of systems for controlling quality of manufactured products, etc. ratio within 1.0 times, even in this environment. risks, such as inventory transactions, and others Note: Please refer to our website to learn about the response status in regard to each risk. https://www.sojitz.com/en/corporate/governance/risk/ Risk Management in Internal Control Systems Risk Assets (Left scale) Risk buffer Risk assets Market risks Business investment risks Credit risks Country risks Total equity Quantification of risk assets Enhancement of quality (Right scale) Ratio of risk assets to total equity Quantifiable risks Plan Instruction (Billions of yen) (Times) Market Credit Maintain ratio of risk assets to 800.0 1.2 Act Do Business Country total equity at 1.0 investment 1.0 time or lower Accumulation of 0.9 0.9 0.9 1.0 Check Board of Directors quality businesses 600.0 0.8 Management and assets 0.7 0.8 0.6 Committee 0.6 0.6 0.6 0.6 Difficult-to-quantify risks 400.0 0.6 Execution of operating plans Internal Control Legal Compliance Committee Balance sheet Progress Plan 0.4 Periodic Environmental / management 200.0 reports social Funding by executive Management 0.2 (Human rights) ofﬁcers Act Do decisions responsible for Instruction 0 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 0.0 Disaster System 10 11 20 managing particular Check Business As of March 31 risks withdrawal/Portfolio Websites and SNS Quality control Notes: 1. Under IFRSs, total equity is equity attributable to owners of the Company. restructuring 2. The method of measurement, mainly for goodwill, has been revised from the year ended March 2019. Instruction Figures for risk assets for the year ended March 31, 2018 have been restated to reflect this change. Business departments 58 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 59 WHERE WE’RE GOING Corporate Governance Directors/Audit & Supervisory Board Members (As of July 1, 2020) Directors April 1981 Joined Nissho Iwai Corporation April 1985 Federation of Bar Associations (Daini Tokyo Bar Association, Japan) April 2005 General Manager of Automotive Dept. 3, Sojitz Corporation September 1989 Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP (New York) December 2008 MMC Automotriz S.A. Director President January 1991 Mitsui, Yasuda, Wani & Maeda August 2012 Sojitz Corporation of America, Regional General Manager, Machinery Division, Americas September 2004 Partner, Oh-Ebashi LPC & Partners October 2014 Corporate Officer, Senior General Manager, Corporate Planning, Sojitz Corporation September 2014 Lecturer, Ritsumeikan University School of Law (current) April 2015 Executive Officer, assigned to Corporate Planning and Investor Relations June 2016 Member of The Japan-Mekong Business Cooperation Committee, October 2015 Managing Executive Officer, assigned to Corporate Planning, Investor Relations, and Public Relations Japan Chamber of Commerce and Industry (JCCI) (current) April 2016 Senior Managing Executive Officer, assigned to Corporate Planning, Strategic Investment, October 2017 Supervisory Officer, Tokyo Infra Energy Toshihojin (current) Investor Relations, Public Relations, Logistics & Insurance June 2018 Director, Sojitz Corporation (current) June 2017 Representative Director, President & CEO (current) January 2019 Counsel, Oh-Ebashi LPC & Partners (current) Masayoshi Fujimoto Kayoko Naito 1,2 Representative Director, President & CEO Director April 1984 Joined Nissho Iwai Corporation April 1973 Joined NSK Ltd. April 2011 General Manager, Finance Dept. July 1993 Transferred to NSK-RHP EUROPE LTD. to serve as Director April 2014 Executive Officer, assigned to Finance, General Manager, Finance Department, Sojitz Corporation June 1998 Deputy Head of all European operations, NSK Ltd., Transferred to NSK-RHP EUROPE LTD. to serve April 2016 Managing Executive Officer, CFO, assigned to Finance and General Accounting as Director. Transferred to NSK FRANCE S.A. to serve as President. June 2017 Representative Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer, CFO Executive Management of General December 1999 Deputy Head of Corporate Strategy Division HQ Accounting, IT Planning, Structured Finance, assigned to Investor Relations, Finance April 2000 Vice President, Head of Corporate Strategy Division HQ, Head of IR Office April 2018 Representative Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer, CFO June 2002 Director, Senior Vice President, Administrative Divisions, Head of Corporate Strategy Division HQ Executive Management of General Accounting, IT Planning, M&A Management Office, June 2003 Director, Senior Vice President, Finance Division, IR Office, Head of Corporate Strategy Division HQ, Controller Office Oversight, assigned to IR, Finance, Structured Finance Head of Needle Roller Bearing Business Division HQ, Member of the Compensation Committee April 2019 Representative Director, Executive Vice President, CFO Executive Management of General June 2004 Director, Executive Vice President, Vice Chairperson of the Board of Directors, Administrative Divisions, Accounting, Finance, Structured Finance, IR, M&A Management Office, Controller Office Oversight Needle Roller Bearing Business Division HQ, Internal Audit Office, Head of Corporate Strategy Division April 2020 Representative Director, Executive Vice President, CFO HQ, Deputy Head of Automotive Division HQ, Member of the Compensation Committee Executive Management of General Accounting, Business Accounting, Finance, Structured Finance, June 2007 Director, Senior Executive Vice President, Vice Chairperson of the Board of Directors, IR, M&A Management Office, Controller Office Oversight (current) Administrative Divisions, Global Sales Planning Dept., Head of Corporate Strategy Division HQ, Seiichi Tanaka Norio Otsuka 1,2 Member of the Compensation Committee June 2009 Director, President and Chief Executive Officer, Vice Chairperson of the Board of Directors, Representative Director, Director Chairperson of the Nomination Committee, Chairperson of the Operating Committee Executive Vice President, CFO June 2011 Director, President and Chief Executive Officer, Chairperson of the Board of Directors, Chairperson of the Nomination Committee, Chairperson of the Operating Committee June 2015 Director, Chairperson of the Board of Directors April 1982 Joined Nissho Iwai Corporation June 2016 President, The Japan Bearing Industry Association October 2003 General Manager, Corporate Planning Department, Nissho Iwai American Corporation March 2017 Outside Director, Showa Shell Sekiyu K. K. April 2009 General Manager, Human Resources & General Affairs Department, Sojitz Corporation June 2017 Honorary Chairman, NSK Ltd. April 2013 Executive Officer, Human Resources & General Affairs June 2018 Outside Director, Sojitz Corporation (current) April 2015 Managing Executive Officer, Secretariat, Human Resources & General Affairs June 2018 Advisor, NSK Ltd. (current) April 2017 Managing Executive Officer, President & CEO for Asia & Oceania April 2019 Outside Director, Idemitsu Kosan Co.,Ltd. (current) April 2019 Senior Managing Executive Officer June 2019 Outside Director, Taisei Corporation (current) Executive Management of Business Group (Automotive, Aerospace & Transportation Project, Machinery & Medical Infrastructure, Energy & Social Infrastructure, Metals & Mineral Resources) Oversight East Asia (current) April 2020 Executive Vice President, Advisor to the President Executive Management of Business Group April 1982 Joined the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (Automotive, Aerospace & Transportation Project, Machinery & Medical Infrastructure, March 1998 Senior Coordinator for Policy Coordination, Foreign Policy Bureau Energy & Social Infrastructure, Metals & Mineral Resources) Oversight April 1998 Director, International Peace Cooperation Division, Foreign Policy Bureau Ryutaro Hirai East Asia (current) April 2000 Director, Second North America Division, North American Affairs Bureau June 2020 Representative Director, Executive Vice President Advisor to the President Representative Director, Executive Management of Business Group (Automotive, Aerospace & Transportation Project, Machinery April 2002 Director, Legal Affairs Division, Treaties Bureau Executive Vice President & Medical Infrastructure, Energy & Social Infrastructure, Metals & Mineral Resources) Oversight August 2004 Professor, Faculty of Policy Management, Keio University East Asia (current) April 2006 Director, Policy Evaluation and Administrative Review Division, Minister’s Secretariat, Ministry of Foreign Affairs August 2006 Director, Economic Policy Division, Economic Affairs Bureau April 1980 Joined Nichimen Co., Ltd. September 2006 Director, Financial Affairs Division, Minister’s Secretariat March 2002 General Manager, Partex Department, Nichimen Corporation January 2009 Deputy Director-General/Senior Fellow, The Japan Institute of International Affairs December 2002 General Manager, Integration Promotion Office September 2011 Deputy Press Secretary/Deputy Director-General, Public Diplomacy Department, December 2003 General Manager, Administration Department Ministry of Foreign Affairs April 2004 General Manager, Corporate Planning & Investor Relations Department, Nissho Iwai-Nichimen Holdings Corporation Naoko Saiki 1,2 September 2012 Deputy Press Secretary/Deputy Director-General, Minister’s Secretariat Deputy Secretary-General, Integrated Office for Regional Revitalization, Cabinet Secretariat April 2005 General Manager, Corporate Planning & Investor Relations Department, Director June 2013 Director-General for Cultural Affairs, Ministry of Foreign Affairs Business Administration Department, Sojitz Holdings Corporation July 2014 Director-General, Economic Affairs Bureau Councillor, Japanese Government’s TPP Headquarters, October 2005 General Manager, Corporate Planning Department, Sojitz Corporation Cabinet Secretariat April 2007 Executive Officer, Senior Vice President, Consumer Lifestyle Business Division, October 2015 Director-General, International Legal Affairs Bureau Senior General Manager, Textiles and General Merchandise Unit July 2017 Director-General, Foreign Service Training Institute July 2008 Executive Officer, President, Sojitz (Hong Kong) Ltd., President, Sojitz (Guangzhou) Co., Ltd. January 2019 Retired from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs April 2014 Executive Officer, President & CEO for China May 2019 Corporate Advisor, Sojitz Corporation (resigned in February 2020) Masao Goto April April 2015 2018 Managing Executive Officer, President & CEO for China Managing Executive Officer, General Manager, Kansai Office June 2019 Director, Japan Rugby Football Union (current) April 2020 Visiting Professor, Graduate School of Public Policy, The University of Tokyo (current) Senior Managing Executive Officer April 2020 Senior Managing Executive Officer Executive Management of Business Group (Chemicals, Foods & June 2020 Outside Director, Sojitz Corporation (current) Agriculture Business, Retail & Lifestyle Business, Industrial Infrastructure & Urban Development) General Manager, Kansai Office June 2020 Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Development Bank of Japan Inc. (current) June 2020 Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer Executive Management of Business Group (Chemicals, Foods & Agriculture Business, Retail & Lifestyle Business, Industrial Infrastructure & Urban Development) Oversight 1. Outside Directors as defined in the Companies Act, Article 2 (xv). General Manager, Kansai Office 2. Independent officers as defined in the Securities Listing Regulations. July 2020 Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer Executive Management of Business Group (Chemicals, Foods & Agriculture Business, Retail & Lifestyle Business, Industrial Infrastructure & Urban Development) Oversight (current) 60 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 61 WHERE WE’RE GOING Corporate Governance Executive Officers (As of July 1, 2020) Audit & Supervisory Board Members Shigeru Nishihara Tsutomu Tanaka Haruo Inoue Yasushi Nishimura Senior Managing Executive Officer Senior Managing Executive Officer Senior Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer President & CEO for the Americas President & CEO for China CCO, Internal Control Administration General Manager, Kansai Office President, Sojitz Corporation of America Chairman, Sojitz (China) Co., Ltd. Department, ERP Transition Office Oversight Chairman & President, Sojitz (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Chairman, Sojitz (Dalian) Co., Ltd. Sojitz (Guangzhou) Co., Ltd., and Sojitz (Hong Kong) Ltd. Junichi Hamatsuka Masaaki Kushibiki Kazunori Yagi 1,2 Audit & Supervisory Board Member Audit & Supervisory Board Member Audit & Supervisory Board Member April 1977 Joined Nissho Iwai Corporation April 1983 Joined Nissho Iwai Corporation April 1972 Joined Yokogawa Electric Works Ltd. October 2005 Executive Officer, General Manager, April 2007 General Manager, Corporate October 1999 Vice President (Officer) and General Corporate Accounting Department, Accounting Department, Manager of Finance & Business Sojitz Corporation Sojitz Corporation Planning, Yokogawa Electric Corporation April 2007 Executive Officer, CFO & CAO April 2014 Corporate Officer, General Manager, June 2001 Director, Senior Vice President and General for the Americas Corporate Accounting Department Manager of Finance & Business Planning April 2010 Executive Officer, Assigned for Internal April 2015 Executive Officer, Risk Management July 2002 Director, Executive Vice President and General Koichi Yamaguchi Koji Izutani Shigeya Kusano Masaaki Bito Control Administration Department, Planning, Risk Management Manager of Finance & Business Planning Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer and IT Planning Department & CIO April 2017 Managing Executive Officer, Human July 2005 Director, Executive Vice President and General COO, Aerospace & Transportation COO, Foods & Agriculture Business Division President & CEO for Asia & Oceania COO, Metals & Mineral Resources Division April 2012 Managing Executive Officer, assigned Resources & General Affairs Manager of Administration Headquarters Project Division Managing Director, Sojitz Asia Pte. Ltd. for Finance, Forex & Securities, April 2019 Managing Executive Officer, COO, June 2011 Advisor, Yokogawa Electric Corporation Audit & General Manager, Singapore Branch Structured Finance, Corporate Human Resources Department, General Supervisory Board Member, Yokogawa Bridge Accounting, and Asset Management Affairs & IT Operation Department Holdings Corporation (current) April 2013 Managing Executive Officer, assigned April 2020 Corporate Advisor June 2012 Director, JSR Corporation for Risk Management Planning, Risk Management 1, and Risk Management 2 June 2020 Audit & Supervisory Board Member June 2013 Audit & Supervisory Board Member, (Full-time) (current) TDK Corporation April 2015 Managing Executive Officer, Executive Vice President for Asia & Oceania March 2014 Director, OYO Corporation April 2016 Advisor June 2017 Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Sojitz Corporation (current) June 2016 Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Full-time) (current) June 2018 Director, TDK Corporation (current) Yoshihiro Tamura Satoru Takahama Takafumi Ogasawara Masakazu Hashimoto Naoki Yokoyama Executive Officer Executive Officer Executive Officer Executive Officer Executive Officer Director/CEO & President, President & CEO for Europe, COO, Risk Management Planning COO, Energy & Social Infrastructure A member of the Board of Thai Central Chemical Public Russia & NIS Managing Director, Department, Risk Management Division Management, General Director, Company Limited Sojitz Europe plc Department CEO, Saigon Paper Corporation Toshifumi Murata Ken Kuribayashi Kyosuke Sasaki Hiroto Murai Ikuo Koinuma Hyo Kambayashi 1,2 Michiko Nagasawa 1,2 Executive Officer Executive Officer Executive Officer Executive Officer Executive Officer Vice President for the Americas COO, Global Business Support & COO, Chemicals Division COO, Retail & Lifestyle Business COO, Machinery & Medical Audit & Supervisory Board Member Audit & Supervisory Board Member (South America) Chairman, Promotion Department General Division Infrastructure Division November 1976 Joined Arthur Andersen & Co. April 1984 Registered as Attorney-at-law Sojitz do Brasil S.A. Manager, Overseas Business July 1991 Partner, Andersen Worldwide April 2007 Professor of Law, Gakushuin University July 1993 Senior Partner, Asahi & Co. Law School September 2001 A Member of the Board of Andersen January 2008 Partner, The Tokyo-Marunouchi Law Worldwide Organization Offices (current) January 2003 President & CEO, January 2010 Chair, Contract Review Committee, Protiviti Japan Co., Ltd. Urban Renaissance Agency (current) April 2004 Visiting Lecturer, April 2012 Auditor, Daini Tokyo Bar Association Tama Graduate School of Business September 2012 Representative liquidator, Liquidated Company of the Incubator Bank of Japan May 2005 Representative Director, Masanori Kawakami Yoshiki Manabe Tatsuya Morita Yasuhisa Nakao Kazuhisa Yumikura Robert Half Japan March 2013 Outside Director, Otsuka Kagu, Ltd. Executive Officer Executive Officer Executive Officer Executive Officer Executive Officer April 2010 Visiting Lecturer, Aoyama Gakuin University May 2017 Director, Business Rehabilitation Professional Graduate Schools Research Organization (current) COO, Internal Control Administration COO, General Accounting Department, COO, Legal Department, COO, Business Innovation Office COO, Structured Finance Department, January 2011 President & CEO, Protiviti LLC July 2018 Auditor (part-time), Building Research Institute, National Department, ERP Transition Office Business Accounting Department, Finance Public Relations Department M&A Management Office Research and Development Agency, Ministry of Land, Department, IR Office, Controller Office January 2016 Chairman & Senior Managing Director, Protiviti LLC (current) Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (current) October 2016 Chairman, Japan Internal Control June 2019 Outside Director, SB Players Corp. (current) Research Association April 2020 Auditor, Japan Federation of Bar June 2017 Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Associations (current) Sojitz Corporation (current) June 2020 Audit & Supervisory Board Member, June 2018 Director, Murata Manufacturing Co., Ltd. (Audit & Sojitz Corporation (current) Supervisory Committee Member) (current) June 2020 Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, SOHGO SECURITY SERVICES CO., LTD. (current) Taro Okamura Toshiaki Kasai Notes: 1. Independent officers as defined in the Securities Listing Regulations. Executive Officer Executive Officer 2. Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members as defined in the Companies Act, Article 2 (xvi). COO, Human Resources Department, General Affairs & IT Operation Department 62 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 63 HOW WE GET THERE Driving Value Creation A Wide Range of Business Fields Together with around 400 consolidated subsidiaries in Japan and overseas, Sojitz is developing a wide range of businesses as a general trading company that is expanding projects in many different countries and regions around the world. We have nine divisions, organized according to function, industrial field, and product, and and Growth Strategies each of these will quickly gain an understanding of social needs and create high-quality business opportunities. At a Glance (Year ended March 31, 2020) (Billions of yen) Share by Division*3 Financial Automotive Division Profit or Loss Financial Position Employees Indicator Aerospace & Transportation Project Division Share of profit Profit (loss) Machinery & Medical Infrastructure Division Business Overview (loss) of investments for the year Number of Number of Gross Total Non-current Energy & Social Infrastructure Division accounted for (attributable to ROA employees employees profit using the equity owners assets assets Metals & Mineral Resources Division (non-consolidated) (consolidated) method of the Company) Chemicals Division Automotive Division Foods & Agriculture Business Division Conducts automotive assembly and wholesale, and retail sales. We have operations in growing Retail & Lifestyle Business Division markets such as Asia, Russia & NIS, and Latin America as well as in mature markets such as 41.2 (0.4) 2.4 180.5 81.4 1.4% 92 4,319 Industrial Infrastructure & Japan and the U.S.. In addition, we are actively focusing our efforts on business areas such as Urban Development Division auto-financing, automotive parts and components, automotive-related services, and Internet and digital technologies. Aerospace & Transportation Project Division Manages aerospace industry businesses as a sales agent for commercial aircrafts and defense-related 3.5 8.1 equipment and services, in addition to handling leasing, part-out, and business jets. In our transport 15.7 1.1 1.8 135.1 40.8 1.4% 104 419 infrastructure business, we are developing airport management and contributing to the railroad 16.6 6.1 industry through rail construction and MRO business. Our marine vessels business handles multiple types of vessels, including new and secondhand, and related vessel machinery. 5.6 Machinery & Medical Infrastructure Division Total assets Handles industrial machinery and bearings which form the backbone of every industry. We are also working to 5.8 (%) 11.8 expand Public-Private Partnership (PPP) hospital business and create healthcare businesses in associated 14.7 2.0 4.6 123.9 55.8 3.7% 78 928 fields, with further exploration and investment in primary healthcare and digital healthcare fields. We aim to build plant EPC businesses and cultivate new businesses, particularly businesses which address environmental 12.1 issues. We will also plan to expand into areas such as start-up investments and advanced technologies. 19.9 Energy & Social Infrastructure Division Constructs a gas and LNG value chain based on an integrated business, which includes everything from LNG procurement to receiving terminals and gas-fired power plants. In the 25.7 5.7 9.6 263.2 174.3 3.5% 147 1,386 4.7 8.0 renewable energy business, we are concentrating on solar, wind, and biomass power generation. We are also focusing on developing sophisticated social infrastructure to meet the 7.7 4.0 increasing global demand for data communications and processing. 5.5 4.6 Metals & Mineral Resources Division 6.9 Non-current Engages in trading and upstream investment in ferrous materials and metal resources such as assets 20.4 12.5 20.1 443.1 321.7 4.4% 179 770 (%) 17.2 coal, iron ore, base metals, rare metals, and industrial minerals. In addition, we are creating new business models resilient to market conditions that will provide stable earnings. 31.8 Chemicals Division Conducts trading and business investment in liquid chemicals such as methanol, plastics and 43.2 other petrochemical products, and inorganic chemicals and industrial minerals such as industrial 0.7 9.3 269.0 69.8 3.3% 264 1,658 6.0 salt and rare earths. 13.2 11.4 6.6 3.3 Foods & Agriculture Business Division 4.2 Operates businesses that provide safe and reliable food. We are expanding our agribusiness, 14.2 0.5 1.4 128.9 46.2 1.1% 108 2,192 Risk assets 10.2 feed business, marine products business, foodstuffs business, among others. (%) 19.8 29.0 Retail & Lifestyle Business Division Focused on a diverse range of business that can respond to consumer needs both in Japan and 35.5 overseas. These include our food distribution, shopping center management, brand, consumer 0.4 6.0 370.3 78.0 1.6% 168 4,010 goods distribution, textile, and forest resource businesses. 7.4 25.5 Industrial Infrastructure & Urban Development Division Operates foundational businesses both in Japan and overseas that serve as pillars for industry 6.0 23.7 Number of and urban life, including overseas industrial parks, overseas urban infrastructure, domestic real 2.4 1.5 77.2 47.1 2.0% 61 1,257 employees estate, J-REIT management, and comprehensive living support. 2.5 (consolidated) (%) 5.5 Total*1 220.5 24.9 60.8 2,230.3 1,012.8 2.7% 2,460*2 18,839 12.9 8.2 9.8 4.5 *1 “Total” includes “other” and adjustments. *3 Above shares exclude “Other” *2 Includes non-consolidated workers seconded to subsidiary companies, etc. 64 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 65 HOW WE GET THERE Key Topics June 2019 July 2019 August 2019 Automotive Division Established new company to enter automotive retail sales Established import distributorship for GEELY-brand vehicles Entered autofinancimiento business in Mexico business in Aichi in the Philippines Aerospace & April 2019 May 2019 April 2020 Palau International Airport MSJA-Kumamoto Consortium Sojitz Group and JOIN acquired a 100% Transportation Project Corporation took over concluded basic agreement for ownership interest in a rail MRO company Division management of Palau Internal Airport the Qualified Project etc. for Kumamoto Airport Operation in North America November 2019 May 2020 May 2020 June 2020 Machinery & Medical Invested in U.S. healthcare Opened one of the Invested in healthcare startup Invested in venture firm providing startup providing virtual world’s largest providing telehealth services home monitoring service Infrastructure Division healthcare assistant technology hospital complexes in Turkey April 2019 May 2019 June 2019 November 2019 Energy & Social Joined one of Taiwan’s Joined biomass power Sojitz and Osaka Gas established natural gas Entered largest offshore wind plant project in supply company in Vietnam telecommunication Infrastructure Division power projects Tomakomai, Hokkaido Birdsboro Natural Gas-Fired Power Plant in the infrastructure business U.S. begins operations in Myanmar June 2018 March 2019 March 2020 Metals & Mineral Joint research and development agreement on Completed acquisition of Australia’s Agreed to divest interest next-generation lithium-ion battery material with Toshiba Gregory Crinum coking coal mine in Moolarben thermal Resources Division and Companhia Brasileira de Metalurgia e Mineração; coal mine, Australia the agreement is progressing favorably April 2020 Chemicals Division solvadis deutschland gmbh began operating sulfur solidification facilities in Belgium May 2019 February 2020 Foods & Agriculture Developed “TUNA SCOPE”, Invested in digital farming platform Business Division a new AI technology to assess startup in Vietnam tuna quality May 2019 May 2019 Retail & Lifestyle Joined biomass power plant Fuyo General Lease Co., Ltd and Sojitz Commerce Business Division project in Tomakomai, Hokkaido Development Corporation obtained joint trust beneficiary rights for Nasu Garden Outlet in Nasushiobara, Tochigi Industrial Infrastructure & September 2019 September 2019 November 2019 Concluded agreement with NIPPON REIT Investment Corporation gained a Invested in Residence Tokyo, a company developing Urban Development Osaka Prefecture relating to top-ranking Green Star in the GRESB (Global Real Estate residences and lodging businesses that can accommodate Division overseas industrial parks Sustainability Benchmark) environmental assessment for the third year in a row diverse clientele August 2019 November 2019, March 2020 June 2020 Other Established the Sojitz Institute of Innovative Technologies Repurchased treasury stock Appointed the Chairman of the Board of Directors and members of the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee 66 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 67 HOW WE GET THERE Division Business Report ■ Wholesale ■ Retail sale ■ Finance ■ Parts ■ Service etc. ● Sales base Business Map Automotive Division Russia ■■■■ Ukraine ■ Russia/NIS We will strengthen the functions in automobile sales France ■● North America as core business, build business bases in new fields, Italy ● Canada ■ and ultimately contribute to a prosperous Germany ● Europe U.S. ■■■■■■● Stratosphere Quality LLC (U.S.) Puerto Rico ■■ mobility society. Mexico ■■● Middle East Japan Asia ■■■■■■● Saudi Arabia ● Thailand ■■■■ Tatsuhiko Kanetake Philippines ■■■■ Central and Indonesia ■ Guatemala ■■ South America COO, Automotive Division India ■■■■ Brazil ■■ Pakistan ■■ Argentina ■● China ● Columbia ● Import Motors, Inc. (U.S.) Strengths External Environment Growth Strategy A track record of auto sales spanning over 40 years Opportunities We anticipate rising demand for automobiles, also actively working to strengthen our financing • Increase in demand for automobiles due to economic particularly in regions with emerging countries such as business and establish new service businesses which • Locally-based sales & marketing force development in emerging countries and diversification of Asia and Latin America, given the increasingly active utilize advanced technology. needs in developed countries movement of people and goods which has In addition, in pursuit of sustained growth, we are More than 4,000 Group employees at over 30 Group companies • Paradigm shift in the automotive industry and changes to the existing industry structure accompanied the economic development of those putting efforts to develop a new generation of • Diverse human resources & global business management countries. Waves of great change are also sweeping experienced personnel who have corporate • Rising need for quality control due to globalization and know-how supply chain diversification through the industry, with the introduction of connected management skills through on-site management of Capabilities of investment execution & business development services, sharing services, and technological innovations locally-based Group companies, and personnel who have Risks such as electric vehicles and autonomous vehicles. the capability to create new businesses and functions to • Business asset portfolio with new business areas • Financial and economic stagnation and event risk such as natural disasters Amidst these changes, we have accumulated a wealth cope with changes in the external environment. • Political and regulatory changes in various countries and of knowledge in automobile sales, positioning it as one Temporary stagnation is forecasted in the automobile changes to the social environment caused by technological of our core businesses. While expanding our business sale business due to the effects of the spread of advancements through M&A of good standing assets in promising COVID-19, but by levering the functions the company • Changes in international strategies of car makers markets, we aim to further add the value to our has cultivated and further strengthening locally-based businesses through improvement of locally-based sales business foundations, we intend to pursue more and marketing capabilities and after-sales services, and initiatives aimed at steadily ensuring that demand strengthening of functions through incorporation of recovers once the situation returns to normal. Looking Back at the Year Ended March 2020 advanced digital technologies such as IoT & AI. We are The automobile sales, our core Change in Gross Profit Asset Portfolio business, performed poorly due (Billions of yen) Current assets Non-current assets to worsening market conditions in 50.0 42.3 41.2 Thailand, Russia, the Distributor business Dealership business Assets at Assets at Philippines and others countries in 25.0 Sojitz has a long track record with the assembly and sales of We are expanding our authorized dealership business for end of FY2018 end of FY2019 automobiles, and we are credited with our management premium brand vehicles, where we anticipate stable demand in the second half of the year. 167.8 180.5 functions from various partners. We have begun assembly and countries including Japan, the U.S., and Brazil. We are also billion yen billion yen sales of Hyundai automobiles to the 200-million-strong Pakistan developing automobile sales to customers who are unable to 0 FY2018 FY2019 (Results) (Results) market, and have also begun the sales of Geely automobiles in receive a standard auto loan, through financing operations the Philippines. which utilize FinTech services. Change in Profit for the Year (Attributable Investments and Loans and Asset to Owners of the Company) and ROA Core Operating Cash Flow Replacement (Investment Recovery) under Auto-financing business Parts business Medium-term Management Plan 2020 Profit for the Year Forecast ROA Sojitz has entered the Autofinancimiento business in Mexico. Sojitz has entered the parts quality assurance business in North Main Investments and Loans Autofinancimiento, or self-financing, refers to a system in which America, with a customer base including automobile and (Billions of yen) 3.7% (%) (Billions of yen) • Overseas automobile dealerships 10.0 4.0 20.0 potential buyers pool funds as a group, purchasing a vehicle automobile parts manufacturers. We are also working towards 6.4 12.8 • Automobile self-finance business in Mexico monthly through a raffle system. All group members are able to the automation of quality assurance through the use of • Automobile wholesale business in Pakistan purchase a vehicle at a determined step in the process, and each cutting-edge technology. In Asia, we provide a high-value-added 1.4% 5.0 2.0 10.0 6.3 Investments and Loans: ¥16.0 billion buyer pays off their remaining balance individually. This system comprehensive logistics service that integrates functions such as 1.0 provides the opportunity to purchase new vehicles to potential inspection, inventory management, light assembly, just-in-time 2.4 Main Assets Replaced (Investment Recovery) buyers who are not able to receive a standard auto loan. delivery, and financing into automobile and motorbike parts 0 FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 0 0 FY2018 FY2019 • Sales of automobile-related businesses supply chain management operations. (Results) (Results) (Forecast) (Results) (Results) Total amount recovered ¥9.0 billion 68 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 69 HOW WE GET THERE Division Business Report Business Map • Aircraft leasing/part-out Aerospace & Transportation Japan Project Division • Sales representative business (commercial/ Europe defense) We will enhance our business operations in sectors such as ● ● ● • Business jet services North America Netherlands • Airport management aircraft leasing, part-out, and business jets, while focusing on ● the airport and transportation infrastructure business in ● Business jet services ● emerging countries where demand is growing. ●● Hong Kong ● Guam ● India ● Palau • EPC*1 businesses in the Asia/Pacific • Aircraft leasing/part-out transportation and cargo • Business jet services Koichi Yamaguchi transport infrastructure fields • Railcar MRO*2 business • Aircraft leasing/part-out Managing Executive Officer, COO • Business jet services Aerospace & Transportation Project Division • Airport management ● Businesses in the fields of aerospace and transportation infrastructure Airport management ● Bases of operation for marine business (Major offices of Sojitz Marine & Engineering Corporation) Palau International Airport *1 Engineering, procurement, and construction *2 Maintenance, repair, and overhaul (conceptual image of completed airport) Strengths External Environment Growth Strategy Experience in the aircraft sales business with more than 900 Opportunities Although it cannot be denied that the global spread of business, which sells second-hand parts from aircraft sold, accounting for the top market share in Japan • Trends in global aircraft demand the COVID-19 pandemic has had a drastic negative effect decommissioned and aged aircraft to airlines and • Trends in inbound demand on demand for aircraft and airport and transportation aircraft maintenance companies, exemplifies this Received contracts for the construction of approximately • Trends in worldwide demand for transportation and airport infrastructure, we intend to take steps to ensure that approach. As part of efforts to come up with new 1,500km of railway track in India infrastructure demand returns once market returns to normal. products and stronger services, our division is actively • Trends in demand for energy-efficient ships and LNG carriers One-stop solutions encompassing everything from shipbuilding The mission of our division is to create solutions working to improve our business jet services, for which and marine transport to machinery and equipment incorporating our railway and marine vessel businesses demand is growing worldwide. In addition, we are Risks • Over 50 years of business experience in the aerospace, • Decreased aircraft demand due to the declining population that provide new value in response to the needs of the developing transportation infrastructure centered on transportation, and marine vessel fields in Japan international community, while building on our trust airport management and working on businesses that • Ability to collect and analyze information related to • Country risk in emerging markets cultivated over many years in the aviation sector, help revitalize local communities in Japan and overseas, theaerospace industry, enabling us to grasp the needs and • Decreased transaction volume due to deterioration of the issues of aircraft manufacturers, airlines, leasing companies, working with aircraft manufacturers, airline companies, particularly in emerging countries. We intend to shipbuilding industry in Japan parts-related companies, airport facilities companies, and others and airport operators. strengthen our response to sudden changes in • Increasingly strict environmental regulations • Ability to propose integrated transportation infrastructure Our approach is to first expand the value chain for our aviation-related businesses, and we plan to expand the solutions aircraft business based on our excellent track record scale and functions of our railway MRO business when it • Ability to pursue synergy with other divisions in airport management business projects acting as distributor for passenger aircraft in Japan, to comes to transportation-related businesses. • Comprehensive capabilities in the marine vessel field, build new foundations for earning. Our part-out leveraging a wealth of knowledge and a network spanning 13 locations in 6 countries Looking Back at the Year Ended March 2020 Although we aggressively promoted Change in Gross Profit Asset Portfolio Part-out business of retired and aged aircraft Transportation infrastructure business We will expand business activities by leveraging our networks Our EPC initiatives, exemplified by our Indian railway project, aircraft-related businesses such as (Billions of yen) Current assets Non-current assets and expertise to further strengthen our earnings foundation, are performing steadily, and the Canadian MRO company in our part-out and business jet 20.0 15.5 15.7 with the aim of scaling-up our part-out business of retired and which we invested in 2015 is also continuing to ensure steady businesses, performance was aged aircraft. We are also deepening our relationships with our earnings for our North American railway business. Our goal Assets at Assets at sluggish due to factors such as the 10.0 end of FY2018 end of FY2019 partners in Europe and the Americas, and we aim to construct from now on is to strategically diversify our regional partner and acquire more robust business platforms through M&A and scheme and to stabilize our earnings so that we can leverage impairment losses on Company 130.2 135.1 investments in industry players so that we can respond better to our accumulated expertise in a variety of ways. owned ships. 0 FY2018 FY2019 billion yen billion yen increased competition. (Results) (Results) Business jet services Airport management business Change in Profit for the Year (Attributable Investments and Loans and Asset Replacement (Investment Recovery) under We are accumulating projects targeting new and existing We are actively involved in airport management business, both to Owners of the Company) and ROA Core Operating Cash Flow customers and steadily increasing the scale of our business. overseas (Palau and Khabarovsk) and in Japan (Shimojishima, Medium-term Management Plan 2020 Profit for the Year Forecast ROA Through such initiatives as the Phenix Jet Group, in which we Kumamoto, and elsewhere), and we are using the experience Main Investments and Loans (Billions of yen) 2.7% (%) (Billions of yen) began investing in 2017, and a new venture with ANA Holdings, gained from these businesses to strengthen our airport • Aviation-related businesses 8.0 3.0 6.0 with which we began collaborating in 2018, we are creating management and operation functions. We are also engaged in 6.0 4.3 • Railway-related businesses 3.7 high value-added services with the goal of further increasing M&A of airport-related businesses and are working to expand 4.0 1.4% Investments and Loans: ¥28.0 billion our earnings. We will endeavor to expand our business from distribution services as we seek to expand our earnings 4.0 1.5 3.0 various angles in order to provide our clients with a greater foundation through synergy with other Sojitz Group businesses. 1.8 Main Assets Replaced (Investment Recovery) variety of proposals in the future. • Sale and recovery of aircraft 0 FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 0 0 FY2018 FY2019 • Sale of vessels owned by company (Results) (Results) (Forecast) (Results) (Results) Total amount recovered ¥59.5 billion 70 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 71 HOW WE GET THERE Division Business Report Business Map Machinery & Medical • Industrial machinery & bearings • Bearing trading Infrastructure Division • Medical infrastructure business • Medical infrastructure business • Plant projects Russia/NIS We are working to expand our existing businesses: trading industrial machinery, bearings, and other products, while Europe also pursuing new business models by establishing Middle East Gas to gasoline plant medical-related businesses and carrying out projects and Turkey in Turkmenistan China/ involving the environment and advanced technology. Asia • Industrial machinery and bearings • Medical infrastructure • Bearing trading business • Surface mounter sales business • Medical infrastructure business Ikuo Koinuma • Plant project business South America Executive Officer, COO, • Forefront industry business India Machinery & Medical Infrastructure Division • Surface mounter sales business • Forefront industry business • Medical infrastructure business • Surface mounter sales business Bearings Strengths External Environment Growth Strategy 40 years’ experience in the plant business Opportunities The Machinery & Medical Infrastructure Division is made close attention to the resumption of economic activity • Increased demand for infrastructure due to economic up of four operating organizations: the Medical and the recovery of demand in worldwide markets Partnerships with more than 30 companies development and improved standards of living in emerging Infrastructure Department, the Bearing & Forefront including China, we will expand initiatives in both countries Conducting business in over 30 countries Industry Department, the Industrial Machinery & Plant businesses that are in line with future changes in • Heightened need for environmental countermeasures accompanying rise of global environmental regulations Project Department, and Sojitz Machinery Corporation, business structure to meet the needs of a • Experience in managing operating companies involved in bearings and industrial machinery, a dealership network, and • Increasing demand for semiconductors, electromaterials and our machinery trading company. Our mission is to post-coronavirus world as well as with trends such as AI, a supply chain infrastructure for procuring parts and products other parts, generated by the shift towards digitization, harness the diverse business functions and partner the IoT and 5G. automation and productivity enhancement of the industrial • Relationships with globally competitive domestic and networks in Japan and overseas that we have cultivated The plant business, which works to sustain the overseas materials, processing, machinery manufacturing, society. • Surge in innovation and advanced technology, increased over the long history of our plant project business, to economic development of emerging countries, is and EPC companies • Ability to compose and propose comprehensive business investment opportunities in start-ups construct infrastructure that will become the foundation expected to suffer temporary schedule delays across schemes, including design, full-turnkey construction, finance, for industry in countries around the world. board due to late approval from governments and other management, and other aspects Risks For our PPP* hospital management project in Turkey, bodies as a result of the pandemic. However we still • The Basaksehir Çam & Sakura City Hospital in Turkey, one of • Country risk due to political, economic, or social changes in we will establish a revenue model that includes facility expect a sustained rise in demand and are putting the world’s largest single hospitals managed by Japanese emerging countries, which comprise the division’s main companies markets management services. Furthermore, we intend to go steady measures in place to meet it. beyond medical facilities to the wider category of We are also focusing on environmental projects which healthcare and pursue business opportunities in areas contribute to sustainable development for local such as remote medicine and caregiving. communities and at which Japanese companies excel, Looking Back at the Year Ended March 2020 For existing businesses like bearings and industrial such as plastic recycling. machinery, although the spread of the COVID-19 * Public-Private Partnership: A business that involves collaboration between the The division performed largely as Change in Gross Profit Asset Portfolio pandemic will temporarily affect earnings, while paying public and private sectors. expected, with increased (Billions of yen) Current assets Non-current assets profits due to greater transactions in 20.0 14.7 13.6 medical infrastructure and Assets at Assets at industrial machinery. 10.0 end of FY2018 end of FY2019 121.5 123.9 billion yen billion yen 0 FY2018 FY2019 (Results) (Results) Medical infrastructure businesses Bearing & forefront industry businesses In 2017, we joined the project to construct and manage the We will branch out from our material Change in Profit for the Year (Attributable Investments and Loans and Asset Basaksehir Çam & Sakura City Hospital in Turkey. This project, Replacement (Investment Recovery) under procurement/processing/product sales-based supply chains to to Owners of the Company) and ROA Core Operating Cash Flow one of the world’s largest hospital PPP management projects strategically expand from the Chinese market to the European Medium-term Management Plan 2020 Profit for the Year Forecast ROA with Japanese corporate involvement, was opened in May 2020. market. For every link in the supply chain, we are proposing Main Investments and Loans We are collaborating with Japanese companies to accelerate (Billions of yen) 3.7% (%) (Billions of yen) new businesses that will stimulate growth in dealerships, • Hospital facility management business the development of related medical services and establish a 8.0 4.0 2.0 1.3 supporting new product development, and expanding our in Turkey business model that incorporates both hospital management 2.3% bearing OEM business. In addition, we are aiming at 4.6 1.0 and hospitaladjacent businesses. We also hope to join 3.5 Investments and Loans: ¥4.0 billion manufacturing automobile parts that use bearing component 4.0 2.8 2.0 0 businesses which provide medical treatment platforms and technology, as well as investing in startups to accelerate new Main Assets Replaced (Investment Recovery) businesses utilizing new technology in the “smart healthcare” (1.0) (0.8) business creation in cutting-edge fields. field. In this way, we will create a variety of services to meet 0 FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 0 (2.0) FY2018 FY2019 Total amount recovered ¥1.0 billion increasing healthcare needs. (Results) (Results) (Forecast) (Results) (Results) 72 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 73 HOW WE GET THERE Division Business Report Business Map Energy & Social Infrastructure Division We will continue to help realize a prosperous and Ireland sustainable society by providing sophisticated infrastructure that balances economic growth with environmental impact. Spain Japan U.S.A. Mugardos LNG Terminal (Spain) Qatar Myanmar Saudi Arabia Oman Taiwan Mexico Vietnam Sri Lanka Indonesia Peru Masakazu Hashimoto Executive Officer, COO, Chile Energy & Social Infrastructure Division Solar power plant Wind power plant Biomass Gas-fired power plant Birdsboro natural gas-fired LNG receiving and regasification terminal LNG plant IT-related business Telecom tower business power plant (U.S.) Note: Includes projects under construction Strengths External Environment Growth Strategy 50 years of LNG business knowledge Opportunities The spread of the COVID-19 pandemic and the sudden knowledge gained from working with solar power • Trends in energy demand owing to robust economic growth changes in the supply and demand balance triggered by generation towards on-shore wind power projects in Percentage of eco-friendly energy generation in in emerging and developing countries the shale gas revolution in the U.S. have made future Europe and the U.S., off-shore wind power projects in our power generation business: Around 90%*1 • Increased demand for clean energy due to heightened worldwide energy trends difficult to predict. Despite that, Taiwan and biomass power projects in Japan. environmental concerns A power generation business that will grow by 7 times over 10 years*2 however, the trend towards decarbonization is In the field of telecommunications, improved data • Expanded demand for privatization (PPP and PFI) of public *1 Percentage of power generation portfolio made up of gas-fired and renewable services and businesses progressing irreversibly, and the rise in the use of natural transmission and processing-related infrastructure is energy. Portfolio currently contains no coal-fired energy asset, and the company is committed to avoid their inclusion going forward. • Revolutionary changes in business environment due to the gas, LNG and renewable energies is expected to continue. becoming more and more important due to the increased *2 Expected power generation portfolio in FY2021 compared to FY2012 advancement of the 5Ds*3 In response to these changes in the business use of 5G transmissions, AI and IoT in developed • Expertise and relationships with blue-chip customers in the *3 Mainly refers to the 5Ds-Depopulation, Decarbonization, Decentralization, environment, we are integrating the knowledge that we countries and rising high-speed communication demands Deregulation and Digitalization energy sector from integrated LNG business (gas field development, liquefaction, transport, and loading) gained from working with LNG and power generation in emerging countries. We manage a large-scale data Risks conducted since the 1970s businesses in order to offer integrated businesses that center in Japan and are aiming to expand our businesses • Economic stagnation due to increasing protectionism • Enhanced business aptitude and capabilities regarding handle everything from LNG procurement to the in the field by taking part in a new telecom tower business Gas-to-Power projects thanks to combining our energy business • Tighter environmental regulations around the globe (e.g. introduction of a carbon tax) construction and management of receiving terminals in Myanmar among other initiatives. and power generation business units • Operational know-how and technological expertise acquired • Delays in system development on the assumption of and power plants in emerging countries in Asia. In the Our mission is to develop sophisticated social through active participation and deep involvement from the advancing privatization U.S., we are promoting cutting-edge gas-fired power infrastructure that promises reliability, safety, and construction phase to actual management of the business • Shortened business and product lifecycles due to using shale gas with the dual aim of achieving stable comfort. To fulfill this mission, we will cooperate with • Speedy project delivery which leverages business acumen advancements in IT technology power supplies while reducing the burden on the excellent partners in Japan and overseas who share our and networks established with government organizations environment. In the field of renewable energy, we are values, contributing to industrialization in different steadily expanding our businesses by applying countries around the world. Looking Back at the Year Ended March 2020 As a result of the start and stable Change in Gross Profit Asset Portfolio operation of new and existing solar (Billions of yen) Current assets Non-current assets Gas-ﬁred power generation businesses Renewable energy businesses power plants in Japan and overseas 40.0 (Gas to Power) (solar power plants, wind power plants, biomass) 25.7 We are focused on harnessing the knowledge we have gained We will make use of the knowledge and experience that we have as well as the recognition of some 18.7 Assets at Assets at from developing the Gas-To-Power project in Indonesia to acquired through our participation in solar power generation capital gains on the transfer of a 20.0 end of FY2018 end of FY2019 develop new projects in countries that want to convert to business in Japan and overseas; wind power generation business in portion of equity interest, the division 284.5 263.2 alternative fuels, especially emerging countries in Asia. We are Europe, the U.S., and Taiwan; and biomass power generation greatly outperformed the forecast at 0 FY2018 FY2019 billion yen billion yen also engaged in developing and operating highly efficient business in Japan, to accelerate our expansion into new power the beginning of the year. (Results) (Results) gas-fired power plants in response to U.S. demand shifting from sources and initiatives in regions where we expect further growth. coal-fired electricity generation to gas-fired. Transmission infrastructure businesses Investments and Loans and Asset Change in Profit for the Year (Attributable Gas-related businesses (LNG receiving terminal, (telecom towers, data centers) to Owners of the Company) and ROA Core Operating Cash Flow Replacement (Investment Recovery) under Medium-term Management Plan 2020 downstream gas businesses) By combining the knowledge we have accumulated in the field of Profit for the Year Forecast ROA We will install LNG receiving terminals in countries and regions in information transmission through Nissho Electronics Corporation and Main Investments and Loans (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) which we can anticipate stable, long term LNG demand growth, our involvement in large-scale data center businesses with our 3.5% • IPP business in the USA 20.0 4.0 20.0 and we will also participate in downstream gas businesses. expertise that covers everything from development to management 14.9 • Renewable energy businesses in Japan and overseas 2.1% Furthermore we plan to expand our business supplying natural in PPP/PFI schemes, we are accelerating our involvement in 9.6 • Telecom tower business in Myanmar gas to industrial end-users in Vietnam, together with our communications infrastructure businesses in various countries around 10.0 5.8 2.0 10.0 Investments and Loans: ¥48.0 billion Japanese partners, and accelerate the development of new the world aimed at satisfying growing data transmission and 3.5 3.4 projects in other emerging countries in Asia. processing demands. This is exemplified by our participation in a Main Assets Replaced (Investment Recovery) telecom tower business in Myanmar. 0 FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 0 0 FY2018 FY2019 • Sale of renewable energy in Japan and overseas (Results) (Results) (Forecast) (Results) (Results) • Sale of oil and gas interests Total amount recovered ¥19.5 billion 74 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 75 HOW WE GET THERE Division Business Report Business Map Metals & Mineral Canada • Copper business Resources Division Russia Coal e/copper Iron or We will optimize our asset portfolio to provide stable • Coal trading earnings resilient to market fluctuations by strengthening Industrial minerals existing businesses and developing new ventures. Japan / Asia U.S.A CBMM Niobium Mine (Brazil) rals ne mi • Industrial minerals business al stri Nickel u Ind Ferro Philippines ust rial allo • Nickel Aluminum/ mine rals/niob ys alumina/coal ium /In business d Australia Brazil Masaaki Bito South Africa Indonesia • Coal business • Iron ore business Managing Executive Officer, COO, • Chromium business • Coal business • Alumina business • Niobium business Metals & Mineral Resources Division Products created using 3D metal printers Strengths External Environment Growth Strategy Sole general trading company Opportunities The main themes of MTP 2020 are establishing a stable Japan and emerging countries. with coal mine operations know-how • Trends in demand for mineral resources, steel, and industrial source of earnings resistant to market volatility, and Third, for our upstream interests, we will build an asset materials in emerging countries contributing to an environmentally-friendly low-carbon portfolio that will generate profits even amidst a market • Building on our accumulated expertise as owner-operator of an Australian coal mine by developing other Sojitz-owned • Demand for new products arising from strengthened and society, as called for by the international community. We downturn by improving the efficiency of our existing mines and venturing into the contract mining business revised environmental regulations have established three growth strategies to propel us projects and replacing them with higher quality assets. • Increased demand for innovations and new materials which contribute to the development of a sustainable society towards these goals. Although the industries and products this division Stable earnings from businesses such as Metal One, • Increased demand for environmentally friendly businesses, First, we will venture into new business areas aimed at handles in Japan and overseas are being affected by one of the world‘s largest steel-based general trading companies such as recycling and by-product management responding to medium to long-term societal needs and reduced production and impeded distribution due to • Increasing our stable earnings by expanding our business in Risks environmental changes. the spread of COVID-19, we will endeavor to smoothly growing markets and capturing new demand • Fluctuations in market prices and exchange rates resulting in Second, we will endeavor to satisfy the needs of our resume activities after the pandemic, respond to Venturing into new businesses falling revenues clients by strengthening offerings such as products and changes in the future and pursue and seize • Arising geopolitical risks, such as resource nationalism and businesses that reduce the burden on the environment. opportunities for earnings. • Develop new applications for our strongest products and trade friction between the U.S. and China develop businesses in the metal recycling market (urban We will aim to maintain and expand trade targeted at • China‘s economic slowdown resulting in metal resources and mining) in order to establish a sustainable society. products price slump • Substitute products and strengthened regulations resulting in lower product competitiveness Acquiring high-quality Increasing stable earnings Venturing into new businesses • The global trend towards stringent environmental regulations, coking coal and developing through Metal One and other Dealing in niobium has been one of our such as a carbon tax a contract mining business mid-downstream ventures strengths in the steelmaking field. As part In order to achieve sustainable growth and Our division owns a 40% stake in one of of our drive to develop new applications address the growing global environmental the world’s largest general steel trading for niobium, in June 2018, we signed an Looking Back at the Year Ended March 2020 awareness, we took steps to rebalance our companies, Metal One, which we founded agreement with CBMM (Companhia coal portfolio by replacing thermal coal together with Mitsubishi Corporation. Brasileira de Metalurgia e Mineração) and The division performed worse than Change in Gross Profit Asset Portfolio Toshiba Infrastructure Systems & Solutions interests with high-quality coking coal, as Through close collaboration and planned due to declining conditions in (Billions of yen) Current assets Non-current assets with our acquisition of the Gregory Crinum providing support, we strive to create to jointly develop anode material for use in the coal market and sluggish 50.0 37.6 coal mine in Australia. Making use of the synergy between Metal One and Sojitz in lithium-ion batteries for electric vehicles. mine‘s existing infrastructure, and our the metal products business. We have also We are currently working towards the early conditions in the iron and steel market. 20.4 Assets at Assets at accumulated expertise as the sole general founded JAMPT Corporation as new stage of commercial production, through 25.0 end of FY2018 end of FY2019 which we hope to contribute society by trading company to operate its own mine, midstream and downstream businesses, 464.6 443.1 we will venture into contract mining in which are more resistant to market reducing the burden on the environment. billion yen billion yen surrounding mines, a new business model fluctuations compared to upstream Furthermore, the resource recycling 0 FY2018 FY2019 that will be resilient to market fluctuations. investments. Commencing operations in business is expected to experience (Results) (Results) October 2018, JAMPT is Japan‘s first 3D massive market growth as the drive Investments and Loans and Asset metal printing business which covers the towards a sustainable society continues. Change in Profit for the Year (Attributable The Metals & Mineral Resources Division to Owners of the Company) and ROA Core Operating Cash Flow Replacement (Investment Recovery) under entire process from manufacturing metal Medium-term Management Plan 2020 powders to assimilating metal products. has thus positioned the metal recycling Profit for the Year Forecast ROA The potential of the 3D metal printing (urban mining) market as a focus area, and Main Investments and Loans (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) technology is driven by increasing in addition to recovering precious metals 7.0% 26.9 • Coking coal business in Australia 50.0 8.0 30.0 demand for high-precision products, such from spent catalysts in existing vehicles • CAPEX and waste electronic substrates, we aim to 30.5 4.4% 16.6 as aerospace engine components and 20.1 Investments and Loans: ¥28.0 billion medical implants, etc. develop metal recycling businesses that 25.0 4.0 15.0 target IT devices, electronic vehicles and Main Assets Replaced (Investment Recovery) lithium-ion batteries for electronic vehicles. 3.0 • Sale of thermal coal interests 0 FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 0 0 FY2018 FY2019 Total amount recovered ¥8.5 billion (Results) (Results) (Forecast) (Results) (Results) 76 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 77 HOW WE GET THERE Division Business Report Germany Business Map • European chemical marketing and distribution company Chemicals Division (solvadis deutschland gmbh) China • Rare earths Under the basic policy of further strengthening our Japan, China, Asia already successful areas of business, we will pursue earths • Plastic resin re steady growth for our five main business pillars as Ra Methanol business (Kaltim U.S.A. we seek the sixth pillar of our division. Methanol Industri in Indonesia) • C5 and India Petroleum resin • Industrial salt Rare earths Asia Industrial salt Kyosuke Sasaki Executive Officer, COO, Chemicals Division • Methanol • Rare earths Industrial salt (India) Strengths External Environment Growth Strategy Customer base of about 5,000 companies Opportunities The supply chain for chemicals covers a broad range, stands at a major turning point. Market needs are also • Growing global demand for chemicals accompanying and due to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, the continuing to change, with consumer demand Wide variety of products and materials economic growth in emerging countries automotive industry and other industries are suffering expanding due to the growing number of • Emergence of new supply chains due to changes in resource from a temporary drastic drop in demand. Market middle-income earners in emerging countries, especially Track record of over 40 years in handling rare earths supply structures conditions for various products are also trending those in Asia, and the development of new products and • A wide variety of products, materials, and business proposal • Development of new materials to meet the progress and capabilities advancement of environmentally-conscious needs at the downwards due to a drop in crude oil prices. However technologies in response to environmental issues. While • An extensive customer network of over 5,000 companies global level by levering our strengths, namely our business improving the strengths of existing businesses, we will around the world foundation and marketing functions, we are putting also deepen our involvement in SDGs and ESG Risks • Top-level business scale and name recognition among speedy and flexible measures in place so that we are initiatives and develop new businesses that utilize new general trading companies • Reduction in demand and/or transaction volume of some products due to tighter safety and environmental regulations ready once economic activity resumes and demand technologies in the fields of plastic recycling and • Operational know-how accumulated through our gas chemical manufacturing business in certain countries recovers in China and elsewhere. biochemicals. • A plastic resin business with a global sales and procurement • Pressure on earnings due to volatile market conditions and The supply structure of the global chemicals industry network fluctuations in foreign exchange rates • Stable price and quality along with short lead times to our • Reduced demand and stagnation of economic activity Indian industrial salt business customers throughout Asia worldwide due to the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic • Consistent C5 and petroleum resin business value chain spanning production to sales in the U.S. Looking Back at the Year Ended March 2020 European chemical marketing Plastics Business in Asia Green Polyethylene Profits for the year were largely equal to the Change in Gross Profit Asset Portfolio and distribution company To meet the increase in environmental Because sugarcane absorbs CO2 during figures for the previous fiscal year. However (Billions of yen) 46.4 Current assets Non-current assets (solvadis deutschland gmbh) needs in Asia, we are aiming to participate growth, green polyethylene is considered the division performed weakly due to 50.0 43.2 In 2017, we acquired solvadis deutschland in more recycling businesses and expand to emit zero net CO2 when burned as a market conditions for our leading products gmbh, a Europe-based chemical sales of environmentally-friendly materials, waste material. In 2012, Sojitz Pla-Net Assets at Assets at marketing and distribution company with green polyethylene and other materials acquired the sales rights for this product such as methanol and sluggishness in 25.0 end of FY2018 end of FY2019 a long history in sulfur, sulfuric acid, and that the company has been handling for in Asia and Oceania from Braskem S.A. in foreign trading businesses, mainly in China, 298.6 269.0 methanol. solvadis handles as much as 1 many years. We will enhance the proposals Brazil. We are striving to facilitate the caused by a decline in vehicle sales. 0 FY2018 FY2019 billion yen billion yen million tons of methanol and one of its we offer to brand owners and promote the spread of environmentally friendly (Results) (Results) subsidiaries that provides a stable supply use of environmentally-conscious packaging materials through collaboration of necessary materials to chemical materials. A large type mold with retail businesses such as major Change in Profit for the Year (Attributable Investments and Loans and Asset manufacturing company for automotive convenience stores and making proposals Replacement (Investment Recovery) under manufacturers in the Höchst Industrial to Owners of the Company) and ROA Core Operating Cash Flow parts in India that we have invested in is to major brand holders. Medium-term Management Plan 2020 Park in Germany. In April 2020, as part of Profit for the Year Forecast ROA our efforts to enhance our distribution using its sophisticated technological (Billions of yen) （%） (Billions of yen) Main Investments and Loans functions, we began the operation of capabilities to support the growing 20.0 3.0% 3.3% 4.0 20.0 • European chemical marketing and facilities to solidify molten sulfur-which is number of cars and motorcycles being distribution company manufactured there, thereby contributing 11.4 used as a raw material for resins, textiles, 9.0 9.3 10.2 fertilizer, and tires-at our logistics center in to the vehicle industry in India and the Investments and Loans: ¥8.0 billion 10.0 5.0 2.0 10.0 Belgium. Through this, we expect to be surrounding regions. Main Assets Replaced (Investment Recovery) able to provide a stable supply to the region and increase our trade volume. 0 FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 0 0 FY2018 FY2019 (Results) (Results) (Forecast) (Results) (Results) Total amount recovered ¥8.0 billion 78 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 79 HOW WE GET THERE Division Business Report ●Fertilizer production and sales business ●Feed production, grain port Business Map ●Flour milling, ingredient wholesaling, bakery business ●Sugar refinery business, confectionery business Foods & Agriculture ●Tuna farming, processing and wholesale business Business Division China Japan • Sugar refinery business, confectionery business • Tuna processing and • Tuna farming business wholesale business We will grow our prime assets to create a sustainable • Vegetable farming business business model, contributing to higher living standards t, corn, soymeal Whea by providing reliable and safe food. Atlas Fertilizer Corporation (Philippines) Japan / China / ●● ● Southeast Asia ● ● Philippines • Fertilizer production and sales business ● Sugar • Flour milling, ingredient wholesaling, Koji Izutani Myanmar ● ● ● ● ● and bakery business ●●● Sugar, wheat Managing Executive Officer, COO • Fertilizer sales Foods & Agriculture Business Division business Vietnam • Fertilizer production and sales business Thailand • Flour milling and grain port business • Fertilizer production • Feed manufacture and sale business Dalian Global Food Corporation and sales business (China) Strengths External Environment Growth Strategy Strong business foundation in Southeast Asia Opportunities Southeast Asia’s rising populations and economic milling company, a food ingredients wholesaling • Diversification of lifestyles in Asia development has brought more diverse lifestyles and an company, and a bakery company in the Philippines. We Top class in compound chemical fertilizers in three countries • Increase in demand for foodstuffs due to population growth increase in demand for foodstuffs. Our division aims to have also been operating a flour milling company in and economic development in Southeast Asia strengthen and increase our earnings capacity through Vietnam since 2007. Tuna value chain—fish-farming to processing and sales • Growing concern for the traceability and safety of food and diverse businesses related to food and agriculture, For our marine products business, we will strengthen • Developing a wide range of businesses mainly in Southeast the preservation of food resources Asia, such as grain port operations, flour milling, bakery allowing Sojitz to convert the rapid changes in this our tuna value chain, from farming to processing and products, fertilizer production, and feed production Risks region into further growth. sales, by further developing our processing and • Establishing a top-class market share in the production and • Price fluctuations due to an imbalance between supply and We operate market-leading fertilizer businesses in wholesale business in Japan and overseas. In terms of sale of compound chemical fertilizer in Thailand, the demand caused by climate change and changes in Thailand, the Philippines, and Vietnam as part of our our feed business, we operate the grain port business Philippines, and Vietnam government policies • Developing a global tuna value chain based on the tuna agribusiness operations, and are utilizing this expertise and, a feed manufacturing business in Vietnam. We • Environmental impact on food production farming business in Japan and the wholesale processing to develop businesses in Myanmar and other intend to leverage these businesses to meet rising • Pressure on business revenue due to sudden fluctuations in business in China exchange rates surrounding countries. We will also venture into other animal protein demands in the future. agriculture-related businesses fields. In addition, we are cooperating with other divisions In the food business, in addition to the sale of finished that have Vietnam-based businesses in areas such as goods and the supply of raw materials such as wheat, we prepared food, wholesale food, and convenience stores. are focusing on developing other businesses such as We will also partner with leading local businesses to flour-milling, bakery and confectionery production in promote global business development primarily in Looking Back at the Year Ended March 2020 Asia. More specifically, in 2017, we established a flour Vietnam and the ASEAN region. The division’s performance was weak Change in Gross Profit Asset Portfolio due to the impairment of the marine (Billions of yen) Current assets Non-current assets products business in Japan as well 20.0 16.4 14.2 as bad weather and low sales in Assets at Assets at fertilizer businesses overseas. 10.0 end of FY2018 end of FY2019 125.1 128.9 billion yen billion yen 0 FY2018 FY2019 (Results) (Results) Strengthening our fertilizer Expanding marine products Strategic initiatives in Vietnam business and developing processing and wholesale In September 2018, Sojitz formed a Change in Profit for the Year (Attributable Investments and Loans and Asset into surrounding areas strategic business alliance with the Pan In December 2018, we increased our to Owners of the Company) and ROA Core Operating Cash Flow Replacement (Investment Recovery) under Group, a major food and agribusiness firm We aim to expand sales by implementing investment in a tuna processing and Medium-term Management Plan 2020 in Vietnam. We are striving to accelerate Profit for the Year Forecast ROA detailed promotion strategies for each wholesale company in China. Along with Main Investments and Loans region and each type of agri-products in our tuna-farming business at Sojitz Tuna our business expansion in Vietnam and (Billions of yen) （%） (Billions of yen) 1.8% • CAPEX Farm Takashima, we will work to expand overseas by combining the Pan Group‘s 6.0 2.0 6.0 5.2 Thailand, the Philippines, and Vietnam, • Affiliated food company in Vietnam and by increasing exports to neighboring sales while we collaborate with leading business foundation with technology from 1.1% Sojitz‘s network of Japanese companies 3.0 3.0 Investments and Loans: ¥9.0 billion regions. We will also venture into fish-processing wholesalers in each country 3.0 2.3 1.0 3.0 agriculture-related businesses by where there is demand, such as Japan, and customer base. 1.4 Main Assets Replaced (Investment Recovery) capitalizing on the long-standing China, Europe, and the U.S. • Sale of shares held initiatives of our fertilizer business, which 0 FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 0 0 FY2018 FY2019 has firmly established roots in local areas. Total amount recovered ¥4.5 billion (Results) (Results) (Forecast) (Results) (Results) 80 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 81 HOW WE GET THERE Division Business Report ●Supply base for demand in Japan ●Groundwork for demand in Asia Business Map Retail & Lifestyle Business Division Lumber ● Lumber, veneer ● ● Aiming to bring prosperity and convenience ● Apparel ● Beef, pork to people’s lives, we will pursue a variety Domestic plywood of businesses with a global perspective. Outside a MINISTOP store ● ● in Vietnam Woodchip ● Japan Myanmar Lumber, plywood • Domestic plywood sale business • ASEAN retail • Investment in and management business ● of shopping centers Hiroto Murai • Textiles business • General commodities and lifestyle business Executive Officer, COO, Vietnam (consumer goods) Retail & Lifestyle Business Division • Wholesale foods business • Brand business (Sojitz GMC, Sojitz Infinity) • ASEAN retail business • Wholesale distribution of building • Household paper and Industrial materials business paper business Meat-One Project Strengths External Environment Growth Strategy A network and customer base established over many years Opportunities As a result of the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, business, we are building a food distribution platform • Increase in domestic demand accompanying an expansion of lockdowns and states of emergency were declared that includes four-temperature warehouse businesses, Track record in management of shopping centers the middle-income segment due to economic development worldwide, leading to a sharp drop in consumption. The convenience store businesses and daily prepared food in China and the ASEAN region Top market leader for North American beef imports situation also triggered great changes in lifestyles and businesses. At the same time, we are developing food • Rising demand for Japanese technologies to improve and plywood in Japan productivity and to address the higher labor costs that stem consumption trends, and it can be considered to be an wholesale businesses in Thailand and Myanmar. • Networks and customer bases established over many years from labor shortages important turning point that shows that consumers’ tastes Furthermore, we entered the household paper and throughout Asia • Rising interest in Japan’s food culture (including washoku), and needs are becoming more diverse than ever before. industrial paper product business in Vietnam and are and westernization of food • Food and retail businesses developed to meet the needs The Retail & Lifestyle Business Division is focused on contributing to the lifestyles of the Vietnamese people appropriate to each ASEAN country’s development • Greater emphasis placed on sustainable procurement of lumber resources amidst growing environmental awareness customer-based business in the consumer market, by satisfying the need for paper products that • Expertise in management and investment to increase the and we will continue to deploy a variety of businesses accompanies the country’s modernization. value of shopping centers Risks • Top-level market position for plywood in Japan aimed at creating more prosperous lifestyles and In terms of shopping center management, we have • Revisions to legal and regulatory systems in Asian countries providing greater convenience. established a business model based on the shift in • A supply base of consumer goods and industrial materials • Cost increases due to stricter food quality control in Asia The key elements of our future growth strategy consumer trends from the tangible (product-oriented) to suitable for diversifying lifestyles • Pressure on earnings from business/trading due to drastic • Top market shares in importing live cattle, horses, and frozen fluctuations in foreign exchange rates include both expanding businesses, and strengthening the intangible (experience-oriented), which utilizes our North American beef in Japan the functions we can provide to our customers in the expertise in managing facilities in Japan, and adds more • Increase in risks related to human rights and the environment issues due to expansion of manufacturing businesses ASEAN region, which is experiencing continued value to our and other stores. We will use the economic growth. know-how acquired in Japan to deploy our businesses in Looking Back at the Year Ended March 2020 In Vietnam, after entering the food wholesaling other countries. Our key businesses such as our consumer Change in Gross Profit Asset Portfolio goods distribution business remained (Billions of yen) Current assets Non-current assets Retail businesses in ASEAN Shopping center management business strong. Although our paper business 50.0 38.7 35.5 We are developing food retail businesses that meet the needs The core of the business is Sojitz Commerce Development overseas and our building material business of each ASEAN country’s stage of development. Our focus is on Corporation, which has built a solid track record in shopping Assets at Assets at in Japan performed sluggishly due to 25.0 developing four businesses in Vietnam: processing and center operation and has accumulated plenty of know-how end of FY2018 end of FY2019 production of prepared food and processed meats, about adding value since its founding in 2001. In November market conditions, profit on sales for our 395.7 370.3 four-temperature controlled logistics (ambient temperature, 2018 the corporation obtained 100% of the trust beneficiary real estate was higher than expected. Thus 0 FY2018 FY2019 billion yen billion yen fixed temperature, chilled, and frozen), wholesale food and rights for Pieri Moriyama. It also obtained 20% of the trust the division’s profit for the year was largely (Results) (Results) consumer goods, and retail (convenience stores). We are beneficiary rights for Nasu Garden Outlet in May 2019. We aim the same as in the previous fiscal year. working to improve quality of life by responding to the to help invigorate the local community through our shopping Investments and Loans and Asset expectations and interests of local communities. center operations for all the centers we manage. Replacement (Investment Recovery) under Change in Profit for the Year (Attributable Medium-term Management Plan 2020 to Owners of the Company) and ROA Core Operating Cash Flow Household paper and Industrial paper business Meat-One Project Main Investments and Loans In June 2018, we invested in Saigon Paper Corporation, a major In February 2018, we established the marketing company Profit for the Year Forecast ROA • Investment in and management of paper manufacturer in Vietnam, to enter the country‘s household Meat-One, together with multiple companies involved in raw (Billions of yen) （%） (Billions of yen) shopping centers in Japan 1.6% paper and Industrial paper business. We plan to address rising meat procurement and sales, meat processing, and distribution. 10.0 2.0 10.0 • ASEAN retail business 1.4% 7.5 7.4 demand by investing in greater production capacity and Meat-One combines the expertise and functions of the 6.0 5.5 • Paper manufacturing businesses in Vietnam efficiency. Additionally, we are expanding our sales channels by participating companies, allowing the companies to make use of 5.7 • Biomass power generation business utilizing the diverse network of lifestyle businesses that we have each other‘s procurement, production, and sales networks to 5.0 1.0 5.0 Investments and Loans: ¥10.0 billion cultivated in Vietnam. provide safe, reliable, and delicious processed meat products at competitive prices to consumers in Japan and overseas. 0 0 0 Main Assets Replaced (Investment Recovery) FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 FY2018 FY2019 (Results) (Results) (Forecast) (Results) (Results) • Sale of Japanese real estate Total amount recovered ¥6.5 billion 82 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 83 HOW WE GET THERE Division Business Report Business Map Industrial Infrastructure & Urban Development Division Japan • Domestic real estate business • J-REIT management business We will contribute to society by enhancing the value • Comprehensive living support business chain covering all stages from asset development and ownership to sales, asset management, operation and Indonesia, Vietnam, Thailand, India, related services and optimizing the performance of the Philippines and Domestic real estate businesses other emerging countries each function. • Overseas industrial park businesses • Overseas urban infrastructure development business Yu Mizuike COO Industrial Infrastructure & Urban Development Division Daycare management business Strengths External Environment Growth Strategy Ability to build infrastructure and develop products Opportunities The Industrial Infrastructure & Urban Development property management. We also intend to strengthen our • Accelerating relocation and expansion of manufacturing Division will take advantage of the experience, networks initiatives when it comes to developing new assets and • Ability to build infrastructure gained over many years of bases to Asian countries due to revisions in global supply and know-how it has acquired through many years spent life solution-related businesses in response to changes in experience; ability to develop market-oriented products, chains cultivated through our housing development business developing industrial parks, housing, and other urban the times such as work style revolutions and SDGs. • Demand in Japanese society for women‘s participation in the workforce and solutions to the daycare availability problem; infrastructure businesses in order to build a value chain Overseas, to help manufacturing companies expand Proprietary service with attention to detail demand for talent development and new job/industry that covers the full range from asset development and abroad, we will continue to concentrate on developing creation in Asian countries ownership to asset sales, management, operation and new industrial parks with a focus on Asia. At the same • Contributing to the development of industrial infrastructure and lifestyle environments by using proprietary functions, Risks related services. We will optimize all of their functions so time, in order to create more diverse sources of earnings, expertise, and services acquired through our industrial parks they perform at peak levels and thereby create a we will enhance the various kinds of services that we offer and urban development business • Shrinkage of market associated with population decline in Japan well-balanced earnings foundation. Going forward, we will to corporations which have moved overseas, such as Promoting integration in the real estate business • Risks associated with revisions to laws and other regulatory continue to respond to the changes and needs of the logistics, IT support and the stable supply of core systems in Asian countries; risk of fluctuations in business times and contribute to the development of society. infrastructure such as electricity, water and sewage at • Enhancing the value chain incorporating all businesses from conditions, exchange rates, and interest rates asset development and ownership to asset sales, management, In Japan, we aim to expand our J-REIT management existing industrial parks. Additionally, in Asia with its • The effects of the decelerating growth of the global operation and related services, with all services provided from economy on Asian economies business and the ownership and development of growing middle class in particular, we are concentrating the customer’s perspective. • The effects of future changes in work and lifestyle habits on profit-earning real estate while focusing on value chains of on smart cities and other urban development businesses the real estate industry asset management, warehousing and bridge funding, and that will help us secure base earnings in the future. Looking Back at the Year Ended March 2020 The division performed even better Change in Gross Profit Asset Portfolio Domestic real estate businesses Overseas industrial park businesses than planned thanks to increased (Billions of yen) Current assets Non-current assets We intend to expand all of our businesses by enhancing the Primarily in the emerging countries of Asia, which are sales of industrial parks overseas. 10.0 7.0 value chain covering all stages from asset development and competitive sites for production and attractive locations for 6.0 ownership to sales, asset management, operation and related consumer sales, we use our knowledge about industrial park Assets at Assets at 5.0 services and optimizing the performance of each function. development, sales, and management businesses to develop end of FY2018 end of FY2019 and manage the industrial parks, thus allowing manufacturing 72.5 77.2 companies to concentrate on running their own businesses. billion yen billion yen This helps to create a foundation for development not only for 0 FY2018 FY2019 (Results) (Results) the manufacturing industry but for the region as well. Change in Profit for the Year (Attributable Investments and Loans and Asset J-REIT management business Overseas urban infrastructure business to Owners of the Company) and ROA Core Operating Cash Flow Replacement (Investment Recovery) under Medium-term Management Plan 2020 We are increasing the total amount of assets under the In response to the issue of urban configuration, which Profit for the Year Forecast ROA management of Nippon REIT Investment Corporation (NRT), our accompanies the economic growth of emerging countries in 2.0% Main Investments and Loans integrated, listed REIT, and improving the quality of its portfolio particular, we partner with the most suitable companies in order (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) • For-rent condominium business to expand our stable earnings foundation. Through Sojitz REIT to carry out development projects that contribute to the growth 4.0 1.5% 2.0 6.0 4.4 • Industrial park business in Indonesia Advisors K.K., which is responsible for management of the assets, of the countries and the region. In Deltamas City in Indonesia, Investments and Loans: ¥11.0 billion we are carefully identifying properties and increasing their value we are driving the creation of a city for 250,000 people, making 2.0 1.5 1.0 3.0 via our proprietary engineering technology. As of March 31, use of the strengths of Japanese companies to equip the city 1.1 1.5 0.5 Main Assets Replaced (Investment Recovery) 2020, six years after NRT was listed, the company’s assets under with schools for Japanese people overseas, large shopping • For-rent condominiums management totaled around ¥250.0 billion, and we are aiming malls, and housing. 0 FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 0 0 FY2018 FY2019 Total amount recovered ¥8.5 billion for ¥300.0 billion in the medium term. (Results) (Results) (Forecast) (Results) (Results) 84 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 85 FINANCIAL SECTION 11-Year Financial Summary For the years ended March 31, 2020 to 2010 Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars (Note 1) Japanese GAAP Millions of yen 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2020 Years ended March 31 2012 (Note 4) 2011 2010 Operating Results: Operating Results: Revenue............................................. ¥1,754,825 ¥1,856,190 ¥1,816,459 ¥1,555,349 ¥1,658,072 ¥1,809,701 ¥1,803,104 ¥1,747,750 ¥2,006,649 $16,099,311 Net sales (Total trading transactions)............................... ¥4,494,237 ¥4,014,639 ¥3,844,418 Gross profit....................................... 220,494 240,956 232,380 200,685 180,739 197,688 198,221 187,245 217,066 2,022,880 Gross trading profit....................... 231,566 192,725 178,203 Profit before tax................................ 75,528 94,882 80,343 57,955 44,269 52,584 44,033 28,052 58,457 692,917 Operating income......................... 64,522 37,519 16,128 Profit for the year (Attributable to owners of the parent)............. 60,821 70,419 56,842 40,760 36,526 33,075 27,250 13,448 (1,040) 557,990 Ordinary income............................ 62,228 45,316 13,702 Core earnings (Note 2)................... 68,302 93,015 90,713 54,076 41,603 66,354 68,018 38,395 65,812 626,623 Net income (loss)........................... (3,649) 15,981 8,794 Core earnings (Note 1)................. 64,943 41,889 14,422 Net cash provided by operating activities...................... 40,510 96,476 98,812 857 99,939 39,109 46,997 55,124 88,723 371,651 Net cash provided by Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities.................... 91,600 67,863 107,222 investing activities....................... (35,669) (42,200) (86,407) (32,179) (33,910) (13,792) (24,469) (11,652) (42,280) (327,238) Net cash provided by (used in) Net cash used in financing investing activities..................... (42,287) (19,903) 28,439 activities......................................... (12,164) (74,907) (13,052) (4,029) (114,695) (42,600) (30,931) (56,177) (29,530) (111,596) Net cash used in financing Free cash flow................................... 4,840 54,276 12,404 (31,321) 66,028 25,317 22,528 43,472 46,443 44,403 activities....................................... (36,376) (72,054) (102,597) Free cash flow................................. 49,313 47,960 135,661 Balance Sheet Data (As of March 31): Balance Sheet Data Total assets........................................ ¥2,230,285 ¥2,297,059 ¥2,350,351 ¥2,138,466 ¥2,056,670 ¥2,297,358 ¥2,220,236 ¥2,150,050 ¥2,190,692 $20,461,330 (As of March 31): Total equity attributable to Total assets...................................... 2,120,596 2,116,960 2,160,918 owners of the parent .................. 579,123 618,295 586,464 550,513 520,353 550,983 459,853 382,589 329,962 5,313,055 Net assets........................................ 330,471 355,510 377,404 Total equity....................................... 621,898 661,607 625,124 577,970 549,716 590,656 492,959 411,298 355,180 5,705,486 Interest-bearing debt.................... 1,090,542 1,116,301 1,193,517 Interest-bearing debt...................... 893,258 873,321 911,479 925,368 922,699 1,038,769 1,065,276 1,077,007 1,118,046 8,195,027 Net interest-bearing debt............ 647,836 700,607 737,789 Net interest-bearing debt.............. 613,173 584,711 603,449 611,007 571,628 629,556 640,256 643,323 676,337 5,625,440 Yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) Yen Per Share Data: Per Share Data: Basic earnings (losses).................... ¥ 48.91 ¥ 56.34 ¥ 45.44 ¥ 32.58 ¥ 29.20 ¥ 26.44 ¥ 21.78 ¥ 10.75 ¥ (0.83) $0.44 Net income (loss)........................... ¥ (2.92) ¥ 12.77 ¥ 7.08 Total equity attributable to Net assets........................................ 244.52 263.79 281.69 owners of the Company............. 474.97 494.94 468.81 440.06 415.95 440.43 367.58 305.81 263.74 4.35 Dividends (Note 2)........................ 3.00 3.00 2.50 Dividends (Note 3).......................... 17.00 17.00 11.00 8.00 8.00 6.00 4.00 3.00 3.00 0.15 Ratios Ratios ROA (%)............................................. 2.7 3.0 2.5 1.9 1.7 1.5 1.2 0.6 (0.0) ROA (%)........................................... (0.2) 0.7 0.4 ROE (%) (Note 4).............................. 10.2 11.7 10.0 7.6 6.8 6.5 6.5 3.8 (0.3) ROE (%)........................................... (1.1) 4.7 2.6 Equity ratio (%) ................................ 26.0 26.9 25.0 25.7 25.3 24.0 20.7 17.8 15.1 Equity ratio (%)............................... 14.4 15.6 16.3 Net debt equity ratio (DER) Net debt equity ratio (DER) (times)............................................ 1.06 1.0 1.0 1.1 1.1 1.1 1.4 1.7 2.0 (times).......................................... 2.1 2.1 2.1 Consolidated payout ratio (%) Consolidated payout ratio (%) (Notes 3 and 5)............................ 34.8 30.2 24.2 24.6 27.4 22.7 18.4 27.9 — (Note 3)....................................... — 23.5 35.3 Notes: The Group adopted IFRSs in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013 and the date of transaction to IFRSs was April 1, 2011. Notes: 1. Core earnings = Operating income (before provision of allowance for doubtful accounts and 1. The U.S. dollar amounts represent translations of Japanese yen at the approximate exchange rate at March 31, 2020 of ¥109=$1. write-offs) + Interest expenses–net + Dividend income + Equity in earnings 2. Core earnings = Gross profit + Selling, general and administrative expenses (before provision of allowance for doubtful accounts and write-offs) + Net interest of affiliates expenses + Dividend income + Share of profit (loss) of investments accounted for using the equity method 2. The amounts represent the annual dividends per share of common stock of Sojitz Corporation. 3. The amounts represent the annual dividends per share on common stock of Sojitz Corporation. 3. Consolidated payout ratio is calculated based on the number of shares as of March 31, and is 4. Under IFRSs, ROE is return on equity attributable to owners of the parent. not presented for the year ended March 31, 2012 due to the net loss. 5. Consolidated payout ratio is calculated based on the number of shares as of March 31. 4. Figures for the year ended March 31, 2012 include figures for major overseas consolidated subsidiaries for a 15-month accounting period due to the alignment of their fiscal year-ends with that of Sojitz Corporation, the parent company. 86 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 87 FINANCIAL SECTION Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Operations negative for first time. This outcome was a result of the share of profit of investments accounted for using the by lower sales volumes in overseas automobile distributor 1. Overview COVID-19 pandemic, which halted production and other equity method outweighed the benefits of the improved businesses. Profit for the year (attributable to owners of In the year ended March 31, 2020, substantial economic supply-side activities while diminishing demand by balance of other income and expenses stemming from the Company) decreased ¥4,029 million, to ¥2,380 slowdown was seen across the world. Factors behind this restricting the movement of people. the sale of thermal coal interests. million, following a decline in the net of other income and slowdown included trade friction between the United Growth in Asia has previously been supported by After deducting income tax expenses of ¥10,954 expenses in reaction to the sale of automobile-related States and China, deceleration in the economic growth of exports and private consumption. However, there is now million from profit before tax of ¥75,528 million, profit for company in the previous fiscal year. China, unclear progress regarding the United Kingdom’s a sense of concern regarding the possibility of future the year amounted to ¥64,573 million, down ¥10,646 During the year ended March 31, 2020, in our core withdrawal from the European Union, and conditions in growth being stifled by global economic slowdown, million year on year. Profit for the year (attributable to business of automobile sales, market conditions the Middle East. Another major factor was the COVID-19 supply chain disruptions, and limited consumer spending owners of the Company) decreased ¥9,598 million year deteriorated in regions including Thailand, Russia, and pandemic, which resulted in massive restrictions being as the COVID-19 pandemic affects countries throughout on year, to ¥60,821 million. the Philippines in the latter half of the year, and we were placed on the movement of people and goods. the region. Comprehensive loss for the year was recorded ¥2,361 unable to achieve plan targets. However, we are working Governments worldwide are taking steps to minimize the Japan, meanwhile, experienced a modest growth million, decreased ¥57,309 million year on year, to expand new business areas through M&A in promising impacts of this pandemic and bring about a quick trend. However, the Japanese economy took a quick compared with comprehensive income in the previous markets. We are working to increase the value of our conclusion, including countermeasures for combating the downturn after the COVID-19 pandemic resulted in fiscal year, following a decline in financial assets at fair business by strengthening our community-based sales spread of the virus as well as financial and fiscal measures. sluggish external demand and limited consumer value through foreign currency translation differences for and marketing capabilities and after-sales services, as well Despite the anticipated recovery of growth in the spending. foreign operations and other comprehensive income as strengthening functions that incorporate advanced United States in light of factors such as a trade agreement along with lower profit for the period. Comprehensive digital technologies. We are also actively working to with China, a sharp dip was seen in the growth of the U.S. loss for the year (attributable to owners of the Company) strengthen our financing business and build new service 2. Financial Performance economy as the COVID-19 pandemic brought was recorded, ¥4,220 million decreased ¥55,158 million businesses that incorporate advanced digital consumption and corporate activities to a halt. Sojitz Corporation’s consolidated business results for the year on year, compared with comprehensive income for technologies. Meanwhile, Europe faces mounting uncertainty with year ended March 31, 2020 are presented below. the year (attributable to owners of the Company) ¥50,938 regard to the outlook for both economic and political Revenue was down 5.5% year on year, to ¥1,754,825 million in the previous fiscal year. (2) Aerospace & Transportation Project trends. Economic growth struggled due to sluggish million, due to lower revenue in the Chemicals Division, a Revenue was up 28.1% year on year, to ¥35,631 million, demand from China and other countries outside of the result of declines in the transaction volumes of plastic as a result of higher income in aircraft-related 3. Segment Information region and the uncertainty surrounding the United resins and in the price of methanol, and in the Metals & transactions. Profit for the year (attributable to owners of Kingdom’s withdrawal from the European Union. Mineral Resources Division, a result of fall in sales prices in Results by segment are as follows. the Company) decreased ¥2,168 million, to ¥1,794 Meanwhile, the sense of cohesion within the European overseas coal businesses. million, due to a decline in other income stemming from Union was diminished in the face of the COVID-19 Gross profit decreased ¥20,462 million year on year, (1) Automotive impairment losses on Company-owned ships. pandemic. to ¥220,494 million, due to decrease in revenue. Revenue was down 7.1% year on year, to ¥225,276 In the year ended March 31, 2020, we were unable to In China, economic slowdown became more Profit before tax decreased ¥19,354 million year on million, as the acquisition of domestic and overseas achieve plan targets mainly due to impairment losses on pronounced, with the GDP growth rate dropping into the year, to ¥75,528 million, as the declines in gross profit and automobile dealership businesses were counterbalanced Company-owned ships. However, based on our excellent ● Revenue ● Gross Profit ● P  rofit Attributable to Owners of the Company ● Selling, General and Administrative Expenses (Years ended March 31) (Millions of yen) 2019 2020 Employee benefits expenses ................................................................................................................. 96,661 97,909 Traveling expenses ................................................................................................................................... 7,903 6,975 Rent expenses ........................................................................................................................................... 12,102 3,762 Outsourcing expenses ............................................................................................................................ 11,317 10,708 Depreciation and amortization expenses ............................................................................................ 6,612 16,616 Others ......................................................................................................................................................... 38,835 37,270 Total ............................................................................................................................................................. 173,433 173,243 (Note) In accordance with the adoption of IFRS 16, from this consolidated fiscal year, lessee operating lease payments that were previously included and represented within lease expenses will be accounted for as depreciation related to right-of-use assets and interest charges related to lease liabilities. 88 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 89 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Operations track record acting as distributor for commercial aircraft in investments accounted for using the equity method. solar power generation business and the gain on the thermal coal interests. Japan, we are not only importing, exporting, and selling In the year ended March 31, 2020, although the transfer of a portion of equity interest. We are working on In the year ended March 31, 2020, we were unable to machinery related to the aerospace and defense bearing and plant businesses struggled, due to the an energy supply business with a low environmental achieve plan targets due to a decline in the coal market industries, but also actively engaged in business jet contributions of the progress made by the hospital PPP impact with the aim of realizing a sustainable society. and lower steel demand. We are focusing our efforts on services, as well as in our part-out business in which we project in Turkey, overall performance generally Integrated business from LNG procurement to trading and upstream investments in metal resources sell second-hand parts from decommissioned and aged progressed as planned. In addition to handling industrial management of receiving terminals and power such as coal, iron ore, base metals, rare metals and aircraft to airlines and aircraft maintenance companies. In machinery and bearings, we are working to establish a generation plants is being promoted in emerging industrial minerals, as well as transforming our asset addition, beginning with the participation in the operation revenue model that includes facility management services countries, and a shift from coal-fired electricity generation portfolio and creating and promoting businesses to of the Kumamoto Airport in the year ended March 31, in our Public-Private Partnership (PPP) hospital to state-of-the-art gas-fired generation is being promoted establish a stable revenue base that is resilient to market 2020, we are developing airport management business in management project, and creating businesses in the in the United States. In the field of renewable energy, we conditions. In particular, for coal, in order to achieve Japan and overseas, and are aiming to develop airportrelated healthcare field. In the plant business, we are are steadily building up revenue from solar power sustainable growth and address the growing global based peripheral businesses. In the transportation focusing on recycling and environment-related projects, generation at 15 locations around the world, as well as environmental awareness, we are proceeding with the infrastructure business, we are developing businesses in with the collaboration with an engineering company in from on-shore wind power in Europe and sell-off of thermal coal interests in Indonesia and Australia, areas that support regional transportation infrastructure, Thailand, in which we have a financial stake, as a core. In the United States, off-shore wind power in Taiwan, and and are building a balanced portfolio of coking coal such as the construction of a dedicated freight railway anticipation of the arrival of the 5G era, we are working on biomass power generation in Japan. In the field of social interests, including the acquisition of the Gregory Crinum between Delhi and Mumbai in India, and railway-related businesses that make full use of biometric authentication infrastructure, we are participating in a telecommunication coal mine in Australia. We also have global reach in sales, businesses in North America. With regard to marine technology in the field of advanced industry, and in tower project in Myanmar, and will continue to develop processing and distribution of steel products through vessels, we are promoting our business focused on telemedicine and nursing care in the medical field. the infrastructure business to meet the increasing Metal One, one of the world’s largest steel trading handling all sorts of marine vessels, including new and demand for data transmission and processing. companies. secondhand vessels, as well as the marine equipment (4) Energy & Social Infrastructure sales business. Revenue was up 9.7% year on year, to ¥82,009 million, as (5) Metals & Mineral Resources (6) Chemicals a result of an increase in income from overseas gas-fired Revenue was down 8.5% year on year, to ¥350,519 Revenue was down 11.6% year on year, to ¥446,429 (3) Machinery & power generation businesses. Profit for the year million, as a result of fall in sales prices in overseas coal million, as a result of lower transaction volumes of plastic Medical Infrastructure Division (attributable to owners of the Company) rose ¥3,846 businesses. Profit for the year (attributable to owners of resins and declines in the price of methanol. Profit for the Revenue was up 15.6% year on year, to ¥123,725 million, million, to ¥9,632 million, as an increase in gross profit the Company) decreased ¥10,359 million, to ¥20,104 year (attributable to owners of the Company) increased as a result of an increase in industrial machinery counteracted the impacts of a decline in other income million, as the declines in gross profit and share of profit ¥285 million, to ¥9,269 million as the decline in gross transactions. Profit for the year (attributable to owners of due to impairment losses on oil and gas interests. of investments accounted for using the equity method profit was compensated for by lower selling, general and the Company) rose ¥1,804 million, to ¥4,567 million, due During the year ended March 31, 2020, profit outweighed the benefits of the improved balance of administrative expenses. to higher gross profit and an increase in share of profit of increased year on year due to the commencement of other income and expenses stemming from the sale of In the year ended March 31, 2020, we were unable to ● Gross Profit by Segment ● P  rofit by Segment ● ROA and ROE ● Equity Ratio ● N  et Interest-bearing Debt and (Attributable to Owners of the Company) Net DER Note: The equity ratio is calculated based on total equity attributable to owners of the Company. 90 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 91 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Operations achieve plan targets due to a slump in foreign trading, supplying raw materials in Japan and overseas, we are trading of forest products and textiles, and manufacturing to a decrease in other components of equity resulted especially involving China, resulting from market involved in processing businesses, in areas such as containerboard and household paper. By utilizing the primarily from foreign exchange rate and stock price conditions for our primary products and decline in the milling, sugar refining, confectionery, and bread making, network of lifestyle businesses that we have cultivated, fluctuations as well as to acquisition of treasury stock. number of automobiles manufactured. In the methanol as well as conducting sales of food products. In 2017, we and by expanding into new regions, we will respond to Consequently, on March 31, 2020, the current ratio business, which is one of Sojitz’s major business activities, participated in a flour milling company in the Philippines, the demand for improvement in lifestyle foundations and was 161.4%, the long-term debt ratio was 79.1%, and the we trade around 2 million tons of methanol in Asia and and established a flour sales and wholesale company and modernization. equity ratio* was 26.0%. Net interest-bearing debt (total Europe, while operating based on the continuing stable a packaged bread company. interest-bearing debt less cash and cash equivalents and operation of KMI (Indonesia), as well as taking advantage In Vietnam, we are promoting development in food and (9) Industrial Infrastructure & time deposits) totaled ¥613,174 million on March 31, of experience at KMI to create a new gas chemical agriculture-related fields by partnering with leading local Urban Development 2020, ¥28,463 million increase from March 31, 2019. This business. In the plastic resins business, we deal with more businesses. Revenue was up 3.6% year on year, to ¥34,480 million, resulted in the Company’s net debt equity ratio* equaling than 1 million tons of plastic resins for our mainstay because of an increase in real estate transactions. Profit 1.06 times at March 31, 2020. Lease liabilities have been automotive-related and packaging materials concerns, (8) Retail & Lifestyle Business for the year (attributable to owners of the Company) excluded from aforementioned total interest-bearing through our global sales and procurement network Revenue was down 2.2% year on year, at ¥310,274 increased ¥387 million, to ¥1,474 million, as a result of an debt. centered on Sojitz Pla-Net. We are also focusing on million, as the impacts of lower lumber and textile increase in share of profit of investments accounted for * The equity ratio and net debt equity ratio are calculated based on total equity attributable to owners of the Company. handling environment-related products. In addition, we transactions were heavier than the gains from higher using the equity method. are involved in the trade and investment of inorganic meat transactions. Profit for the year (attributable to In the year ended March 31, 2020, although the chemicals and industrial minerals such as C5 resin, which owners of the Company) increased ¥239 million, to domestic business performed poorly, sales exceeded the Next, an analysis of each segment is as follows: is a hydrocarbon-based resin, industrial salt, and rare ¥5,963 million as an increase in other income due to the plan as a result of an increase in sales in the overseas Automotive earths. sale of real estate counteracted the impacts of a decline industrial park business. Internationally, the industrial park At the end of the year, segment assets stood at ¥180,528 in gross profit. business in Deltamas City in Indonesia continued to million, an increase of ¥12,762 million compared to the (7) Foods & Agriculture Business In the year ended March 31, 2020, we were unable to perform well, while we also promoted the development previous year due to an increase of right-of-use assets. Revenue was down 10.2% year on year, to ¥115,219 achieve plan targets due to deteriorated market of smart city and other comprehensive urban million, following lower transactions volumes in overseas conditions and weak sales in the paper-manufacturing infrastructure, such as opening schools for Japanese Aerospace & Transportation Project fertilizer businesses. Profit for the year (attributable to business in Vietnam and building materials business in people overseas and developing housing with Japanese Segment assets at the end of the year were ¥135,099 owners of the Company) decreased ¥915 million, to Japan. We are developing a wide range of businesses companies. In Japan, we worked to expand each million, an increase of ¥4,918 million compared to the ¥1,365 million, as a result of a decline in gross profit and that enrich everyday life and offer greater convenience, business with an awareness of the value chain, including previous year due to an increase of other current assets as impairment loss of fixed assets on domestic marine with customers at the heart of the business. This includes asset management for J-REITs, warehousing bridge funds, a result of advanced aircraft-related funding. products business. the retail business, management of shopping centers, and property management. In the year ended March 31, 2020, we were unable to processed meat business, and forest products, textiles, Machinery & Medical Infrastructure Division achieve plan targets due to impairment loss on domestic and general commodities business. Above all, we are Segment assets stood at ¥123,891 million at the end of 4. Financial Position marine products business, in addition to inclement working on expanding businesses and strengthening the the year, an increase of ¥2,395 million compared to the weather and poor sales in overseas fertilizer business. We functions in the ASEAN region, which is experiencing (1) Consolidated Statement of previous year. operate market-leading fertilizer businesses in Thailand, continued economic growth, and other emerging Financial Position the Philippines, and Vietnam for many years as part of our countries. Particularly, in Vietnam, we are engaged in a Total assets on March 31, 2020, stood at ¥2,230,285 Energy & Social Infrastructure agribusiness operations, and are utilizing this expertise to wide range of businesses related to the domestic and million, down ¥66,774 million from March 31, 2019. This Due to the partial sale of solar power generation business develop business in Myanmar and other surrounding international consumer market, including building a food decrease was primarily a result of a decline in trade and companies in Japan, at the end of the year segment countries. For our foodstuffs business, in addition to distribution platform, strengthening supply bases for other receivables under current assets associated with assets stood at ¥263,172 million, a decrease of ¥21,301 tobacco and chemical product receivables, which offset million compared to the previous year. the increase in usage right assets stemming from the application of IFRS 16—Leases. Metals & Mineral Resources Total liabilities at March 31, 2020, amounted to Segment assets at the end of the year stood at ¥443,113 ¥1,608,387 million, down ¥27,064 million from March 31, million, a decrease of ¥21,452 million compared to the 2019, largely due to a decline in trade and other payables previous year due to a decrease in investment recorded ● Cash Flow (Years ended March 31) (Millions of yen) under current liabilities associated with tobacco and using the equity method resulting from exchange rate 2019 2020 chemical product transactions, a factor that fluctuations. Net cash provided by operating activities ........................................................................................... 96,476 40,510 counterbalanced an increase in lease liabilities following Net cash used in investing activities ...................................................................................................... (42,200) (35,669) the application of IFRS 16—Leases. Chemicals Net cash used in financing activities ..................................................................................................... (74,907) (12,164) Total equity attributable to owners of the Company Due to a drop in chemical and synthetic resin transactions was ¥579,123 million on March 31, 2020, down ¥39,172 overseas leading to a reduction in trade receivables and Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year .............................................................................. 285,687 272,651 million from March 31, 2019. This decline was largely due other receivables, segment assets at the end of the year Free cash flow ............................................................................................................................................ 54,276 4,840 92 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 93 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Operations stood at ¥269,031 million, a decrease of ¥29,543 million within the scope of the cash generated by period against changes in the economic or financial environment relevant business plans, and data from comparable public compared to the previous year. earnings and asset replacement. In addition, we plan to and by keeping the long-term debt ratio at its current companies. make a profit through core cash flow, which is not affected level. Foods & Agriculture Business by short-term changes in working capital, during the As one source of long term funding, Sojitz issued (b) Derivative financial assets and liabilities Segment assets at the end of the year stood at ¥128,896 three years of the Medium-Term Management Plan. straight bonds in the amount of ¥10,000 million in Currency-related derivatives million, an increase of ¥3,780 million compared to the This year, both our core cash flow and free cash flow November 2019. Sojitz will continue to closely monitor The fair values of foreign exchange transactions, spot/ previous year. were in the black thanks to a rise in core operating cash interest rates and market conditions and will consider forward transactions, currency option transactions and flow and continuing favorable recovery through asset additional issues whenever the timing and associated currency swap transactions are calculated based on the Retail & Lifestyle Business replacement. With regard to growth investments, we costs prove advantageous. forward exchange rate as of the closing date. Due to a reduction in trade receivables in tobacco-related made investments of ¥81,000 million in areas including As supplemental sources of procurement flexibility transactions and other receivables, segment assets stood automobile consumer finance companies; solar power, and precautionary liquidity, Sojitz maintains a ¥100,000 Interest rate-related derivatives at ¥370,325 million at the end of the year, a decrease of offshore wind power, and other renewable energy million long-term yen commitment line (which remains The fair value of interest-rate swaps is the present value of ¥25,413 million compared to the previous year. projects; communications towers and other infrastructure; unused) and long-term commitment line totaling US$1.6 future cash flow discounted by an interest rate that airports; and shopping centers. Shareholder returns were billion (of which US$0.26 billion has been used). reflects time to settlement and credit risk. Industrial Infrastructure & Urban Development distributed based on our basic dividend policy in Segment assets at the end of the year stood at ¥77,175 Medium-Term Management Plan 2020: a consolidated Commodity-related derivatives 5. The Significant Estimates and million, an increase of ¥4,632 million compared to the dividend payout ratio of around 30%. We also obtained The fair value of commodity futures transactions is Underlying Assumptions for previous year thanks to an increase of right-of-use assets. treasury stock to enable us to prepare for the impact on calculated using final prices on commodities exchanges Accounting the supply and demand of Company shares, and to as of the fiscal year-end. The fair values of commodity (2) Cash Flow enhance our capital efficiency. The preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements forward transactions, commodity option transactions and In the year ended March 31, 2020, operating activities FY2018 FY2019 MTP 2020 in accordance with IFRSs requires management to make commodity swap transactions are calculated based on 3-year total provided net cash flow of ¥40,510 million, investing Results Results (FY2018–FY2020) judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the the index prices publicly announced at the fiscal year-end. activities used net cash of ¥35,669 million, and financing About application of accounting policies and the reported Core operating activities used net cash of ¥12,164 million. Sojitz ended cash ﬂow*1 ¥79.0bn ¥80.0bn ¥210.0bn amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. (2) Impairment of non-financial assets the year with cash and cash equivalents of ¥272,651 Actual results may differ from such estimates. At each fiscal year end, the Group determines whether Asset Replacement About million, adjusted to reflect foreign currency translation (Investment ¥92.0bn ¥35.0bn Estimates and underlying assumptions thereof are there is any indication of an impairment loss with respect ¥190.0bn adjustments related to cash and cash equivalents. recovery) reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting to the Group's non-financial assets, and, if so, the Group New investments About estimates are recognized in the period in which the estimates the recoverable amount of such assets. ¥(91.0)bn ¥(81.0)bn 1) Cash flows from operating activities and loans others ¥(270.0) bn estimates are revised and in any future period affected. Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, Net cash provided by operating activities amounted to The significant estimates and underlying assumptions of which their useful lives cannot be determined, are ¥40,510 million, consisted of business earnings and Shareholder applied by the Group for the preparation of the tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an Returns others*2 ¥(17.0)bn ¥(33.0)bn dividends received, etc. It was down ¥55,966 million year Consolidated Financial Statements are follow. indication that there may be an impairment with respect on year. thereof. If the carrying amount of an individual asset or a Core cash ﬂow*3 ¥63.0bn ¥1.0bn Positive (1) Fair value of financial instruments cash-generating unit exceeds the recoverable amount, 2) Cash flows from investing activities (a) Equity instruments such carrying amount is reduced to equal the recoverable Net cash used in investing activities totaled ¥35,669 Free cash ﬂow ¥54.0bn ¥5.0bn Positive The fair value of listed shares is the quoted price on an amount and an impairment loss is recognized. million, down ¥6,531 million year on year. Investment exchange. The fair value of unlisted shares is calculated Recoverable amount is either the fair value or the outflows for the acquisition of coking coal interests in *1. Core operating cash flow = Net cash provided by (used in) operating using valuation methods including discounted future cash value in use (whichever is the higher value) after activities – Changes in working capital Australia and investment for telecommunication flow, market prices of comparable companies, net asset deducting disposal costs from individual assets or cash*2. 3-year total and FY2019 results include acquisition of treasury stock. infrastructure business in Myanmar exceeded inflows No figure is provided for the three-year total as the forecast for the FY2020 value, and other valuation methods. Measuring the fair generating units. Fair value is calculated using reasonable dividend has yet to be decided. from the sales of investments. value of unlisted shares involves the use of unobservable estimated prices, obtainable through orderly transactions *3. Core cash flow = Core operating cash flow (excluding changes in working capital) + Investing cash flow (including asset replacement) – Dividends paid inputs such as discount rate and valuation multiples, as between market participants. Value in use is calculated by – Purchase of treasury stock 3) Cash flows from financing activities well as any necessary adjustments including discounts for discounting estimated future cash flow using a pre-tax Net cash used in financing activities amounted to ¥12,164 a lack of liquidity or a non-controlling interest. The discount rate that reflects the current market value in million, largely as a result of dividends paid and purchase (3) Liquidity and Funding Group's corporate departments determine the policies relation to the inherent risks of cash-generating units or Under Medium-Term Management Plan 2020, the Sojitz of treasury stock. It was down ¥62,743 million year on and procedures for measuring the fair value of unlisted individual assets, and the time value of money. In Group continued to advance financial strategies in year. shares, and validate their approach to measuring fair principle, the business plan used to estimate future cash accordance with the basic policy of maintaining and value, including the valuation model, by periodically flow is limited to five years. The Group makes appropriate enhancing the stability of its capital structure. In addition, With regard to the cash flow management of Mediumconfirming issues such as the operating circumstances use of outside experts according to the complexity of Sojitz has been endeavored to maintain a stable financial term Management Plan 2020, we have decided to associated with particular equities, the availability of calculating the value in use and fair value. foundation by holding sufficient liquidity as a buffer manage growth investments and shareholder returns 94 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 95 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Operations With respect to impairment losses of assets other than will have earned in return for their services provided in (1) Business Risks (a) Currency risk goodwill that were recognized in previous fiscal years, the the current and prior periods and discounting such The Sojitz Group is a general trading company that The Group engages in import and export transactions, Group determines at each fiscal year end whether such amount in order to determine the present value. The fair operates a diverse portfolio of businesses globally, and is and offshore transactions, denominated in foreign impairment losses have ceased to exist or there are value of any plan assets is deducted from the present exposed to various risks due to the nature of these currencies as a principal business activity. The revenues indications that the same have decreased. If any such value of the defined benefit obligations. businesses. Therefore, the Group defines and classifies and expenditures associated with such transactions are indications exist, the Group will estimate the recoverable The discount rates are principally equivalent to the risks in compliance with its basic Code of Corporate Risk mainly paid in foreign currencies, whereas the Group’s amount of such assets. If such recoverable amount market yields of AA credit-rated corporate bonds at the Management and assigns managers formulate a risk consolidated reporting currency is the Japanese yen. The exceeds the carrying amount of such assets, the carrying fiscal year end that have maturity terms that are management operation policy and management plan at Group is therefore exposed to the risk of fluctuations in amount of the assets is increased to equal the approximately the same as those of the Group's the beginning of each fiscal year, monitor progress and the yen’s value against foreign currencies, and hedges its recoverable amount and reversal of impairment losses is obligations and use the same currencies as those used for risk mitigation quarterly, and summarize performance at foreign currency exposure with forward exchange recognized. Impairment losses recognized with respect to future benefits payments. the end of each fiscal year. The Group manages contracts and other measures to prevent or limit losses goodwill are not reversed in subsequent periods. Past service cost is immediately recognized as profit or quantifiable risks (market risks, credit risks, business stemming from this currency risk. Even with such hedging, In addition, because goodwill that constitutes part of loss. investment risks, and country risks) based on risk asset however, there is no assurance that the Group can the carrying amount of an investment with respect to an The Group immediately recognizes all of the scores derived from risk measurements. Non-quantifiable completely avoid currency fluctuation risk. The Group’s Entity subject to Equity Method is not separately remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability (asset) risks (legal risks, compliance risks, environmental and operating performance and/or financial condition could recognized, it is not tested for impairment separately. If it as other comprehensive income and promptly reclassifies social [human rights] risks, funding risks, disaster risks, be adversely affected by unanticipated market is suggested that there may be an impairment loss with them as retained earnings. and system risks) are managed based on quarterly movements. Additionally, the Group’s dividend income respect to an investment made to an Entity subject to monitoring. The Group has the risk management systems from overseas Group companies and the profits and Equity Method, the entire carrying amount of such (5) Recoverability of deferred tax assets required to address the risks it faces, but cannot losses of overseas consolidated subsidiaries and equity investment will be tested for impairment as a single asset, Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized in completely avoid all risks. Risks involved in the Sojitz method associates are largely denominated in foreign by comparing the recoverable amount with such carrying respect of temporary differences between the carrying Group’s businesses include, but are not limited to, the currencies. Their conversion into yen entails currency risk. amount. amount of an asset and liability in the statement of following. The Group also owns many foreign subsidiaries and The Group’s accounting estimates, including financial position and its tax base, the unused tax losses operating companies. When these companies’ financial accounting for impairment of fixed assets, are made carried forward and unused tax credits carried forward. 1) Risk of changes in the macroeconomic statements are converted into yen, exchange rate based on the information available when preparing the The amounts of tax assets and liabilities are calculated environment movements could adversely affect the Group’s operating consolidated financial statements. The impact of the under the expected tax rate or tax law applicable as of the The Group operates a wide range of businesses in Japan performance and/or financial condition. With regard to COVID-19 pandemic will differ in degree and effect period in which assets are realized or liabilities settled and overseas that are engaged in a broad array of the Group’s sensitivity to income from exchange rates depending on the business and area, but our accounting based on a statutory tax rate or the same substantially activities. Political and economic conditions in Japan and (USD only), should the rate change by ¥1/USD the impact estimates are based on the premise that the current enacted as of the fiscal year end. other countries and the overall global economy influence will lead to a gross profit margin of approximately ¥500.0 situation will continue for at least three months (until June Deferred tax assets are recognized for deductible the Group’s results. Therefore, global and/or regional million for the year, a profit for the year (attributable to 2020), and that there will be a recovery after a period of temporary differences, the unused tax losses carried economic trends could adversely affect the Group’s owners of the company) of approximately ¥250.0 million, time. forward and unused tax credits carried forward to the operating performance and/or financial condition. and a total equity of approximately ¥2,000 million. extent that it is probable that they can be used against (3) Provisions future taxable profit. The carrying amount of deferred tax 2) Market risks (b) Interest rate risk A provision is recognized only when the Group has a assets are reassessed at each fiscal year end, and such The Group is exposed to market risks, including exchange The Group raises funds by borrowing from financial present obligation (legal or presumptive) as a result of a carrying amount will be reduced to the extent it is no rate risk associated with transactions denominated in institutions or issuing bonds to extend credit (e.g., for past event, there is a probability that an outflow of longer probable that related tax benefits from such assets foreign currencies in connection with international trade trade receivables), invest in securities, acquire fixed resources embodying economic benefits will be required will be realized. or business investments; interest rate fluctuation risk assets, and for other purposes. Asset and liability items to settle such obligation and a reliable estimate can be associated with debt financing and portfolio investment; are categorized based on whether or not they are made regarding the amount of such obligation. sensitive to interest rate changes, with the difference 6. Business and Other Risks commodity price fluctuation risk associated with purchase Where there is materiality in the effects of time value and sale agreements and commodity inventories between the value of sensitive assets and sensitive of money, provisions are discounted using a pre-tax rate The following are factors relating to business and incidental to operating activities; and market price liabilities used to determine an interest rate mismatch that reflects the risks specific to said liability. management conditions listed in the FINANCIAL fluctuation risk associated with holding listed securities value. Based on this amount, the ratios of funds procured SECTION that may potentially have a significant influence and other such assets. The Group has a basic policy of from fixed-rate sources and variable-rate sources are (4) Measurement on investor decisions. minimizing these market risks through such means as adjusted to better manage interest rate fluctuation risks. of defined benefit obligations Those notes that concern factors of the future are matching assets and liabilities and edging with forward However, the Group cannot completely avoid interest Defined benefit plans refer to retirement benefit plans predictions based on targets, certain assumptions and exchange contracts, commodity futures/forward rate fluctuation risks. An increase in funding costs due to a other than a defined contribution plan. Defined benefit hypotheses, or Sojitz’s judgement based on the contracts, and interest rate swaps. sharp rise in interest rates could adversely affect the obligations are calculated separately for each plan by information available at the end of this financial year. Group’s operating performance and/or financial estimating the future amount of benefits that employees condition. In the year ended March 31, 2020, the Group’s 96 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 97 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Operations outstanding interest-bearing debt was ¥893,258 million, those that meet certain criteria. It then reassesses the short of expectations or the risk that businesses will fail to financial institutions and keeps the long-term debt ratio at the average interest rate for short-term borrowings was selected customers’ creditworthiness and the status of the perform according to plan. Moreover, the Group could a specified level, which ensures stable funding. However, 1.57%, long-term borrowings payable within one year Group’s claims against these customers. Through this incur losses when exiting business ventures or may be in the event of a disruption of the financial system or were 1.40%, and long-term borrowings (excluding those approach, the Group is endeavoring to more rigorously precluded from exiting business ventures as intended financial and capital markets, or major downgrades of the payable within one year) were 1.22%. ascertain credit risks and estimate provisions to allow for due to circumstances such as relationships with partners Group’s credit rating by rating agencies, funding doubtful accounts for individual receivables. For credit in the ventures. Such events could adversely affect the constraints and/or increased financing costs could (c) Commodity price risk risks associated with deferred payments, loans, and credit Group’s operating performance and/or financial adversely affect the Group’s operating performance and/ As a general trading company, the Group deals in a wide guarantees, the Group periodically assesses whether condition. or financial condition. range of commodities in its various businesses. It is profitability is commensurate with credit risks on a case consequently exposed to the risk of commodity price bycase basis. For transactions that do not generate risk 5) Country risks 8) Environmental and social (human rights) risks fluctuations. For market-traded commodities, the Group commensurate returns, the Group takes steps to improve To minimize losses that may result from country risks, the The Group has established Key Sustainability Issues manages exposures and controls losses by setting (long profitability or limit credit risks. However, even with such Group recognizes that it must avoid concentrated (Human Rights, Environment, Resources, Local and short) position limits and stop-loss levels for each of credit management procedures, there is no assurance exposure to any single country or region. In conducting Communities, Human Resources, and Governance) and its organizational units. The Group also imposes and that the Group can completely avoid credit risks. If, for business in countries that pose substantial country risks, works to mitigate environmental and social (human rights) enforces stop-loss rules (i.e., organizational units must example, receivables are rendered uncollectible by a the Group hedges against country risks on a transaction risks within business activities by establishing policies promptly liquidate losing positions and are prohibited customer’s bankruptcy, the Group’s operating bytransaction basis in principle through such means as such as the Sojitz Group Environmental Policy, the Sojitz from initiating new trades for the remainder of the fiscal performance and/or financial condition could be purchasing trade insurance. In managing country risks, Group CSR Action Guidelines for Supply Chains, and the year if unit losses, including valuation losses, exceed the adversely affected. the Group assigns nine level country-risk ratings to Sojitz Group Human Rights Policy; ensuring compliance stop-loss level). Even with these controls, however, there individual countries and regions based on objective with and the consistency of these policies throughout the is no assurance that the Group can completely avoid 4) Business investment risks measures according to the size of the country risks. It then Group; making efforts to ensure that its policies are well commodity price risk. The Group’s operating The Group invests in a wide range of businesses as one of sets net exposure (gross exposure less trade insurance known to its suppliers; and evaluating and ameliorating performance and/or financial condition could be its principal business activities. In doing so, it assumes the coverage and/or other country-risk hedges) limits based risks. During the deliberation process for investments and adversely affected by unanticipated market or other risk of fluctuations in the value of business investments on the country’s size and assigned rating. The Group loans, the Group acknowledges the environmental and movements. The Group also monitors commodity and investments in interests. Additionally, because many limits its net exposure to individual countries to no more social (human) risks of the business in question, and inventories by business unit on a monthly basis to control business investments are illiquid, the Group also faces the than the net exposure limit. However, even with these risk discusses the effects of those risks on the future inventory levels. risk of being unable to recoup its investment as profitably controls and hedges, the Group cannot completely sustainability of its businesses. as initially anticipated. With the aim of preventing and eliminate the risk that businesses will fail to perform In terms of risks related to the global environment, (d) Listed securities price risk limiting losses from business investments, the Group has according to plan or the risk of losses due to changes in ecosystems, and changes in the climate, which could The Group has large holdings of marketable securities. established standards for rigorously screening political, economic, regulatory and societal conditions in have a large impact on social systems or corporate For listed shares in particular, the Group periodically prospective business investments and monitoring and the countries in which the Group conducts business or activities, the Group pays close attention to trends in confirms the holding purpose for a security. Nonetheless, withdrawing from investments. In screening prospective countries in which the Group’s customers are located. government policies and regulations in Japan and a major decline in the stock market could impair the investments, the Group analyzes business plans, including Such events could adversely affect the Group’s operating overseas with regards to the low-carbon/de-carbonization Group’s investment portfolio and, in turn, adversely affect cash flow projections, and rigorously assesses the performance and/or financial condition. called for by the Paris Agreement. It also makes use of the Group’s operating performance and/or financial businesses’ prospects. It has also established procedures, external investigations carried out by third parties, such as condition. including an IRR (internal rate of return) hurdle rate 6) Impairment risk those regarding the quantity of greenhouse gas screen, to enable it to identify investments with the The Group is exposed to the risk of impairment of the emissions by industry, alternate technology trends and 3) Credit risks potential to generate returns commensurate with risk. value of its fixed and right-of-use assets, including real policies, and regulatory trends; evaluates the risk of CO2 The Group assumes credit risks by extending credit to Once the Group has invested in a business venture, it estate holdings, machinery, equipment and vehicles, and emissions from each Group business; and analyzes the many domestic and foreign customers through a variety conducts thorough business process management, which goodwill and mining rights. The Group recognizes impact of these policies on relevant businesses within of commercial transactions. The Group mitigates such includes periodic reassessment of the business’s necessary impairment losses at the end of the fiscal year Sojitz Group. In addition, the Group discusses and credit risks by objectively assigning credit ratings to the prospects, to minimize losses by identifying problems in which they are identified. If assets subject to asset acknowledges the effects of climate-related risks and customers to which it extends credit based on an early and taking appropriate action. To identify problems impairment accounting decline materially in value due to opportunities in regular meetings between divisions and 11-grade rating scale. The Group also controls credit risks with business investments at an early stage or before they a decline in their prices, recognition of necessary management, as well as carrying out sequential analysis by setting rating-based credit limits on a customer materialize and thus minimize losses on divestiture or impairment losses could adversely affect the Group’s of business areas in which it is thought that the impact on by-customer basis and enforcing the credit limits thus set. liquidation, the Group sets exit conditions and acts operating performance and/or financial condition. the Group’s business activities, management strategies, The Group also employs other safeguards (e.g., decisively to opportunely exit investments that have failed and financial planning will be larger, and analyzing the collaterals and guarantees) as warranted by the to generate risk commensurate returns. Even with such 7) Funding risks financial effects. The policy below was established in May customer’s creditworthiness. Additionally, the Group has procedures for screening prospective investments and The Group largely funds its operations by issuing bonds 2019, and the Group is implementing concrete measures a system for assessing receivables in which it screens the monitoring existing investments, the Group cannot and borrowing funds from financial institutions, and in relation to the coal equity business and power customers to which it has extended trade credit to identify completely avoid the risk that investment returns will fall therefore maintains good business relationships with generation business in particular, from which the CO2 98 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 99 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Operations emissions are expected to be high. condition. encouraging employees to take paid vacation days; stemming from new technologies and the digital Policies for initiatives related to the coal equity instituting more rigorous regulations related to business revolution, as well as improving work efficiency business and coal-fired power generation business 11) Information system and information security trips, meetings, and events; requesting that individuals throughout the company. However, in the event of Reducing the assets of our thermal coal equity to half risks coming to Japan from overseas stay at home; spreading sudden changes to the industrial structure due to the or less by 2030. The Group has prescribed regulations and established understanding of office infection prevention methods; rapid development of new technologies, Sojitz Group’s In principle, not acquiring new thermal coal equity. oversight entities, mainly the Information Security tracking and managing employee health through the business performance and financial standing may be Not undertaking new initiatives in the coal-fired Subcommittee, to appropriately protect and manage Health Support Office; and disseminating information on negatively impacted. power generation business. information assets. The Group also has implemented the steps to be taken should an individual become Environmental, occupational health and safety, and/or safeguards, such as installation of duplicate hardware, infected with COVID-19. In addition, the Group is tracking (2) Risks related to Medium-term Management human rights issues may still arise in the Group’s business against failure of key information systems and network the state of this pandemic through its global network, Plan 2020 activities or within supply chains, however. Moreover, infrastructure. Additionally, the Group is endeavoring to issuing evacuation and other instructions based on Sojitz Group has established Medium-term Management environmental or human rights groups or local residents strengthen its safeguards against information leaks by-region conditions, and helping distribute surgical Plan 2020, scheduled to end in the FY2020. Although the could accuse the Group of involvement in such issues. through such means as installing firewalls to prevent masks on a global level. plan was drafted based on economic conditions, industry Such events could force the Group to temporarily or unauthorized access by outsiders, implementing antivirus trends, and other information and predictions which were permanently cease business activities or require measures against viruses that would exploit vulnerabilities 13) Risks related to spread of company information believed to be accurate at the time, the measures and decontamination or cleaning measures. The Group could in the system, and utilizing encryption technologies. via the company website and SNS policies therein may not proceed as planned due to also face litigation, incur expenses related to While the Group is working to strengthen overall Sojitz Group’s website and SNS accounts expose us to the sudden changes in the operating environment or other compensation, or suffer damage to its social standing. information security and prevent system failures, it cannot risk of system vulnerabilities leading to doctoring of factors, and Sojitz may not arrive at the anticipated results. Such developments could adversely affect the Group’s completely eliminate the risk of important information posted information or leaking of personal information For the year ending March 31, 2021, which is the final business performance and financial condition. assets, including personal information, being leaked or collected via the website or SNS, as well as risk of year of Medium-term Management Plan 2020, Sojitz damaged by increasingly prevalent cyberattacks or criticism/claims or infringement of copyrights, originally aimed for a profit for the year of ¥75,000 million 9) Compliance risks unauthorized access to its computer systems. Nor can the trademarks, or rights of likeness stemming from use of or more. However, the Company now projects a profit for The Group’s diverse business activities are subject to a Group eliminate the risk of its information and the website or SNS accounts. As described in 11) above, the year (attributable to owners of the Company) of broad range of laws and regulations, including the communication systems being rendered inoperable by we strive to develop measures to protect against system ¥40,000* million, a return on assets of 1.8%, and a return Companies Act of Japan, tax laws, anti-corruption laws, an unforeseeable natural disaster or system failure. In vulnerabilities to the greatest extent possible within on equity of 6.8%. This forecast is based onderived from antitrust laws, foreign exchange laws and other trade such an event, the Group’s operating performance and/or reason. With regards to use of the website or SNS the assumption that the global economy will experience related laws, and various industry-specific laws, including financial condition could be adversely affected, accounts, we require organizations to draft written rules slowdown as a result of the spread of COVID-19, chemical regulations. To ensure compliance with these depending on the extent of the damage. for approving posted materials in advance and regularly pandemic and that the current conditions will continue laws and regulations in Japan and overseas, the Group reviewing the contents, for each website or SNS account until the end of June, 2020, based on the information has formulated a compliance program, established a 12) Natural disaster and calamity risks owned by the organization. However, this does not fully understood by the Group at the end of March 2020.The compliance committee, and made other company-wide The Group could be directly or indirectly affected in the eliminate risk, leaving room for the possibility that the Group’s actual performance may fluctuate considerably efforts to instill a compliance-oriented mindset within all event of an earthquake, flood, storm, or other natural website or SNS account could negatively impact trust in as a result of a variety of factors, including when the actual Group officers and employees. However, such measures disaster or by a widespread pandemic that damages the company or value of the Sojitz brand. spread of infection calms down, the economic cannot completely eliminate the compliance risks offices or other facilities or impacts employees and/or environment of major domestic and overseas markets, entailed by the Group’s business activities. Additionally, their family members. The Group has prepared disaster 14) Risks related to product quality and changes in exchange rates. the Group’s operating performance and/or financial and pandemic response manuals, conducts disaster Through business investment, Sojitz Group is expanding * We have revised our profit for the year to be ¥30,000 million, based on our financial results in the first quarter of FY2020. condition could be adversely affected by major statutory response drills, and has established an employee safety the diversifying the business areas in which we operate. or regulatory revisions or application of an unanticipated confirmation system and a business continuity plan, but it We are increasingly entering manufacturing and service interpretation of existing laws or regulations. cannot completely avoid the risk of damage from natural sectors, and we are thus developing systems to control disasters. The Group’s operating performance and/or the quality of products and services which we 10) Litigation risks financial condition could therefore be adversely affected manufacture and provide. In the event of an unforeseen Litigation or other legal proceedings (e.g., arbitration) by natural disasters and widespread pandemics. issue with product quality, however, Sojitz Group may be may be initiated in Japan or overseas against or with the The Sojitz Group has taken various measures to held accountable for damages stemming from that issue. Group in connection with the Group’s business activities. combat the global COVID-19 pandemic based on Sojitz Group’s business performance and financial Due to the uncertain nature of litigation and other legal government policies, action plans, and requests. These standing may be negatively impacted in this case. proceedings, it is not possible at the present time to measures have prioritized preventing the spread of the predict the likelihood of this occurring, when it could virus inside and outside of the organization and 15) Risks related to innovation occur, or the effect that such risks might have on the protecting the safety of employees and other Group As a general trading company, Sojitz Group is conducting Group. Nevertheless, such risks could adversely affect the stakeholders. Specific measures have included business in a wide variety of business fields. We are Group’s operating performance and/or financial staggering workhours; promoting teleworking; focusing on responding to changes in business models 100 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 101 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Operations 7. Group Management Policy, Medium-Term Management Plan 2020 – Commitment to Growth Operation Environment and Issues to Be Addressed Sojitz Group Statement Under Medium-Term Management Plan 2020, we will endeavor to link prior initiatives to growth while engaging in ambitious (1) Fundamental Policy The Sojitz Group creates value and undertakings to achieve steady growth going forward. As set forth in the Sojitz Group Statement and Group Slogan, the company aims to maximize two values, first prosperity by connecting the world Value for Sojitz, which includes expanding the Group’s with a spirit of integrity. business foundations and achieving continuous growth, and second, Value for Society, which includes the development of regional and national economies and concern for human rights and the environment. Sojitz Group Slogan Sojitz’s Value Creation Model (2) Outlook and Issues to Be Addressed approx.10% over the plan period from the previous year. Medium-Term Management Plan 2020 More information on Medium-Term Management Plan Medium-Term Management Plan 2020—Commitment to 2020 can be found on Sojitz’s corporate website (https:// Growth—is the three-year plan established by the Sojitz www.sojitz.com/en/) Group started in April 2018. Initiatives are currently being The targeted performance indicators in Medium-Term implemented to accomplish the goals of this plan. Management Plan 2020 are as follows. Under this plan, the Sojitz Group will pursue steady Performance Indicator Target growth by increasing the value of its assets while ROA 3% or above managing cash flows to continue conducting disciplined investments and loans (a total of ¥300,000 million over ROE 10% or above the three-year period of the medium-term management Net D/E ratio 1.5 times or lower plan). Dividend payout ratio Approximately 30% In the final year of the plan, our target for profit for the year was ¥75,000 million or more. This was to be Based on the Company’s shareholders equity costs of achieved through an average annual growth of approximately 7% to 8%, targets for the management 102 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 103 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Operations indicator of return on equity (ROE) have been set. In discipline within our balance sheets and cash flow. businesses such as iron and steel-related businesses and contributions to earnings from investments and loans in addition, Companywide targets have been formulated for In the year ended March 31, 2020, the second year of chemicals businesses, which will be affected by the Medium-Term Management Plan 2017 and Medium-Term return on assets (ROA) along with segment ROA targets Medium-Term Management Plan 2020, economic growth reduced demand for raw materials and related products Management Plan 2020 are shown below. for the final year of the medium-term management plan in developed countries continues to decelerate as a result that will occur with a decline in industry; and retail In this situation, Sojitz intends to conduct investments to facilitate efforts to achieve the ROE targets. of the trade friction between the United States and China, businesses, which will be affected by the partial store and and loans in promising projects with the potential to In order to achieve the sustainable growth described the economic slowdown in China, and geopolitical risks. shopping center closures and decline in consumption generate significant earnings in this fiscal year and in Medium-Term Management Plan 2020, the Group is Furthermore, the global COVID-19 pandemic that began accompanying requests for people to exercise selfbeyond. These investments and loans will be carried focusing our efforts on disciplined balance sheets and in 2020 has diminished demand and greatly reduced restraint when it comes to leaving their homes, in Japan about while being mindful of the need to control cash cash flow management. Building up promising assets and sales in various industries, thus having a massive impact and overseas. The impact of all of this is expected to flows and to disburse business portfolios and risks on a replacing assets generates cash and profits, and we use on the economy. In this environment, profit for the year cause a loss of ¥23,000 million this year. Companywide basis. At the same time, Sojitz will the profits that come with this cash to accumulate treasury (attributable to owners of the Company) amounted to In order to achieve the sustainable growth described endeavor to increase the values of businesses and assets stock. Based on the cash flow generated and increased ¥60,800 million in the year ended March 31, 2020, the in Medium-Term Management Plan 2020, the Sojitz in which investments and loans have already been capital, we make further investments towards promising return on assets was 2.7%, and the return on equity was Group will continue to adhere to its policy of conducting executed. In this manner, it will conduct investments and assets and shareholder returns. We are endeavoring to 10.2%. approximately ¥300,000 million of new investments and loans and accumulate a portfolio of quality assets in maintain this virtuous cycle. The growth investments and For the year ending March 31, 2021, the Company loans. By enacting this policy, we will surely accumulate pursuit of ongoing growth. shareholder returns within this cycle will be managed projects profit for the year (attributable to owners of the quality assets. Investments and loans in the year ended Through the implementation of Medium-Term within the scope of the cash flow generated by period Company) of ¥40,000* million, return on assets of 1.8%, March 31, 2020, amounted to around ¥81,000 million. Management Plan 2020, the Company also seeks to earnings and asset replacement, enabling the and return on equity of 6.8%. This forecast is based on the Targets of this investment included automobile consumer accomplish the goals of the Sojitz Group Statement and continuation of investments for growth. assumption that the global economy will experience finance companies; solar power, offshore wind power, achieve ongoing growth. To this end, we are increasing With regard to balance sheet management, the slowdown as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and that and other renewable energy projects; communications our focus on sustainability in management and furnishing Group will not only make new investments and loans in the current conditions will continue for three months (until towers and other infrastructure; airports; and shopping foundations and systems based on our six Key relation to promising assets, we will also carry out reviews the end of June 2020), based on the information centers. Sustainability Issues (Materiality) and on our policy of that draw on continuing asset replacement, increasing the understood by the Group at the end of March 2020. Furthermore, the Sojitz Group is advancing initiatives incorporating the resolution of environmental and social value of assets and businesses, and risk returns. This will The main businesses that will feel the impact of the targeting future growth. For example, a corporate venture issues into Sojitz’s business. In addition, sustainability lead to increased profitability. We will also continue to be COVID-19 pandemic include automobile-related capital fund was established to invest in start-ups in challenges have been established as a long-term vision to conscious of cash control, which will enable us to ensure businesses, which will be affected by partial store closures countries around the world and measures are being define the Sojitz Group’s stance toward long-term that the net DER is maintained at a maximum of 1.5, even accompanying the domestic and international lockdown implemented to create innovation and acquire and initiatives for addressing climate change, human rights, with valuation and exchange rate fluctuations. and requests for people to exercise self-restraint when it reinforce functions. and other global social issues. In so doing, we aim for further growth as we maintain comes to leaving their homes; materials-related Changes in achievements and forecasts in relation to Regarding low-carbon/de-carbonization initiatives, Medium-Term Management Plan 2017 (FY2020 Forecast) CF management Deeper-level BS management Quality (core CF) The amount of the investments ¥315.0bn FY2018 Results FY2019 Results FY2020 Forecast assets and Loans over MTP2017 period Quality assets Asset and Outstanding investments About About About business value increases ¥160.0bn Low-proﬁt Asset and loans ¥6.0bn ¥13.5bn ¥6.0bn Asset assets, etc. replacement replacement Asset management focused ROI Approx. 7.5% Revision of earnings Anticipating steady Growth contribution schedule generation of proﬁts on risks and returns investment InterestMain •Renewable energy businesses •Hospital project in the Republic of Turkey (Latest forecast 6.4%) Businesses •Automobile dealership businesses etc. bearing Net DER: Goodwill control, etc. Total assets debt 1.5 times or lower Quality proﬁts Increased resilience to Generated interest and foreign Proﬁt: cash Medium-Term Management Plan 2020 Total exchange rate ﬂuctuations ¥75.0 (FY2020 Forecast) equity Shareholder billion returns Net DER control or more The amount of the investments FY2018 Results FY2019 Results FY2020 Forecast Expanded and Loans over MTP2017 period ¥300.0bn total equity ROA ROE Outstanding investments ¥230.0bn About About About and loans ¥2.0bn ¥0.5bn ¥6.0bn ROI Approx. 4.3% Project commencement delays Anticipating steady generation of proﬁts * We have revised our profit for the year to be ¥30,000 million, based on our financial results in the first quarter of FY2020. Main •Coking coal business in Australia •IPP business in the United States (Latest forecast 3.8%) Businesses •Paper manufacturer in Vietnam etc. 104 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 105 FINANCIAL SECTION Performance at Consolidated Subsidiaries and Equity-method Associates the Group is focusing our efforts on businesses that will of dividends from surplus was June 19, 2020. (1) Number of Consolidated Subsidiaries and Equity-method Associates  Number of companies lead to measures against climate change, including Sojitz’s Articles of Incorporation permit the payment of 2019 2020 Change renewable energy businesses, which will help us to interim cash dividends by resolution of the Board of Segment Profit Loss Total Profit Loss Total Profit Loss Total achieve a decarbonized society through our business Directors as stipulated by Article 454, Paragraph 5 of the activities as set out in our Sustainability Challenge. This is Companies Act of Japan. As a result, Sojitz’s basic policy is Automotive 15 9 24 15 8 23 0 (1) (1) based on the demands of the Paris Agreement adopted to pay dividends twice annually, with the interim dividend Aerospace & Transportation 29 9 38 29 10 39 0 1 1 Project at the 21st United Nations Climate Change Conference being approved by resolution of the Board of Directors Machinery & (COP21) in 2015. The Group also sold some thermal coal and the year-end dividend being approved by the Medical Infrastructure 15 1 16 12 3 15 (3) 2 (1) interests in FY2019. Ordinary General Shareholders’ Meeting. Energy & Social Infrastructure 30 16 46 30 6 36 0 (10) (10) As we develop our businesses around the world, we (Note) Dividends paid from surplus for the 17th term are as shown below. promote the recruitment, training, and utilization of Metals & Mineral Resources 14 5 19 13 7 20 (1) 2 1 diverse talent, regardless of gender, nationality, or age, to Total amount of Dividend per Type of Date of resolution dividends share share enable us to exercise our competitive powers (millions of yen) (yen) Chemicals 9 2 11 9 0 9 0 (2) (2) November 1, 2019 continuously over a long period. We are also endeavoring Ordinary Resolution of the Board of 10,633 8.50 shares Foods & Agriculture Business 12 8 20 12 6 18 0 (2) (2) to develop systems and environments so that these Directors June 18, 2020 talented people can exercise their individual capabilities Ordinary Resolution of the General 10,378 8.50 Retail & Lifestyle Business 26 10 36 24 9 33 (2) (1) (3) shares Shareholders’ Meeting. to their full extent and contribute to the success of our Industrial Infrastructure & organization. In March 2020, we were selected as a Urban Development 9 3 12 7 0 7 (2) (3) (5) Nadeshiko Brand company for the fourth consecutive Corporate 25 1 26 24 4 28 (1) 3 2 year. This Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry award, hosted by the Tokyo Stock Exchange, recognizes listed Total 184 64 248 175 53 228 (9) (11) (20) companies that excel in their efforts to empower women in the workplace, In the future, Sojitz will continue to offer % of profit 74% 77% 3% an environment in which diverse talents can exercise their capabilities to the full, and increase our company value. (2) Earnings of Consolidated Subsidiaries and Equity-method Associates  Billions of yen 2019 2020 Change Segment Profit Loss Total Profit Loss Total Profit Loss Total 8. Basic Policy on Dividends Automotive 6.3 (0.5) 5.9 3.8 (1.0) 2.8 (2.5) (0.5) (3.0) As a basic policy, Sojitz’s top management priorities Aerospace & Transportation Project 4.7 (0.5) 4.2 3.0 (1.8) 1.2 (1.7) (1.3) (3.0) include paying stable dividends on an ongoing basis while enhancing competitiveness and shareholder value Machinery & Medical Infrastructure 5.5 0 5.5 7.1 (0.1) 7.0 1.6 (0.1) 1.5 by increasing internal capital reserves and using them effectively. Under this policy, the consolidated payout Energy & Social Infrastructure 11.4 (1.4) 9.9 10.3 (4.1) 6.2 (1.1) (2.7) (3.8) ratio during the Medium-Term Management Plan 2020 Metals & Mineral Resources 32.2 (0.4) 31.9 22.4 (1.1) 21.3 (9.8) (0.7) (10.5) will be approximately 30%. Sojitz decided to pay a year-end cash dividend as Chemicals 8.4 (0.8) 7.5 7.2 (0.1) 7.1 (1.2) 0.7 (0.5) follows after comprehensively considering factors including results for the fiscal year and total equity. As a Foods & Agriculture Business 5.1 (0.7) 4.4 4.5 (1.4) 3.1 (0.6) (0.7) (1.3) result, the consolidated payout based on profit for the Retail & Lifestyle Business 6.7 (1.1) 5.6 7.1 (1.3) 5.8 0.4 (0.2) 0.2 year (attributable to owners of the Company) was 34.8%. 1)Type of dividend property: Cash Industrial Infrastructure & Urban Development 3.2 0 3.2 4.2 0 4.2 1.0 0 1.0 2)Regarding items relating to the allotment of dividend property to shareholders, and their value, Corporate 2.2 (0.7) 1.5 1.6 (0.9) 0.7 (0.6) (0.2) (0.8) Sojitz’s common stock was ¥8.5 yen per share, with a Total 85.7 (6.2) 79.5 71.2 (11.8) 59.4 (14.5) (5.7) (20.2) total amount of ¥10,378 million Including the interim dividend of ¥8.5 per share paid Notes: 1. Companies included in the scope of consolidation are those for which the Company directly performs consolidation accounting. on December 2, 2019, cash dividends per share for the 2. Earnings of consolidated subsidiaries and associates related to two segments are acknowledged in each segment and they do not correspond to Number of Consolidated Subsidiaries and Equity-method Associates disclosed as above. year ended March 31, 2019 totaled ¥17.00 per share, and dividends paid totaled ¥21,011 million. The effective date 106 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 107 FINANCIAL SECTION FINANCIAL SECTION Country Risk Exposure (Consolidated) Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Exposure (As of March 31, 2020)  Billions of yen Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Operating Cash and Substantial Note 2019 2020 2020 Investments Loans Guarantees Other assets Country risk receivables deposits, etc. country risk Assets Thailand 3.9 0 0 26.6 23.9 10.0 64.4 68.2 Current assets Indonesia 16.1 0.1 9.1 10.1 3.9 2.9 42.1 55.8 Cash and cash equivalents .................................................................. 30 285,687 272,651 2,501,385 Philippines 12.9 0.1 0 9.5 2.4 6.0 30.9 28.0 Time deposits ......................................................................................... 2,922 7,433 68,192 China (including Hong Kong) 10.8 0 0.2 41.1 8.0 4.9 65.0 64.0 Trade and other receivables ................................................................ 6 690,678 638,207 5,855,110 Derivative financial assets .................................................................... 33(9) 2,060 5,055 46,376 (China) 9.2 0 0.2 31.7 4.1 2.0 47.2 55.3 Inventories .............................................................................................. 7 220,621 213,385 1,957,660 (Hong Kong) 1.6 0 0 9.4 3.9 2.9 17.8 8.7 Income tax receivables ......................................................................... 6,714 3,956 36,293 Brazil 2.1 0.2 0.2 5.6 1.0 12.1 21.2 45.3 Other current assets .............................................................................. 13 58,965 64,455 591,330 Argentina 0.2 0 0 1.0 0 0.3 1.5 0.4 Subtotal .................................................................................. 1,267,650 1,205,145 11,056,376 Russia 1.7 0 0 16.1 3.8 6.1 27.8 24.0 Assets held for sale ............................................................................... 18 — 12,318 113,009 India 13.0 0 0.3 44.5 0.4 4.1 62.3 44.3 Total current assets ....................................................................... 1,267,650 1,217,464 11,169,394 Vietnam 8.1 0.2 0.2 14.1 5.8 20.8 49.2 33.9 Turkey 0 0 0 1.6 0.2 0 1.9 4.6 Non-current assets Total 68.8 0.6 10.0 170.2 49.4 67.2 366.3 368.5 Property, plant and equipment ........................................................... 8 192,902 157,995 1,449,495 Right-of-use assets................................................................................. 2(6),35 — 74,136 680,146 (Reference) Exposure (As of March 31, 2019) Goodwill .................................................................................................. 9(1) 66,198 66,496 610,055  Billions of yen Intangible assets .................................................................................... 9(2) 49,145 43,366 397,853 Operating Cash and Substantial Investments Loans Guarantees Other assets Country risk receivables deposits, etc. country risk Investment property .............................................................................. 10 20,875 18,602 170,660 Thailand 4.8 0 0 30.1 22.7 10.5 68.1 71.9 Investments accounted for using the equity method ..................... 11 424,152 413,740 3,795,779 Trade and other receivables ................................................................ 6 84,145 78,352 718,825 Indonesia 19.5 0.1 9.4 10.8 6.6 1.5 47.8 61.3 Other investments ................................................................................. 12 173,066 140,975 1,293,348 Philippines 13.7 0.1 0 7.6 2.2 4.4 28.0 24.9 Derivative financial assets .................................................................... 33(9) 46 173 1,587 China (including Hong Kong) 11.2 0 0.4 53.2 8.7 5.2 78.7 77.8 Other non-current assets ..................................................................... 13 12,683 11,680 107,155 (China) 10.2 0 0.4 35.6 4.2 2.0 52.4 59.9 Deferred tax assets ................................................................................ 32(1) 6,192 7,300 66,972 (Hong Kong) 1.0 0 0 17.6 4.5 3.2 26.3 17.9 Total non-current assets ............................................................... 1,029,409 1,012,821 9,291,935 Brazil 7.0 0.3 0.2 6.5 1.5 13.4 28.9 57.3 Argentina 0.2 0 0 2.3 0 1.7 4.2 1.7 Total assets ............................................................................. 2,297,059 2,230,285 20,461,330 Russia 1.7 0 0 20.4 2.3 7.0 31.5 25.2 Note: The U.S. dollar amounts represent translations of Japanese yen at the approximate exchange rate at March 31, 2020 of ¥109=$1. India 12.8 0 0.4 38.2 0.2 3.8 55.4 45.0 Vietnam 9.1 0.2 0.2 14.7 5.1 19.8 49.1 30.7 Turkey 0 0 0 1.7 0.2 0 1.9 6.4 Total 80.0 0.7 10.6 185.5 49.5 67.3 393.7 398.8 Note: We calculate exposure for the consolidated Sojitz Group by tallying assets that are exposed to country risk. We disclose exposure for the entire Sojitz Group and for the following assets: investments, loans, guarantees, and operating receivables and inventories (grouped as operating receivables ); cash and deposits and financial assets (grouped as cash and deposits, etc. ); bad debts, noncurrent assets, etc. (grouped as other assets ). Exposure is tallied on the following bases: • Country risk: Exposure is calculated based on the country in which credit counterparties, etc., are present. • Substantial country risk: Exposure is adjusted based on the substantial country of risk, regardless of counterparties’ country of domicile. 108 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 109 FINANCIAL SECTION Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss Thousands of Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Millions of yen U.S. dollars Note 2019 2020 2020 Note 2019 2020 2020 Liabilities and equity Revenue 20 Sales of goods ....................................................................................... 1,749,319 1,651,592 15,152,220 Liabilities Sales of services and others ................................................................ 106,870 103,233 947,091 Current liabilities Total revenue .......................................................................................... 1,856,190 1,754,825 16,099,311 Trade and other payables .................................................................... 14 582,296 481,768 4,419,889 Lease liabilities ....................................................................................... 2(6),35 — 15,317 140,522 Cost of sales ................................................................................................ (1,615,233) (1,534,330) (14,076,422) Bonds and borrowings ......................................................................... 15 149,695 186,767 1,713,458 Gross profit ................................................................................................. 240,956 220,494 2,022,880 Derivative financial liabilities ............................................................... 33(9) 2,511 5,257 48,229 Income tax payables ............................................................................. 10,775 6,572 60,293 Selling, general and administrative expenses ...................................... 21 (173,433) (173,243) (1,589,385) Provisions ................................................................................................ 16 1,026 1,956 17,944 Other income (expenses) Other current liabilities ......................................................................... 17 60,793 56,716 520,330 Gain (loss) on disposal of fixed assets, net ....................................... 22 1,764 10,274 94,256 Subtotal .................................................................................. 807,098 754,354 6,920,678 Impairment loss on fixed assets .......................................................... 23 (509) (2,833) (25,990) Liabilities directly related to assets held for sale .............................. 18 — 1 9 Gain on reorganization of subsidiaries/associates .......................... 24 8,039 3,415 31,330 Loss on reorganization of subsidiaries/associates .......................... 23,25 (3,099) (545) (5,000) Total current liabilities ................................................................... 807,098 754,356 6,920,697 Other operating income ...................................................................... 26 5,113 5,800 53,211 Other operating expenses ................................................................... 26 (8,832) (8,580) (78,715) Non-current liabilities Total other income (expenses) ............................................................ 2,476 7,530 69,082 Lease liabilities ....................................................................................... 2(6),35 — 63,666 584,091 Financial income Bonds and borrowings ......................................................................... 15 723,625 706,491 6,481,568 Interest earned ....................................................................................... 27 7,084 6,565 60,229 Trade and other payables .................................................................... 14 12,563 9,738 89,339 27 5,167 4,228 38,788 Dividends received ............................................................................... Derivative financial liabilities ............................................................... 33(9) 2,693 763 7,000 Other financial income.......................................................................... 27 143 — — Retirement benefits liabilities .............................................................. 31(1) 22,139 22,077 202,541 Total financial income ........................................................................... 12,395 10,794 99,027 Provisions ................................................................................................ 16 36,292 31,102 285,339 Other non-current liabilities ................................................................. 17 11,235 8,943 82,045 Financial costs Deferred tax liabilities ........................................................................... 32(1) 19,802 11,247 103,183 Interest expenses ................................................................................... 27 (15,290) (14,908) (136,770) Other financial costs ............................................................................. 27 — (47) (431) Total non-current liabilities .......................................................... 828,353 854,030 7,835,137 Total financial costs ................................................................................ (15,290) (14,956) (137,211) Total liabilities ........................................................................ 1,635,451 1,608,387 14,755,844 Share of profit (loss) of investments accounted for using the equity method ................................................................................................ 11 27,779 24,908 228,513 Profit before tax .......................................................................................... 94,882 75,528 692,917 Equity Share capital ........................................................................................... 19 160,339 160,339 1,471,000 Income tax expenses ................................................................................ 32(2) (19,662) (10,954) (100,495) Capital surplus ....................................................................................... 19 146,645 146,756 1,346,385 Treasury stock ......................................................................................... 19 (865) (10,901) (100,009) Profit for the year ........................................................................................ 75,219 64,573 592,412 Other components of equity ............................................................... 107,576 49,777 456,669 Profit attributable to: Retained earnings ................................................................................. 19 204,600 233,151 2,139,000 Owners of the parent ............................................................................ 70,419 60,821 557,990 Total equity attributable to owners of the parent ............................ 618,295 579,123 5,313,055 Non-controlling interests ..................................................................... 4,799 3,752 34,422 Non-controlling interests ..................................................................... 43,312 42,774 392,422 Total .......................................................................................................... 75,219 64,573 592,412 Total equity ..................................................................................... 661,607 621,898 5,705,486 Yen U.S. dollars Note 2019 2020 2020 Total liabilities and equity ............................................................ 2,297,059 2,230,285 20,461,330 Earnings per share Basic earnings (losses) per share ........................................................ 28 56.34 48.91 0.44 Diluted earnings (losses) per share .................................................... 28 56.34 48.91 0.44 110 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 111 FINANCIAL SECTION FINANCIAL SECTION Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss and Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Other Comprehensive Income Thousands of Millions of yen Millions of yen U.S. dollars Attributable to owners of the parent Note 2019 2020 2020 Other components of equity Foreign Total Profit for the year ........................................................................................ 75,219 64,573 592,412 currency equity translation Financial Remeasurements attributable Other comprehensive income differences assets Cash of defined Total other to owners NonShare Capital Treasury for foreign measured flow benefit components Retained of the controlling Total Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Note capital surplus stock operations at FVTOCI hedges pension plans of equity earnings parent interests equity Balance as of April 1, 2018 ............................ 160,339 146,512 (174) 17,709 111,072 (4,432) — 124,348 155,437 586,464 38,659 625,124 Financial assets measured at FVTOCI ....................................... 29 (10,751) (21,936) (201,247) The impact of changes in accounting policies....................................................... (444) (444) (444) Remeasurements of defined benefit pension plans .............. 29 (365) (435) (3,990) Balance as of April 1, 2018(revised)... 160,339 146,512 (174) 17,709 111,072 (4,432) — 124,348 154,993 586,020 38,659 624,679 Share of other comprehensive income of investments Profit for the year ........................................... 70,419 70,419 4,799 75,219 Other comprehensive income ................... (12,847) (6,167) (79) (386) (19,481) (19,481) (789) (20,270) accounted for using the equity method ............................... 11,29 4,391 (5,731) (52,577) Total comprehensive income for the year ..................................................................... — — — (12,847) (6,167) (79) (386) (19,481) 70,419 50,938 4,010 54,948 Total items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss .......... (6,725) (28,103) (257,825) Purchase of treasury stock ........................... 19 (0) (691) (691) (691) Dividends ....................................................... 19 (16,888) (16,888) (3,381) (20,269) Change in ownership interests in subsidiaries without loss/ acquisition of conItems that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss trol .............................................................. (62) (62) 2,871 2,808 Foreign currency translation differences for foreign operaReclassification from other components of equity to retained earnings .............. 2,321 386 2,708 (2,708) — — tions ............................................................................................. 29 (8,975) (24,518) (224,935) Share-based payment transaction ............. 34 132 132 132 Cash flow hedges .......................................................................... 29 (189) (1,092) (10,018) Other changes .............................................. (1,153) (1,153) 1,152 (0) Total contributions by and distributions Share of other comprehensive income of investments to owners of the Company ................... — 132 (691) — 2,321 — 386 2,708 (20,812) (18,663) 643 (18,020) accounted for using the equity method ............................... 11,29 (4,380) (13,220) (121,284) Balance as of March 31, 2019 ....................... 160,339 146,645 (865) 4,861 107,226 (4,512) — 107,576 204,600 618,295 43,312 661,607 The impact of changes in accounting policies ................................................................ (2,402) (2,402) (2,402) Total items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit Balance as of April 1, 2019(revised)... 4,861 107,226 (4,512) 160,339 146,645 (865) — 107,576 202,197 615,892 43,312 659,205 or loss .......................................................................................... (13,545) (38,831) (356,247) Profit for the year ........................................... 60,821 60,821 3,752 64,573 Other comprehensive income ................... (34,835) (27,526) (2,248) (432) (65,042) (65,042) (1,892) (66,934) Total comprehensive income for the year — — — (34,835) (27,526) (2,248) (432) (65,042) 60,821 (4,220) 1,859 (2,361) Purchase of treasury stock ........................... 19 (5) (10,059) (10,064) (10,064) Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax ........................ (20,270) (66,934) (614,073) Disposal of treasury stock .......................... 19 (24) 24 — — Dividends ....................................................... 19 (22,517) (22,517) (4,217) (26,735) Total comprehensive income for the year ............................................ 54,948 (2,361) (21,660) Change in ownership interests in subsidiaries without loss/ acquisition of control .............................................................. (2) 0 (1) (193) (195) 2,776 2,581 Reclassification from other components Total comprehensive income attributable to: of equity to retained earnings .............. 6,812 432 7,245 (7,245) — — Share-based payment transaction ............. 34 140 140 140 Owners of the parent ............................................................................ 50,938 (4,220) (38,715) Other changes .............................................. 89 89 (956) (867) Non-controlling interests ..................................................................... 4,010 1,859 17,055 Total contributions by and distributions to owners of the Company ................... — 110 (10,035) (2) 6,812 0 432 7,243 (29,867) (32,548) (2,396) (34,944) Balance as of March 31, 2020 ... 160,339 146,756 (10,901) (29,975) 86,513 (6,760) — 49,777 233,151 579,123 42,774 621,898 Total .......................................................................................................... 54,948 (2,361) (21,660) Thousands of U.S. dollars Attributable to owners of the parent Other components of equity Foreign Total currency equity translation Financial Remeasurements attributable differences assets Cash of defined Total other to owners NonShare Capital Treasury for foreign measured flow benefit components Retained of the controlling Total Note capital surplus stock operations at FVTOCI hedges pension plans of equity earnings parent interests equity Balance as of March 31, 2019 ....................... 1,471,000 1,345,366 (7,935) 44,596 983,724 (41,394) — 986,935 1,877,064 5,672,431 397,357 6,069,788 The impact of changes in accounting policies ................................................................ (22,036) (22,036) (22,036) Balance as of April 1, 2019(revised)... 1,471,000 1,345,366 (7,935) 44,596 983,724 (41,394) — 986,935 1,855,018 5,650,385 397,357 6,047,752 Profit for the year ........................................... 557,990 557,990 34,422 592,412 Other comprehensive income ................... (319,587) (252,532) (20,623) (3,963) (596,715) (596,715) (17,357) (614,073) Total comprehensive income for the year — — — (319,587) (252,532) (20,623) (3,963) (596,715) 557,990 (38,715) 17,055 (21,660) Purchase of treasury stock ........................... 19 (45) (92,284) (92,330) (92,330) Disposal of treasury stock .......................... 19 (220) 220 — Dividends ....................................................... 19 (206,577) (206,577) (38,688) (245,275) Change in ownership interests in subsidiaries without loss/ acquisition of control .............................................................. (18) 0 (9) (1,770) (1,788) 25,467 23,678 Reclassification from other components of equity to retained earnings .............. 62,495 3,963 66,467 (66,467) — — Share-based payment transaction............. 34 1,284 1,284 1,284 Other changes .............................................. 816 816 (8,770) (7,954) Total contributions by and distributions to owners of the Company ........................ — 1,009 (92,064) (18) 62,495 0 3,963 66,449 (274,009) (298,605) (21,981) (320,587) Balance as of March 31, 2020 ....................... 1,471,000 1,346,385 (100,009) (275,000) 793,697 (62,018) — 456,669 2,139,000 5,313,055 392,422 5,705,486 112 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 113 FINANCIAL SECTION FINANCIAL SECTION Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 1 REPORTING ENTITY Note 2019 2020 2020 Sojitz Corporation (the Company ) is a company domiciled in ventures. The Group is an integrated trading company engaged in Cash flows from operating activities Japan. The addresses of the Company's registered headquarters a wide range of business activities on a global basis. Its Profit for the year .................................................................................... 75,219 64,573 592,412 and main office are available on its corporate website (http://www. headquarters includes business sections that handle Depreciation and amortization ........................................................... 21,297 33,106 303,724 sojitz.com/en/). The Consolidated Financial Statements of the merchandising, trading, product manufacturing, services, project Impairment loss on fixed assets .......................................................... 509 2,833 25,990 Company as of and for the year ended March 31, 2020 comprise planning and management, investments and financing activities, Finance (income) costs ......................................................................... 2,895 4,162 38,183 the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the both domestically and internationally. Share of (profit) loss of investments accounted for using the Group ) and the Group's interests in associates and joint equity method ................................................................................... (27,779) (24,908) (228,513) (Gain) loss on disposal of fixed assets, net ....................................... (1,764) (10,274) (94,256) Income tax expenses ............................................................................ 19,662 10,954 100,495 Changes in trade and other receivables ........................................... 77,093 66,718 612,091 2 BASIS OF PRESENTATION Changes in inventories ......................................................................... (39,968) 901 8,266 (1) Statement of compliance recognized in the Consolidated Financial Statements is included Changes in trade and other payables ............................................... (74,708) (94,951) (871,110) The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in in the following notes: Changes in other assets and liabilities .............................................. 54,962 (12,389) (113,660) accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Changes in retirement benefits liabilities .......................................... (179) (628) (5,761) ( IFRSs ). • Note 3 (1)—Scope of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures Others ...................................................................................................... (543) (2,241) (20,559) • Note 3 (14)—Recognition and presentation with respect to Subtotal ........................................................................................... 106,696 37,857 347,311 (2) Basis of measurement revenue The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared on a Interest earned ....................................................................................... 5,163 4,362 40,018 historical cost basis except for the following material items in the Information about estimates and assumptions uncertainties that Dividends received ............................................................................... 23,951 26,194 240,311 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position: have a significant risk of resulting in material adjustments within Interest paid ............................................................................................ (15,138) (14,370) (131,834) • Financial assets and liabilities measured at FVTPL are measured the next consolidated fiscal year is included in the following notes: Income tax paid ..................................................................................... (24,197) (13,533) (124,155) at fair value; Net cash provided (used) by/in operating activities ....................... 96,476 40,510 371,651 • Financial assets measured at FVTOCI are measured at fair value; • Note 16—Provisions • Defined benefit plan assets or liabilities are measured at the • Note 23—Impairment of non-financial assets Cash flows from investing activities present value of the defined benefit obligations less the fair • Note 31—Measurement of defined benefit obligations Purchase of property, plant and equipment ..................................... (30,832) (24,665) (226,284) value of plan assets; and, • Note 32—Recoverability of deferred tax assets Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment .................. 5,963 9,009 82,651 • Inventories acquired with the purpose of generating profits from • Note 33 (6)—Fair value of financial instruments Purchase of intangible assets .............................................................. (7,113) (6,903) (63,330) short-term fluctuations in price are measured at fair value less (Increase) decrease in short-term loans receivable ......................... 5,899 (391) (3,587) sales costs to sell. When measuring the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Payment for long-term loans receivable ........................................... (7,802) (251) (2,302) There is no impact on the consolidated financial statements Group uses market observable data as far as possible. Fair values Collection of long-term loans receivable .......................................... 7,740 1,943 17,825 due to the change in the account name. are categorized into three levels in a fair value hierarchy based on The account name of the consolidated financial statements for the inputs used in the valuation techniques as follows. Net proceeds from (payments for) acquisition of subsidiaries ..... 30(2) (3,753) (4,809) (44,119) comparative information has also been changed. • Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for Net proceeds from (payments for) sale of subsidiaries .................. 30(3) 1,468 3,251 29,825 identical assets or liabilities that the Group can access at the Purchase of investments ....................................................................... (32,721) (20,998) (192,642) (3) Functional currency and presentation currency measurement date. Proceeds from sale of investments .................................................... 17,393 9,794 89,853 The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in Japanese • Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 Others ...................................................................................................... 1,556 (1,646) (15,100) yen, which is the Company's functional currency. All financial that are observable, either directly or indirectly. Net cash provided (used) by/in investing activities ......................... (42,200) (35,669) (327,238) information presented in Japanese yen has been rounded down • Level 3: unobservable inputs. to the nearest million yen. Cash flows from financing activities For the convenience of readers outside Japan, the Information about assumptions made in measuring fair values Increase (decrease) in short-term borrowings and commercial accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements are also is included in the following notes: paper ................................................................................................... 30(4) 24,999 32,786 300,788 presented in United States dollars by translating Japanese yen Proceeds from long-term borrowings ............................................... 30(4) 82,636 384,500 3,527,522 amounts at the exchange rate of ¥109 to U.S.$1, the approximate • Note 10—Investment property Repayment of long-term borrowings ................................................ 30(4) (162,353) (383,777) (3,520,889) rate of exchange at the end of March 31, 2020. Such translations • Note 18—Assets held for sale and liabilities directly related Proceeds from issuance of bonds ...................................................... 30(4) — 9,940 91,192 should not be construed as representations that the Japanese yen thereto Redemption of bonds .......................................................................... 30(4) (42) (10,019) (91,917) amounts could be converted into United States dollars at the • Note 23—Impairment of non-financial assets above. • Note 33 (6)—Fair value of financial instruments Repayment of lease liabilities .............................................................. 30(4) — (12,747) (116,944) Payment for acquisition of subsidiary's interests from non-con(4) Use of estimates and judgments (5) Change presentation trolling interest holders .................................................................... (1,195) (115) (1,055) The preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements in For the year ended March 31, 2020, we have changed the Proceeds from share issuance to non-controlling interest holdaccordance with IFRSs requires management to make judgments, following subject titles in our consolidated financial statements: ers ................................................................. 3,873 3,408 31,266 estimates and assumptions that affect the application of Financial assets measured at fair value through other Proceeds from sale of treasury stock ................................... — 6 55 accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, comprehensive income to Financial assets measured at Purchase of treasury stock ................................................. 19 (691) (10,059) (92,284) income and expenses. Actual results may differ from such FVTOCI, Financial assets measured at fair value through profit Dividends paid ....................................................................... 19 (16,888) (22,517) (206,577) estimates. and loss to Financial assets measured at FVTPL, and Financial Dividends paid to non-controlling interest holders ........ (3,139) (3,662) (33,596) Estimates and underlying assumptions thereof are reviewed on liabilities measured at fair value through profit and loss to Others ....................................................................... 30(4) (2,106) 91 834 an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are Financial liabilities measured at FVTPL. recognized in the period in which the estimates are revised and in Net cash provided (used) by/in financing activities .......................... (74,907) (12,164) (111,596) any future period affected. Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents ....................... (20,631) (7,324) (67,192) Information about critical judgments in applying accounting Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of year .......................... 30(1) 305,241 285,687 2,620,981 policies that have the most significant effect on the amounts Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents ....... 1,076 (5,711) (52,394) Cash and cash equivalents at the end of year ...................................... 30(1) 285,687 272,651 2,501,385 114 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 115 (6) Changes in Accounting Policies and Accounting with IAS 17—Leases and IFRIC4—Determining whether an Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Estimates Based on Requirements of Arrangement Contains a Lease are not reassessed to determine International Financial Reporting Standards whether they constitute leases under IFRS 16. Accordingly, the 2020 2020 With the exception of the following policy, the accounting policies definition of leases based on IFRS 16 are only applied to such Non-cancellable operating lease agreements as of March 31,2019 ....................................... 66,815 612,981 applied to the consolidated financial statements for the year arrangements formed or amended after April 1, 2019. Non-cancellable operating lease agreements as of March 31,2019 ended March 31, 2020, are the same as those applied to the 3) Leases as Lessee (after discounted at the interest rate implicit in the lease) ......................................................... 53,358 489,522 consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019. With regard to leases previously classified as operating leases Finance lease obligations as of March 31,2019 .......................................................................... 4,511 41,385 under IAS 17, right-of-use assets and lease liabilities have been Recognition of the exemption ........................................................................................................ IFRSs Title New/ revised policy recognized as of the date of initial application of IFRS16. The Short term leases ....................................................................................................................... (1,569) (14,394) Group measured lease liabilities at the present value of the total Leases of low value ................................................................................................................... (946) (8,678) IFRS 16 Leases Revision of definition, residual lease payments discounted at the lessee's incremental accounting treatment, and Cancellable operating leases, etc .................................................................................................. 19,657 180,339 borrowing rate at the date of initial application. The right-of-use disclosure method of leases Lease liabilities as of April 1, 2019 ...................................................................................................... 75,010 688,165 assets at the time of application are recognized using either of the following methods: (7) Additional Information effect depending on the business and area, but our accounting Effective April 1, 2019, the Group applied IFRS 16—Leases. • Recognized at carrying amount assuming that IFRS 16 had been The Group's accounting estimates, including accounting for estimates are based on the premise that the current situation will applied at the start of the lease period using the lessee's impairment of fixed assets, are made based on the information continue for at least three months (until June 2020), and that there IFRS 16 does not categorize leases as finance leases or incremental borrowing rate at the date of initial application for available when preparing the consolidated financial statements. will be a recovery after a period of time. operating leases, but rather entails introduction of a uniform discounting. The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic will differ in degree and accounting model. Under this model, in principle, all leases are • Recognized as an amount of lease liabilities added or deducted accounted for by recognizing right-of-use assets representing the the amount of any prepaid or accrued lease payments. right to use the underlying leased asset over the lease period and The weighted average of lessee's incremental borrowing rate lease liabilities representing the obligation to make lease applied to lease liabilities recognized at the Consolidated 3 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES payments. As a result of recognizing right-of-use assets and lease liabilities, the Group must also recognize depreciation on the Statement of Financial Position of initial application is 1.85%. The accounting policies set out below have been applied preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements are right-of-use assets and interest expenses on the lease liabilities. consistently to all periods presented in these Consolidated prepared with fiscal year end dates that are different from that of With regard to leases previously classified as operating leases Financial Statements, and have been applied consistently by the the Company, adjustments are made for the effects of significant For lessors, the standards under IFRS 16 are relatively under IAS 17, the following practical expedients were used in Group except the items described in 2 BASIS OF PRESENTATION transactions or events that occurred between the fiscal year end unchanged from the prior standards. Accordingly, lessors applying IFRS 16. (6) Changes in Accounting Policies and Accounting Estimates dates of such subsidiaries and that of the Company. The fiscal year continue to categorize leases as operating leases or finance • Dependence on evaluations of disadvantage of leases by Based on Requirements of International Financial Reporting end date for the majority of such subsidiaries is December 31. The leases. applying IAS 37—Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Standards. difference between the fiscal year end dates of such subsidiaries Contingent Assets immediately before the date of initial and that of the Company never exceeds three months. In regard to leases as lessee, the Group recognizes right-of-use application as an alternative to impairment reviews • Application of the exemption of not recognizing right-of-use (1) Basis of consolidation If there are changes in the Group's interest in a subsidiary, but assets and lease liabilities on the commencement day of the lease 1) Subsidiaries the Company retains control over the subsidiaries, such period. The Group measures the lease liability at the present value assets or lease liabilities for leases for which the period ends Subsidiaries are entities that are controlled by the Group. The transaction is accounted for as an equity transaction. Any of the lease payments that are not paid at that date. After the within 12 months of the date of initial application Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, difference between the adjustment to the non-controlling interests commencement date, the carrying amount of the lease liability is • Exclusion of initial direct costs from measurements of right-ofvariable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the and the fair value of the consideration received is recognized measured by increasing or reducing to reflect interest on the lease use assets at the date of initial application ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. directly in equity as equity attributable to owners of the parent. liability and the lease payments made. The right-of-use asset is • Use of post-fact judgments for calculating lease period, etc. for When the Group holds a majority of the voting rights of another If control is lost with respect to a subsidiary, the Group measured at cost deducting any initial direct costs from the leases for which agreements include extension or cancellation entity, such entity is considered to be a subsidiary of the Group as derecognizes such subsidiary's assets and liabilities or any nonamount of the initial measurement of the lease liability at initial options it is determined that control exists, unless there is clear evidence controlling interests, or the other components of equity, related to recognition. After the commencement date, the carrying amount that shares in such entity do not provide for control. In addition, in such subsidiary. of the right-of-use asset is measured by deducting accumulated 4) Impact on Consolidated Financial Statements the case that the Group holds less than or equal to 50 percent of Any surplus or deficit arising from such loss of control is depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. The Group As a result of the application of IFRS 16, ¥68,720 million the voting rights of another entity, if it is determined through recognized as profit or loss. If the Group retains any interest in depreciate the right-of-use asset from the commencement date to (U.S.$630,458 thousand) in additional lease-related assets, agreements or the like with other investment companies that the such subsidiary after the control is lost, then such interest is the earlier of the end of the useful life of the right-of-use asset or including right-of-use assets, and ¥70,498 million (U.S.$646,770 Group has significant control over such entity's finance and measured at fair value at the date that control is lost. the end of the lease term using the straight-line basis. Lease thousand) in additional lease liabilities were recognized on the management, such entity is considered to be a subsidiary of the payments for short-term leases and leases of low-value are consolidated statements of financial position on the date of initial Group. 2) Associates and joint ventures recognized as expenses using the straight-line basis over the lease application. In addition, the method of accounting for operating The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant term. lease payments as lessees recorded on the consolidated Consolidated Financial Statements from the date the Group influence, but not control or joint control, over their financial and statements of profit or loss as expenses at time of incurring under obtains control of the subsidiaries until the date the Group loses operating policies. Significant influence over each of such entities The application of IFRS 16 has had the following effects on the the previously applied IAS 17 have changed to recognize these such control of the subsidiaries. In the case that the accounting is presumed to exist when the Group owns between 20 percent Group. payments as depreciation on right-of-use assets and as interest policies adopted by subsidiaries are different from the Group's and 50 percent of the voting rights of each such entity. expenses on lease liabilities. Accordingly, the method recognition accounting policies, the financial statements of such subsidiaries In the case that the Group holds less than 20 percent of the 1) Transition Approach for these payments on the consolidated statements of cash flows are, as needed, adjusted in order to be consistent with the voting rights of another entity, if it is determined that the Group The Group used the modified retrospective approach to transition have changed from recognition as a net cash outflow from Group's accounting policies. has significant influence over such entity based on the provision of to IFRS 16. Accordingly, past figures have not been restated, and operating activities to recognition as repayment of lease liabilities In addition, the Consolidated Financial Statements include the a board member, a shareholders' agreement or the like, such retained earnings at April 1, 2019, were adjusted by the aggregate which account for a net cash outflow from financing activities. The financial statements of certain subsidiaries, such as those which entity is considered to be an associate of the Group. amount of impact of applying IFRS 16. impact of these changes on the consolidated statements of profit engage in the development of oil and gas in Egypt, of which the Joint ventures are those entities with respect to which multiple or loss in the March 31, 2020, was minimal. fiscal year end date is different from that of the Company. The parties, including the Group, have joint control over the economic 2) Lease Definition reason being the impracticability of unifying the fiscal year end activities by contract and unanimous consent of all of such parties The Group has chosen to apply the practical expedient that allows Future minimum lease payments for non-cancellable operating date of such subsidiaries with that of the Company due to is required when deciding on financial/management strategies, it to continue using prior judgments of whether or not a leases as of March 31,2019 applied IAS17 and adjustments for requirements of local laws and regulations, characteristics of local whereby the Group has rights to the net assets of the transaction constitutes a lease. For this reason, IFRS 16 will only be lease liabilities as of application date recognized on the business or the like. arrangement. applied to arrangements previously recognized as leases. consolidated statements of financial position were as follows. When the financial statements of subsidiaries used in the Except for those that are classified as assets held for sale in Arrangements previously not recognized as leases in accordance 116 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 117 accordance with IFRS 5 (Non-current Assets Held for Sale and of the calculation date of fair values thereof. With respect to the non-financial assets, and, if so, the Group estimates the Discontinued Operations), investments made to associates and foreign exchange translation differences of non-monetary items, if The depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are recoverable amount of such assets. Goodwill and intangible joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method (such gains or losses on non-monetary items are recognized as other reviewed at least every financial year end and amended as assets with indefinite useful lives, of which their useful lives cannot associates and joint ventures hereinafter referred to collectively as comprehensive income, the exchanged portion of such gains or needed. be determined, are tested for impairment annually and whenever Entities subject to Equity Method ). Investments made to Entities losses will be recognized as other comprehensive income. On the there is an indication that there may be an impairment with subject to Equity Method are each accounted for as the carrying other hand, if gains or losses on non-monetary items are (6) Goodwill and intangible assets respect thereof. If the carrying amount of an individual asset or a amount following the application of the equity method less recognized as profit or loss, the exchanged portions of such gains 1) Goodwill cash-generating unit exceeds the recoverable amount, such accumulated impairment losses. Such carrying amount includes or losses will be recognized as profit or loss. Goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment carrying amount is reduced to equal the recoverable amount and goodwill recognized at the time of acquisition. losses. an impairment loss is recognized. The Consolidated Financial Statements include the Group's 2) Foreign operations Recoverable amount is either the fair value or the value in use share of the profit or loss and other comprehensive income of The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill 2) Intangible assets (whichever is the higher value) after deducting disposal costs from Entities subject to Equity Method from the date the Group obtains and fair value adjustments arising from acquisitions thereof, are After initial recognition, the Group applies the cost model and individual assets or cash-generating units. Fair value is calculated significant influence or joint control until the date the Group loses translated to the presentation currency using the exchange rate at intangible assets are measured at cost less any accumulated using reasonable estimated prices, obtainable through orderly such significant influence or joint control. In the case that the the reporting date. In addition, the income and expenses of depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. transactions between market participants. Value in use is accounting policies adopted by Entities subject to Equity Method foreign operations are translated to the presentation currency At initial recognition, intangible assets acquired individually are calculated by discounting estimated future cash flow using a preare different from the Group's accounting policies, the financial using the average exchange rate for the year excluding cases in measured at cost. The costs of intangible assets acquired from tax discount rate that reflects the current market value in relation statements of such entities are adjusted, as needed. which exchange rates are fluctuating significantly. business combinations are measured at fair value at the date of to the inherent risks of cash-generating units or individual assets, In addition, the Consolidated Financial Statements include Foreign exchange translation differences are recognized as acquisition. With respect to internally-generated intangible assets and the time value of money. In principle, the business plan used investments made to Entities subject to Equity Method on dates other comprehensive income. If the Group's foreign operation is that do not meet the criteria for asset recognition, expenditures to estimate future cash flow is limited to five years. The Group that differ from the fiscal year end date. This is due to the disposed of, the cumulative amount of the foreign exchange related thereto are accounted for as expenses at the time they are makes appropriate use of outside experts according to the impracticability of unifying the fiscal year end date as a result of translation differences related to such foreign operation are incurred. With respect to internally-generated intangible assets complexity of calculating the value in use and fair value. relationships with other shareholders or the like. The fiscal year reclassified to profit or loss at the time of such disposal. that meet the criteria for asset recognition, the total of With respect to impairment losses of assets other than goodwill end date for the majority of Entities subject to Equity Method is Based on the application of the exemption clauses under IFRS expenditures related thereto that were incurred from the date that were recognized in previous fiscal years, the Group December 31. Adjustments are made for the effects of significant 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting such criteria was first met is treated as cost. determines at each fiscal year end whether such impairment transactions or events occurred between the fiscal year end date Standards, the Group reclassified the cumulative translation Intangible assets, for which useful lives may be determined losses have ceased to exist or there are indications that the same of Entities subject to Equity Method and that of the Company. differences as of the Transition Date to retained earnings. (excluding mining rights), are depreciated under the straight-line have decreased. If any such indications exist, the Group will method for the period of such estimated use. With respect to estimate the recoverable amount of such assets. If such 3) Business combinations (3) Cash and cash equivalents mining rights, they are depreciated using the production output recoverable amount exceeds the carrying amount of such assets, Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, cash in the method based on estimated mine reserves. In addition, the the carrying amount of the assets is increased to equal the method. The Group measures the value of goodwill by deducting bank that may be withdrawn at any time and short-term estimated useful life of software used by the Group is recoverable amount and reversal of impairment losses is from the fair value of consideration for the acquisition (which investments with maturity of three months or less from the approximately 5 years. recognized. Impairment losses recognized with respect to include the recognized amount of any non-controlling interests in acquisition date that are readily convertible into cash and not The depreciation methods, the useful lives and residual values goodwill are not reversed in subsequent periods. the acquiree at the date of such acquisition) the net recognized subject to any price fluctuation risk. of intangible assets with finite useful lives are reviewed at least In addition, because goodwill that constitutes part of the amount of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed every fiscal year end and amended as needed. carrying amount of an investment with respect to an Entity subject at the acquisition date (which is generally the fair value). When (4) Inventories Intangible assets for which useful lives cannot be determined to Equity Method is not separately recognized, it is not tested for such difference is in the negative, such difference is immediately Inventories are measured at the lower of a historical cost basis and are not amortized. The Company conducts a review to determine impairment separately. If it is suggested that there may be an recognized as profit or loss. net realizable value. whether the events or circumstances supporting the judgment impairment loss with respect to an investment made to an Entity Non-controlling interests are measured either at fair value or at The costs of inventories include purchasing costs, processing that useful lives cannot be determined continue to exist at every subject to Equity Method, the entire carrying amount of such the non-controlling interests' proportionate share of the costs and all other costs incurred in the process of bringing such fiscal year end. investment will be tested for impairment as a single asset, by recognized amounts of the acquiree's identifiable net assets, and inventories to the present location and condition, and are mainly comparing the recoverable amount with such carrying amount. the measurement method to be applied at the date of acquisition determined based on the average method. Non-fungible (7) Investment property is determined on a transaction-by-transaction basis. Transaction inventories are calculated based on the specific identification An investment property is a property held either to earn rental (10) Financial instruments costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity method. income or for capital appreciation or for both. An investment 1) Financial Assets securities, that the Group incurs in connection with a business Inventories that have been acquired with the purpose of property does not include a property held for sale in the ordinary At initial recognition, financial assets are classified as financial combination are expensed as incurred. generating profits from short-term fluctuations in price are course of business or property used for the production or supply assets measured at amortized cost, debt assets measured at measured at fair value less costs to sell, and changes in the fair of goods or service or for other administrative purpose. FVTOCI, equity assets measured at FVTOCI, and financial assets 4) Transactions eliminated under consolidation values of such inventories are recognized as profit or loss. After initial recognition, the Group applies the cost model and measured at FVPTL. The Group initially recognizes financial assets Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealized profits investment property is measured at cost less any accumulated measured at amortized cost and debt assets measured at FVTOCI or losses through intra-group transactions, are eliminated when (5) Property, plant and equipment depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. at the date of occurrence, whereas the Group initially recognizes preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements. After initial recognition, the Group applies the cost model, under Depreciation of an investment property is mainly computed other financial assets on the transaction date. which property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less under the straight-line method based on the applicable estimated In cases in which the contractual right with respect to the cash (2) Foreign currency translation any accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment useful life. The estimated useful lives are between 2 years and 50 flow from a financial asset is extinguished or the contractual right 1) Foreign currency transactions losses. years. The depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values to receive cash flow from a financial asset has been transferred, Foreign currency transactions are translated to the respective The costs of property, plant and equipment include costs are reviewed at least every fiscal year end and amended as and substantially all of the risks and rewards associated with the functional currencies of each company at exchange rates at the directly attributable to the acquisition of such assets. If a material needed. ownership of such asset are removed, the Group derecognizes dates of such transactions. component of property, plant and equipment is consumed such financial asset. Monetary items in foreign currency at the reporting date are differently, then such component is accounted for as a separate (8) Borrowing costs retranslated to the functional currency at the exchange rate at such item of property, plant and equipment. Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, (a) Financial assets measured at amortized cost date. Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is mainly construction or production of an asset, which takes a considerable A financial asset that meets the following conditions is classified Foreign exchange translation differences on monetary items computed under the straight-line method based on the estimated period of time before it is ready for its intended use or sale, are as financial asset measured at amortized cost. are recognized as profit or loss in the period incurred. useful life of each component thereof. The estimated useful lives capitalized as part of the cost of such asset. All other borrowing • The asset is held based on a business model whose objective Non-monetary items that are measured based on historical cost of the following items are as follows: costs are recognized as expenses in the period incurred. is to hold an asset in order to collect cash flow under a of the foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at contract, and; the date of the transaction. Non-monetary items in foreign Buildings and structures: 2 — 60 years (9) Impairment of non-financial assets • Based on the contractual terms with respect to the financial currency that are measured at fair value of such foreign currency Machinery and vehicles: 2 — 40 years At each fiscal year end, the Group determines whether there is asset, the cash flow, which is intended only for payment of are retranslated to the functional currency at the exchange rate as Tools, furniture & fixtures: 2 — 20 years any indication of an impairment loss with respect to the Group's principal and interests on the outstanding principal balance, 118 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 119 arises on a specified date. 2) Impairment of financial assets enforceable right to offset the recognized amounts and intends At initial recognition, financial assets measured at amortized The Group recognizes an allowance for doubtful accounts for (b) Financial liabilities measured at FVTPL either to settle them on a net basis or realize the assets and settle cost are measured at fair value plus transaction costs directly expected credit loss on financial assets measured at amortized At initial recognition, financial liabilities measured at FVTPL are the liabilities simultaneously. attributable to acquisition of such assets. After initial cost, debt assets measured at FVTOCI, lease receivables, measured at fair value. After initial recognition, financial recognition, the carrying amount of such financial assets contractual assets, and financial guarantee contracts. liabilities are measured at fair value and subsequent changes in (11) Provisions measured at amortized cost is calculated using the effective If credit risk for financial instruments has not substantially the fair value thereof are recognized as profit or loss. A provision is recognized only when the Group has a present interest method. increased from the initial recognition on the reporting date, the obligation (legal or presumptive) as a result of a past event, there Group calculates an allowance for doubtful accounts based on 4) Derivatives and hedge accounting is a probability that an outflow of resources embodying economic (b) Debt assets measured at FVTOCI expected credit loss that result from default events that are In order to hedge the foreign currency risk, interest rate fluctuation benefits will be required to settle such obligation and a reliable Financial assets that meet the following criteria are classified as possible within the 12-months after the reporting date (12-months risk and commodity price fluctuation risk, the Group conducts estimate can be made regarding the amount of such obligation. debt assets measured through other comprehensive income. expected credit loss). If credit risk for financial instruments derivative transactions, such as forward exchange transactions, Where there is materiality in the effects of time value of money, • The asset is held based on a business model whose objective substantially increases, however, the Group calculates an interest rate swap transactions and commodity futures and provisions are discounted using a pre-tax rate that reflects the risks is to achieve both collecting cash flow under a contract and allowance for doubtful accounts based on expected credit loss forwards transactions. specific to said liability. selling the financial assets ,and from all possible default events over the expected life of the Derivatives are initially recognized at fair value. After initial • Based on the contractual terms with respect to the financial financial instruments (lifetime expected credit loss). However, an recognition, derivatives are measured at fair value and subsequent (12) Non-current assets held for sale asset, the cash flow, which is intended only for payment of allowance for doubtful accounts for trade receivables and changes in the fair value thereof are accounted for as follows: Non-current assets or disposal groups to be collected mainly principal and interests on the outstanding principal balance, contractual assets are calculated based on lifetime expected through sales transactions (but not for continuous use) are arises on a specified date. credit loss. When determining whether credit risk substantially (a) Fair value hedges classified as held for sale. increases or not from the initial recognition, the Group refers to The changes in fair value of a derivative used as a hedging To be classified as held for sale, an asset must be immediately At initial recognition, debt assets measured at FVTOCI are obtainable, reasonable and supportable information, such as instrument are recognized as profit or loss. The carrying sellable at its present state and have an extremely high probability measured at fair value plus transaction costs directly changes in external and internal credit ratings and past due amount of hedged items is measured at fair value and the for such sale. In addition, management must have firm attributable to the acquisition of such assets. After initial information. Expected credit loss is based on the difference gains or losses on such hedged items arising from changes in commitment to execute the plan to sell such asset and complete recognition, they are measured at fair value and the between contractual cash flow and collectable cash flow, and its the fair values attributable to the hedged risks are recognized such sale within one year from the date of such classification. subsequent changes in fair value are recognized as other estimate incorporates obtainable, reasonable, and supportable as profit or loss. Immediately before being classified as held for sale, an asset, comprehensive income. However, when such subsequent information regarding past non-performance, financial standing of or components of a disposal group, are re-measured in changes in fair value are financial revenue based on the the issuer or borrower, and future predictions. (b) Cash flow hedges accordance with the Group's accounting policies. After the effective interest method or differences due to foreign If it is determined that all or part of the financial assets can not Of the changes in fair value of a derivative used as a hedging classification as held for sale, such asset is measured at the lower exchange and impairment loss, they are recognized as profit or be collected or extremely difficult to collect, such as there has instrument, portions determined to be effective are recognized of the carrying amount and the fair value less costs to sell. loss. Furthermore, if the equity investment is derecognized, the been a significant financial difficulty of the issuer or borrower or a as other comprehensive income and included as another Any impairment loss on a disposal group is allocated first to accumulated amount is reclassified as profit or loss. breach of contract including past due event, the financial assets component of equity. goodwill, and then to the remaining assets on a pro rata basis. are regarded as non-performing. In confirming evidence of credit The amount recognized as other comprehensive income is Impairment losses of an asset that was initially classified as held for (c) Equity assets measured at FVTOCI impairment, the Group makes this determination based on reclassified from other components of equity to profit or loss in sale or disposal group, and subsequent gains or losses arising In regard to equity assets invested in not for the purpose of matters such as a significant financial difficulty of the issuer or the same period that the hedged transaction affects profit or following the remeasurement are recognized as profit or loss. purchase and sale, an election may be made at initial borrower or a breach of contract including past due event. And, loss; provided however, that if hedging of a scheduled Property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and recognition to present subsequent changes to the fair value of when there is evidence of credit impairment for the financial transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a noninvestment property classified as held for sale are not depreciated such assets as other comprehensive income (such election assets on the reporting date, the Group estimates expected credit financial asset or liability, the amount recognized as other or amortized. being irrevocable). The Group makes such election per such loss separately and calculates allowance for doubtful accounts. comprehensive income is then accounted for as revision to the When the Group has committed itself to exercise a sales plan financial assets. For the financial assets for which there is no evidence of credit initial carrying amount of such non-financial asset or liability. involving the loss of control of a subsidiary, all the assets and At initial recognition, for investment in equity assets not for impairment, the Group classify these together based on The ineffective portion is immediately recognized as profit or liabilities of such subsidiary are classified as held for sale, the purpose of purchase and sale and for which the Group has similarities in credit risk specifics and the internal credit rating. loss. regardless of whether the Group will retain a non-controlling elected to present subsequent changes to fair value as other Then estimate expected credit risk comprehensively to calculate When the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge interest in such subsidiary after the sale. comprehensive income (such election being irrevocable) are allowance for doubtful accounts. accounting, the hedge instrument expires or is sold, terminated measured at fair value plus transaction costs directly If there is no reasonable expectation for the partial or full or exercised, or designation of the hedge is revoked, hedge (13) Equity attributable to the acquisition of such assets. After initial collection of the Group’s claims associated with a financial asset, accounting is discontinued prospectively. If the scheduled 1) Share capital and capital surplus recognition, they are measured at fair value, and the the Group directly deducts the value from the carrying amount of transaction is no longer expected to occur, the amount of the Proceeds from issuance of equity instruments by the Company are subsequent changes in fair value are recognized as other total financial assets. effective portions of the hedge that have been recognized as included in share capital and capital surplus. Transaction costs comprehensive income. When the equity investment is other comprehensive income is immediately reclassified from directly attributable to the issuance of equity instruments are derecognized, or the decrease in fair value compared to 3) Financial liabilities other components of equity to profit or loss. deducted from capital surplus. acquisition cost is substantial, the accumulated amount of other At initial recognition, financial liabilities are either classified as comprehensive income is reclassified as retained earnings, not financial liabilities measured at FVTPL or financial liabilities (c) Hedge of a net investment 2) Treasury stock as profit or loss. Dividends are recognized as profit or loss. measured at amortized cost. Financial liabilities measured at Of the changes in fair value of derivatives and non-derivates When the Group reacquires treasury stocks, the consideration amortized cost are initially recognized on the occurrence date used as a hedge instrument (loans, etc.), portions determined paid is recognized as a deduction from equity. Transaction costs (d) Financial assets measured at FVTPL thereof and other financial liabilities are recognized on the to be effective are recognized as other comprehensive income directly attributable to the reacquisition of treasury stocks are All other financial assets are classified as financial assets transaction date thereof. and included as another other component of equity. This deducted from capital surplus. measured at FVTPL. These assets are measured at fair value at Financial liabilities are no longer recognized when they are effective portion recognized as other comprehensive income is In addition, when the Group sells treasury stocks, the initial recognition, with transaction costs directly attributable to extinguished, i.e., when obligations specified under a contract are reclassified from other components of equity to profit or loss at consideration received is recognized as an increase in equity. the acquisition recognized as profit or loss at the date of discharged, cancelled or expires. the time of disposition of a foreign operation. occurrence. After initial recognition, they are measured at fair (14) Revenue from Contracts with Customers value, and the subsequent changes in fair value are recognized (a) Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost (d) Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments The Group recognizes revenue as the amount of consideration to as profit or loss. Financial liabilities, other than financial liabilities measured at The changes in the fair value of such derivates are recognized which an entity expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring FVTPL, are classified as financial liabilities measured at as profit or loss. promised goods or services to a customer, based on the five-step At initial recognition, trade receivables which do not include amortized cost. At initial recognition, financial liabilities approach below. any significant financing component are measured at trade value measured at amortized cost are measured at fair value less any 5) Offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities Step 1: Identify the contract with the customer. transaction costs directly attributable to incurring of such Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net Step 2: Identify the separate performance obligations in the liabilities. After initial recognition, such financial liabilities are amount of such offset is presented in the consolidated statements contract. measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. of financial position only when the Group has a legally Step 3: Determine the transaction price. 120 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 121 Step 4: Allocate the transaction price to the separate performance In most cases, the Group will receive revenue from the sale of Past service cost is immediately recognized as profit or loss. carried forward. The amounts of tax assets and liabilities are obligations. products within one year of meeting performance obligations. The Group immediately recognizes all of the calculated under the expected tax rate or tax law applicable as of Step 5: R  ecognize revenue when or as the Group satisfies each This amount does not include significant financing remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability (asset) as the period in which assets are realized or liabilities settled based performance obligations. components. other comprehensive income and promptly reclassifies them as on a statutory tax rate or the same substantially enacted as of the retained earnings. fiscal year end. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not The Group identifies distinct goods or services included in a (b) Revenue from rendering of services or other kinds of sale recognized in the following cases: contract with customer and performance obligations (the basic Revenue from rending of services or other kinds of sale mainly (b) Defined contribution plans • when taxable temporary differences arise from initial recognition transactional unit). Since the Group may fulfill a intermediaries or includes provision of services related to IT systems, automotive Defined contribution plans are retirement benefit plans under of goodwill; agent function in normal business transactions, the Group must part inspections, and building maintenance. Revenue from which the Group pays fixed contributions to separate entities • when they arise from initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a consider whether it functions as a principal or agent in identifying these services which meets any of the requirements below and will have no legal or presumptive obligation to pay any transaction that is neither a business combination nor affects performance obligations. In cases where the performance entails control of the service being transferred for over time. amount over its contribution amount. The obligations already accounting profit and taxable profit (or loss) at the time of the obligations essentially promise that the Group itself will provide The Group thus determines whether performance obligations paid or to be paid as contributions under the defined transaction; and, specific goods or services, the Group is deemed to be a principal; have been fulfilled, before recognizing profit according to the contribution plans are recognized as expenses in the period in • with respect to taxable temporary differences associated with in cases where the performance obligations is to arrange degree of progress on performance obligations. The qualities which the employees provided the services related thereto. investments in subsidiaries and associates, or interests in joint provision of goods or services by another party, the Group is of the goods or services transferred to the customer will be arrangements, when the Group is able to control the timing of deemed to be an agent. The following indicators are used to considered in measuring the degree of progress on (c) Multi-employer plans the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that determine whether the Group is principal or agent. performance obligations. Certain subsidiaries participate in pension plans, which are the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable classified as multi-employer plans. In regards to such pension future. • The Group has primary responsibility for performance of the Requirements: plans, sufficient information to calculate the proportionate promised provision of specified goods or services. • the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the share of such plan assets cannot be obtained. Thus, the Group Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset only when the • The Group bears inventory risk prior to transferring the specified benefits provided by the Group’s performance as the Group accounts for such pension plans in the same manner in which it Group has a legally enforceable right to set off the current tax goods or services to the customer or after transferring the performs. recognizes defined contribution plans. In other words, assets against current tax liabilities, and, such deferred tax assets goods or services under the control of the customer. • the Group’s performance creates or enhances an asset (for contributions to such multi-employer plans are recognized as and liabilities relate to income taxes levied on the same taxation • Price of the goods or services is set at the discretion of the example, work in progress) that the customer controls as the expenses in the period in which the employees provided their entity. However, even in the case of different taxable entities, the Group asset is created or enhanced. services. Group can set off if the tax taxable entities intend either to settle In cases where the Group is the principal party to the • the Group’s performance does not create an asset with an current tax liabilities and assets on a net bases, or to realize the transaction, the Group recognizes revenue when or as the Group alternative use to the Group and the Group has an 2) Other long-term employee benefits assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously. satisfies each performance obligations, as a monetary amount enforceable right to payment for performance completed to Obligations in respect of long-term employee benefits other than Deferred tax assets are recognized for deductible temporary reflecting the expected consideration that the Group is entitled to date. post-employment benefits are calculated by estimating the future differences, the unused tax losses carried forward and unused tax receive from the exchange of the specified goods or services. If the Group does not meet above requirements, the Group amount of benefits that employees will have earned in return for credits carried forward to the extent that it is probable that they Furthermore, in cases where the Group is acting as agent, the will recognize revenue at the point that duties have been their services in the current and prior periods and discounting can be used against future taxable profit. The carrying amount of Group recognizes revenue when or as the Group satisfies each completed and the Group may claim payment from the such amount in order to determine the present value. deferred tax assets are reassessed at each fiscal year end, and performance obligations, in the amount of any fee commission, or customer, since the Group will have been deemed to have such carrying amount will be reduced to the extent it is no longer net revenue the Group is entitled to receive in exchange for satisfied its performance obligations. 3) Short-term employee benefits probable that related tax benefits from such assets will be realized. arranging provision of the specified goods or services by another In most cases, the Group will receive revenue from Short-term employee benefits are not discounted. Instead, they party. rendering of services or other kinds of sale within one year of are accounted for as expenses at the time services related thereto (19) Lease The Group recognizes revenue as the amount of consideration meeting performance obligations. This amount does not are provided. (Accounting policy applied from April 1, 2019) to which an entity expects to be entitled in exchange for include significant financial components. With respect to bonuses, the Group owes legal and When a contract begins, the Group determines whether the transferring promised goods or services to a customer. Revenue presumptive payment obligations as a consequence of past contract in question is a lease contract or a contract containing a does not include consumption tax, VAT, or other money recovered 15) Financial income and cost employee services provided. If such amount of payment lease. If the rights governing the use of the assets specified in the as tax agent. Variable consideration is only included in the Financial income comprises interest income, dividend income, obligations can be reliably estimated, such estimated amount to contract are transferred into an exchange for compensation at transaction price if, and to the extent that, it is highly probable that gain on sales of financial instruments and gain arising from be paid based on such bonus system is recognized as a liability. fixed intervals, the contract in question is a lease contract or its inclusion will not result in a significant revenue reversal in the change in the fair value of financial instruments. Interest income is contains a lease. future when the uncertainty has been subsequently removed. recognized at the time of receipt by using the effective interest (17) Share-based remuneration With regards to transaction price, there is no materiality to revenue method. Dividend income is recognized on the date when the The Group has introduced an equity-settled share-based 1) As lessee which includes variable consideration. Group's right to receive payment is established. remuneration system which provides directors and the like with Concerning the lessee's lease, the Group recognizes the right-ofFinancial costs comprise interest expenses, loss on sales of performance-linked share remuneration. use assets and the lease liabilities at the commencement date of In the case where, at the start of the contract, the Group financial instruments and loss arising from change in the fair value Under this system, the service received are measured at the fair the lease. assumes that it will take a year or less between the Group of financial instruments. value of Sojitz shares at the grant date, and recognized as expense The Group measures the lease liability at the present value of transferring the promised goods or services to the customer and over the period from the grant date to the vesting date with a the lease payments that are not paid at that date. After the receiving payment from the customer for those goods and (16) Employee benefits corresponding amount as an increase in capital surplus. commencement date, the carrying amount of the lease liability is services, the Group does not adjust revenue to reflect the impact 1) Post-employment benefits measured by increasing or reducing to reflect interest on the lease of significant financing components on the promised (a) Defined benefit plans (18) Income taxes liability and the lease payments made. If the calculated interest consideration for the goods. Defined benefit plans refer to retirement benefit plans other Income tax expense comprises current tax expenses and deferred rate of the lease cannot easily be obtained, the Group's than a defined contribution plan. Defined benefit obligations tax expenses. These are recognized as profit or loss, except when incremental borrowing rate will be used, and in general the Group The Group recognizes revenue for major transactions at the are calculated separately for each plan by estimating the future they arise from items that are directly recognized as other will use the incremental borrowing rate as the discount rate. When following points: amount of benefits that employees will have earned in return comprehensive income or equity, and from a business measuring lease liability, the choice was made to recognize both (a) Revenue from sale of products for their services provided in the current and prior periods and combination. lease components and related non-lease components as a single Revenue from sale of products primarily includes wholesaling, discounting such amount in order to determine the present Current tax expenses are measured by the expected taxes lease component instead of separating them. retail, sale of products through manufacturing/processing, and value. The fair value of any plan assets is deducted from the receivable from or taxes payable to tax authorities, and the tax The right-of-use asset is measured at cost deducting any initial sales of real estate. The Group recognizes revenue at the point present value of the defined benefit obligations. amounts are calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or direct costs from the amount of the initial measurement of the goods have been delivered, undergone inspection, and met The discount rates are principally equivalent to the market substantially enacted by the fiscal year end. lease liability at initial recognition. After the commencement date, the terms and conditions for delivery as named in the contract. yields of AA credit-rated corporate bonds at the fiscal year end Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized in respect of the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset is measured by At this point, the Group deems goods to be under the control that have maturity terms that are approximately the same as temporary differences between the carrying amount of an asset deducting accumulated depreciation and accumulated of the customer and performance obligations to have been those of the Group's obligations and use the same currencies and liability in the statement of financial position and its tax base, impairment losses. The Group depreciate the right-of-use asset satisfied as those used for future benefits payments. the unused tax losses carried forward and unused tax credits from the commencement date to the earlier of the end of the 122 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 123 useful life of the right-of-use asset or the end of the lease term lease will continue to be recognized in the consolidated using the straight-line basis. statement of financial position. Lease payments from the 5 SEGMENT INFORMATION Lease term is determined as the non-cancellable period of a operating lease are recognized as earnings using either the lease, together with both periods covered by an option to extend straight-line basis or another regular basis. Furthermore, the (1) Summary of reportable segments next-generation infrastructure projects utilizing IoT, AI, and big the lease if the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise that option underlying assets that are the subject of the operating lease will Reportable segments are the Group's components for which data); Sales and maintenance of communications and IT and periods covered by an option to terminate the lease if the be depreciated using a consistent method used for other discrete financial information is available, and whose operating equipment; systems integration, software development and sales, lessee is reasonably certain not to exercise that option. similar assets. The initial direct costs that arise from the results are regularly reviewed by the Board of Directors for the cloud services, and managed services; etc. Lease payments for short-term leases and lease of a low-value acquisition of the operating lease contract are added to the purposes of making decisions about resources to be allocated to are recognized as expenses using the straight-line basis over the carrying amount of the associated underlying asset. such segments and assessing their performance. 5) Metals & Mineral Resources: Coal; iron ore; ferroalloys (nickel, lease term. Throughout the lease period, they are recognized as expenses The Group is an integrated trading company engaged in a chromium, niobium), ores, alumina, aluminum, copper, zinc, tin, on the same basis as lease income. wide range of business activities on a global basis. Headquarters precious metals, ceramics and minerals; coke; carbon products; 2)As lessor includes business sections that handle merchandising, trading, infrastructure businesses; steel-related business; etc. The Group classifies leases as either a finance lease or an (Accounting policy applied before April 1, 2019) product manufacturing, services, project planning and operating lease at the commencement date. A lease is classified The Group determines whether an agreement is of a lease, or management, investments and financial activities, both 6) Chemicals: Organic chemicals; inorganic chemicals; functional as a finance lease if it transfers substantially all the risks and contains a lease, based on the substance of such agreement as of domestically and internationally. chemicals; fine chemicals; industrial salt; healthcare and natural rewards incidental to ownership of an underlying asset. A lease is the date of commencement of a lease. The substance of an The Group's reportable segments comprise business divisions products; rare earths; commodity resins; advanced resins; classified as an operating lease if it does not transfer substantially agreement is determined based on the following factors: categorized by goods, services, functions and industries. The environmentally friendly resins; packaging materials for industry all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of an underlying Group's reportable segments consist of the following nine and foodstuffs; advanced film; plastic molding machines; other asset. 1) Finance lease business groups: Automotive; Aerospace & Transportation plastic products; electronics materials including liquid crystals and If the Group is an intermediate lessor, the sublease is classified A finance lease is a lease that transfers substantially all of the risks Project; Machinery & Medical Infrastructure; Energy & Social electrolytic copper foil; printed circuit board electronics materials; with reference not to the underlying asset but to the right-of-use and rewards incidental to ownership of an asset. Infrastructure; Metals & Mineral Resources; Chemicals; Foods & fiber materials and products for use in industrial; etc. asset arising from the head lease. However, if the head lease is a Lease assets are initially recognized at lower of the fair value of Agriculture Business; Retail & Lifestyle Business; and Industrial short-term lease, the sublease is classified as an operating lease. the leased asset and the present value of the total of minimum Infrastructure & Urban Development. 7) Foods & Agriculture Business: Grains; flour; oils and fats; oil lease payments. After the initial recognition, such lease assets are In addition, the following Others consists of, administration, stuff; feed materials; marine products; processed seafood; sweets; (a) Finance lease accounted for based on the applicable accounting policies. Lease domestic regional operating companies, logistics and insurance raw ingredients for sweets; coffee beans; sugar; other foodstuffs The recognition of assets owned based on the finance lease is payments are apportioned between financing costs and services, etc. and raw ingredients; compound chemical fertilizers; etc. suspended at the commencement date, and the lease repayment amounts of the lease obligations so as to maintain a receivable is recognized as an amount equivalent to the net certain interest rate against the balance of the liability. Main goods and services of each reportable segments are as 8) Retail & Lifestyle Business: Cotton and synthetic fabrics; knitted investment in the lease. After the initial recognition, the follows: fabrics and products; clothing; medical material; construction collection of credit associated with lease receivable from the 2) Operating lease materials; imported timber; timber products such as lumber, lessee is recognized, and will be recognized throughout the An operating lease is a lease except for finance lease. Lease 1) Automotive: Trading of completed automobiles; assembly and plywood, and laminated lumber; housing materials; manufacture lease period as financial income in order to achieve a constant payments are mainly recognized as expenses on a straight-line sales; retail; automobile and motorcycle parts, simply parts and sale of wood chips; imported tobacco; livestock and rate of profit on the net investment in the lease. basis over the lease term. assembly; supply chain management; automotive parts quality aquaculture products; processed livestock and aquaculture In the case the Group is the lessor of an asset under an inspection operations; financing; sales and service operations products; fruits and vegetables; frozen vegetables; frozen foods; operating lease, such asset is recognized in accordance with its incorporating digital technologies; etc. sweets; raw ingredients for sweets; sugar; other foodstuffs and (b) Operating lease nature under the consolidated statements of financial position. raw ingredients; administration of shopping centers; bedclothes The underlying assets that are the subject of the operating 2) Aerospace & Transportation Project: Aero business and home fashion-related products; general commodities; (Commercial aircraft, defense and related equipment agency and householdand industrial-use paper; processing and production sales, business jets, used aircraft and part-out business, airport of prepared food; wholesale food; convenience store business; business); Transformation and social infrastructure projects etc. 4 NEW STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS NOT YET APPLIED (transformation projects; airport, port, and other social infrastructure projects); Marine business (New building, second9) Industrial Infrastructure & Urban Development: Real estate hand ships, ship chartering, ship equipment, ship owning); etc. development, consignment sales, rent, administration and As the Group had not adopted any newly established or are no areas in which the adoption could have a serious effect on management businesses(industrial park, housing, office, etc.); etc. amended standard and interpretation that we were announced by the Group. 3) Machinery & Medical Infrastructure: Plant Projects (Fertilizer & the date of approval of consolidated financial statements, there chemical, energy, infrastructure and environmental projects); 10) Others: Administration, domestic regional operating Industrial Machinery (Industrial machinery, surface-mounting companies, logistics and insurance services; etc. machines, start-ups); Forefront Industry businesses; Bearings; Medical Infrastructure(Hospital PPP, Medical-related service, healthcare new technology); etc. 4) Energy & Social Infrastructure: Infrastructure & Environment (Renewable energy, IPP projects); Power-related projects(IPP and IWP projects, power plant EPC business); Energy (Oil and gas; petroleum products; LNG and LNG-relarated business); Nuclear power related business(nuclear fuels; nuclear power-related equipment and machinery); Social infrastructure projects (telecommunications infrastructure projects; energy management; 124 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 125 (2) Information regarding reportable segments 2020 The accounting methods for the reported business segments are mostly consistent with those stated in Note 3 ( Significant Accounting Millions of yen Policies ), except with respect to the calculation of income tax expenses. Reportable segments Transaction prices between segments are based on general market prices. Aerospace & Machinery & Energy & Metals & Foods & Transportation Medical Social Mineral Agriculture Automotive Project Infrastructure Infrastructure Resources Chemicals Business 2019 Millions of yen Revenue Reportable segments External revenue ....................................... 225,276 35,631 123,725 82,009 350,519 446,429 115,219 Aerospace & Machinery & Energy & Metals & Foods & Transportation Medical Social Mineral Agriculture Inter-segment revenue ............................. — 23 58 1,859 — 12 11 Automotive Project Infrastructure Infrastructure Resources Chemicals Business Revenue Total revenue .................................... 225,276 35,655 123,783 83,869 350,519 446,441 115,230 External revenue ....................................... 242,499 27,811 107,010 74,791 383,170 505,101 128,293 Gross profit ..................................................... 41,150 15,651 14,673 25,749 20,410 43,201 14,240 Inter-segment revenue ............................. — 0 131 1,944 — 11 11 Total revenue .................................... 242,499 27,812 107,142 76,736 383,170 505,112 128,305 Share of profit (loss) of investments accounted for using the equity method .... (401) 1,060 2,005 5,662 12,471 680 528 Gross profit ..................................................... 42,330 15,463 13,642 18,681 37,638 46,366 16,404 Share of profit (loss) of investments accountProfit for the year (attributable to owners ed for using the equity method .................. 298 1,016 904 5,694 17,680 931 243 of the parent) .............................................. 2,380 1,794 4,567 9,632 20,104 9,269 1,365 Profit (loss) for the year (attributable to Segment assets .............................................. 180,528 135,099 123,891 263,172 443,113 269,031 128,896 owners of the parent) ............................... 6,409 3,962 2,763 5,786 30,463 8,984 2,280 Segment assets .............................................. 167,777 130,181 121,496 284,473 464,565 298,574 125,116 Other: Other: Investments accounted for using the Investments accounted for using the equity method ....................................... 5,284 9,726 10,649 95,172 233,290 11,512 12,384 equity method ....................................... 4,450 9,193 9,437 101,469 239,828 11,367 11,594 Capital expenditure .................................. 2,391 2,173 126 7,950 14,194 1,597 2,537 Capital expenditure .................................. 11,233 357 407 6,316 11,674 2,890 1,546 Millions of yen Reportable segments Millions of yen Industrial Retail & Infrastructure & Reportable segments Lifestyle Urban Industrial Business Development Total Others Reconciliations Consolidated Retail & Infrastructure & Revenue Lifestyle Urban Business Development Total Others Reconciliations Consolidated External revenue ....................................... 317,373 33,267 1,819,319 36,871 — 1,856,190 Inter-segment revenue ............................. 55 368 2,524 314 (2,838) — Revenue Total revenue .................................... 317,428 33,636 1,821,843 37,185 (2,838) 1,856,190 External revenue ....................................... 310,274 34,480 1,723,566 31,259 — 1,754,825 Gross profit ..................................................... 38,661 6,957 236,145 5,427 (616) 240,956 Inter-segment revenue ............................. 53 365 2,384 162 (2,546) — Share of profit (loss) of investments accounted for using the equity method .................. (74) 889 27,584 195 (0) 27,779 Total revenue .................................... 310,328 34,845 1,725,950 31,421 (2,546) 1,754,825 Profit (loss) for the year (attributable to Gross profit ..................................................... 35,456 6,025 216,559 5,479 (1,544) 220,494 owners of the parent) ............................... 5,724 1,087 67,462 440 2,517 70,419 Segment assets .............................................. 395,738 72,543 2,060,467 144,710 91,881 2,297,059 Share of profit (loss) of investments accounted for using the equity method ... 391 2,350 24,748 162 (2) 24,908 Other: Investments accounted for using the Profit for the year (attributable to owners equity method ....................................... 17,303 15,575 420,219 4,046 (114) 424,152 of the parent) .............................................. 5,963 1,474 56,552 (609) 4,878 60,821 Capital expenditure .................................. 923 2,577 34,471 1,453 — 35,925 Segment assets .............................................. 370,325 77,175 1,991,235 201,627 37,423 2,230,285 Other: Reconciliation of Profit (loss) for the year (attributable to owners of the Company) of ¥2,517 million includes the difference between Investments accounted for using the the Company's actual income tax expenses and income tax expenses allocated to each segment based on the calculation method equity method ....................................... 17,210 14,564 409,794 4,060 (114) 413,740 established internally, which amounted to ¥698 million, and unallocated dividend income and others of ¥1,819 million. The reconciliation amount of segment assets of ¥91,881 million includes the elimination of inter-segment transactions or the like Capital expenditure .................................. 2,702 3,610 40,739 11,052 — 51,792 amounting to ¥(130,375) million and all of the Company assets that were not allocated to each segment amounting to ¥222,256 million, which mainly consists of the Company's surplus funds in the form of cash in bank or the like for investments and marketable securities or the like. 126 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 127 2020 (4) Geographical information Thousands of U.S. dollars Geographical information relating to external revenue and non-current assets (excluding financial assets and deferred tax assets) was as Reportable segments follows. Aerospace & Machinery & Energy & Metals & Foods & Transportation Medical Social Mineral Agriculture 1) External revenue Automotive Project Infrastructure Infrastructure Resources Chemicals Business Revenue is classified by country or region based on the locations of customers. Revenue Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars External revenue ....................................... 2,066,752 326,889 1,135,091 752,376 3,215,770 4,095,678 1,057,055 2019 2020 2020 Inter-segment revenue ............................. — 211 532 17,055 — 110 100 Japan ............................................................................................................................................................ 881,390 865,502 7,940,385 Total revenue .................................... 2,066,752 327,110 1,135,623 769,440 3,215,770 4,095,788 1,057,155 The Americas ............................................................................................................................................... 156,986 163,435 1,499,403 Gross profit ..................................................... 377,522 143,587 134,614 236,229 187,247 396,339 130,642 Europe .......................................................................................................................................................... 130,234 129,599 1,188,981 Share of profit (loss) of investments accounted for using the equity method ... (3,678) 9,724 18,394 51,944 114,412 6,238 4,844 Asia and Oceania ........................................................................................................................................ 649,901 568,405 5,214,724 Profit for the year (attributable to owners Others ........................................................................................................................................................... 37,677 27,883 255,807 of the parent) .............................................. 21,834 16,458 41,899 88,366 184,440 85,036 12,522 Total .............................................................................................................................................................. 1,856,190 1,754,825 16,099,311 Segment assets .............................................. 1,656,220 1,239,440 1,136,614 2,414,422 4,065,256 2,468,174 1,182,532 Other: 2) Non-current assets (excluding financial assets and deferred tax assets) Investments accounted for using the Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars equity method ....................................... 48,477 89,229 97,697 873,137 2,140,275 105,614 113,614 Capital expenditure .................................. 103,055 3,275 3,733 57,944 107,100 26,513 14,183 2019 2020 2020 Japan ............................................................................................................................................................ 147,546 165,801 1,521,110 The Americas ............................................................................................................................................... 57,298 74,033 679,201 Thousands of U.S. dollars Reportable segments Europe .......................................................................................................................................................... 29,222 29,202 267,908 Industrial Asia and Oceania ........................................................................................................................................ 99,551 96,936 889,321 Retail & Infrastructure & Lifestyle Urban Others ........................................................................................................................................................... 8,187 6,305 57,844 Business Development Total Others Reconciliations Consolidated Total .............................................................................................................................................................. 341,806 372,278 3,415,394 Revenue External revenue ....................................... 2,846,550 316,330 15,812,532 286,779 — 16,099,311 (5) Information about major customers Inter-segment revenue ............................. 486 3,348 21,871 1,486 (23,357) — There was no customer whose transaction volume was equal to 10% or more of the Group's revenue for either the year ended March 31, Total revenue .................................... 2,847,045 319,678 15,834,403 288,266 (23,357) 16,099,311 2019 or the year ended March 31, 2020. Gross profit ..................................................... 325,284 55,275 1,986,779 50,266 (14,165) 2,022,880 Share of profit (loss) of investments accounted for using the equity method ... 3,587 21,559 227,045 1,486 (18) 228,513 6 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Profit for the year (attributable to owners of the parent) .............................................. 54,706 13,522 518,825 (5,587) 44,752 557,990 The breakdown of trade and other receivables was as follows. Segment assets .............................................. 3,397,477 708,027 18,268,211 1,849,788 343,330 20,461,330 Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Other: 2019 2020 2020 Investments accounted for using the equity method ....................................... 157,889 133,614 3,759,577 37,247 (1,045) 3,795,779 Trade notes and accounts receivable ..................................................................................................... 499,411 435,684 3,997,100 Capital expenditure .................................. 24,788 33,119 373,752 101,394 — 475,155 Loans receivable ......................................................................................................................................... 49,059 44,230 405,779 Others............................................................................................................................................................ 226,353 236,645 2,171,055 Reconciliation of Profit for the year (attributable to owners of the parent) of ¥4,878 million (U.S.$44,752 thousand) includes the Total ................................................................................................................................................. 774,824 716,559 6,573,935 difference between the Company's actual income tax expenses and income tax expenses allocated to each segment based on the Current assets .............................................................................................................................................. 690,678 638,207 5,855,110 calculation method established internally, which amounted to ¥4,119 million (U.S.$37,788 thousand), and unallocated dividend income Non-current assets ..................................................................................................................................... 84,145 78,352 718,825 and others of ¥759 million (U.S.$6,963 thousand). The reconciliation amount of segment assets of ¥37,423 million (U.S.$343,330 thousand) includes the elimination of inter-segment Total ................................................................................................................................................. 774,824 716,559 6,573,935 transactions or the like amounting to ¥(164,661) million (U.S.$(1,510,651) thousand) and all of the Company assets that were not allocated to each segment amounting to ¥202,085 million (U.S.$1,853,990 thousand), which mainly consists of the Company's surplus funds in the form of cash in bank or the like for investments and marketable securities or the like. Capital expenditure includes amount related to right-of-use assets. (3) Information regarding goods and services Information regarding the revenue for each product/service was not separately presented because the same information was presented in the reporting segments. 128 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 129 7 INVENTORIES Thousands of U.S. dollars Buildings and Machinery and Tools, furniture Construction in structures vehicles & fixtures Land progress Total The breakdown of inventories was as follows. Balance as of March 31, 2019 .................................................. 1,154,247 1,939,541 155,431 244,614 235,770 3,729,623 Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars The impact of changes in accounting policies ...................... (3,954) (8,678) (25,321) — — (37,972) 2019 2020 2020 Balance as of April 1, 2019 ....................................................... 1,150,284 1,930,853 130,110 244,614 235,770 3,691,651 Commodities and finished goods ........................................................................................................... 176,502 163,080 1,496,146 Acquisitions ................................................................................. 33,550 23,862 14,834 9,587 212,972 294,834 Acquisitions through business combinations ....................... 8,844 7,449 128 8,587 844 25,871 Real estate held for development and resale ....................................................................................... 25,558 32,463 297,825 Reclassification from construction in progress ..................... 194,302 89,082 2,036 — (285,422) — Materials and consumables ...................................................................................................................... 18,559 17,841 163,678 Disposals ...................................................................................... (68,522) (172,036) (5,981) (3,330) (9,422) (259,311) Total ................................................................................................................................................. 220,621 213,385 1,957,660 Reclassification to assets held for sale .................................... (73,247) (36) (0) (550) — (73,853) Inventories to be sold more than one year after .................................................................................. 2,225 3,150 28,899 Exchange translation differences for foreign operations .... (38,376) (96,614) (2,834) (5,522) (9,284) (152,651) In addition, write-downs of inventories recognized as expenses for the years ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2020 were ¥1,288 Others ........................................................................................... (30,018) (186,155) 119 (1,899) (69,220) (287,183) million and ¥1,967 million (U.S.$18,045 thousand), respectively. Balance as of March 31, 2020 .................................................. 1,176,798 1,596,403 138,412 251,467 76,238 3,239,339 (Note) Others mainly includes the impact of changes in the scope of consolidation. [Accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses] 8 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Millions of yen Buildings and Machinery and Tools, furniture Construction in The increases/decreases in costs and accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses of property, plant and equipment structures vehicles & fixtures Land progress Total were as follows. Balance as of April 1, 2018 ....................................................... (65,439) (134,343) (11,025) (4,270) (50) (215,129) [Costs] Depreciation expenses .............................................................. (5,394) (9,371) (1,684) — — (16,451) Millions of yen Impairment losses ...................................................................... — — (53) — — (53) Buildings and Machinery and Tools, furniture Construction in Disposals ...................................................................................... 688 18,773 1,032 35 — 20,529 structures vehicles & fixtures Land progress Total Balance as of April 1, 2018 ....................................................... 117,556 210,761 16,006 24,718 18,221 387,264 Exchange translation differences for foreign operations .... (811) (2,303) (98) 0 (0) (3,213) Acquisitions ................................................................................. 2,256 4,246 1,730 1,825 19,770 29,829 Others ........................................................................................... 1,643 (1,011) 25 33 0 691 Acquisitions through business combinations ....................... 2,263 9,662 35 — 181 12,143 Balance as of March 31, 2019 .................................................. (69,313) (128,257) (11,804) (4,201) (50) (213,627) Reclassification from construction in progress ..................... 4,263 5,732 253 54 (10,304) — The impact of changes in accounting policies ...................... 267 301 1,654 — — 2,223 Disposals ...................................................................................... (987) (24,214) (1,165) (114) (21) (26,503) Balance as of April 1, 2019 ....................................................... (69,045) (127,956) (10,150) (4,201) (50) (211,403) Exchange translation differences for foreign operations .... 1,058 2,296 123 (36) 251 3,693 Depreciation expenses .............................................................. (4,954) (8,480) (1,334) — — (14,769) Others ........................................................................................... (597) 2,926 (41) 213 (2,399) 102 Impairment losses ...................................................................... (1,149) (1,167) (35) — — (2,352) Balance as of March 31, 2019 .................................................. 125,813 211,410 16,942 26,663 25,699 406,529 Disposals ...................................................................................... 2,519 11,623 603 0 — 14,746 The impact of changes in accounting policies....................... (431) (946) (2,760) — — (4,139) Balance as of April 1, 2019 ....................................................... 125,381 210,463 14,182 26,663 25,699 402,390 Reclassification to assets held for sale .................................... 7,630 3 0 — — 7,634 Acquisitions ................................................................................. 3,657 2,601 1,617 1,045 23,214 32,137 Exchange translation differences for foreign operations .... 1,937 6,211 225 0 3 8,377 Acquisitions through business combinations ....................... 964 812 14 936 92 2,820 Others (Note) ............................................................................... (162) 2,904 (68) (0) — 2,673 Reclassification from construction in progress ..................... 21,179 9,710 222 — (31,111) — Balance as of March 31, 2020 .................................................. (63,225) (116,861) (10,758) (4,200) (46) (195,092) Disposals ...................................................................................... (7,469) (18,752) (652) (363) (1,027) (28,265) Reclassification to assets held for sale .................................... (7,984) (4) (0) (60) — (8,050) Thousands of U.S. dollars Exchange translation differences for foreign operations .... (4,183) (10,531) (309) (602) (1,012) (16,639) Buildings and Machinery and Tools, furniture Construction in Others (Note) ............................................................................... (3,272) (20,291) 13 (207) (7,545) (31,303) structures vehicles & fixtures Land progress Total Balance as of March 31, 2020 .................................................. 128,271 174,008 15,087 27,410 8,310 353,088 Balance as of March 31, 2019 ... (635,899) (1,176,669) (108,293) (38,541) (458) (1,959,880) The impact of changes in accounting policies............. 2,449 2,761 15,174 — — 20,394 Balance as of April 1, 2019...... (633,440) (1,173,908) (93,119) (38,541) (458) (1,939,477) Depreciation expenses .......... (45,449) (77,798) (12,238) — — (135,495) Impairment losses .............. (10,541) (10,706) (321) — — (21,577) Disposals .......... 23,110 106,633 5,532 0 — 135,284 Reclassification to assets held for sale .......................... 70,000 27 0 — — 70,036 Exchange translation differences for foreign operations ... 17,770 56,981 2,064 0 27 76,853 Others ................. (1,486) 26,642 (623) (0) — 24,522 Balance as of March 31, 2020 ... (580,045) (1,072,119) (98,697) (38,532) (422) (1,789,834) (Note) Others mainly includes the impact of changes in the scope of consolidation. 130 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 131 [Carrying amounts] 2) Impairment tests Millions of yen A cash-generating unit group to which goodwill has been allocated is tested for impairment annually, and whenever there is an indication Buildings and Machinery and Tools, furniture Construction in that such unit may be impaired. Material carrying amounts of goodwill allocated to cash-generating unit groups were as follows. structures vehicles & fixtures Land progress Total Balance as of March 31, 2019 .................................................. 56,499 83,153 5,137 22,461 25,649 192,902 Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Balance as of March 31, 2020 .................................................. 65,046 57,147 4,329 23,209 8,263 157,995 2019 2020 2020 Balance as of March 31, 2020 Chemicals (Thousands of U.S. dollars) .................................................. 596,752 524,284 39,715 212,926 75,807 1,449,495 Parent company's chemical business ................................................................................................. 7,460 7,460 68,440 Retail & Lifestyle Business The amounts of expenditures relating to property, plant and equipment in the course of its construction are presented under the Construction in progress column. Domestic subsidiaries' food sales business ...................................................................................... 8,090 8,090 74,220 Depreciation expenses for property, plant and equipment are included in Cost of sales and Selling, general and administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss. The recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit groups to which significant goodwill has been allocated was calculated based on its value in use founded on the five-year forecast that was approved by management. The five-year forecast of cash flows is based on budgets reflecting past performance. In addition, the main assumption used to determine such forecast was the growth rate of gross profits through such terms, such growth rate being consistent with the forecasts of 9 GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS the nominal GDP growth rate or the like of the countries in which such cash-generating unit groups are situated. The discount rates before tax and ultimate growth rates that were used in calculating the value in use of the cash-generating unit groups (1) Goodwill to which significant goodwill has been allocated for the years ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2020, respectively, were as follows. 1) Costs, accumulated impairment losses and carrying amounts The increases/decreases in cost and accumulated impairment losses of goodwill were as follows. (a) Discount rate before tax [Costs] 2019 2020 Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Chemicals 2019 2020 2020 Parent company's chemical business ......................................................................................................................... 7.6% 7.6% Balance at beginning of year .................................................................................................................... 70,146 70,345 645,366 Retail & Lifestyle Business Acquisitions through business combinations ....................................................................................... 1,138 2,239 20,541 The domestic subsidiaries' food sales business ....................................................................................................... 6.4% 6.4% Exchange translation differences for foreign operations .................................................................... (488) (2,860) (26,238) Others ........................................................................................................................................................... (450) 18 165 (b) Ultimate growth rate Balance at end of year ............................................................................................................................... 70,345 69,743 639,844 In regards to cash flows for the terms beyond the five-year forecast period that was approved by management, the value in use is calculated with a growth rate of 0% for each such term. With respect to goodwill that has been allocated to cash-generating unit groups, the recoverable amount of such goodwill [Accumulated impairment losses] sufficiently exceeds its carrying amount. Thus, even if major assumptions are changed to a reasonable extent, the probability of such Thousands of recoverable amount becoming less than the carrying amount is unlikely. Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2019 2020 2020 Balance at beginning of year .................................................................................................................... (4,303) (4,146) (38,036) Exchange translation differences for foreign operations .................................................................... 173 899 8,247 Others ........................................................................................................................................................... (16) — — Balance at end of year ............................................................................................................................... (4,146) (3,246) (29,779) [Carrying amounts] Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2019 2020 2020 Carrying amounts ....................................................................................................................................... 66,198 66,496 610,055 132 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 133 (2) Intangible assets [Accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment losses] The increases/decreases in costs and accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment losses of intangible assets were as follows. Millions of yen Software Mining rights Others Total [Costs] Balance as of April 1, 2018 .............................................................................................. (24,225) (32,298) (14,517) (71,041) Millions of yen Amortization expenses ..................................................................................................... (1,280) (1,446) (1,574) (4,301) Software Mining rights Others Total Impairment losses ............................................................................................................. (13) — (440) (453) Balance as of April 1, 2018 .............................................................................................. 28,610 43,210 43,278 115,099 Disposals ............................................................................................................................. 563 6,198 6 6,768 Acquisitions ........................................................................................................................ 1,599 2,779 2,753 7,133 Exchange translation differences for foreign operations ........................................... (16) 604 102 690 Acquisitions through business combinations .............................................................. 39 — 682 721 Others .................................................................................................................................. 114 0 785 900 Disposals ............................................................................................................................. (572) (6,647) (9) (7,228) Balance as of March 31, 2019 ......................................................................................... (24,857) (26,942) (15,637) (67,437) Exchange translation differences for foreign operations ........................................... 38 (1,047) 24 (983) The impact of changes in accounting policies ............................................................. 17 — 5 23 Others(Note) ....................................................................................................................... (404) 1,734 511 1,841 Balance as of April 1, 2019 .............................................................................................. (24,839) (26,942) (15,632) (67,414) Balance as of March 31, 2019 ......................................................................................... 29,311 40,030 47,241 116,583 Amortization expenses ..................................................................................................... (1,694) (1,015) (1,481) (4,191) The impact of changes in accounting policies ............................................................. (55) — (20) (75) Impairment losses ............................................................................................................. (3) — (112) (116) Balance as of April 1, 2019 .............................................................................................. 29,256 40,030 47,221 116,507 Disposals ............................................................................................................................. 114 2,509 444 3,068 Acquisitions ........................................................................................................................ 2,143 188 4,509 6,841 Reclassification to assets held for sale ........................................................................... — — 232 232 Acquisitions through business combinations .............................................................. 25 — 2,130 2,155 Exchange translation differences for foreign operations ........................................... 72 3,882 1,064 5,019 Disposals ............................................................................................................................. (218) (7,994) (637) (8,851) Others .................................................................................................................................. 260 — 208 468 Reclassification to assets held for sale ........................................................................... — (0) (338) (339) Balance as of March 31, 2020 ......................................................................................... (26,090) (21,565) (15,277) (62,933) Exchange translation differences for foreign operations ........................................... (112) (5,276) (3,173) (8,562) Others .................................................................................................................................. 250 (241) (1,459) (1,450) Thousands of U.S. dollars Balance as of March 31, 2020 ......................................................................................... 31,344 26,705 48,251 106,300 Software Mining rights Others Total Balance as of March 31, 2019 ......................................................................................... (228,045) (247,174) (143,458) (618,688) Thousands of U.S. dollars The impact of changes in accounting policies ............................................................. 155 — 45 211 Software Mining rights Others Total Balance as of April 1, 2019 .............................................................................................. (227,880) (247,174) (143,412) (618,477) Balance as of March 31, 2019 ......................................................................................... 268,908 367,247 433,403 1,069,568 Amortization expenses ..................................................................................................... (15,541) (9,311) (13,587) (38,449) The impact of changes in accounting policies ............................................................. (504) — (183) (688) Impairment losses ............................................................................................................. (27) — (1,027) (1,064) Balance as of April 1, 2019 .............................................................................................. 268,403 367,247 433,220 1,068,871 Disposals ............................................................................................................................. 1,045 23,018 4,073 28,146 Acquisitions ........................................................................................................................ 19,660 1,724 41,366 62,761 Reclassification to assets held for sale ........................................................................... — — 2,128 2,128 Acquisitions through business combinations .............................................................. 229 — 19,541 19,770 Exchange translation differences for foreign operations ........................................... 660 35,614 9,761 46,045 Disposals ............................................................................................................................. (2,000) (73,339) (5,844) (81,201) Others .................................................................................................................................. 2,385 — 1,908 4,293 Reclassification to assets held for sale ........................................................................... — (0) (3,100) (3,110) Balance as of March 31, 2020 ......................................................................................... (239,357) (197,844) (140,155) (577,366) Exchange translation differences for foreign operations ........................................... (1,027) (48,403) (29,110) (78,550) Others .................................................................................................................................. 2,293 (2,211) (13,385) (13,302) [Carrying amounts] Balance as of March 31, 2020 ......................................................................................... 287,559 245,000 442,669 975,229 Millions of yen Software Mining rights Others Total Balance as of March 31, 2019 ......................................................................................... 4,454 13,088 31,603 49,145 Balance as of March 31, 2020 ......................................................................................... 5,253 5,139 32,973 43,366 Balance as of March 31, 2020 (Thousands of U.S. dollars) ........................................ 48,192 47,146 302,504 397,853 An important part of the carrying value of mining rights on March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2020 is the mining interest held by the Australian subsidiaries, amounting to ¥12,767 million and ¥5,078 million (U.S.$46,587 thousand). For the year ended March 31, 2020, the Company sold mining rights related to thermal coal. Customer-related assets are included in the carrying value in the category of Others on March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2020. The value of intangible assets with indefinite useful lives included above were ¥6,914 million on March 31, 2019, and ¥6,780 million (U.S.$ 62,201 thousand) on March 31, 2020. Such assets consisted primarily of franchise agreements. These franchise agreements were mainly acquired through business combinations and were expected to exist as long as business continues. Therefore, management considers the useful lives of these assets to be indefinite. There were no significant internally-generated intangible assets as of March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2020. Amortization expenses are included in Cost of sales and Selling, general and administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss. 134 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 135 (2) Profit or loss relating to investment property 10 INVESTMENT PROPERTY Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (1) Increases/decreases in costs, accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses, carrying 2019 2020 2020 amounts and fair values of investment property Increases/decreases in cost, accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses, carrying amounts and fair values of Rental income from investment property .............................................................................................. 5,601 5,332 48,917 investment property were as follows. Expenses arising from investment property .......................................................................................... (3,892) (3,884) (35,633) Profit ............................................................................................................................................................. 1,709 1,447 13,275 [Costs] Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Rental income from investment property is included in Sales of services and others and Other operating income in the Consolidated 2019 2020 2020 Statement of Profit or Loss. Balance at beginning of year .................................................................................................................... 38,571 34,633 317,733 Expenses arising from investment property (depreciation expenses, repair expenses, insurance fees, taxes or the like) correspond to rental income from such investment properties and are included in Cost of sales, Selling, general and administrative expenses and The impact of changes in accounting policies ...................................................................................... — 138 1,266 Other operating expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss. Balance at beginning of year (revised) ................................................................................................... 38,571 34,771 319,000 Increase due to expenditures after acquisitions ................................................................................... 474 667 6,119 Disposals ...................................................................................................................................................... (4,808) (5,984) (54,899) 11 INVESTMENTS ACCOUNTED FOR USING THE EQUITY METHOD Reclassification to/from property, plant and equipment .................................................................... 374 1,557 14,284 Exchange translation differences for foreign operations .................................................................... (43) (100) (917) (1) Investments accounted for using the equity method, share of profit (loss) of investments accounted for using the equity method, and share of other comprehensive income of investments accounted for using Others ........................................................................................................................................................... 64 (2,247) (20,614) the equity method Balance at end of year ............................................................................................................................... 34,633 28,663 262,963 Investments accounted for using the equity method, share of profit (loss) of investments accounted for using the equity method and share of other comprehensive income of investments accounted for using the equity method were as follows. [Accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses] [Investments accounted for using the equity method] Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2019 2020 2020 2019 2020 2020 Balance at beginning of year .................................................................................................................... (14,085) (13,757) (126,211) Interests in joint ventures .......................................................................................................................... 67,596 60,026 550,697 Depreciation expenses .............................................................................................................................. (527) (467) (4,284) Interests in associates ................................................................................................................................ 356,555 353,714 3,245,082 Impairment losses ...................................................................................................................................... (1) (31) (284) Investments accounted for using the equity method .......................................................................... 424,152 413,740 3,795,779 Disposals ...................................................................................................................................................... 818 3,105 28,486 Reclassification to/from property, plant and equipment .................................................................... 1 (0) (0) [Share of profit (loss) of investments accounted for using the equity method] Exchange translation differences for foreign operations .................................................................... 38 46 422 Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Others ........................................................................................................................................................... — 1,044 9,577 2019 2020 2020 Balance at end of year ............................................................................................................................... (13,757) (10,060) (92,293) Interests in joint ventures .......................................................................................................................... 4,605 3,817 35,018 Interests in associates ................................................................................................................................ 23,173 21,090 193,486 [Carrying amounts and fair values] Thousands of Share of profit (loss) of investments accounted for using the equity method ................................ 27,779 24,908 228,513 Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2019 2020 2020 [Share of other comprehensive income of investments accounted for using the equity method] Carrying amounts ....................................................................................................................................... 20,875 18,602 170,660 Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Fair values ................................................................................................................................................... 22,402 19,574 179,577 2019 2020 2020 Interests in joint ventures .......................................................................................................................... (398) (7,858) (72,091) The fair values are amounts that the Group calculated based on an independent appraiser's appraisals and the real estate appraisal standards of the country in which the investment properties are located. These appraisals are calculated based on either the public Interests in associates ................................................................................................................................ 409 (11,094) (101,779) offering price, a sales comparison approach or discount cash flow approach. Upon an acquisition from a third party or at the time of the Share of other comprehensive income of investments accounted for using most recent appraisal, if there is no significant fluctuation in the index, which is believed to reflect a certain appraised value (market or the equity method ................................................................................................................................. 11 (18,952) (173,871) assessed price) or appropriate market value, the fair value is adjusted using such appraised value or index. As set forth under 2 BASIS OF PRESENTATION (4) Use of estimates and judgments, fair values are categorized into three levels in a fair value hierarchy based on the inputs used in the valuation techniques. Investment property is categorized within fair value hierarchy Level 3. (2) Joint ventures 1) Material joint venture LNG Japan Corporation ( LNG Japan ), one of the Group's Entities subject to Equity Method, is a material Group joint venture. The Group is participating in large-scale LNG projects in Asia and the Middle East through LNG Japan. LNG Japan is not publicly listed. Summarized financial information of LNG Japan and a reconciliation of the carrying amount of the Group's interest in LNG Japan were as follows. Summarized financial information has been prepared by adjusting LNG Japan's financial statements based on the Group's accounting policies. 136 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 137 Thousands of (3) Associates Millions of yen U.S. dollars 1) Material associate 2019 2020 2020 Metal One Corporation ( Metal One ), one of the Group's Entities subject to the Equity Method, is a material Group associate. Percentage ownership interest ................................................................................................................ 50% 50% 50% In the steel products business, the Group will expand its domestic and overseas customer base and sales network for steel products through Japan's largest integrated steel trading company, Metal One. At the same time, the Group will enhance and create global value Current assets .............................................................................................................................................. 43,907 30,616 280,880 chains by further expanding steel product trading through stronger collaboration and alliances with the Company's other businesses, such Non-current assets ..................................................................................................................................... 127,451 120,560 1,106,055 as energy-related and overseas business. Current liabilities ......................................................................................................................................... 34,317 14,964 137,284 Metal One is not publicly listed. Summarized financial information of Metal One and a reconciliation of the carrying amount of the Group's interest in Metal One were as Non-current liabilities ................................................................................................................................. 42,159 55,817 512,082 follows. Summarized financial information has been prepared by adjusting Metal One's financial statements based on the Group's Equity ............................................................................................................................................................ 94,881 80,394 737,559 accounting policies. Group's share of equity ............................................................................................................................. 47,440 40,197 368,779 Thousands of Goodwill and consolidated adjustment ................................................................................................. 1,617 1,724 15,816 Millions of yen U.S. dollars Carrying amount of interest ...................................................................................................................... 49,058 41,921 384,596 2019 2020 2020 Percentage ownership interest ................................................................................................................ 40% 40% 40% The balances of cash and cash equivalents that are included in current assets as of March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2020 are ¥7,664 Current assets .............................................................................................................................................. 844,641 723,933 6,641,587 million and ¥10,324 million (U.S.$94,715 thousand), respectively. Non-current assets ..................................................................................................................................... 256,380 254,050 2,330,733 The balances of financial liabilities (excluding trade and other payables, and provisions) that are included in current liabilities as of Current liabilities ......................................................................................................................................... 611,069 485,219 4,451,550 March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2020 are ¥6,914 million and ¥1,877 million (U.S.$17,220 thousand), respectively. The balances of financial liabilities (excluding trade and other payables, and provisions) that are included in non-current liabilities as of Non-current liabilities ................................................................................................................................. 77,808 80,682 740,201 March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2020 are ¥16,347 million and ¥30,403 million (U.S.$278,926 thousand), respectively. Equity ............................................................................................................................................................ 412,144 412,081 3,780,559 Non-controlling interests .......................................................................................................................... 36,615 35,629 326,871 Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Equity after deduction of non-controlling interests ............................................................................. 375,529 376,452 3,453,688 2019 2020 2020 Group's share of equity ............................................................................................................................. 150,211 150,580 1,381,467 Gross profit .................................................................................................................................................. 14,328 12,225 112,155 Goodwill and consolidated adjustment ................................................................................................. 3,710 3,710 34,036 Depreciation and amortization ................................................................................................................ (29) (97) (889) Carrying amount of interest ...................................................................................................................... 153,921 154,290 1,415,504 Interest earned ............................................................................................................................................ 497 515 4,724 Interest expenses ........................................................................................................................................ (321) (654) (6,000) Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Income tax expenses ................................................................................................................................. (7,957) (6,528) (59,889) Profit for the year ........................................................................................................................................ 8,039 7,869 72,192 2019 2020 2020 Other comprehensive income for the year ........................................................................................... (1,120) (15,917) (146,027) Gross profit .................................................................................................................................................. 123,920 103,469 949,256 Total comprehensive income for the year ............................................................................................. 6,918 (8,048) (73,834) Profit for the year ........................................................................................................................................ 25,374 23,073 211,678 Share of: Other comprehensive income for the year ........................................................................................... (5,436) (9,852) (90,385) Profit for the year .................................................................................................................................... 4,019 3,934 36,091 Total comprehensive income for the year ............................................................................................. 19,937 13,220 121,284 Other comprehensive income for the year ....................................................................................... (560) (7,958) (73,009) Share of: Total comprehensive income for the year ......................................................................................... 3,459 (4,024) (36,917) Profit for the year .................................................................................................................................... 10,149 9,229 84,669 Dividends received by the Group ........................................................................................................... 3,500 2,800 25,688 Other comprehensive income for the year ....................................................................................... (2,174) (3,940) (36,146) Total comprehensive income for the year ......................................................................................... 7,975 5,288 48,513 2) Individually immaterial joint ventures Dividends received by the Group ........................................................................................................... 4,680 5,080 46,605 Carrying amounts of interests, share of profit (loss) for the year, share of other comprehensive income for the year and share of total comprehensive income for the year of all individually immaterial joint ventures were as follows. 2) Individually immaterial associates Carrying amounts of interests, share of profit for the year, share of other comprehensive income for the year and share of total Thousands of comprehensive income for the year of all individually immaterial associates were as follows. Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2019 2020 2020 Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Carrying amounts of interests .................................................................................................................. 18,537 18,105 166,100 2019 2020 2020 Carrying amounts of interests .................................................................................................................. 202,633 199,423 1,829,568 Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2019 2020 2020 Share of: Profit (loss) for the year .......................................................................................................................... 586 (116) (1,064) Other comprehensive income for the year ....................................................................................... 162 100 917 Total comprehensive income for the year ......................................................................................... 748 (16) (146) 138 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 139 15 BONDS AND BORROWINGS Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2019 2020 2020 (1) Bonds and borrowings Share of: The breakdown of bonds and borrowings was as follows. Profit for the year .................................................................................................................................... 13,023 11,861 108,816 Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Other comprehensive income for the year ....................................................................................... 2,584 (7,153) (65,623) Average interest Total comprehensive income for the year ......................................................................................... 15,608 4,708 43,192 2019 2020 rate (Note) Maturity date 2020 Short-term loans .............................................................................. 95,838 128,274 1.57% — 1,176,825 Current portion of bonds payable ............................................... 10,017 10,006 — — 91,798 Current portion of long-term loans .............................................. 43,838 48,486 1.40% — 444,825 12 OTHER INVESTMENTS Bonds payable (excluding current portion) ................................ 79,775 79,772 — — 731,853 The breakdown of other investments was as follows. April 2021— Long-term loans (excluding current portion) ............................ 643,849 626,719 1.22% December 2038 5,749,715 Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Total ...................................................................................... 873,321 893,258 8,195,027 2019 2020 2020 Current liabilities .............................................................................. 149,695 186,767 1,713,458 Financial assets measured at amortized cost ........................................................................................ 817 — — Non-current liabilities ...................................................................... 723,625 706,491 6,481,568 Financial assets measured at FVTPL ....................................................................................................... 3,660 3,899 35,770 Total ...................................................................................... 873,321 893,258 8,195,027 Financial assets measured at FVTOCI .................................................................................................... 168,589 137,075 1,257,568 (Note) “Average interest rate” is presented as the weighted average interest rate against the balance of the borrowings or the like at the end of the year. Borrowings hedged by derivative transactions, such as interest rate swaps or the like, for the purpose of avoiding the interest rate fluctuation risk, are calculated at the interest Total ................................................................................................................................................. 173,066 140,975 1,293,348 rate under such derivative transactions. “Interest rate” of bonds is presented in “(2) Bonds.” Non-current assets ..................................................................................................................................... 173,066 140,975 1,293,348 Total ................................................................................................................................................. 173,066 140,975 1,293,348 As of March 31, 2020, the Company and some of its subsidiaries maintain the following agreements to provide additional financial flexibility and liquidity: • Long-term commitment lines of ¥100 billion(currently unused) and U.S. $1.6 billion (U.S.$260 million used) 13 OTHER CURRENT ASSETS AND OTHER NON-CURRENT ASSETS (NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS) Since the Group has the intention and ability to refinance its borrowings from financial institutions, current portions of long-term loans of ¥73,653 million and ¥57,307 million (U.S.$525,752 thousand) as of March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2020, respectively, were presented as The breakdown of other current assets and other non-current assets (non-financial assets) was as follows. non-current liabilities based on the unused balance under commitment line agreements. The Company is subject to financial covenants with respect to a portion of its borrowings from financial institutions, such as to maintain a Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars certain level of consolidated net assets and the like, and the Company has complied with such covenants for the years ended March 31, 2019 2020 2020 2019 and March 31, 2020. In addition, the Company monitors each compliance status to maintain the level required by such financial covenants. Advance payments ..................................................................................................................................... 37,697 43,897 402,724 Others .......................................................................................................................................................... 33,950 32,239 295,770 (2) Bonds Thousands of Total ................................................................................................................................................. 71,648 76,136 698,495 Millions of yen U.S. dollars Current assets .............................................................................................................................................. 58,965 64,455 591,330 Interest Company name Bond name Date of issuance 2019 2020 rate Collateral Maturity date 2020 Non-current assets ..................................................................................................................................... 12,683 11,680 107,155 9,998 Total ................................................................................................................................................. 71,648 76,136 698,495 The Company The 27th unsecured bond May 30, 2013 — 1.35% None May 30, 2019 — (9,998) October 18, 9,995 October 16, 91,697 The Company The 28th unsecured bond 9,987 1.23% None 2013 (9,995) 2020 (91,697) The Company The 29th unsecured bond April 22, 2014 9,976 9,984 1.18% None April 22, 2022 91,596 14 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES The Company The 30th unsecured bond June 16, 2014 9,966 9,972 1.48% None June 14, 2024 91,486 September 5, September 3, The Company The 31st unsecured bond 9,980 9,988 0.84% None 91,633 The breakdown of trade and other payables was as follows. 2014 2021 Thousands of The Company The 32nd unsecured bond June 2, 2016 9,976 9,987 0.38% None June 2, 2021 91,623 Millions of yen U.S. dollars The Company The 33rd unsecured bond March 9, 2017 9,960 9,968 0.52% None March 8, 2024 91,449 2019 2020 2020 The Company The 34th unsecured bond June 1, 2017 9,951 9,957 0.72% None June 1, 2027 91,348 Trade notes and accounts payable ......................................................................................................... 480,736 382,151 3,505,972 The Company The 35th unsecured bond March 8, 2018 9,946 9,952 0.61% None March 8, 2028 91,302 Deposits received ....................................................................................................................................... 68,833 69,154 634,440 November 27 November 27 The Company The 36th unsecured bond — 9,943 0.47% None 91,220 Others ........................................................................................................................................................... 45,289 40,200 368,807 2019 2029 September 13, Total ................................................................................................................................................. 594,859 491,506 4,509,229 September 30, Consolidated 2013— 49 29 0.14— 266 Others None 2019— Current liabilities ......................................................................................................................................... 582,296 481,768 4,419,889 Subsidiaries September 15, (19) (11) 0.68% (100) March 31, 2024 2016 Non-current liabilities ................................................................................................................................. 12,563 9,738 89,339 89,793 89,779 823,660 Total ................................................................................................................................................. 594,859 491,506 4,509,229 Total — — — — — (10,017) (10,006) (91,798) (Note) The amounts in parentheses under the columns for 2019 and 2020 are current portions of bonds payable. 140 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 141 16 PROVISIONS 17 OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES AND OTHER NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES (NON-FINANCIAL LIABILITIES) The breakdown of increases/decreases in provisions was as follows. The breakdown of other current liabilities and other non-current liabilities (non-financial liabilities) was as follows. Millions of yen Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Asset retirement obligations Others Total 2019 2020 2020 Balance as of April 1, 2019 ...................................................................................................................... 34,592 2,726 37,319 Advances received ..................................................................................................................................... 41,712 39,396 361,431 Increase for the year ................................................................................................................................... 647 3,584 4,232 Others ........................................................................................................................................................... 30,315 26,262 240,935 Decrease for the year (incurred and charged against provisions) .................................................... (36) (3,296) (3,332) Total ................................................................................................................................................. 72,028 65,659 602,376 Decrease for the year (unused amounts reversed) .............................................................................. — (719) (719) Current liabilities ......................................................................................................................................... 60,793 56,716 520,330 Interest expenses for discounting ........................................................................................................... 364 — 364 Non-current liabilities ................................................................................................................................. 11,235 8,943 82,045 Change in discount rate ............................................................................................................................ (36) — (36) Total ................................................................................................................................................. 72,028 65,659 602,376 Exchange translation differences for foreign operations .................................................................... (3,003) (77) (3,081) Others (Note) ............................................................................................................................................... (1,714) 26 (1,687) Balance as of March 31, 2020 .................................................................................................................. 30,814 2,244 33,059 18 ASSETS HELD FOR SALE AND LIABILITIES DIRECTLY RELATED THERETO Thousands of U.S. dollars The breakdown of assets held for sale and liabilities directly related thereto was as follows. Asset retirement Thousands of obligations Others Total Millions of yen U.S. dollars Balance as of April 1, 2019 ....................................................................................................................... 317,357 25,009 342,376 2019 2020 2020 Increase for the year ................................................................................................................................... 5,935 32,880 38,825 Assets held for sale Decrease for the year (incurred and charged against provisions) .................................................... (330) (30,238) (30,568) Property, plant and equipment .......................................................................................................... — 415 3,807 Decrease for the year (unused amounts reversed) .............................................................................. — (6,596) (6,596) Investments accounted for using the equity method ..................................................................... — 11,789 108,155 Interest expenses for discounting ........................................................................................................... 3,339 — 3,339 Others ....................................................................................................................................................... — 113 1,036 Change in discount rate ............................................................................................................................ (330) — (330) Total ................................................................................................................................................. — 12,318 113,009 Exchange translation differences for foreign operations .................................................................... (27,550) (706) (28,266) Liabilities directly relating to assets as held for sale Others (Note) ............................................................................................................................................... (15,724) 238 (15,477) Trade and other payables .................................................................................................................... — 1 9 Balance as of March 31, 2020 .................................................................................................................. 282,697 20,587 303,293 Total ................................................................................................................................................. — 1 9 (Note) Others mainly includes the impact of changes in the scope of consolidation. As of March 31, 2020, the main assets that were classified as held for sale and liabilities directly related thereto were Investments The breakdown of provisions for each of current liabilities and non-current liabilities was as follows. accounted for using the equity method of the subsidiaries that were included in the Energy & Social Infrastructure segment. The sale was Thousands of completed in June 2020. Millions of yen U.S. dollars Sojitz Corporation decided to sell its assets as part of its asset replacement program. Thus, the assets and liabilities of the company were 2019 2020 2020 classified as assets held for sale and liabilities directly related thereto as of March 31, 2020. Current liabilities ......................................................................................................................................... 1,026 1,956 17,944 Non-current liabilities ................................................................................................................................. 36,292 31,102 285,339 Total ................................................................................................................................................. 37,319 33,059 303,293 19 EQUITY Asset retirement obligations mainly consist of removal costs relating to mining facilities or the like for coal and gas. Such costs mainly (1) Capital management are expected to be paid after at least one year has passed, subject to effects from future business plans or the like. In order to enhance its enterprise value, the Company has as its basic policies the maintenance of a healthy financial position and stability in its funding structure, accumulation of its own equity (Note 1) through the realization of sustained growth and expansion of its financial base. The Company uses net DER (Note 2) and risk assets ratio (Note 3) as main indices for managing the Company's equity. FY2020 was the final year of the Medium-term Management Plan 2020 , which aimed for a net DER of 1.5 times or less. In the same period, the target was to manage the risk assets ratio to within 1.0 times. These targets were reached due to improved asset efficiency caused by asset replacement coupled with suppression of increased borrowings. Notes: 1. Own equity = Total equity amount less non-controlling interests 2. Net DER = (Interest bearing liabilities Cash and cash equivalents Time deposits) ÷ Own equity However, interest-bearing debt does not include lease liabilities (current or non-current). 3. Risk assets ratio = Risk asset (such asset amount calculated based on assessment of such risk in correspondence to the size of such risk) ÷ Own equity 142 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 143 Net DERs and Risk assets ratios as of March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2020, respectively, were as follows. 20 REVENUE 2019 2020 (1) Disaggregated Revenue Net DER ..................................................................................................................................................................................... 0.95times 1.06times The Group’s structure consists of nine business divisions: Automotive Division, Aerospace & Transportation Project Division, Machinery & Risk assets ratio (Note 3) ......................................................................................................................................................... 0.6times 0.7times Medical Infrastructure Division, Energy & Social Infrastructure Division, Metals & Mineral Resources Division, Chemicals Division, Foods & Agriculture Business Division, Retail & Lifestyle Business Division, and Industrial Infrastructure & Urban Development Division. The Board of Directors regularly reviews this structure in order to decide allocation of management resources and evaluate company performance. (2) Number of authorized shares, issued shares and shares of treasury stocks Other departments outside of these divisions—administration, domestic branches, logistics and insurance services etc.-are included in Shares others, with the revenue from such recorded and displayed as Revenue. 2019 2020 Revenue for each business division for the year ended March 31, 2020 can be found under 5 – Segment Information, (2) – Information regarding reportable segments. Product and service categorization is identical to business category. Authorized: ordinary no-par value shares .............................................................................................................. 2,500,000,000 2,500,000,000 Issued: ordinary no-par value shares (2) Receivables from contracts with customers, contract asset, and contract liability Balance at beginning of year ................................................................................................................................ 1,251,499,501 1,251,499,501 Receivables from contracts with customers refer to any notes receivable and accounts receivable included under trade and other receivables. There is no materiality to the revenue recognized in the reporting period from performance obligations satisfied in previous Increase or decrease for the year ......................................................................................................................... — — periods, contract asset and contract lability for the year ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2020. The contract asset is displayed in Balance at end of year ............................................................................................................................................ 1,251,499,501 1,251,499,501 Trade and other receivables and contract liability is in Other current liabilities and Other non-current liabilities . Treasury stock: ordinary no-par value shares (3) Transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations Balance at beginning of year ................................................................................................................................ 528,747 2,260,444 The following shows the Group's assumed timing for revenue to be recognized in the reporting period from transaction price allocated to Increase or decrease for the year ......................................................................................................................... 1,731,697 29,943,813 the remaining performance obligations as of March 31, 2020. Note that these figures do not include contracts for which performance obligations were initially anticipated to remain for only one year or less. Balance at end of year ............................................................................................................................................ 2,260,444 32,204,257 Note: 1. Fuji Nihon Seito Corporation owned 200,000 shares of the Company as of March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2020, respectively, but as the Corporation is an equiMillions of yen ty-method associate the shares are not included in Treasury stock (ordinary no-par value shares). 2. The balance of treasury stock includes 1,727,600 shares and 1,667,211 shares of the Company stock held in the Director's Compensation BIP Trust account as of Within Between one Over March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2020, respectively. one year and five years five years to Total 3. During the period between November 5, 2019 and March 31, 2020, we acquired 30,000,000 treasury shares (ordinary non-par value shares), based on the resoBalance as of March 31, 2019 ......................................................................................... 30,684 34,657 13,066 78,407 lution of the Board of Directors made on November 1, 2019. Balance as of March 31, 2020 ......................................................................................... 51,989 53,376 31,625 136,992 (3) Surplus 1) Capital surplus Thousands of U.S. dollars Capital surplus mainly consists of legal capital surplus. Within Between one Over one year and five years five years to Total 2) Retained earnings Retained earnings consist of legal retained earnings and unappropriated profits. Retained earnings include the cumulative exchange Balance as of March 31, 2020 ......................................................................................... 476,963 489,688 290,137 1,256,807 translation differences for foreign operations as of the Transition Date. (4) Assets recognized from the cost to obtain or fulfill a contract with a customer (4) Dividends For the year ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2020, there were no material assets recognized from the cost to obtain or fulfill a 1) Amount of dividend payments contract with a customer. If the amortization period of the asset that the entity otherwise would have recognized is one year or less, the Group recognizes the additional incremental costs of obtaining a contract as an expense at time of occurrence, as a practical expedient. Amount of Amount of dividends Dividend Source of dividends (Thousands of per share Resolution Type of shares dividends (Millions of yen) U.S. dollars) (Yen) Recorded date Payment date Annual general shareholders' meeting Ordinary Retained 7,505 68,853 6.00 March 31, June 20, 21 SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES on June 19, 2018 shares earnings 2018 2018 Board of directors meeting Ordinary Retained September 30, December 3, The breakdown of selling, general and administrative expenses was as follows. 9,382 86,073 7.50 on November 1, 2018 shares earnings 2018 2018 Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Annual general shareholders' meeting Ordinary Retained March 31, June 21, 11,884 109,027 9.50 2019 2020 2020 on June 20, 2019 shares earnings 2019 2019 Board of directors meeting Ordinary Retained September 30, December 2, Employee benefit expenses ..................................................................................................................... (96,661) (97,909) (898,247) 10,633 97,550 8.50 on November 1, 2019 shares earnings 2019 2019 Traveling expenses .................................................................................................................................... (7,903) (6,975) (63,990) Rent expenses ............................................................................................................................................. (12,102) (3,762) (34,513) 2) Dividends to be proposed to shareholders at the annual general shareholders' meeting on June 18, 2020 Outsourcing expenses .............................................................................................................................. (11,317) (10,708) (98,238) Amount of Depreciation and amortization expenses .............................................................................................. (6,612) (16,616) (152,440) Amount of dividends Dividend Source of dividends (Thousands of per share Others ........................................................................................................................................................... (38,835) (37,270) (341,926) Resolution Type of shares dividends (Millions of yen) U.S. dollars) (Yen) Record date Payment date Total .............................................................................................................................................................. (173,433) (173,243) (1,589,385) Annual general shareholders' meeting Ordinary Retained March 31, June 19, 10,378 95,211 8.50 (Note) In accordance with the adoption of IFRS 16, from this consolidated fiscal year, lessee operating lease payments that were previously included and represented withon June 18, 2020 shares earnings 2020 2020 in lease expenses will be accounted for as depreciation related to right-of-use assets and interest charges related to lease liabilities. 144 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 145 During the year ended March 31, 2019, the impairment losses were mainly related to the right to sell Indonesia's coal rights within the 22 GAINS (LOSSES) ON DISPOSAL OF FIXED ASSETS Metals & Mineral Resources segment, with the impairment stemming from a sell decision with the purpose of reclassifying assets. During the year ended March 31, 2020, the impairment losses were mainly related to oil and gas interests within the Energy & Social The breakdown of gains (losses) on disposal of fixed assets was as follows. Infrastructure Segment, and ships within the Aviation Industry & Transportation Project Segment. These impairments were caused by Thousands of declines within the oil and gas and charter fee market, respectively. Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2019 2020 2020 Gain on sale of property, plant and equipment ................................................................................... 1,477 301 2,761 Gain on sale of intangible assets ............................................................................................................. 1 7,627 69,972 24 GAIN ON REORGANIZATION OF SUBSIDIARIES/ASSOCIATES Gain on sale of investment property ....................................................................................................... 769 2,668 24,477 Total of gain on sale of fixed assets ......................................................................................................... 2,249 10,597 97,220 Gain arising from the loss of the control over subsidiaries/associates was ¥8,039 million in the year ended March 31, 2019 and ¥3,415 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment .................................................................................... (72) (87) (798) million (U.S.$31,330 thousand) in the year ended March 31, 2020. Loss on sale of intangible assets .............................................................................................................. (273) (0) (0) Total of loss on sale of fixed assets .......................................................................................................... (345) (87) (798) Loss on retirement of property, plant and equipment ........................................................................ (114) (230) (2,110) 25 LOSS ON REORGANIZATION OF SUBSIDIARIES/ASSOCIATES Loss on retirement of intangible assets .................................................................................................. (13) (5) (45) Loss on retirement of investment property ........................................................................................... (10) — — The breakdown of loss on reorganization of subsidiaries/associates was as follows. Total of loss on retirement of fixed assets .............................................................................................. (138) (235) (2,155) Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Total of gain (loss) on disposal of fixed assets, net ............................................................................... 1,764 10,274 94,256 2019 2020 2020 Loss on sale of subsidiaries/associates and the like ............................................................................ (2,307) (253) (2,321) Gain on sale of intangible assets in the year ended March 31, 2020 consists primarily of the gain on sale of mining rights for thermal Impairment loss .......................................................................................................................................... — (288) (2,642) coal. Loss on allowance for doubtful accounts .............................................................................................. (791) (3) (27) Total .............................................................................................................................................................. (3,099) (545) (5,000) 23 IMPAIRMENT LOSS Impairment losses were included in Impairment loss on fixed assets and Loss on reorganization of subsidiaries/associates in the 26 EXCHANGE DIFFERENCES Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss. The breakdown of impairment losses by asset type was as follows. Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Exchange differences recognized as profit or loss for the years ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2020 were loss of ¥2,491 million and loss of ¥1,368 million (U.S.$12,550 thousand), respectively, and are included in Other operating expenses in the Consolidated 2019 2020 2020 Statement of Profit or Loss. In addition, each amount includes the profit or loss arising from currency-related derivatives, which were Property, plant and equipment ............................................................................................................... (53) (2,352) (21,577) arranged for the purpose of hedging the foreign currency risk. Right-of-use assets ...................................................................................................................................... — (332) (3,045) Intangible assets ......................................................................................................................................... (453) (116) (1,064) Investment property ................................................................................................................................... (1) (31) (284) Investments accounted for using the equity method .......................................................................... — (288) (2,642) Total ................................................................................................................................................. (509) (3,121) (28,633) Impairment loss on fixed assets ............................................................................................................... (509) (2,833) (25,990) Loss on reorganization of subsidiaries/associates ............................................................................... — (288) (2,642) Total ................................................................................................................................................. (509) (3,121) (28,633) Impairment losses were applicable to the following segments. Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2019 2020 2020 Automotive .................................................................................................................................................. — — — Aerospace & Transportation Project ....................................................................................................... — (1,096) (10,055) Machinery & Medical Infrastructure ........................................................................................................ — — — Energy & Social Infrastructure .................................................................................................................. (11) (1,129) (10,357) Metals & Mineral Resources ..................................................................................................................... (440) (137) (1,256) Chemicals ..................................................................................................................................................... (53) — — Foods & Agriculture Business .................................................................................................................. — (435) (3,990) Retail & Lifestyle Business ......................................................................................................................... — (288) (2,642) Industrial Infrastructure & Urban Development .................................................................................... — — — Others ........................................................................................................................................................... (3) (33) (302) Total ................................................................................................................................................. (509) (3,121) (28,633) 146 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 147 (2) Bases for calculation of basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share 27 FINANCIAL INCOME AND FINANCIAL COSTS Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars The breakdown of financial income and financial costs was as follows. 2019 2020 2020 Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Profit used to calculate basic and diluted earnings per share 2019 2020 2020 Profit for the year, attributable to owners of the parent .................................................................... 70,419 60,821 557,990 Financial income Amount not attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent ................................................. — — — Interest earned Profit used to calculate basic earnings per share ............................................................................... 70,419 60,821 557,990 Financial assets measured at amortized cost .................................................................................... 6,898 6,296 57,761 Financial assets measured at FVTPL ................................................................................................... 18 238 2,183 Profit adjustment amount Lease receivables ................................................................................................................................... — 31 284 Adjustment amount concerning share options to be issued by associates ....................... — — — Derivatives ............................................................................................................................................... 166 — — Profit used to calculate diluted earnings per share ........................................................................... 70,419 60,821 557,990 Total interest earned ............................................................................................................................. 7,084 6,565 60,229 Dividends received Financial assets measured at FVTOCI ................................................................................................ 5,167 4,228 38,788 Thousands of shares Total dividends received ...................................................................................................................... 5,167 4,228 38,788 2019 2020 Gain arising from change in the fair value of financial instruments (Note) Weighted average number of ordinary shares to be used to calculate basic Financial assets and financial liabilities measured at FVTPL .......................................................... 143 — — and diluted earnings per share Total gain arising from change in the fair value of financial instruments ..................................... 143 — — Weighted average number of ordinary shares used to calculate basic earnings per share ..... 1,249,847 1,243,634 Total financial income ................................................................................................................................ 12,395 10,794 99,027 Effects of dilutive potential ordinary shares ........................................................................................ — — Financial costs Interest expenses Weighted average number of ordinary shares used to calculate diluted earnings per share .... 1,249,847 1,243,634 Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost ............................................................................... (14,910) (12,766) (117,119) Lease liabilities ........................................................................................................................................ — (1,446) (13,266) Derivatives ............................................................................................................................................... — (330) (3,027) Interest expenses concerning provisions .......................................................................................... (380) (364) (3,339) Total interest expenses ......................................................................................................................... (15,290) (14,908) (136,770) Loss arising from change in the fair value of financial instruments (Note) Financial assets and financial liabilities measured at FVTPL .......................................................... — (47) (431) Total loss arising from change in the fair value of financial instruments ...................................... — (47) (431) Total financial cost .................................................................................................................................... (15,290) (14,956) (137,211) (Note) Gain arising from change in the fair value of financial instruments and Loss arising from change in the fair value of financial instruments are respectively included in Other financial income and Other financial expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss. Other than the above, net gain or loss arising from change in the fair value of commodity-related derivatives is included in Sales of goods and Cost of sales in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss in the net loss of ¥264 million for the year ended March 31, 2019 and in the net profit of ¥320 million (U.S.$2,935 thousand) for the year ended March 31, 2020. In addition, net gain or loss arising from change in the fair value of currency-related derivatives is included in Other operating income and Other operating expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss in the net profit of ¥238 million for the year ended March 31, 2019 and in the net profit of ¥851 million (U.S.$7,807 thousand) for the year ended March 31, 2020. 28 EARNINGS PER SHARE (1) Basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share Yen U.S. dollars 2019 2020 2020 Basic earnings per share ........................................................................................................................... 56.34 48.91 0.44 Diluted earnings per share ....................................................................................................................... 56.34 48.91 0.44 148 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 149 29 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 30 CASH FLOW INFORMATION The reclassification adjustment amounts and tax effect amounts for the breakdown of each item of other comprehensive income were as (1) Cash and cash equivalents follows. The breakdown of cash and cash equivalents and its relationship to the amounts presented in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Thousands of Position were as follows. Millions of yen U.S. dollars Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2019 2020 2020 Financial assets measured at FVTOCI 2019 2020 2020 Amount arising during the year ............................................................................................................. (13,162) (27,805) (255,091) Cash on hand and bank deposits except for time deposits with original term of more than three months ........................................................................................................................................... 285,687 272,651 2,501,385 Amount before income tax effect ....................................................................................................... (13,162) (27,805) (255,091) Cash and cash equivalents in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position .......................... 285,687 272,651 2,501,385 Income tax effect .................................................................................................................................... 2,411 5,869 53,844 Cash and cash equivalents in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows .................................... 285,687 272,651 2,501,385 Financial assets measured at FVTOCI ................................................................................................ (10,751) (21,936) (201,247) Remeasurements of defined benefit pension plans (2) Net proceeds from (payments for) acquisition of subsidiaries Amount arising during the year ............................................................................................................. (423) (617) (5,660) The breakdown of main assets and liabilities of subsidiaries at the time control was obtained by the Group, and the relationship between Amount before income tax effect ....................................................................................................... (423) (617) (5,660) payments for such acquisition and net payments for or net proceeds from such acquisition, were as follows. Thousands of Income tax effect .................................................................................................................................... 57 181 1,660 Millions of yen U.S. dollars Remeasurements of defined benefit pension plans ....................................................................... (365) (435) (3,990) 2019 2020 2020 Share of other comprehensive income of investments accounted for using Breakdown of assets, at the time the Group obtained control of the subsidiaries the equity method that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Current assets ......................................................................................................................................... 4,599 3,490 32,018 Amount arising during the year ............................................................................................................. 6,858 (9,422) (86,440) Non-current assets ................................................................................................................................. 13,875 5,232 48,000 Amount before income tax effect ....................................................................................................... 6,858 (9,422) (86,440) Breakdown of liabilities, at the time the Group obtained control of the subsidiaries Income tax effect .................................................................................................................................... (2,466) 3,690 33,853 Current liabilities .................................................................................................................................... 5,289 843 7,733 Share of other comprehensive income of investments accounted for using the equity method ................................................................................................................................................ 4,391 (5,731) (52,577) Non-current liabilities ............................................................................................................................ 7,582 510 4,678 Exchange translation differences for foreign operations Thousands of Amount arising during the year ............................................................................................................. (7,509) (22,324) (204,807) Millions of yen U.S. dollars Reclassification adjustment amount ..................................................................................................... (1,273) (2,330) (21,376) 2019 2020 2020 Amount before income tax effect ....................................................................................................... (8,782) (24,654) (226,183) Payments for acquisition ........................................................................................................................... (4,010) (5,819) (53,385) Income tax effect .................................................................................................................................... (192) 136 1,247 Cash and cash equivalents of assets acquired, at the time the Group obtained control of the Exchange translation differences for foreign operations ............................................................... (8,975) (24,518) (224,935) subsidiaries .............................................................................................................................................. 257 1,010 9,266 Cash flow hedges Net proceeds from (payments for) acquisition of subsidiaries .......................................................... (3,753) (4,809) (44,119) Amount arising during the year ............................................................................................................. (2,040) (4,771) (43,770) Reclassification adjustment amount ..................................................................................................... 1,879 3,568 32,733 (3) Net proceeds from (payments for) sale of subsidiaries The breakdown of main assets and liabilities of subsidiaries at the time control was lost by the Group, and the relationship between Amount before income tax effect ....................................................................................................... (161) (1,202) (11,027) proceeds from such sale and net proceeds from or net payments for such sale, were as follows. Income tax effect .................................................................................................................................... (28) 110 1,009 Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Cash flow hedges ................................................................................................................................... (189) (1,092) (10,018) 2019 2020 2020 Share of other comprehensive income of investments accounted for using the equity method that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Breakdown of assets, at the time the Group lost control of the subsidiaries Amount arising during the year ............................................................................................................. (3,833) (14,569) (133,660) Current assets ......................................................................................................................................... 1,506 612 5,614 Reclassification adjustment amount ..................................................................................................... (250) (120) (1,100) Non-current assets ................................................................................................................................. 4,552 680 6,238 Amount before income tax effect ....................................................................................................... (4,083) (14,689) (134,761) Breakdown of liabilities, at the time the Group lost control of the subsidiaries Income tax effect .................................................................................................................................... (296) 1,468 13,467 Current liabilities .................................................................................................................................... 677 1,181 10,834 Share of other comprehensive income of investments accounted for using the equity Non-current liabilities ............................................................................................................................ 5,424 513 4,706 method ................................................................................................................................................ (4,380) (13,220) (121,284) Total other comprehensive income for the year .................................................................................. (20,270) (66,934) (614,073) Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2019 2020 2020 Proceeds from sale ..................................................................................................................................... 2,314 3,408 31,266 Cash and cash equivalents of assets excluded, at the time the Group lost control of the subsidiaries ..... (845) (156) (1,431) Net proceeds from (payments for) sale of subsidiaries ....................................................................... 1,468 3,251 29,825 150 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 151 (4) Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities Certain foreign subsidiaries also have defined benefit plans. Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities were as follows: Payments by these plans are calculated using criteria including employee rank and salary level. Millions of yen In some cases, employees receive severance pay upon retirement. Lease Bonds Borrowings obligations 2) Defined benefit plan Balance as of April 1, 2018 ....................................................................................................................... 89,766 821,712 3,591 (a) Net defined benefit liability (asset) Changes in the net defined benefit liability (asset) for the years ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2020 were as follows. Changes arising from Cash flows ............................................................................................................ (42) (54,716) (1,817) Millions of yen Changes in the scope of consolidation .................................................................................................. — 10,888 2 Present value of the defined Net defined Exchange translation differences for foreign operations ................................................................... — 5,608 91 benefit Fair value of benefit liability obligation plan assets (asset) Others ........................................................................................................................................................... 69 34 2,643 Balance as of April 1, 2018 .................................................................................................................. 29,480 (7,844) 21,635 Non-cash changes ...................................................................................................................................... 69 16,531 2,737 Current service cost ............................................................................................................................... 1,984 — 1,984 Balance as of March 31, 2019 .................................................................................................................. 89,793 783,527 4,511 Interest expense (income) .................................................................................................................... 385 (175) 210 Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability (asset) ......................................................... 498 (74) 423 In the year ended March 31, 2019, on the consolidated statements of cash flows, expenditure from payment for financial lease obligations is included in the Others category under cash flows from financing activities. Exchange translation differences for foreign operations ............................................................... 19 (156) (136) Millions of yen Employer contributions to the plan ................................................................................................... — (548) (548) Lease Bonds Borrowings obligations Benefits paid ........................................................................................................................................... (2,002) 564 (1,437) Balance as of April 1, 2019 ....................................................................................................................... 89,793 783,527 4,511 Business combinations and disposals ............................................................................................... (329) — (329) The impact of changes in accounting policies ..................................................................................... — — 70,498 Others ...................................................................................................................................................... (49) — (49) Balance as of April 1, 2019 (revised) ...................................................................................................... 89,793 783,527 75,010 Balance as of March 31, 2019 ............................................................................................................. 29,987 (8,234) 21,752 Changes arising from Cash flows ............................................................................................................ (78) 33,509 (12,747) Current service cost ............................................................................................................................... 1,778 — 1,778 Changes in the scope of consolidation .................................................................................................. — (14,970) (1,843) Interest expense(income) .................................................................................................................... 356 (138) 217 Exchange translation differences for foreign operations .................................................................... — (1,998) (2,315) Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability (asset) ......................................................... 728 (111) 617 New leases ................................................................................................................................................... — — 25,863 Past service cost and (gain) loss from settlements .......................................................................... 48 — 48 Others .......................................................................................................................................................... 64 3,411 (4,985) Exchange translation differences for foreign operations ............................................................... (600) 65 (534) Non-cash changes ...................................................................................................................................... 64 (13,557) 16,719 Employer contributions to the plan ................................................................................................... — (586) (586) Balance as of March 31, 2020 .................................................................................................................. 89,779 803,479 78,983 Benefits paid ........................................................................................................................................... (2,130) 363 (1,766) Business combinations and disposals ............................................................................................... 273 — 273 Thousands of U.S. dollars Others ...................................................................................................................................................... 4 (4) (0) Lease Balance as of March 31, 2020 ............................................................................................................. 30,446 (8,647) 21,799 Bonds Borrowings obligations Balance as of April 1, 2019 ....................................................................................................................... 823,788 7,188,321 41,385 Thousands of U.S. dollars The impact of changes in accounting policies ..................................................................................... — — 646,770 Present value Balance as of April 1, 2019 (revised) ...................................................................................................... 823,788 7,188,321 688,165 of the defined Net defined benefit Fair value of benefit liability Changes arising from Cash flows ............................................................................................................ (715) 307,422 (116,944) obligation plan assets (asset) Changes in the scope of consolidation .................................................................................................. — (137,339) (16,908) Balance as of March 31, 2019 ............................................................................................................. 275,110 (75,541) 199,559 Exchange translation differences for foreign operations ................................................................... — (18,330) (21,238) Current service cost ............................................................................................................................... 16,311 — 16,311 New leases ................................................................................................................................................... — — 237,275 Interest expense (income) ................................................................................................................... 3,266 (1,266) 1,990 Others .......................................................................................................................................................... 587 31,293 (45,733) Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability (asset) ........................................................ 6,678 (1,018) 5,660 Non-cash changes ...................................................................................................................................... 587 (124,376) 153,385 Past service cost and (gain) loss from settlements ......................................................................... 440 — 440 Balance as of March 31, 2020 .................................................................................................................. 823,660 7,371,366 724,614 Exchange translation differences for foreign operations ............................................................... (5,504) 596 (4,899) Employer contributions to the plan ................................................................................................... — (5,376) (5,376) Benefits paid ........................................................................................................................................... (19,541) 3,330 (16,201) Business combinations and disposals ............................................................................................... 2,504 — 2,504 Others ...................................................................................................................................................... 36 (36) (0) 31 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Balance as of March 31, 2020 ............................................................................................................. 279,321 (79,330) 199,990 (1) Post-employment benefit 1) General outline of retirement benefit plans The Company has a defined contribution pension plan, a lump-sum payment plan and a prepaid retirement allowance plan as its retirement benefit plans. Certain domestic subsidiaries have corporate pension funds and/or lump-sum payment plans that are primarily defined benefit plans. 152 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 153 (b) Fair value of plan assets (e) Maturity profile for the defined benefit obligation The fair value of plan assets at March 31, 2019 was as follows. The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation for the years ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2020 was 11.0 Millions of yen years and 10.7 years, respectively. Plan assets Plan assets with a quoted without a quoted (f) Expected contribution to the plan for the year ending March 31, 2020 market price in market price in an active market an active market The Group expects to contribute ¥708 million (U.S.$6,495 thousand) to plan assets for the year ending March 31, 2021. Equity instruments ................................................................................................................................. 332 399 3) Defined contribution plan Debt instruments ................................................................................................................................... 794 4,635 Expenses recognized for the defined contribution plan for the years ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2020 were ¥1,964 million and Cash and cash equivalents .................................................................................................................. 481 — ¥1,999 million (U.S.$18,339 thousand), respectively. General accounts of life insurance companies ................................................................................ — 902 4) Multi-employer plans Others ...................................................................................................................................................... — 687 Expenses recognized for multi-employer defined contribution plans for the years ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2020 were ¥18 million and ¥17 million (U.S.$155 thousand), respectively. Total ............................................................................................................................................ 1,609 6,625 (2) Employee benefit expenses The fair value of plan assets at March 31, 2020 was as follows. Employee benefit expenses recognized for the years ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2020 were ¥116,613 million and ¥112,903 Millions of yen million (U.S.$1,035,807 thousand), respectively. Employee benefit expenses are included in Cost of sales and Selling, general and administration expenses in the Consolidated Plan assets Plan assets with a quoted without a quoted Statement of Profit or Loss. market price in market price in an active market an active market Equity instruments ................................................................................................................................. 46 301 Debt instruments ................................................................................................................................... — 6,225 32 DEFERRED TAXES AND INCOME TAX EXPENSES Cash and cash equivalents .................................................................................................................. 517 — (1) Deferred taxes General accounts of life insurance companies ................................................................................ — 983 1) Breakdown of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities Others ...................................................................................................................................................... — 572 The breakdown of main deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities by cause was as follows. Total ............................................................................................................................................ 563 8,083 Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2019 2020 2020 Thousands of U.S. dollars Deferred tax assets Plan assets Plan assets with a quoted without a quoted Allowance for doubtful receivables .................................................................................................... 4,682 5,995 55,000 market price in market price in an active market an active market Tax losses carried forward .................................................................................................................... 14,040 11,812 108,366 Equity instruments ................................................................................................................................. 422 2,761 Other investments .................................................................................................................................. 4,128 4,797 44,009 Debt instruments ................................................................................................................................... — 57,110 Retirement benefits liabilities ............................................................................................................... 5,368 5,311 48,724 Cash and cash equivalents .................................................................................................................. 4,743 — Depreciation ........................................................................................................................................... 1,182 1,372 12,587 General accounts of life insurance companies ................................................................................ — 9,018 Others ....................................................................................................................................................... 18,836 25,571 234,596 Others ...................................................................................................................................................... — 5,247 Total deferred tax assets ....................................................................................................................... 48,240 54,861 503,311 Total ............................................................................................................................................ 5,165 74,155 Offset with deferred tax liabilities ........................................................................................................ (42,048) (47,560) (436,330) Total deferred tax assets, net ............................................................................................................... 6,192 7,300 66,972 (c) Significant actuarial assumption Deferred tax liabilities Depreciation ........................................................................................................................................... (15,090) (11,888) (109,064) 2019 2020 Other investments .................................................................................................................................. (26,180) (21,213) (194,614) Discount rate .......................................................................................................................................... 1.4% 1.2% Others ....................................................................................................................................................... (20,580) (25,706) (235,834) The expected rate of salary increase ................................................................................................. 3.2% 3.0% Total deferred tax liabilities .................................................................................................................. (61,851) (58,808) (539,522) Offset with deferred tax assets ............................................................................................................ 42,048 47,560 436,330 (d) Sensitivity analysis Total deferred tax liabilities, net .......................................................................................................... (19,802) (11,247) (103,183) Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Net deferred tax assets ......................................................................................................................... (13,610) (3,946) (36,201) 2019 2020 2020 Increase in the defined benefit obligation with a 50-basis-point decrease The Company and its wholly owned domestic subsidiaries adopt a consolidated taxation system. For the year ended March 31, 2020, the in the discount rate ........................................................................................................................... 1,660 1,466 13,449 Company and some of its subsidiaries recognized tax losses and deferred tax assets for the unused tax losses carried forward only to the extent that it was probable that they could be used against future taxable profit within rational estimate periods, since they could recognize Decrease in the defined benefit obligation with a 50-basis-point increase in the discount rate ........................................................................................................................... (1,102) (1,186) (10,880) taxable profit each period excluding non-ordinary factors. The taxable profit was calculated based on estimations of increases and decreases of the temporary differences and was approved by the Company’s management. As of March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2020, the consolidated taxation group recognized deferred tax assets of 8,724 million yen and 7,350 million yen (U.S.$67,431 thousand), respectively for the tax losses carried forward. 154 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 155 2) Contents of changes in deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities (2) Income tax expenses Contents of changes in deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities were as follows. 1) Breakdown of income tax expenses Thousands of The breakdown of income tax expenses was as follows. Millions of yen U.S. dollars Thousands of 2019 2020 2020 Millions of yen U.S. dollars Net deferred tax assets' balance at beginning of year ........................................................................ (16,316) (13,610) (124,862) 2019 2020 2020 The impact of changes in accounting policies ...................................................................................... — 455 4,174 Current tax expenses ................................................................................................................................. (19,830) (12,771) (117,165) Net deferred tax assets' balance at beginning of year (revised) ....................................................... — (13,155) (120,688) Deferred tax expenses Deferred tax expenses ............................................................................................................................... 167 1,817 16,669 Origination and reversal of temporary differences ......................................................................... (1,659) (563) (5,165) Income tax concerning other comprehensive income ....................................................................... 2,247 6,297 57,770 Assessment of recoverability of deferred tax assets ........................................................................ 1,577 2,398 22,000 Change in consolidation scope ............................................................................................................... (223) (33) (302) Change in tax rate .................................................................................................................................. 249 (18) (165) Others ........................................................................................................................................................... 514 1,126 10,330 Total deferred tax expenses ................................................................................................................. 167 1,817 16,669 Net deferred tax assets' balance at end of year ................................................................................... (13,610) (3,946) (36,201) Total income tax expenses ....................................................................................................................... (19,662) (10,954) (100,495) 3) Deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses carried forward and tax credits carried forward, all for which deferred tax assets The amounts of the benefits arising from previously unrecognized tax losses or temporary differences of a prior period that were used were not recognized to reduce current tax expenses for the years ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2020 were ¥4,190 million and ¥4,725 million (U.S.$ The breakdown of deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses carried forward (by expiry date) and unused tax credits carried 43,348thousand), respectively, and these benefits were included in the current tax expenses. forward (by expiry date), all for which deferred tax assets were not recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position were as follows. 2) Reconciliation of applicable tax rate in Japan Thousands of Reconciliations between the applicable tax rate in Japan and the Group's average effective tax rate were as follows. Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2019 2020 2020 2019 2020 Deductible temporary differences .......................................................................................................... 188,356 218,928 2,008,513 Applicable tax rate in Japan .................................................................................................................................................. 30.6% 30.6% Unused tax losses carried forward (Reconciliation) Within one year to the expiry date ...................................................................................................... 11,564 1,952 17,908 Effects based on assessment of recoverability of deferred tax assets ...................................................................... (1.7)% (3.2)% Between one and five years to the expiry date ................................................................................ 23,403 31,126 285,559 Effects associated with consolidated elimination of dividend income ..................................................................... (1.9)% (1.5)% Over five years to the expiry date ....................................................................................................... 43,752 33,186 304,458 Effects from share of profit (loss) of investments accounted for using the equity method ................................... (8.2)% (9.3)% Total tax losses carried forward ........................................................................................................... 78,721 66,265 607,935 Difference in applicable tax rate of foreign subsidiaries ............................................................................................. (3.5)% (2.8)% Unused tax credits carried forward Combined income of specified foreign subsidiaries or the like ................................................................................ 0.5% 0.9% Within one year to the expiry date ...................................................................................................... 764 — — Withholding tax in foreign countries ............................................................................................................................... 1.4% 2.8% Between one and five years to the expiry date ................................................................................ 1,003 — — Correction of tax rate reduction ....................................................................................................................................... (0.3)% 0.0% Total tax credits carried forward .......................................................................................................... 1,767 — — Others .................................................................................................................................................................................... 3.8% (3.0)% Group's average effective tax rate ....................................................................................................................................... 20.7% 14.5% For the year ended March 31, 2020, the tax calculation for foreign tax credits is based on the tax deduction method, therefore, tax credit carry forwards for previous years is expected to expire. The applicable tax rate in Japan for the year ended March 31, 2020 was approximately 30.6% based on Japan's corporate tax, inhabitant tax and business tax. 4) Temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and the like for which deferred tax liabilities were not recognized The total amounts of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and the like for which deferred tax liabilities were not recognized as of March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2020 were ¥205,680 million and ¥218,995 million (U.S.$ 2,009,128 thousand), respectively. Because the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of such temporary differences, and it is probable that such temporary differences will not be reversed within the foreseeable future, the Group did not recognize deferred tax liabilities with respect to such temporary differences. 156 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 157 1) Maximum exposure to credit risk 33 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Other than guaranteed obligations, the Group's maximum exposure with respect to credit risks without taking into account any collaterals held or other credit enhancements is the carrying amount of financial instruments less impairment losses under the Consolidated (1) Classes of financial instruments Statement of Financial Position. On the other hand, the Group's maximum exposures to credit risks concerning guaranteed obligations as The breakdown of financial instruments per class was as follows. of March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2020 were ¥33,064 million and ¥45,514 million (U.S.$417,559 thousand), respectively. Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2) Increases/decreases in allowance for doubtful accounts and the carrying amount of financial assets 2019 2020 2020 The following shows the carrying amount of trade and other receivables (applying the simplified approach). Financial assets 2019 Financial assets measured at amortized cost Millions of yen Cash and cash equivalents/time deposits ......................................................................................... 288,609 280,084 2,569,577 Financial assets other than credit impaired Credit impaired Trade and other receivables ................................................................................................................ 604,823 560,458 5,141,816 financial assets financial assets Total Other investments .................................................................................................................................. 817 — — Trade and other receivables (Note) ............................................................................. 516,859 44,366 561,226 Total financial assets measured at amortized cost ........................................................................... 894,250 840,543 7,711,403 (Note) Trade and other receivables applied the simplified approach primarily consist of notes receivable and accounts receivable. Financial assets measured at FVTPL Other investments .................................................................................................................................. 3,660 3,899 35,770 2020 Millions of yen Derivative financial assets ..................................................................................................................... 2,106 5,229 47,972 Financial assets other Total financial assets measured at FVTPL .......................................................................................... 5,766 9,128 83,743 than credit impaired Credit impaired financial assets financial assets Total Financial assets measured at FVTOCI Trade and other receivables (Note) ............................................................................. 469,880 44,648 514,529 Other investments .................................................................................................................................. 168,589 137,075 1,257,568 Total financial assets measured at FVTOCI ....................................................................................... 168,589 137,075 1,257,568 2020 Total financial assets ..................................................................................................................... 1,068,606 986,747 9,052,724 Thousands of U.S. dollars Financial liabilities Financial assets other than credit impaired Credit impaired Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost financial assets financial assets Total Trade and other payables .................................................................................................................... 590,256 491,506 4,509,229 Trade and other receivables (Note) ............................................................................. 4,310,825 409,614 4,720,449 Bonds and borrowings ......................................................................................................................... 850,544 875,660 8,033,577 (Note) Trade and other receivables applied the simplified approach primarily consist of notes receivable and accounts receivable. Total financial liabilities measured at amortized cost ...................................................................... 1,440,801 1,367,166 12,542,807 The carrying amount of financial assets other than credit impaired financial assets mostly includes receivables from customers/clients Financial liabilities measured at FVTPL whose internal credit rating is “normal,” whereas the carrying amount of credit impaired financial assets mostly includes customers/clients Derivative financial liabilities ................................................................................................................ 5,205 6,021 55,238 whose internal credit rating is “doubtful or in bankruptcy or rehabilitation.” Total financial liabilities measured at FVTPL ..................................................................................... 5,205 6,021 55,238 There are no remarkable changes in carrying amount which could impact allowance for doubtful accounts for the year ended March 31, 2019, and March 31, 2020. Total financial liabilities ................................................................................................................ 1,446,006 1,373,188 12,598,055 The following shows increases/decreases in allowance for doubtful accounts against trade and other receivables applied the simplified (2) Basic policies for risk management of financial instruments approach. The Group is an integrated trading company engaged in a wide range of business activities on a global basis. Its headquarters includes business sections that handle merchandising, trading, product manufacturing, services, project planning and management, investments 2019 and financing activities, both domestically and internationally. Such businesses are inherently exposed to various risks. The Group defines Millions of yen and classifies risks per risk item and manages each of them in accordance with its nature. Allowance for doubtful accounts against financial Allowance for doubtful assets other than credit accounts against credit (3) Credit risk management impaired financial assets impaired financial assets Total The Group assumes credit risk by extending credit to many domestic and foreign customers through a variety of commercial transactions. Balance as of April 1, 2018 based on IAS 39 .............................................................. 526 37,695 38,221 The Group mitigates such credit risk by objectively assigning credit ratings to the customers to which it extends credit based on the Company's credit rating system. The Group also controls credit risk by setting rating-based credit limits on a customer-by-customer basis Adjustment made at the start of IFRS9 ........................................................................ 121 — 121 and enforcing the credit limits thus set. The Group employs other safeguards (e.g., collaterals and guarantees) as warranted by the Balance as of April 1, 2018 based on IFRS 9 .............................................................. 647 37,695 38,342 customer's creditworthiness. Additionally, the Group has a system for assessing receivables, in which customers are extracted based on a Reclassified as allowance for doubtful accounts against credit impaired certain criteria, then assessed for their creditworthiness. With respect to such selected customers, the Group also checks for existence of financial assets ............................................................................................................. (0) 0 — any receivables, protection measures or the like. Through the above, the Group endeavors to more rigorously ascertain credit risk and calculate the allowance for doubtful accounts for each account receivable. Please note that the Group does not carry any excessive credit Increase ............................................................................................................................. 386 2,377 2,764 risk with respect to any specified customer. Decrease (incurred and charged against allowance) ............................................... (22) (569) (592) In regards to derivative transactions, the Group only deals with financial institutions with high credit ratings, as assigned by Decrease (unused amounts reversed) ........................................................................ (249) (184) (433) internationally-acknowledged rating agencies, so as to minimize the credit risks. The Group also periodically reviews the credit ratings of counterparties to such derivative transactions and re-evaluates credit limits so as to minimize credit risks based on non-performance by Others (Note) .................................................................................................................... 6 1,236 1,243 such counterparties. Balance as of March 31, 2019 based on IFRS 9 ......................................................... 768 40,555 41,324 (Note) “Others” mostly includes impact from foreign currency translation. 158 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 159 2020 2020 Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Allowance for doubtful Financial assets for which allowance for accounts against financial Allowance for doubtful Financial assets for doubtful accounts has been measured based assets other than credit accounts against credit which allowance for on lifetime expected credit loss impaired financial assets impaired financial assets Total doubtful accounts is measured based on Financial assets other Balance as of April 1, 2019 based on IFRS 9 .............................................................. 768 40,555 41,324 12 months expected than credit impaired Credit impaired credit loss financial assets financial assets Total Reclassified as allowance for doubtful accounts against credit impaired Trade and other receivables (Note) ...................................................... 844,486 — 57,146 901,633 financial assets ............................................................................................................ (4) 4 — (Note) Trade and other receivables applied the general approach primarily consist of loan receivable. Increase ............................................................................................................................. 289 566 855 Decrease (incurred and charged against allowance) ............................................... (32) (48) (81) The carrying amount of financial assets for which allowance for doubtful accounts is measured based on 12 months expected credit loss Decrease (unused amounts reversed) ........................................................................ (27) (174) (201) includes receivables from customers/clients whose internal credit rating is “normal.” Among financial assets for which allowance for doubtful accounts has been measured based on lifetime expected credit loss, the Others (Note) .................................................................................................................... (25) (1,945) (1,971) carrying amount of financial assets other than credit impaired financial assets includes receivables from customers/clients whose internal Balance as of March 31, 2020 based on IFRS 9 ......................................................... 967 38,957 39,925 credit rating is cautious , and the carrying amount of credit impaired financial assets includes receivables from customers/clients whose internal credit rating is “doubtful or in bankruptcy or rehabilitation.” There are no remarkable changes in carrying amount which could impact allowance for doubtful accounts for the year ended March 31, 2020 2019, and March 31, 2020, respectively. Thousands of U.S. dollars The following shows increases/decreases in allowances for doubtful accounts against trade and other receivables applied the general Allowance for doubtful approach. accounts against financial Allowance for doubtful assets other than credit accounts against credit impaired financial assets impaired financial assets Total 2019 Balance as of April 1, 2019 based on IFRS 9 .............................................................. 7,045 372,064 379,119 Millions of yen Reclassified as allowance for doubtful accounts against credit impaired Allowance for doubtful accounts, measured based on lifetime expected credit loss financial assets ............................................................................................................ (36) 36 — Allowance for doubtful accounts, Allowance for doubtful Allowance for doubtful Increase ............................................................................................................................. 2,651 5,192 7,844 measured based on accounts against financial accounts against credit 12 months expected assets other than credit impaired financial Decrease (incurred and charged against allowance) ............................................... (293) (440) (743) credit loss impaired financial assets assets Total Decrease (unused amounts reversed) ........................................................................ (247) (1,596) (1,844) Balance as of April 1, 2018 based on IAS 39 ......................... 23 8 13,125 13,157 Others (Note) .................................................................................................................... (229) (17,844) (18,082) Adjustment made at the start of IFRS 9 ................................ 0 — — 0 Balance as of March 31, 2020 based on IFRS 9 ......................................................... 8,871 357,403 366,284 Balance as of April 1, 2018 based on IFRS 9 ......................... 23 8 13,125 13,157 (Note) “Others” mostly includes impact from foreign currency translation. Reclassified as allowance for doubtful accounts against financial assets other than credit impaired The following shows the carrying amount for trade and other receivables applied the general approach. financial assets ........................................................................ (4) 4 — — Reclassified as allowance for doubtful accounts against 2019 credit impaired financial assets ........................................... — — — — Millions of yen Increase ........................................................................................ 23 — 283 307 Financial assets for which allowance for Financial assets for doubtful accounts has been measured based Decrease (incurred and charged against provisions) .......... (0) — (7,376) (7,377) which allowance for on lifetime expected credit loss doubtful accounts is Decrease (unused amounts reversed) ................................... (0) (0) (0) (0) measured based on Financial assets other 12 months expected than credit impaired Credit impaired Others (Note) ............................................................................... (0) — 177 177 credit loss financial assets financial assets Total Balance as of March 31, 2019 based on IFRS 9 .................... 42 12 6,208 6,263 Trade and other receivables (Note) ...................................................... 81,721 8,442 8,542 98,706 (Note) “Others” mostly includes impact from foreign currency translations. Other investments .................................................................................... — — 817 817 (Note) Trade and other receivables applied the general approach primarily consist of loan receivable. 2020 Millions of yen Financial assets for which allowance for Financial assets for doubtful accounts has been measured based which allowance for on lifetime expected credit loss doubtful accounts is measured based on Financial assets other 12 months expected than credit impaired Credit impaired credit loss financial assets financial assets Total Trade and other receivables (Note) ...................................................... 92,049 — 6,229 98,278 160 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 161 2020 2020 Millions of yen Millions of yen Allowance for doubtful accounts, measured based Within Between one and Over on lifetime expected credit loss one year five years five years Total Allowance for doubtful accounts, Allowance for doubtful Allowance for doubtful Trade and other payables ................................................................................................ 481,318 10,188 — 491,506 measured based on accounts against financial accounts against credit 12 months expected assets other than credit impaired financial Bonds and borrowings ..................................................................................................... 196,784 418,229 318,871 933,886 credit loss impaired financial assets assets Total Total ........................................................................................................................ 678,103 428,417 318,871 1,425,393 Balance as of April 1, 2019 based on IFRS 9 ......................... 42 12 6,208 6,263 Reclassified as allowance for doubtful accounts against financial assets other than credit impaired 2020 financial assets ........................................................................ (0) 0 — — Thousands of U.S. dollars Reclassified as allowance for doubtful accounts against Within Between one Over credit impaired financial assets ........................................... — — — — one year and five years five years Total Increase ........................................................................................ 0 — 90 90 Trade and other payables ................................................................................................ 4,415,761 93,467 — 4,509,229 Decrease (incurred and charged against provisions) .......... (0) — — (0) Bonds and borrowings ..................................................................................................... 1,805,357 3,836,963 2,925,422 8,567,761 Decrease (unused amounts reversed) ................................... (0) — (0) (0) Total ........................................................................................................................ 6,221,128 3,930,431 2,925,422 13,077,000 Others (Note) ............................................................................... (16) (12) (156) (185) Balance as of March 31, 2020 based on IFRS 9 .................... 24 — 6,142 6,166 Other than the above, the guarantees for obligations as March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2020 were ¥33,064 million and ¥45,514 million (U.S.$417,559 thousand), respectively. 2020 2) Derivatives Thousands of U.S. dollars The breakdown of derivatives by due date was as follows. Allowance for doubtful accounts, measured based on lifetime expected credit loss 2019 Allowance for doubtful accounts, Allowance for doubtful Allowance for doubtful Millions of yen measured based on accounts against financial accounts against credit 12 months expected assets other than credit impaired financial Within Between one Over credit loss impaired financial assets assets Total one year and five years five years Total Balance as of April 1, 2019 based on IFRS 9 ......................... 385 110 56,954 57,458 Currency-related derivatives Reclassified as allowance for doubtful accounts Cash inflows ................................................................................................................... 267,924 3,975 — 271,899 against financial assets other than credit impaired Cash outflows ................................................................................................................. (268,129) (3,932) — (272,061) financial assets ........................................................................ (0) 0 — — Subtotal .................................................................................................................. (205) 43 — (162) Reclassified as allowance for doubtful accounts against credit impaired financial assets ........................................... — — — — Interest rate-related derivatives ...................................................................................... (508) (1,759) (402) (2,670) Increase ........................................................................................ 0 — 825 825 Commodity-related derivatives ...................................................................................... (250) 0 — (249) Decrease (incurred and charged against provisions) .......... (0) — — (0) Total ........................................................................................................................ (963) (1,715) (402) (3,082) Decrease (unused amounts reversed) ................................... (0) — (0) (0) Others (Note) ............................................................................... (146) (110) (1,431) (1,697) 2020 Millions of yen Balance as of March 31, 2020 based on IFRS 9 .................... 220 — 56,348 56,568 Within Between one Over (Note) Others mostly includes impact from foreign currency translations. one year and five years five years Total Currency-related derivatives (4) Liquidity risk management Cash inflows ................................................................................................................... 284,496 10,395 — 294,892 The Group raises funds through borrowings from financial institutions or issuance of bonds. Accordingly, in the event of a disruption to the financial system or financial/capital markets or a significant downgrade to the Group's credit rating by one or more rating agencies, the Cash outflows ................................................................................................................. (284,363) (11,051) — (295,414) Group's ability to raise funds may become more restricted, and consequently the Group may not be able to make payments on debt by Subtotal .................................................................................................................. 132 (655) — (522) the due date. To provide additional financial flexibility and liquidity, the Group maintains long-term Commitment Lines of ¥100 billion (not Interest rate-related derivatives ...................................................................................... (165) (466) (97) (728) used) and U.S.$1.6 billion (U.S.$260 million used). The Group maintains good relationships with financial institutions, including the counterparties to these commitment line agreements. Commodity-related derivatives ...................................................................................... 452 — — 452 Total ........................................................................................................................ 420 (1,121) (97) (798) 1) Non-derivative financial liabilities The breakdown of non-derivative financial liabilities by due date was as follows. Lease liabilities are presented in 35 LEASES. 2019 Millions of yen Within Between one and Over one year five years five years Total Trade and other payables ................................................................................................ 581,634 13,038 338 595,011 Bonds and borrowings ..................................................................................................... 163,408 477,213 291,219 931,841 Total ........................................................................................................................ 745,043 490,251 291,557 1,526,852 162 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 163 2020 (excluding those that are considered to be financial instruments with fixed rates in substance due to interest rate swaps), the Group Thousands of U.S. dollars deals with, among others, the following financial instruments that are also affected by interest rate fluctuations: cash and cash Within Between one Over equivalents; trade notes and accounts receivable; and, trade notes and accounts payable. one year and five years five years Total Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Currency-related derivatives 2019 2020 2020 Cash inflows ................................................................................................................... 2,610,055 95,366 — 2,705,431 Profit before tax ...................................................................................................................................... (483) (491) (4,504) Cash outflows ................................................................................................................. (2,608,834) (101,385) — (2,710,220) Subtotal .................................................................................................................. 1,211 (6,009) — (4,788) 3) Commodity price fluctuation risk Interest rate-related derivatives ...................................................................................... (1,513) (4,275) (889) (6,678) 1. Content of, and policies for managing, commodity price fluctuation risk Commodity-related derivatives ...................................................................................... (4,146) — — 4,146 As a general trading company, the Group deals in a wide range of commodities through its various businesses. As such, the Group is Total ........................................................................................................................ 3,853 (10,284) (889) (7,321) exposed to commodity price risk due to price fluctuations or the like. For market-traded commodities, the Group manages exposures and controls losses by setting (long and short) position limits and stop-loss levels per internal organizational unit. The Group also prescribes and enforces stop-loss rules (i.e., an internal organizational unit must promptly liquidate losing positions and be prohibited (5) Market risk management from initiating new trades for the remainder of the fiscal year if losses, including valuation losses, exceed the stop-loss level). With The Group is exposed to market risks, such as exchange rate fluctuation risk associated with transactions denominated in foreign respect to commodity inventories, the Group implements measures, such as monthly monitoring by business or the like, in order to currencies in connection with international trade or business investments, interest rate fluctuation risk associated with financing, control inventory levels. investments or the like, commodity price fluctuation risk associated with purchase and sale agreements/commodity inventories arising from operating activities and price fluctuation risk associated with the ownership of listed securities (i.e., stock price fluctuation risk). The 2. Sensitivity analysis of commodity price fluctuation risk Group's basic policy is to minimize such market risks by matching assets and liabilities (e.g., long and short commodity exposures) and In regards to derivatives related to financial instruments held by the Group as of the end of the consolidated year, the following chart through hedge transactions, such as forward exchange transactions, commodity futures/forward transactions and interest rate swaps. shows the amounts affecting profit before tax and other comprehensive income (before tax effect adjustments), as reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements, in the case that the commodity price decreases by 1%. Such analysis is based on the assumption 1) Exchange rate fluctuation risk that other factors remain constant. 1. Content of, and policy for managing, exchange rate fluctuation risk Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars The Group engages in import and export transactions and offshore transactions, both denominated in foreign currencies, as its principal business activity. Whereas the revenues and expenditures associated with such transactions are mainly received/paid out in foreign 2019 2020 2020 currencies, the Group's consolidated reporting currency is Japanese yen. The Group is, therefore, exposed to the risk of fluctuations in Profit before tax the yen's value against foreign currencies. To prevent or limit losses stemming from such risk, the Group hedges its foreign currency Metals & Coal ..................................................................................................................................... (195) (190) (1,743) exposure through forward exchange transactions or the like. Oils ....................................................................................................................................................... — 0 0 2. Sensitivity analysis of exchange rate fluctuation risk Foods ................................................................................................................................................... (6) (3) (27) In regards to financial instruments held by the Group as of the end of the consolidated year, the following chart shows the amounts Other comprehensive income affecting profit before tax and other comprehensive income (before tax effect adjustments), as reported in the consolidated financial Metals & Coal ..................................................................................................................................... 1 10 91 statements, that would result from 1% appreciation of yen against each of the U.S. dollar and Australian dollar. Such analysis is based on the assumption that other factors remain constant. Oils ....................................................................................................................................................... 6 — — In addition, such analysis does not include the affected amounts based on translations (into Japanese yen) of financial instruments denominated in functional currency, income and expenses denominated in foreign currency and assets and liabilities of foreign 4) Stock price fluctuation risk operations. 1. Content of, and policies for managing, stock price fluctuation risk Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars The Group has large holdings of marketable securities and, therefore, is exposed to stock price fluctuation risk. Against such risk, the Group makes efforts to understand market prices and financial conditions or the like of issuers and, with 2019 2020 2020 respect to listed stocks, the Group reviews their holding purposes by each on a periodic basis. Profit before tax U.S. dollar ........................................................................................................................................... 300 387 3,550 2. Sensitivity analysis of stock price fluctuation risk In regards to listed stocks held by the Group as of the end of the consolidated year, the following chart shows the amounts affecting Australian dollar ................................................................................................................................ (2) 13 119 other comprehensive income (before tax effect adjustments), as reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements, in the case that Other comprehensive income prices of such listed stocks decrease by 1%. Such analysis is based on the assumption that other factors remain constant. Thousands of U.S. dollar ........................................................................................................................................... 51 (8) (73) Millions of yen U.S. dollars Australian dollar ................................................................................................................................ (46) (42) (385) 2019 2020 2020 Other comprehensive income ............................................................................................................ (1,049) (784) (7,192) 2) Interest rate fluctuation risk 1. Content of and policy for managing interest rate fluctuation risk The Group raises funds by borrowing from financial institutions and issuing bonds to acquire fixed assets, invest in securities, and (6) Fair values of financial instruments extend credit (e.g., through trade receivables). Asset and liability items are categorized based on whether or not they are sensitive to The fair values of financial instruments were as follows. interest rate changes, with the difference between the value of sensitive assets and sensitive liabilities used to determine an interest rate As set forth under 2 BASIS OF PRESENTATION (4) Use of estimates and judgments, fair values are categorized into three levels in a fair mismatch value. Based on this amount, the ratios of funds procured from fixed-rate sources and variable-rate sources are adjusted to value hierarchy based on the inputs used in the valuation techniques. better manage interest rate fluctuation risks. 2. Sensitivity analysis of interest rate fluctuation risk In regards to financial instruments held by the Group as of the end of the consolidated year, the following chart shows the amount affecting profit before tax, as reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements, in the case that the interest rate increases by 1%. Such analysis is based on the assumption that other factors remain constant. Under such analysis, the amount affecting profit before tax is calculated by multiplying the net balance of the financial instruments affected by the interest rate fluctuation at the fiscal year-end by 1%. Please note that other than financial instruments with floating rates 164 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 165 1) Financial assets and liabilities measured at amortized cost 2020 Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Millions of yen 2019 2020 2020 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Carrying Fair Carrying Fair Carrying Fair Recurring fair value measurements amount value amount value amount value Financial assets Financial assets Other investments Trade and other receivables Financial assets measured at FVTPL .......................................................................... — 335 3,563 3,899 Trade notes and accounts receivable ............................. 491,948 491,770 430,430 430,383 3,948,899 3,948,467 Financial assets measured at FVTOCI .......................................................................... 83,455 — 53,620 137,075 Total .............................................................................. 491,948 491,770 430,430 430,383 3,948,899 3,948,467 Derivative financial assets and liabilities ........................................................................ 981 4,247 — 5,229 Financial liabilities Total ........................................................................................................................ 84,437 4,582 57,184 146,204 Trade and other payables Financial liabilities Trade notes and accounts payable ................................. 480,736 480,736 382,151 382,151 3,505,972 3,505,972 Derivative financial liabilities ......................................................................................... (784) (5,237) — (6,021) Bonds and borrowings Total ........................................................................................................................ (784) (5,237) — (6,021) Bonds payable (including current portion) .................... 89,793 91,639 89,779 90,661 823,660 831,752 Long-term loans (including current portion) .................. 687,688 698,305 675,205 678,582 6,194,541 6,225,522 2020 Thousands of U.S. dollars Total .............................................................................. 1,258,218 1,270,681 1,147,135 1,151,395 10,524,174 10,563,256 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Recurring fair value measurements The fair values stated above are calculated as follows. Financial assets (a) Trade notes and accounts receivable Other investments Each receivable is categorized by period, and its fair value is the present value of future cash flows discounted by an interest rate that Financial assets measured at FVTPL .......................................................................... — 3,073 32,688 35,770 reflects time to maturity and credit risk. Financial assets measured at FVTOCI .......................................................................... 765,642 — 491,926 1,257,568 Derivative financial assets and liabilities ........................................................................ 9,000 38,963 — 47,972 (b) Trade notes and accounts payable Total ........................................................................................................................ 774,651 42,036 524,623 1,341,321 Each payable is categorized by period, and its fair value is the present value of future cash flows discounted by an interest rate that reflects time to maturity and credit risk. Financial liabilities Derivative financial liabilities ......................................................................................... (7,192) (48,045) — (55,238) (c) Bonds and borrowings Total ........................................................................................................................ (7,192) (48,045) — (55,238) The fair value of bonds payable is the market price when available. The fair value of long-term loans is the present value of total principal and interest discounted using an assumed interest rate on equivalent new borrowings. The fair values stated above are calculated as follows. Financial assets and liabilities measured at amortized cost are categorized within fair value hierarchy Level 2. (a) Other investments The fair value of listed shares is the quoted price on an exchange, and is categorized within fair value hierarchy Level 1. The fair value of 2) Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value unlisted shares is calculated using valuation methods including discounted future cash flow, market prices of comparable companies, 1. Analysis of fair value by hierarchy level net asset value, and other valuation methods, and is categorized within fair value hierarchy Level 3. Measuring the fair value of unlisted The following tables provide analysis by level reflecting the significance of inputs used when measuring fair value for financial assets and shares involves the use of unobservable inputs such as discount rate and valuation multiples, as well as any necessary adjustments financial liabilities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position that are measured at fair value. No financial assets and liabilities were including discounts for a lack of liquidity or a non-controlling interest. The Group's corporate departments determine the policies and measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis. procedures for measuring the fair value of unlisted shares, and validate their approach to measuring fair value, including the valuation model, by periodically confirming issues such as the operating circumstances associated with particular equities, the availability of 2019 relevant business plans, and data from comparable public companies. Millions of yen (b) Derivative financial assets and liabilities Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Currency-related derivatives Recurring fair value measurements The fair values of foreign exchange transactions, spot/forward transactions, currency option transactions and currency swap transactions Financial assets are calculated based on the forward exchange rate as of the closing date. Other investments Financial assets measured at FVTPL .......................................................................... — 325 3,334 3,660 Interest rate-related derivatives The fair value of interest-rate swaps is the present value of future cash flow discounted by an interest rate that reflects time to settlement Financial assets measured at FVTOCI .......................................................................... 111,543 — 57,045 168,589 and credit risk. Derivative financial assets ............................................................................................. 257 1,848 — 2,106 Total ........................................................................................................................ 111,801 2,174 60,380 174,355 Commodity-related derivatives Financial liabilities The fair value of commodity futures transactions is calculated using final prices on commodities exchanges as of the fiscal year-end. The Derivative financial liabilities ......................................................................................... (416) (4,788) — (5,025) fair values of commodity forward transactions, commodity option transactions and commodity swap transactions are calculated based on the index prices publicly announced at the fiscal year-end. Total ........................................................................................................................ (416) (4,788) — (5,205) Commodity futures transactions are categorized within fair value hierarchy Level 1. All other derivative financial assets and liabilities are categorized within fair value hierarchy Level 2. 166 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 167 2. Recurring fair value measurements categorized within fair value hierarchy Level 3 2020 The increases/decreases in financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis and are categorized within fair Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars value hierarchy Level 3 were as follows. Name of investment Amount Amount Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Kansai Paint Co., Ltd. 9,556 87,669 2019 2020 2020 NHK SPRING CO., LTD 9,345 85,733 Other investments Other investments Other investments Yamazaki Baking Co., Ltd. 5,414 49,669 Financial Financial Financial assets Financial assets assets Financial assets assets Financial assets NIPPON REIT Investment Corporation 4,944 45,357 measured at measured at measured at measured at measured at measured at FVTPL FVTOCI Total FVTPL FVTOCI Total FVTPL FVTOCI Total ANA HOLDINGS INC. 3,730 34,220 Balance at beginning of year ... 3,192 58,777 61,970 3,334 57,045 60,380 30,587 523,348 553,944 Japan Airport Terminal Co., Ltd. 3,527 32,357 Showa Sangyo Co., Ltd. 3,210 29,449 Total gains or losses Nisshin Seifun Group Inc. 3,196 29,321 Profit or loss .............................. 142 — 142 (52) — (52) (477) — (477) Tokuyama Corporation 2,712 24,880 Other comprehensive income .... — (673) (673) — (192) (192) — (1,761) (1,761) FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation 2,388 21,908 Purchases .................................... — 2,256 2,256 218 2,198 2,417 2,000 20,165 22,147 Disposals and settlements ....... — (2,888) (2,888) (0) (1,804) (1,804) (0) (16,550) (16,550) 2) Dividends received Others .......................................... — (427) (427) 64 (3,626) (3,562) 587 (33,266) (32,678) Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Balance at end of year .............. 3,334 57,045 60,380 3,563 53,620 57,184 32,688 491,926 524,623 2019 2020 2020 Investments derecognized during the year .......................................................................................... 176 38 348 Gains or losses recognized as profit or loss are included in Other financial income and Other financial costs in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss. Total gains or losses recognized as profit or loss included profits of ¥142 million and losses of ¥52 million (U.S.$ Investments held at the end of the year ................................................................................................. 4,991 4,190 38,440 477 thousand) on financial instruments held as of the years ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2020, respectively. Total ................................................................................................................................................. 5,167 4,228 38,788 Losses recognized in other comprehensive income are included in Financial assets measured at FVTOCI in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income. For the year ended March 31, 2020, the Others category under Financial assets measured at FVTOCI mainly includes the change in 3) Financial assets measured at FVTOCI that were derecognized during the year category from Other investments to Investments accounted for using the equity method due to the change in purpose of possession in The Group disposes of financial assets measured at FVTOCI as a result of periodic reviews of portfolios and for the purpose of managing the LNG terminal business. or the like of risk assets. The fair values of such financial assets at the dates of the sales transactions and the cumulative gains (before taxes) concerning such sales were as follows. (7) Financial assets measured at FVTOCI Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars With respect to investments made in equity instruments held for the purpose of maintaining and strengthening relationships with business partners, the Group has designated such investments as financial assets measured at FVTOCI in consideration of such purpose. 2019 2020 2020 Fair value at the date of sale ..................................................................................................................... 3,001 2,160 19,816 1) Fair values per name (of investment) Cumulative gains ........................................................................................................................................ 482 697 6,394 The fair values per name of the main investments made in equity instruments designated as financial assets measured at FVTOCI were as follows. 4) Reclassification to retained earnings 2019 The Group reclassifies to retained earnings cumulative gains or losses arising from changes in the fair values of financial assets measured Millions of yen at FVTOCI in either of the following cases: when an investment is disposed of; and, when there is a significant decline in the fair value. Such Name of investment Amount cumulative other comprehensive income totals (net of taxes) that were reclassified to retained earnings for the years ended March 31, NHK SPRING CO., LTD. 13,120 2019 and March 31, 2020 were losses of ¥2,321 million and ¥6,812 million (U.S.$62,495 thousand), respectively. Kansai Paint Co., Ltd. 9,795 (8) Hedge accounting NIPPON REIT Investment Corporation 6,618 The Group endeavors to minimize market risk using hedging transactions, including forward exchange contract transactions, commodity Braskem S.A. 6,556 futures and commodity forwards, and interest rate swaps. Risk management policies for each risk exposure can be found under (5) – ANA HOLDINGS INC. 5,737 Market risk management. When initiating a hedge, the Group designates and documents the risk management purposes and strategies regarding the hedge Nisshin Seifun Group Inc. 4,504 relationship and initiation of such hedge. Such documentation includes the designation of the hedging instrument, the hedged item or Yamazaki Baking Co., Ltd. 4,308 transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and methods of assessing the hedging instrument’s effectiveness in offsetting the Japan Airport Terminal Co., Ltd. 3,950 exposure to changes in the hedged item’s fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk. In order to determine whether these Kobe Steel, Ltd. 3,740 hedges were actually effective at the start of hedging and throughout the reporting period for which such hedging was designated, the Group confirms the economic relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument through a qualitative analysis whether Tokuyama Corporation 3,387 the critical terms of the hedged item and hedging instrument match up or closely correspond, and quantitative analysis whether the value of the hedged item and hedging instrument mutually offsets any fluctuations in price caused by the same risk the hedged item and hedging instrument seek to hedge. The Group sets an appropriate hedging ratio when initiating a hedge, in accordance with the number of items to be hedged and available hedging instruments. As a general rule, the company matches one hedging instrument to each item to be hedged. If the hedging relationship is deemed ineffective but the purpose of risk management is not changed, this ratio of hedging instruments to hedged items will be readjusted to make the hedging relationship effective. There is no materiality to the impact of the hedging portion deemed ineffective on hedging relationships, including impact from credit risk. When the Group targets a specific risk element for hedging, determined using the risk management strategy for each risk category, the Group selects those risk elements which comprise a structural element of the total hedging and which can be examined separately from the whole and used to reliably measure fluctuations in cash flow and fair value in response to changes in those risk elements. 168 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 169 1) Types of hedge accounting The following shows the notional amount and average price of the main hedging instruments. (a) Fair value hedges 2019 A fair value hedge is a hedge of exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognized asset or liability or an unrecognized firm Hedging instruments Description Type Notional amount and average price commitment. The Group designates commodity futures and forwards contracts as hedging instruments to hedge the changes in fair Notional amount (millions USD) 237 values of firm commitments or inventories. Export With respect to a fair value hedge, gains or losses from remeasuring the hedging instrument at fair value are recognized as profit or Average price (USD/JPY) 111.01 Forward exchanges in USD loss, and gains or losses on hedged items attributable to hedged risks are also recognized as profit or loss. Notional amount (millions USD) 201 The Group uses fluctuations in the value of hedged items as the basis for recognizing the amount for which hedging was ineffective. Cash flow hedges Import Average price (USD/JPY) 110.99 For the years ended March 31, 2019, and March 31,2020, these fluctuations were largely in line with changes in the fair value of hedging instruments, and there was no materiality in the ineffective hedging portion recognized as profit or loss. Interest rate swap received/fixed rate paid for — Notional amount (millions JPY) 53,519 (b) Cash flow hedges interest rate swaps A cash flow hedge is a hedge of exposure to variability in cash flows that is attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognized asset or liability or a scheduled transaction that is most likely to occur. The Group designates interest rate swaps as hedging instruments Forward exchanges in USD contracts mature primarily within one year from the end of the current consolidated fiscal year. And the amount to hedge the variability of cash flows relating to floating-rate borrowings and designates forward exchange transactions as hedging of the notional amount of interest rate swap contracts maturing is, within one year from the end of the current fiscal year, in less than five instruments to hedge the variability of cash flows concerning firm commitments in foreign currency. years from one year and five years of the period, each ¥8,500 million, ¥11,500 million and ¥33,519 million. With respect to a cash flow hedge, the portions of the gains or losses on the hedging instruments that are determined to be effective hedges are recognized as other comprehensive income. 2020 The Group uses fluctuations in the value of hedged items as the basis for recognizing the amount for which hedging was ineffective. Hedging instruments Description Type Notional amount and average price For the years ended March 31, 2019, and March 31, 2020, these fluctuations were largely in line with changes to the fair value of hedging instruments, and there was no materiality in the ineffective hedging portion recognized as profit or loss. Furthermore, there Notional amount (millions USD) 180 Export was no materiality in the amount transferred from other components of equity to profit or loss, since forecast transactions were not Average price (USD/JPY) 109.57 anticipated. Forward exchanges in USD Notional amount (millions USD) 246 Cash flow hedges Import (c) Hedges of net investments in foreign operations Average price (USD/JPY) 109.55 The Group designates forward exchange transactions and foreign currency borrowings as hedging instruments to hedge the risk of Interest rate swap change in exchange rate concerning net investments in foreign operations. received/fixed rate paid for — Notional amount (millions JPY) 27,714 With respect to a hedge of net investments in foreign operations, the portions of the gains or losses on the hedging instruments that interest rate swaps are determined to be effective hedges are recognized as other comprehensive income. The Group uses fluctuations in the value of hedged items as the basis for recognizing the amount for which hedging was ineffective. For the years ended March 31, 2019, and March 31, 2020, these fluctuations were largely in line with changes to the fair value of Forward exchanges in USD contracts mature primarily within one year from the end of the current consolidated fiscal year. And the amount hedging instruments, and there was no materiality in the ineffective hedging portion recognized as profit or loss. of the notional amount of interest rate swap contracts maturing is, within one year from the end of the current fiscal year, in less than five years from one year and five years of the period, each ¥5,000 million (U.S.$45,871 thousand), ¥6,500 million (U.S.$59,633 thousand) and 2) Impact of hedges on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position ¥16,214 million (U.S.$148,752 thousand). The following shows the carrying amount of hedging instruments by the type of hedge accounting applied. The following shows the cumulative hedging adjustment to carrying value and fair value of hedged items categorized under fair value Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars hedges 2019 2020 2020 2019 Hedging instruments Assets Liabilities(-) Assets Liabilities(-) Assets Liabilities(-) Millions of yen Fair value hedges Cumulative adjustment to Main items on the Carrying amounts fair value hedges Consolidated Statement of Currency-related derivatives .................................................. — — 23 — 211 — Financial Position used to Assets Liabilities (-) Assets Liabilities (-) present adjustment Commodity-related derivatives ............................................. 120 (108) 663 (214) 6,082 (1,963) Currency-related .................................................................. 398 — 26 — (Note1) Total fair value hedges ................................................................ 120 (108) 686 (214) 6,293 (1,963) Commodity-related ............................................................. 3,568 (69) 149 (111) (Note2) Cash flow hedges (Note1) Other investments Currency-related derivatives .................................................. 255 (735) 1,077 (2,477) 9,880 (22,724) (Note2) Inventories , Derivative financial assets and Derivative financial liabilities Interest rate-related derivatives ............................................. 13 (2,699) 108 (830) 990 (7,614) 2020 Commodity-related derivatives ............................................. 17 (2) 131 — 1,201 — Millions of yen Total cash flow hedges ................................................................ 286 (3,437) 1,317 (3,307) 12,082 (30,339) Cumulative adjustment to Main items on the Total hedges of net investments in foreign operations ......... 73 — 93 (123) 853 (1,128) Carrying amounts fair value hedges Consolidated Statement of Financial Position used to Total ................................................................................................ 480 (3,546) 2,097 (3,645) 19,238 (33,440) Assets Liabilities (-) Assets Liabilities (-) present adjustment Currency-related .................................................................. 618 — — (23) (Note1) The derivative contracts above were recorded on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as either derivative financial assets or Commodity-related ............................................................. 4,430 (219) 169 (922) (Note2) derivative financial liabilities. In addition, the Group recorded loan payables in foreign currency, designated for hedging using cash flow hedges and hedges of net investment, as ¥8,534 million and ¥4,309 million (U.S.$39,532 thousand) in the years ended March 31, 2019, and March 31, 2020,respectively. These were recorded as corporate bonds and loans payable on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. 170 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 171 2020 2019 Thousands of U.S. dollars Millions of yen Cumulative adjustment to Main items on the Cash flow hedges Hedges of net Carrying amounts fair value hedges Consolidated Statement of investments in Financial Position used to CurrencyInterest rateCommodityforeign Assets Liabilities (-) Assets Liabilities (-) present adjustment related related related operations Currency-related .................................................................. 5,669 — — (211) (Note1) Balance at beginning of year ........................................................................................... (1,760) (2,412) (324) (8,511) Commodity-related ............................................................. 40,642 (2,009) 1,550 (8,458) (Note2) Amount occurring this reporting period ....................................................................... (1,656) (291) 27 31 (Note1) Other investments Reclassification adjustment .............................................................................................. 1,313 49 461 20 (Note2) Inventories , Derivative financial assets and Derivative financial liabilities Tax effect ............................................................................................................................. 23 17 (52) — The following shows the amount recorded for other equity components related to cash flow hedges and hedges of net investments in Balance at end of year ...................................................................................................... (2,080) (2,636) 112 (8,459) foreign operations. 2020 2019 Millions of yen Millions of yen Cash flow hedges Hedges of net Amount recorded for the Amount recorded for the investments in portion of other equity portion of other equity CurrencyInterest rateCommodityforeign components for which hedge components for which hedge related related related operations accounting is ongoing accounting is not ongoing Balance at beginning of year ........................................................................................... (2,080) (2,636) 112 (8,459) Cash flow hedges Amount occurring this reporting period ....................................................................... (1,020) (4,745) (143) 44 Currency-related ................................................................................................................ (441) (1,639) Reclassification adjustment .............................................................................................. 1,255 2,458 (19) — Interest rate-related ........................................................................................................... (2,636) — Tax effect ............................................................................................................................. 726 (574) (42) — Commodity-related ........................................................................................................... 15 97 Balance at end of year ...................................................................................................... (1,119) (5,498) (92) (8,414) Total cash flow hedges ..................................................................................................... (3,062) (1,542) Total hedges of net investments in foreign operations .............................................. 89 (8,548) 2020 Thousands of U.S. dollars 2020 Cash flow hedges Hedges of net Millions of yen investments in CurrencyInterest rateCommodityforeign Amount recorded for the Amount recorded for the related related related operations portion of other equity portion of other equity components for which hedge components for which hedge Balance at beginning of year ........................................................................................... (19,082) (24,183) 1,027 (77,605) accounting is ongoing accounting is not ongoing Amount occurring this reporting period ....................................................................... (9,357) (43,532) (1,311) 403 Cash flow hedges Reclassification adjustment .............................................................................................. 11,513 22,550 (174) — Currency-related ................................................................................................................ (1,437) 318 Tax effect ............................................................................................................................. 6,660 (5,266) (385) — Interest rate-related ........................................................................................................... (5,498) — Balance at end of year ...................................................................................................... (10,266) (50,440) (844) (77,192) Commodity-related ........................................................................................................... 131 (223) Total cash flow hedges ..................................................................................................... (6,804) 95 (3) Impact of hedges on the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income Total hedges of net investments in foreign operations .............................................. 61 (8,476) The following shows the amount of cash flow hedges and hedges of net investments in foreign operations recorded as other comprehensive income (before tax effect) on the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income. 2020 Thousands of U.S. dollars 2019 Millions of yen Amount recorded for the Amount recorded for the portion of other equity portion of other equity Main items on the Consolidated components for which hedge components for which hedge Other comprehensive Statement of Profit or Loss and accounting is ongoing accounting is not ongoing income occurring during Portion reclassified as Other Comprehensive Income used this reporting period profit for the period to present reclassified portion Cash flow hedges Cash flow hedges Currency-related ................................................................................................................ (13,183) 2,917 Currency-related .................................................................................... (1,656) 1,313 (Note1) Interest rate-related ........................................................................................................... (50,440) — Interest rate-related ............................................................................... (291) 49 (Note2) Commodity-related ........................................................................................................... 1,201 (2,045) Commodity-related ............................................................................... 27 461 (Note3) Total cash flow hedges ..................................................................................................... (62,422) 871 Total cash flow hedges ......................................................................... (1,920) 1,824 Total hedges of net investments in foreign operations .............................................. 559 (77,761) Hedges of net investments in foreign operations ........................... 31 20 (Note4) (Note1) Revenue , Cost of sales and Other operating income (Note2) Interest expenses The following shows the breakdown of increases/decreases in the amount recorded for other equity components related to cash flow (Note3) Revenue hedges and hedges of net investments in foreign operations. The amount by excluding the time value of an option contract, the forward (Note4) Loss on reorganization of subsidiaries/associates element of a forward contract and the foreign currency basis spread from the hedging instrument is immaterial. 172 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 173 2020 2) Interest rate-related Millions of yen Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Main items on the Consolidated 2019 2020 2020 Other comprehensive Statement of Profit or Loss and income occurring during Portion reclassified as Other Comprehensive Income used Amount of Amount of Amount of this reporting period profit for the period to present reclassified portion Type contracts Fair value contracts Fair value contracts Fair value Cash flow hedges Interest rate swap transactions Currency-related .................................................................................... (1,020) 1,255 (Note1) Floating rate received/fixed rate paid ............................. 53,646 (2,686) 27,713 (722) 254,247 (6,623) Interest rate-related ............................................................................... (4,745) 2,458 (Note2) Total floating rate received/fixed rate paid .................... 53,646 (2,686) 27,713 (722) 254,257 (6,623) Commodity-related ............................................................................... (143) (19) (Note3) Total interest rate-related derivatives .............................. — (2,686) — (722) — (6,623) Total cash flow hedges ......................................................................... (5,909) 3,694 Interest rate-related derivatives not Hedges of net investments in foreign operations ........................... 44 — designated as hedges ........................................................ — (1) — (0) — (0) Interest rate-related derivatives 2020 designated as hedges ........................................................ — (2,685) — (721) — (6,614) Thousands of U.S. dollars Total .............................................................................. — (2,686) — (722) — (6,623) Main items on the Consolidated Other comprehensive Statement of Profit or Loss and income occurring during Portion reclassified as Other Comprehensive Income used 3) Commodity-related this reporting period profit for the period to present reclassified portion Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Cash flow hedges 2019 2020 2020 Currency-related .................................................................................... (9,357) 11,513 (Note1) Amount of Amount of Amount of Interest rate-related ............................................................................... (43,532) 22,550 (Note2) Type contracts Fair value contracts Fair value contracts Fair value Commodity-related ............................................................................... (1,311) (174) (Note3) Commodity futures transactions Total cash flow hedges ......................................................................... (54,211) 33,889 Metals & Coal Hedges of net investments in foreign operations ........................... 403 — Selling .................................................................................... 5,672 (275) 8,236 406 75,559 3,724 (Note1) Revenue , Cost of sales and Other operating income Buying ................................................................................... 3,234 102 3,281 (285) 30,100 (2,614) (Note2) Interest expenses (Note3) Revenue Oils Selling .................................................................................... — — 78 (1) 715 (9) (9) Derivatives The breakdown of derivatives by type was as follows. Buying ................................................................................... — — — — — — Thousands of Foods Millions of yen U.S. dollars Selling .................................................................................... 1,801 128 1,846 87 16,935 798 2019 2020 2020 Buying ................................................................................... 2,419 (114) 2,103 (9) 19,293 (82) Currency-related derivatives .................................................................................................................... (162) (522) (4,788) Interest rate-related derivatives ............................................................................................................... (2,686) (722) (6,623) Total selling .......................................................................... 7,473 (147) 10,162 492 93,229 4,513 Commodity-related derivatives ............................................................................................................... (249) 452 4,146 Total buying ......................................................................... 5,653 (11) 5,385 (295) 49,403 (2,706) Total ................................................................................................................................................. (3,098) (792) (7,266) Commodity forwards transactions Derivative financial assets (Current assets) ............................................................................................ 2,060 5,055 46,376 Metals & Coal Derivative financial assets (Non-current assets) .................................................................................... 46 173 1,587 Selling .................................................................................... 4,389 65 6,282 (61) 57,633 (559) Derivative financial liabilities (Current liabilities) ................................................................................... (2,511) (5,257) (48,229) Buying ................................................................................... 26,474 (166) 29,176 317 267,669 2,908 Derivative financial liabilities (Non-current liabilities) .......................................................................... (2,693) (763) (7,000) Oils Total ................................................................................................................................................. (3,098) (792) (7,266) Selling .................................................................................... 632 10 — — — — Buying ................................................................................... — — — — — — 1) Currency-related Total selling .......................................................................... 5,022 75 6,282 (61) 57,633 (559) Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Total buying ......................................................................... 26,474 (166) 29,176 317 267,669 2,908 2019 2020 2020 Amount of Amount of Amount of Total commodity-related derivatives ...................... — (249) — 452 — 4,146 Type contracts Fair value contracts Fair value contracts Fair value Commodity-related derivatives not Forward exchange transactions designated as hedges ........................................................ — (276) — (127) — (1,165) Selling in U.S. dollars/buying in Japanese yen .............. 84,360 (691) 94,354 (289) 865,633 (2,651) Commodity-related derivatives Selling in Japanese yen/buying in U.S. dollars .............. 62,970 315 78,717 756 722,174 6,935 designated as hedges ........................................................ — 26 — 579 — 5,311 Others .................................................................................... 128,995 214 124,974 (990) 1,146,550 (9,082) Total .............................................................................. — (249) — 452 — 4,146 Total forward exchange transactions .............................. 276,326 (162) 298,045 (522) 2,734,357 (4,788) Total currency-related derivatives ........................... — (162) — (522) — (4,788) Currency-related derivatives not designated as hedges .... — 244 — 883 — 8,100 Currency-related derivatives designated as hedges ........ — (406) — (1,406) — (12,899) Total .............................................................................. — (162) — (522) — (4,788) 174 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 175 (10) Transfer of financial assets The Group liquidates certain trade receivables by discounting notes or the like. However, with respect to some liquidated receivables, the 35 LEASES Group may be obligated to make payments as recourse for non-payment by the debtor. The Group continues to recognize such liquidated receivables as they do not meet the criteria for derecognition of financial assets. (1) As lessee The Group recognized such liquidated assets as Trade and other receivables in the amounts of ¥22,776 million and ¥17,598 million The Group leases real estate such as office buildings, machinery and other equipment as lessee. (U.S.$161,449 thousand) as of March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2020, respectively. In addition, liabilities relating to the deposit amounts which arose upon the transfer of such assets were accounted for as Bonds and borrowings in the amounts of ¥22,776 million and 1) Carrying amount of right-of-use assets ¥17,598 million (U.S.$161,449 thousand) as of March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2020, respectively. Such liabilities are settled when payments The breakdown of the carrying amount of right-of-use assets was as follows. for such liquidated assets are made, and the Group may not use such liquidated assets until such settlement occurs. Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars (11) Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities 2020 2020 As of March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2020, financial assets and financial liabilities recognized for the same counterparties included financial Underlying assets of buildings and structures ................................................................................................................ 55,659 510,633 instruments that were not offset even though they were covered by an enforceable master netting arrangement or similar agreement Underlying assets of machinery and vehicles ................................................................................................................. 9,924 91,045 because they did not meet some or all of the offsetting criteria, were as follows. Underlying assets of tools, furniture & fixtures ................................................................................................................ 1,001 9,183 Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Underlying assets of land .................................................................................................................................................... 7,450 68,348 2019 2020 2020 Others ..................................................................................................................................................................................... 100 917 Net amounts of financial assets presented in the Consolidated Statement Total ........................................................................................................................................................................... 74,136 680,146 of Financial Position ............................................................................................................................... 2,106 5,229 47,972 Amounts that were not offset even though they were covered by Right-of-use assets have increased by ¥27,253 million (U.S.$250,027 thousand) during the year ended March 31,2020. an enforceable master netting arrangement or similar agreement because they did not meet some or all of the offsetting criteria ................................................................... (844) (1,281) (11,752) 2) Expenses, income, and cash flow relating to leases as lessee Net amounts of financial assets after deducting ................................................................................... 1,262 3,947 36,211 The breakdown of the expenses, income, and cash flow relating to leases as lessee was as follows. Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2020 2020 2019 2020 2020 Depreciation of right-of-use assets ................................................................................................................................... Net amounts of financial liabilities presented in the Consolidated Underlying assets of buildings and structures .............................................................................................................. (10,283) (94,339) Statement of Financial Position ........................................................................................................... 5,205 6,021 55,238 Underlying assets of machinery and vehicles ............................................................................................................... (2,494) (22,880) Amounts that were not offset even though they were covered by Underlying assets of tools, furniture & fixtures ............................................................................................................. (359) (3,293) an enforceable master netting arrangement or similar agreement because Underlying assets of land .................................................................................................................................................. (514) (4,715) they did not meet some or all of the offsetting criteria ................................................................... (844) (1,281) (11,752) Others .................................................................................................................................................................................... (25) (229) Net amounts of financial liabilities after deducting .............................................................................. 4,360 4,739 43,477 Total ........................................................................................................................................................................... (13,678) (125,486) Interest expenses for lease liabilities ................................................................................................................................. (1,446) (13,266) When financial assets and financial liabilities are not offset because they do not meet some or all of the criteria required for offsetting, Expenses for short-term leases .......................................................................................................................................... (2,533) (23,238) the right of offset for financial instruments only becomes enforceable in specific cases, such as the inability of a customer to fulfill its Expenses for leases of low-value ....................................................................................................................................... (1,397) (12,816) obligations due to insolvency, etc. Expenses for variable lease payments not included in the measurement of lease liabilities ................................ (44) (403) Income from subleasing right-of-use assets .................................................................................................................... 89 816 Total expenses relating to leases (net) ................................................................................................................ (19,009) (174,394) 34 SHARE-BASED PAYMENT Total cash outflow relating to leases .................................................................................................................... (18,168) (166,678) The Company has introduced an equity-settled share-based remuneration system as a remuneration system closely linked to corporate performance and having high transparency and objectivity, with the objective of heightening directors' and executive officers' awareness There was no materiality in the gains or losses from sale and leaseback transactions. toward making contributions to improving Sojitz’s performance and to increasing its corporate value over the medium-to-long term. The system uses a BIP trust (Board Incentive Plan trust). This trust delivers and provides Sojitz shares and cash equivalent to the conversion amount of Sojitz shares ( Sojitz Shares, collectively) as well as dividends on the Sojitz shares to directors, commensurate with factors such as executive rank and achievement level of performance targets. Shares held by the BIP trust are recorded as treasury stock, with the system recorded as equity-settled share-based remuneration. The Company recognizes share remuneration expenses for the year ended March 31, 2020 based on the share delivery points which the Company anticipates will be granted to directors for the service for the year ended March 31, 2020. The number of shares held in trust as of March 31, 2020 was 1,667,211. The Company recorded ¥132 million and ¥140 million (U.S.$ 1,284 thousand) in expenses related to this system for the years ended March 31, 2019, and March 31, 2020, respectively. 176 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 177 3) Lease liabilities (b) Operating leases The maturity analysis of undiscounted lease liabilities was as follows. The maturity analysis of lease payments to be received relating to operating leases was as follows. Thousands of Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2020 2020 2020 2020 Within one year to due date ............................................................................................................................................... 15,936 146,201 Within one year to due date ............................................................................................................................................... 3,604 33,064 Between one and two years to due date ......................................................................................................................... 12,500 114,678 Between one and two years to due date ......................................................................................................................... 2,405 22,064 Between two and three years to due date ....................................................................................................................... 10,507 96,394 Between two and three years to due date ....................................................................................................................... 1,173 10,761 Between three and four years to due date ...................................................................................................................... 8,309 76,229 Between three and four years to due date ...................................................................................................................... 1,068 9,798 Between four and five years to due date ......................................................................................................................... 7,683 70,486 Between four and five years to due date ......................................................................................................................... 976 8,954 Over five years to due date ................................................................................................................................................. 30,957 284,009 Over five years to due date ................................................................................................................................................. 8,807 80,798 Total undiscounted lease payments .................................................................................................................... 85,894 788,018 Total ........................................................................................................................................................................... 18,036 165,467 Interest expenses .................................................................................................................................................................. (6,911) (63,403) Total discounted lease payments ........................................................................................................................ 78,983 724,614 The following shows the information relating to finance leases for the year ended March 31,2019. Current liabilities ................................................................................................................................................................... 15,317 140,522 Non-current liabilities ........................................................................................................................................................... 63,666 584,091 1) As lessee The Group leases a number of buildings, machinery, office equipment and other assets under arrangements that are classified as finance Total ........................................................................................................................................................................... 78,983 724,614 leases as of March 31, 2019. The carrying amounts after deduction of accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses of lease assets as of March 31, (2) As lessor 2019 were as follows. The Group leases out ships, real estate, and other assets. Millions of yen 2019 1) Income from leases Buildings and structures ...................................................................................................................................................... 164 The breakdown of the income relating to leases was as follows. Thousands of Machinery and vehicles ....................................................................................................................................................... 645 Millions of yen U.S. dollars Tools, furniture & fixtures .................................................................................................................................................... 1,105 2020 2020 Others .................................................................................................................................................................................... 52 Profit and loss from sales recognized at the commencement date of a lease ......................................................... 23 211 Total ........................................................................................................................................................................... 1,968 Financial income on net investment in the lease ............................................................................................................ 31 284 Total income relating to finance leases (net) ................................................................................................................... 55 504 Future minimum lease payments under finance leases as of March 31, 2019 were as follows. Income relating to operating leases .................................................................................................................... 5,473 50,211 Millions of yen Present value of Future minimum future minimum Among income relating to finance leases and operating leases, there was no materiality to any income relating to variable lease payments lease payments lease payments that do not depend on an index or rate. 2019 2019 2) Maturity analysis of lease payments to be received Within one year to due date ..................................................................................................................... 2,885 2,829 (a) Finance leases Between one and five years to due date ................................................................................................ 1,432 1,346 The maturity analysis of undiscounted lease payments receivable relating to finance leases was as follows. Over five years to due date ....................................................................................................................... 338 335 Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Total ................................................................................................................................................. 4,656 4,511 2020 2020 Less future finance costs ............................................................................................................................ (144) Within one year to due date ............................................................................................................................................... 122 1,119 Present value of future minimum lease payments ............................................................................... 4,511 Between one and two years to due date ......................................................................................................................... 106 972 Between two and three years to due date ....................................................................................................................... 92 844 The following shows the information relating to operating leases for the year ended March 31,2019. Between three and four years to due date ...................................................................................................................... 80 733 Between four and five years to due date ......................................................................................................................... 86 788 1) As lessee Over five years to due date ................................................................................................................................................. 1,392 12,770 The Group leases office buildings, ships and vessels and other assets under cancelable or non-cancelable operating leases. Future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating leases as of March 31, 2019 were as follows. Total undiscounted lease payments to be received ........................................................................................ 1,880 17,247 Millions of yen Unearned financial income ................................................................................................................................................. (896) (8,220) 2019 Net investment in the lease ................................................................................................................................... 984 9,027 Within one year to due date ............................................................................................................................................... 10,704 Between one and five years to due date .......................................................................................................................... 28,779 Over five years to due date ................................................................................................................................................. 27,332 Total ........................................................................................................................................................................... 66,815 Total lease payments recognized as expenses under such cancelable or non-cancelable operating leases for the years ended March 31, 2019 was ¥14,501 million. As of March 31, 2019, total minimum lease payments expected to be received under non-cancelable subleases was ¥470 million. 178 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 179 2) As lessor The Group leases out aircraft, ships and vessels, real estate and other assets under cancelable or non-cancelable operating leases. 37 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Future minimum lease payments receivable under non-cancelable operating leases as of March 31, 2019 were as follows. Millions of yen The Group is contingently liable for guarantees of the following loans from banks borrowed by companies other than its subsidiaries. The Group may become responsible for the amounts that are unpayable by the borrower and for losses attached to such unpayable 2019 amounts. Within one year to due date ............................................................................................................................................... 1,749 Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Between one and five years to due date .......................................................................................................................... 1,260 2019 2020 2020 Over five years to due date ................................................................................................................................................. 2,381 Total ........................................................................................................................................................................... 5,391 Guarantees for obligations of Entities subject to Equity Method ...................................................... 31,411 42,972 394,238 Guarantees for obligations of third parties ............................................................................................ 1,652 2,541 23,311 Total ................................................................................................................................................. 33,064 45,514 417,559 36 PLEDGED ASSETS (1) Assets pledged as security 38 SIGNIFICANT SUBSIDIARIES The breakdown of assets pledged to secure debts and corresponding liabilities was as follows. Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars The Company's significant subsidiaries are as set forth under Organizational Information: List of Main Subsidiaries and Associates. 2019 2020 2020 Assets pledged as security Inventories ............................................................................................................................................... 12,421 9,855 90,412 39 RELATED PARTIES Property, plant and equipment ........................................................................................................... 54,531 31,922 292,862 (1) Related party transactions Investment property .............................................................................................................................. 2,956 1,517 13,917 Related party transactions are priced at an arm's length basis and there exists no such transactions of significance. Other investments .................................................................................................................................. 14 9 82 (2) Remuneration for management executives Others ....................................................................................................................................................... 9,007 9,106 83,541 The remuneration for the Company's management executives for the years ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2020 was ¥488 million Total ................................................................................................................................................. 78,931 52,412 480,844 and ¥411 million (U.S.$3,770 thousand), respectively. Corresponding liabilities The detailed information of the remuneration is as set forth under Remuneration of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members. Trade and other payables .................................................................................................................... 9,943 8,297 76,119 Bonds and borrowings ......................................................................................................................... 31,928 18,564 170,311 Total ................................................................................................................................................. 41,871 26,861 246,431 (Note) With respect to assets pledged as security other than those listed above, there are subsidiaries' stocks which were eliminated in the Consolidated Financial State40 SUBSEQUENT EVENT ments. Not applicable. Trust receipts issued under customary import financing arrangements give banks a security interest in the goods imported or sales proceeds resulting from the sales of such goods. Due to the large volume of transactions, it is impracticable to determine the aggregate amounts of assets covered by outstanding trust receipts and those transactions were not included in the above amounts. 41 APPROVAL OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (2) Assets pledged in lieu of guarantee money The breakdown of assets pledged in lieu of guarantee money or the like was as follows. The consolidated Financial Statements were authorized for issue by Masayoshi Fujimoto, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Seiichi Thousands of Tanaka, Chief Financial Officer, on June 18, 2020. Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2019 2020 2020 Inventories ................................................................................................................................................... 2,312 800 7,339 Property, plant and equipment ............................................................................................................... 1,682 834 7,651 Intangible assets ......................................................................................................................................... 4,302 3,063 28,100 Investments accounted for using the equity method .......................................................................... 59,534 59,942 549,926 Other investments ...................................................................................................................................... 2,327 603 5,532 Others ........................................................................................................................................................... 3,326 5,659 51,917 Total .............................................................................................................................................................. 73,486 70,904 650,495 (Note) With respect to assets pledged in lieu of guarantee money other than those listed above, there are subsidiaries' stocks, which were eliminated in the Consolidated Financial Statements. 180 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 181 FINANCIAL SECTION Independent Auditor’s Report 182 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 183 DATA DATA Organization Chart (As of June 30, 2020) Principal Operating Bases (As of June 30, 2020) Controller Office General Shareholders' Meeting Planning & Administration Office Automotive Dept.1 Audit & Supervisory Board Automotive Division Automotive Dept.2 Audit & Supervisory Board Members Automotive Dept.3 Audit & Supervisory Board Planning & Administration Office Members' Office Aerospace Dept. Aerospace & Transportation Project Division Board of Directors Aircraft Asset Business Dept. Airport & Transportation Infrastructure Dept. Board Meeting Operation Office Planning & Administration Office Nomination Committee Industrial Machinery & Plant Project Dept. Machinery & Medical Infrastructure Division Remuneration Committee Bearing & Forefront Industry Dept. Medical Infrastructure Dept. Internal Audit Committee Planning & Administration Office Internal Audit Dept. Environmental Infrastructure Dept. Energy & Social Infrastructure Division Power Project Dept. President & CEO Energy Business Dept. Social Infrastructure Development Office Management Committee Controller Office Planning & Administration Office Legal Dept. Coal & Iron Ore Dept. Public Relations Dept. Mineral Resources Development Dept. Metals & Mineral Resources Division Ferroalloys, Non-Ferrous & Precious Metals Dept. Human Resources Dept. Industrial Minerals Dept. General Affairs & IT Operation Dept. Metal Products Office ■■ Office ■ Group Company ■ Branch Secretariat Dept. Planning & Administration Office JAPAN Peru Basic Chemicals Dept. Corporate Planning Dept. Sapporo ■ Sojitz Corporation, Hokkaido Branch Lima ■ Sojitz Corporation of America, Lima Office Speciality Chemicals Dept. Corporate Sustainability Office Chemicals Division Chemical Resources Dept. Sendai ■ Sojitz Corporation, Tohoku Branch U.S.A. Electro & Functional Materials Dept. Nagoya ■ Sojitz Corporation, Nagoya Branch New York ■ Sojitz Corporation of America Investor Relations Office Osaka Business Dept. Osaka ■ Sojitz Corporation, Kansai Office Washington, D.C. ■ Sojitz Corporation of America, Washington Finance Dept. Project Development Office Branch Structured Finance Dept. THE AMERICAS Houston ■ Sojitz Corporation of America, Houston Branch Controller Office General Accounting Dept. Argentina Portland ■ Sojitz Corporation of America, Portland Branch Quality Assurance Office Buenos Aires ■ Sojitz Argentina S.A. Seattle ■ Sojitz Corporation of America, Seattle Branch Business Accounting Dept. Planning & Administration Office Brazil San Jose ■ Sojitz Corporation of America, Internal Control Administration Dept. Vietnam Business Development Office Foods & Agriculture Business Division San Jose Office Foodstuffs & Marine Products Dept. Sao Paulo ■ Sojitz do Brasil S.A. ERP Transition Office Grain & Agribusiness Dept. Mesa ■ Mesa Office, Sojitz Corporation of America, Rio de Janeiro ■ Sojitz do Brasil S.A., Rio de Janeiro Branch Seattle Branch Risk Management Planning Dept. Planning & Administration Office Canada Venezuela Risk Management Dept. Food & Retail Dept. Vancouver ■ Sojitz Canada Corporation Investment Management Dept. Caracas ■ Sojitz Venezuela C.A. Global Business Support & Promotion Dept. Retail & Lifestyle Business Division Toronto ■ Sojitz Canada Corporation, Toronto Office Apparel & Lifestyle Products Dept. Business Innovation Office Forest Products Dept. Mexico Planning & Administration Office Mexico City ■ Sojitz Mexicana S.A. de C.V. M&A Management Office Industrial Infrastructure & Overseas Industrial & Urban Infrastructure Development Dept. Urban Development Division Asset Management Dept. 184 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 185 DATA Principal Operating Bases EUROPE, RUSSIA & NIS Nigeria ASIA & OCEANIA DIRECTLY MANAGED BY THE HEAD OFFICE Czech Republic Lagos ■ Sojitz Global Trading Nigeria Ltd. Australia Cuba Prague ■ Sojitz Europe plc, Prague Office Abuja ■ Sojitz Global Trading Nigeria Ltd., Abuja Office Sydney ■ Sojitz Australia Ltd. Havana ■ Sojitz Corporation, Havana Liaison Office France Oman Perth ■ Sojitz Australia Ltd., Perth Branch Korea Paris ■ Sojitz Europe plc, Paris Branch Muscat ■ Sojitz Corporation, Muscat Liaison Office Bangladesh Seoul ■ Sojitz Korea Corporation Germany Saudi Arabia Dahka ■ Sojitz Asia Pte. Ltd., Dhaka Office Taiwan Dusseldorf ■ Sojitz Europe plc, Dusseldorf Branch Jeddah ■ Sojitz Corporation, Jeddah Branch Cambodia Taipei ■ Sojitz Taiwan Corporation Hamburg ■ Sojitz Europe plc, Hamburg Office South Africa Phnom Penh ■ Sojitz Asia Pte. Ltd., Phnom Penh Office Hungary Johannesburg ■ Sojitz Corporation, Johannesburg Branch India Budapest ■ Sojitz Europe plc, Budapest Office U.A.E. New Delhi ■ Sojitz India Private Ltd. Italy Dubai ■ Sojitz Middle East FZE Mumbai ■ Sojitz India Private Ltd., Mumbai Branch Milan ■ Sojitz Europe plc, Milan Branch ■ Sojitz Corporation, MEA Office Kolkata ■ Sojitz India Private Ltd., Kolkata Branch Poland Chennai ■ Sojitz India Private Ltd., Chennai Branch Warsaw ■ Sojitz Europe plc, Warsaw Office CHINA Pune ■ Sojitz India Private Ltd., Pune Office Russia Beijing ■ Sojitz (China) Co., Ltd. Gandhidham ■ Sojitz India Private Ltd., Gandhidham Office Moscow ■ Sojitz LLC Chongqing ■ Sojitz (China) Co., Ltd., Chongqing Office Bengaluru ■ Sojitz India Private Ltd., Bengaluru Office ■ Sojitz Corporation, Moscow Liaison Office Dalian ■ Sojitz (Dalian) Co., Ltd. Indonesia Saint-Petersburg ■ Sojitz Corporation, SaintPetersburg Liaison Guangzhou ■ Sojitz (Guangzhou) Co., Ltd. Jakarta ■ PT. Sojitz Indonesia Office Hangzhou ■ Sojitz (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., Hangzhou Office Malaysia Khabarovsk ■ Sojitz Corporation, Khabarovsk Liaison Office ■ Sojitz (Hong Kong) Ltd. Kuala Lumpur ■ Sojitz (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. Hong Kong Spain Kunming ■ Sojitz (Hong Kong) Ltd., Kunming Office ■ Sojitz Corporation, Kuala Lumpur Branch Madrid ■ Sojitz Europe plc, Madrid Branch ■ Sojitz (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Myanmar Shanghai Turkey Shenzhen ■ Sojitz (Hong Kong) Ltd., Shenzhen Office Yangon ■ Sojitz Corporation, Yangon Branch Istanbul ■ Sojitz Europe plc, Istanbul Branch ■ Sojitz (China) Co., Ltd., Tianjin Branch Nay Pyi Taw ■ Sojitz Corporation, Yangon Branch, Tianjin U.K. ■ Sojitz (China) Co., Ltd., Qingdao Branch Nay Pyi Taw Office Qingdao London ■ Sojitz Europe plc Pakistan Ukraine Karachi ■ Sojitz Corporation, Karachi Liaison Office Kyiv ■ Sojitz Corporation, Kyiv Representative Office Lahore ■ Sojitz Corporation, Karachi Liaison Office, Lahore Office Middle East & Africa Papua New Guinea Port Moresby ■ Sojitz Australia Ltd., Port Moresby Office Angola ■ Sojitz Corporation, Luanda Liaison Office Philippines Luanda Manila ■ Sojitz Philippines Corporation Egypt ■ Sojitz Corporation, Cairo Liaison Office Singapore Cairo ■ Sojitz Asia Pte. Ltd. Iran ■ Sojitz Corporation Iran Ltd. ■ Sojitz Corporation, Singapore Branch Tehran Thailand Libya ■ Sojitz Corporation, Tripoli Liaison Office Bangkok ■ Sojitz (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Tripoli Vietnam Morocco ■ Sojitz Corporation, Casablanca Liaison Office Ho Chi Minh ■ Sojitz Vietnam Company Ltd. Casablanca Hanoi ■ Sojitz Vietnam Company Ltd., Hanoi Branch 186 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 187 DATA Main Subsidiaries and Associates (As of March 31, 2020) Automotive Division • Coral Bay Nickel Corporation (Production and sales of nickel-cobalt mixed sulfides/Equity-method associate) 18.0% Significant Subsidiaries and Associates and Business Description Equity Ownership Consolidated subsidiaries: 28 Equity-method associates: 17 *The company changed its name from Sojitz Coal Resources Pty. Ltd. on July 1, 2020. • Sojitz de Puerto Rico Corporation (Import and sales of Hyundai Automobiles/Subsidiary) 100.0% • Sojitz Automotive Group, Inc. (Retail sales of BMW/MINI & Audi automobiles in U.S.A./Subsidiary) 100.0% Chemicals Division • Sojitz Autrans Corporation (Imports/exports and sales of automobile & two-wheeled vehicle components/Subsidiary) 100.0% Significant Subsidiaries and Associates and Business Description Equity Ownership • Socafi, S.A. de C.V. (Automobile self-financing/Subsidiary) 90.0% • Sojitz Pla-Net Corporation (Trading and sales of plastic resin materials and products/Subsidiary) 100.0% • Hyundai Motor (Thailand) Co., Ltd. (Import and sales of Hyundai Automobiles/Subsidiary) 80.0% • Pla Matels Corporation (Trading and sales of plastic resin materials and products/Subsidiary) 46.6% • Sojitz G Auto Philippines Corporation (Import and sale of Geely automobiles/Subsidiary) 80.0% • PT. Kaltim Methanol Industri (Manufacture and sales of methanol/Subsidiary) 85.0% • Center Sunrise LLC (Import and sales of Subaru automobiles in Russia/Subsidiary) 65.6% • solvadis deutschland gmbh (Distribution and sales of chemicals/Subsidiary) 100.0% Consolidated subsidiaries: 34 Equity-method associates: 7 Consolidated subsidiaries: 35 Equity-method associates: 14 Aerospace & Transportation Project Division Foods & Agriculture Business Division Significant Subsidiaries and Associates and Business Description Equity Ownership Significant Subsidiaries and Associates and Business Description Equity Ownership • Sojitz Aerospace Corporation (Import, export and sales of aerospaceand military-related equipment/Subsidiary) 100.0% • Atlas Fertilizer Corporation (Manufacture and sales of chemical fertilizers, sales of imported fertilizer products/Subsidiary) 100.0% • Phenix Jet International, LLC (Business jet operations support, chartering, sales under the “Phenix Jet” brand name/Subsidiary) 75.0% • Japan Vietnam Fertilizer Company (Manufacture and sales of compound chemical fertilizers/Subsidiary) 75.0% • Phenix Jet Hong Kong, Ltd (Business jet operations support, chartering, sales under the “Phenix Jet” brand name/Subsidiary) 56.3% • Sojitz Tuna Farm Takashima Co., Ltd. (Tuna farming/Subsidiary) 100.0% • Sojitz Marine & Engineering Corporation (Sales, purchase and charter brokerage of vessels, Japanese domestic sales and 100.0% • Dalian Global Food Corp. (Tuna processing/Subsidiary) 90.0% import/export of marine-related equipment and materials/Subsidiary) • Cad Railway Industries Limited (General repair and remanufacturing of railway rolling stock/Equity-method associate) 74.9% • Interflour Vietnam Ltd. (Flour milling and port silo operations/Equity-method associate) 20.0% Consolidated subsidiaries: 37 Equity-method associates: 12 • Yamazaki Biscuits Co., Ltd. (Manufacture and sales of confectionery/Equity-method associate) 20.0% Consolidated subsidiaries: 18 Equity-method associates: 9 Machinery & Medical Infrastructure Division Significant Subsidiaries and Associates and Business Description Equity Ownership Retail & Lifestyle Business Division Significant Subsidiaries and Associates and Business Description Equity Ownership • Sojitz Machinery Corporation (Import, export and sales of general industrial machinery/Subsidiary) 100.0% • First Technology China Ltd. (Sales and service of surface-mounting machines and semiconductor-related equipment/Subsidiary) 100.0% • Sojitz Foods Corporation (Sale of farmed and marine products, sugar, saccharified products, dairy products, processed foods, 100.0% and other foodstuffs/Subsidiary) • Sojitz Hospital PPP Investment B.V. (Investment management of hospital project in Turkey/Subsidiary) 100.0% • Sojitz Building Materials Corporation (Sale of construction materials; construction planning, research, design, supervision and • LLC “Kawasaki Gas Turbine Service RUS” (Maintenance of Kawasaki Heavy Industries Ltd. gas turbines/Equity-method associate) 49.0% 100.0% contracting/Subsidiary) Consolidated subsidiaries: 14 Equity-method associates: 13 • Sojitz Fashion Co., Ltd. (Planning, processing, and sale of cotton, synthetic, and knit fabrics/Subsidiary) 100.0% • Sojitz Commerce Development Corporation (Shopping center ownership, leasing, and management/Subsidiary) 100.0% Energy & Social Infrastructure Division • Daiichibo Co., Ltd. (Manufacture and sales of textile products, storage and distribution, shopping center management/Subsidiary) 100.0% Significant Subsidiaries and Associates and Business Description Equity Ownership • Sojitz Infinity Inc. (Design, manufacture and sales of apparel for men, women and children/Subsidiary) 100.0% • Alten RE Developments America B.V. (Investment in solar power company/Equity-method associate) 40.0% • Sojitz General Merchandise Corporation (Import, export and sales of goods and materials/Subsidiary) 100.0% • S4 Chile SpA (Investment in solar power company/Subsidiary) 66.7% • Saigon Paper Corporation (Manufacture and sales of household paper and industrial paper/Subsidiary) 95.8% • Mirai Power Europe Limited (Investment in wind power company/Subsidiary) 100.0% • Tri-Stage Inc. (Support for direct marketing/Equity-method associate) 21.2% • Blue Horizon Power International Ltd. (Investment in independent power plant projects/Subsidiary) 100.0% • JALUX Inc. (Logistics and other services in the airline, airport terminal, lifestyle and customer service fields/Equity-method associate) 22.3% • Sojitz Kleen LLC (Investment in independent power plant projects/Subsidiary) 100.0% Consolidated subsidiaries: 28 Equity-method associates: 16 • Sojitz Generation DMCC (Power business development/Subsidiary) 100.0% • Nissho Electronics Corporation (Providing leading-edge ICT solutions and services/Subsidiary) 100.0% Industrial Infrastructure & Urban Development Division • SAKURA Internet Inc. (Cloud computing and data center service/Equity-method associate) 29.0% Significant Subsidiaries and Associates and Business Description Equity Ownership • Tokyo Yuso Corporation (Tank storage operations for petroleum and chemical products/Subsidiary) 100.0% • Sojitz New Urban Development Corporation (Development and sales of homes, real estate brokering, development and 100.0% • Sojitz Energy Development Ltd. (Oil and natural gas development/Subsidiary) 100.0% operation of rental condominiums, and sales of housing products/Subsidiary) • LNG Japan Corporation (LNG business and related investments/Equity-method associate) 50.0% • Sojitz General Property Management Corporation (Condominium and office building management, real estate agency services, 100.0% property management of offices and residences/Subsidiary) • e-Energy Corporation (Sales of nuclear fuel and equipment/Subsidiary) 100.0% • Angelica Co., Ltd. (Management of day care centers and after-school child care centers/Subsidiary) 100.0% • Sojitz Osaka Gas Energy Company Ltd. (Natural gas supply business/Subsidiary) 51.0% • Sojitz REIT Advisors K.K. (Management of investment corporations/Subsidiary) 67.0% • edotco investments Singapore Pte. Ltd. (Investment in telecommunication tower business in Myanmar/Equity-method associate) 12.5% • PT. Puradelta Lestari. Tbk (Comprehensive urban infrastructure development, including industrial park in Indonesia/Equity-method associate) 25.0% Consolidated subsidiaries: 47 Equity-method associates: 34 • Long Duc Investment Co., Ltd. (Development, sales, leasing of rental factories, and management/operation of industrial park in Vietnam/Subsidiary) 44.2% Consolidated subsidiaries: 10 Equity-method associates: 3 Metals & Mineral Resources Division Significant Subsidiaries and Associates and Business Description Equity Ownership Other • Sojitz Ject Corporation (Trading of coke, coal products, industrial minerals/Subsidiary) 100.0% Significant Subsidiaries and Associates and Business Description Equity Ownership • Sojitz Development Pty. Ltd.* (Investment in coal mines/Subsidiary) 100.0% • Sojitz Kyushu Corporation (Domestic regional operating company/Subsidiary) 100.0% • Sojitz Resources (Australia) Pty. Ltd. (Investment in Worsley alumina refinery/Subsidiary) 100.0% • Sojitz Logistics Corporation (Logistic services; land, sea and air cargo handling; international non-vessel operating common carrier • JAMPT Corporation (Production and sale of metal powder for metal AM, and contract fabrication service by metal AM/Subsidiary) 56.0% 100.0% (NVOCC) transportation/Subsidiary) • Metal One Corporation (Import, export and overseas and domestic sales of steel and related products/Equity-method associate) 40.0% • Sojitz Research Institute, Ltd. (Research and consulting/Subsidiary) 100.0% • Cariboo Copper Corporation (Investment in copper ore mine/Equity-method associate) 50.0% • Sojitz Institute of Innovative Technologies, Ltd.(New technology development, research, validation, and consulting/Subsidiary) 100.0% • Japan Alumina Associates (Australia) Pty. Ltd. (Investment in Worsley alumina refinery/Equity-method associate) 50.0% Consolidated subsidiaries: 49 Equity-method associates: 5 (Including overseas subsidiary) 188 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 189 DATA Corporate Data Communication with Investors and Shareholders Our basic policy for disseminating information in a fair and Communication Tools Corporate Profile impartial manner to all shareholders is to publish our medium-term management plan and financial results on TDnet For institutional For individual Company Name Sojitz Corporation Number of Domestic 4 (Office 1/Branch 3) investors investors and the Sojitz website immediately after they have been Branches & Offices Overseas 81 Established April 1, 2003 sanctioned by the Board of Directors. We also actively disclose Number of Consolidated Domestic 126 information to allow a deeper understanding of Sojitz’s Capitalization ¥160,339 million Subsidiaries & Associates Overseas 299 President & CEO Masayoshi Fujimoto business activities and business model; this includes issuing Number of Employees Non-consolidated 2,613 integrated reports, holding business information sessions and Head Office 1-1, Uchisaiwaicho 2-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Consolidated 18,153 information sessions for individual shareholders (some of which Tokyo 100-8691, Japan Integrated Corporate website IR information Shareholder Securities Code 2768 (listed with 1st section of are held online), and providing videos. TEL : +81-3-6871-5000 Report https://www.sojitz.com/en/ https://www.sojitz.com/en/ir/ Newsletter the Tokyo Stock Exchange) FAX : +81-3-6871-2430 For information about future IR activities and past events, see the Sojitz website. External Evaluation of IR https://www.sojitz.com/en/ir/calendar/ Composition of Shareholders (By number of shares) Major Shareholders (As of March 31, 2020) • Sojitz has been selected for two years running (FY2018 Achievements in the Year Ended March 2020 and FY2019) as one of the companies with an excellent Securities companies Financial institutions Name Number of Shares % of Shares integrated report, chosen by asset managers of the Corporations Individuals and others Held (Thousands) Outstanding Dialogue with individual shareholders and investors Government Pension Investment Fund. Foreign corporations and individuals Treasury stock Briefings for Briefings for Meetings with （%） Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. 150,003 12.29 shareholders: individual investors: investors: • Sojitz was ranked third among seven trading companies in 0 20 40 60 80 100 123,634 10.13 the Award for Excellence in Corporate Disclosure (for the Ichigo Trust Pte. Ltd. 3 times 10 times 1,300 people year ended March 2017) conferred by the Securities The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. 72,356 5.93 4.81 0.04 Dialogue with institutional investors (domestic/overseas) Analysts Association of Japan. The Group was also J.P. MORGAN BANK LUXEMBOURG selected as a company continuously March 31, 2018 31,816 2.61 24.75 2.85 27.59 39.96 S.A. 1300000 Announcement of Individual Participation in conferences held (160,526) financial results: meetings: by securities companies maintaining high level of disclosure. SSBTC CLIENT OMNIBUS ACCOUNT 27,347 2.24 in Japan and overseas: • Sojitz has received the top award in the 6.38 0.04 JP MORGAN CHASE BANK 385151 21,372 1.75 4 times 200 times 1 time Internet IR Awards given by Daiwa March 31, 2019 22.50 2.64 23.44 45.00 Trust & Custody Services Bank, Ltd. 18,712 1.53 Investor Relations Co. Ltd. for four (150,531) consecutive years from 2016. Japan Securities Finance Co.,LTD 18,228 1.49 3.1 2.44 2.74 BNY GCM CLIENT ACCOUNT 17,673 1.45 March 31, 2020 (199,481) 24.23 29.98 37.51 JPRD AC ISG （FE-AC） Working to promote dialogues between Outside Directors and institutional investors Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley In November 2019, 11 representatives from 11 institutional investors attended a 14,041 1.15 Securities Co., Ltd. Note: Numbers in parenthesis indicate the number of shareholders small meeting held in Head Office with our Outside Directors and the Chairman of Note: The shareholding ratios are calculated excluding the number of shares of treasury stock. the Board. The participants held active discussions about Outside Director evaluations of Sojitz’s management and corporate governance, receiving many questions and opinions. We received the following comment from the participating investors: “The On Publishing the Integrated Report 2020 — IR activities for a new era Outside Directors gave clear opinions on recognized issues based on their own experiences. We felt that they made points that could only have been made from In light of the unprecedented occurrence of the spread of an outside perspective, and that the significance of the Outside Directors’ The Integrated Report 2020 Editorial appointment was clearly demonstrated.” In the future, we will continue to COVID-19, we have once again been made aware of the Committee Members emphasize dialogues with stakeholders. importance of the Sojitz Group Statement and Guiding The small meeting held in November 2019. Principles, and have reconfirmed our deep connection with the See the Sojitz website for more information about the questions and answer session that took place during the small meeting held in November 2019. stakeholders that support Sojitz. https://www.sojitz.com/jp/ir/meetings/outside/ (Japanese only) When editing the Integrated Report 2020, our aim was to enable our investors to understand that Sojitz has changed Sojitz’s Approach to Dialogues During the COVID-19 Pandemic greatly, by giving a report from both financial and non-financial perspectives that looks back once more on our General Shareholders’ Meeting web conferencing systems and similar technology. initiatives so far, confirms our current position, and offers To prevent the spread of COVID-19, we held the FY2020 IR for individual investors information on our strategies for the future. General Shareholders’ Meeting on as small a scale as possible. We are refraining from holding company information We wish to hold constant dialogues with all our stakeholders Thank you very much to all of our shareholders, who offered sessions at securities companies for individual investors, so we can aim for IR activities in a new era. The editorial team us their understanding and cooperation. See the Sojitz website but we are regularly updating company information hopes that you will make use of this Integrated Report, and for a video of the day and the documents involved. materials based on the latest information. that it will lead to further understanding and trust in Sojitz, and Financial results We are considering holding online information sessions be of use in improving our corporate value. Members of the IR Section We refrained from holding attendance-based ﬁnancial in the future. of the IR Office (as of August 2020) results meetings, and instead made use of conference call Overseas roadshow systems and web conferencing systems to hold them online. Travel overseas has been suspended, but we are making IR for institutional investors and analysts use of web conferencing systems to promote more ﬂexible August 2020 We are refraining from face-to-face meetings, and are dialogues with our shareholders and investors overseas. The members of the Editorial Committee for the Integrated Report 2020 instead holding proactive and ongoing dialogues using 190 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Sojitz Corporation Integrated Report 2020 191
