Table of Content 1-2 Who we are 3 Organizational Dash Board 4 Statement of Managing Director 5-6 CSR Model 7 Main Risk Management Procedure 7-8 How we measure the value we create 9 How we honor the UNGC principles. Who we are, Tropicoir Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. Vision To be the world's leading sustainable coco solutions provider. Mission Passionately pursue product and process innovation to ensure that our Stakeholders achieve their goals We continue to be a focused coir growing media business since 1998 and have been promoting sustainable development by producing new and innovative uses for coir. We are a trusted global leader in providing exceptional products to our customers. Customers rely on us to deliver world-class solutions that will maximize their returns and increase their long term business success and most importantly support their sustainability goals. We always try to reach our vision by satisfying our customers. UNGC – Communication On Progress 2018 2019 1 The nature of our business dictates that the • The delivery of our products and services products and services we provide to customers involves a high level of logistics and we have varying impacts on the environment, our therefore understand the importance of employees and the communities in which we continually reviewing the routing of operate. These manifest themselves in varying delivery vehicles to ensure the most degrees through the products which we export efficient delivery of products throughout to our global customers and include: our entire supply chain. • The production of coir growing media, further strengthening our obligations to a much of which is sourced from many sustainable lifestyle is achieved through our coconut plantations is itself a waste adherence to: product from the desecrated coconut industry. As a consequence we are • SO 9001:2015; Quality management mindful of ensuring that all relevant principles which includes leadership and environmental controls and proper labour involvement of people to achieve our practices are applied throughout our goals, supply chain. • ISO 14001:2015; Environmental • The washing, drying of coir at our plants management system that minimize where we use of water are closely the impact of our operations on monitored to be within the stringent environment, and requirements of the environmental laws of Sri Lanka. We as a responsible company • SA 8000:2015; Social Accountability focus on reducing usage of water by 30% standard that helps to develop, by 2021. The company has upgraded the maintain, and apply socially acceptable existing Effluent Treatment Plant in this practices in the workplace. year and was able to reduce the consumption of water from 15% aiming at a target in 2021. • Our operations recruit from the local community our factory is located in a rural area providing much needed employment. We therefore recognize the importance of maintaining a strong bond with the community and to support for their sustainability goals. • Many of our employees who work in our plants are female and work with industrial machinery and equipment and we recognize the importance of providing them with the appropriate training, tools and equipment to create a safe and healthy working environment. UNGC – Communication On Progress 2018 2019 2 Organizational Dash Board 8.3M 85% Employee Revenue (USD) Retention 11% 250+ Revenue Growth Employees 15+ 33+ (2018-2019) Export Countries CSR Projects UNGC – Communication On Progress 2018 2019 3 Statement of Managing Director Dinesh Fernando Managing Director Tropicoir Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. I am pleased to submit the details pertaining to As a result, I'm pleased to report zero fatalities, a Tropicoir Lanka (Pvt.) Ltd. annual communication on downward trend in total recordable injury frequency company progress for the Sevneth (7th) consecutive with the lowest injury rates. We will, of course, remain year, to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). As vigilant in our focus on this critical area to achieve our previously stated we have successfully updated our goal of zero accidents. policies and procedures in line with the UNGC Ten Principles. This has enabled the company to share its Moreover, my team and I give the assurance to always corporate responsibility and experiences with our local endeavour to inculcate practices derived from the UNGC partners leading to further support in meeting with the principles amongst our communities thus promoting needs of our suppliers and customers and also in these practices in their lives as well. When I'm looking integrating with UNGC goals implemented within their back on the previous year and paying attention to the organizations. behavior of our company, I realized that we are not just promoting the practices communicated by the UNGC. Being the Managing Director I am confident and also Still, we repr esented the principles, benefits of adopting proud of the way Tropicoir’s employees use their skills, the practices, and the importance of UNGC principles knowledge and experience to create value for throughout our actions and achievements. The following communities. Their dedication and wholehearted pages describe the projects initiated by the company enthusiasm for supporting our organizational goals and during the period 2018/2019 relating to the principles of objectives has helped to make a tremendous impact on the UNGC. the people and communities around them. Their support has contributed significantly towards making a difference especially in preparing the next generation to join our workforce while adopting environmentally sustainable work practices. During the period of 2018/2019, we have mainly focused on employee Health, Safety and W ell Being, which is one of the most critical responsibilities. To strengthen the same we have published a Policy and Action Plan on Health, Safety and Well being to communicate the meesage to the next level UNGC – Communication On Progress 2018 2019 4 CSR Model Tropicoir Corporate Social Responsibility Good corporate governance principles • Our commitment also extend to our The company CSR policy is in line with the community which plays a central role in Triple Bottom Line approach which takes in our success. to consideration Environmental and Social Factors and unifies the three pillars People, Transparency Planet and Profit. • We are open to all stake holders and welcome the ideas of them. Responsible business • We being a responsible team commits to Commitment to Society build and maintain trust in our community • By creating strong linkages over the last and our stake holders. decade, we forged a strong sense of civic duty and we are deeply committed to Ethics improving the living conditions in our • We recognize that ethics of our stake community. holders are vital to the long-term sustainability of both our company and the community which we live in. Compliance • We follow the rules and regulations to the expected standards and we have a mechanism to verify same. UNGC – Communication On Progress 2018 2019 5 Commitment to the Environment • We pledged to plant 100,000 coconut plants by 2021 under the program of “Anagathaya Wawamu Kapruka Rekaganimu” • We have an objective of reducing water footprint by 50% by 2021 • We have an objective of reducing energy foot print by 75% by 2021 The key initiatives which we have undertaken during the year 2018-2019 include, • CSR a. Donations to the families affected by 21 April 2019 bomb blast at Katuwapitiy b. Donation to Hiripitiya Chaurch c. Donation to Vishnu Dewalaya Kandy d. Donation to Rajamaha Viharaya – Hettipola e. Donation to build a house f. Build a Sangawasa Building at Karathana Temple g. Purchase of a water pump for the water tank at Anamaduwa h. Donation of a Computer to MOH Kurunegala UNGC – Communication On Progress 2018 2019 6 Main Risk Management Procedure We follow the below given policies and Environment practice same to mitigate the risk we face. To minimize our impact on the environment. a. HR Policies Socio-political b. Financial Risk Regulations To partner in the benefits of mining with local c. Purchasing policies and procedures communities and government. d. Quality standards i.e. ISO 9001,ISO 14001, SA 8000, GMP, RHP etc. People To create sustainable competitive advantage through capable people and an effective, performance-driven organization. Production To sustainably produce valuable product. Financial To deliver sustainable returns to our shareholders. Risk Manages through, a. Communication b. Identification c. Assessment d. Treatment e. Monitoring How we measure the value we create Following pillars underpin everything we do. Each pillar has defined key performance indicators (KPIs) and targets that we set for the business and against which we measure our financial and non-financial performance: For our KPIs see page 8 Safety and Health To do no harm to our workforce. UNGC – Communication On Progress 2018 2019 7 Key Performance Indicators Safety and Health Fatal Injury Frequency Rate Total recordable injury rate New cases of occupational diseases Environment Energy consumption Water consumption Air pollution People Voluntary labour turn over Women in Management Women in work force Production Per KG cost Cost against budget Quantity against budget Financial Turn over Gross profit EBIDTA Margin UNGC – Communication On Progress 2018 2019 8 How do we honor the UNGC Ten principles. Our formal commitment to the UNGC and its ten principles of human rights, labor rights, environment, and anti-corruption was initially made in 2007. The following report reflects actions we took during the year 2018 and as the UNGC and its principles are further strengthened and integrated into our business. THE TEN PRINCIPLES HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals As a practice from the inception we the Our HR Policies are in compliance with all Sri Tropicoir, wholeheartedly acknowledge the Lankan Laws and SA 8000 rules clearly importance of supporting and respecting the stipulating the number of work hours, ages of protection of internationally proclaimed employees and leave entitlements for all human rights processes. Our policies and company employees. Our organization is also procedures been designed to ensure that we committed to improving the quality of are not complicit in any human rights abuses. education providing generous scholarships to Our main human rights risks relate to our children of all company employees to ensure a suppliers. We reduce these risks by closely bright future for all. managing our supply chain and only awarding contracts to a few trusted suppliers that we Lastly with the completion of our policies and have worked with over the last decade that the procedures, our attention now shifts to company has been in existence. We respect developing a supplier code of conduct in order the race, color, ethnicity or national origin, to ensure that the values of the UNGC which gender, sex, religion and political conviction of have tremendously benefit us will also be all stake holders. experienced by our suppliers. UNGC – Communication On Progress 2018 2019 9 THE TEN PRINCIPLES LABOUR RIGHTS Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals Our Human Resources Policies and Procedures Furthermore our anti-discriminatory criterion outline importance of Human Rights of all outlined in our HR Policies Document is in employees and committed to upholding the accordance with Principle 6 of the Global conventions and recommendations of the ILO Compact. We also have specific practices Core Conventions. A direct impact on our relating to workplace health and safety in overall strategic performance is clear evidence order to ensure that our employees are not of our ability to look after the well-being and forced to work in unsafe conditions. We development of all our people. By engaging provide all employees with compensation if our people we have improved our customer’s injury or incidence does occur and are also satisfaction with our products and retention of currently reviewing our HR Policies so that all employees and ultimately leading to enhanced suppliers and business partners are made growth prospects for Tropicoir. aware of our labour principles. This review reinforces our company commitment through In addition, we invest in the development of our policies to eliminate forced labour, child our people’s skills and in 2019 we spent labour, and employment discrimination. We approximately LKR 2.5 million on training and will continue to refine our policies to development all of which have helped us retain incorporate the principles of the UNGC into all our valued employees. Further we do aspects of our work. appreciation of our responsibility to our employees, and the importance of creating and maintaining a working environment where the basic rights of all employees are recognized. UNGC – Communication On Progress 2018 2019 10 THE TEN PRINCIPLES ENVIRONMENTAL Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development Respect for our environment is central to our and diffusion of approach to sustainable development and we environmentally friendly continue to acknowledge the importance of our technologies business activities supporting a cautionary approach to environmental challenges. We vigorously undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, and encourage the development of environmentally friendly technologies. We remain fully committed to protecting the environment both through our own actions and also by working with our suppliers. By effectively planning and implementing these programs, we limit the environmental impact of our activities thereby conforming to the UNGC environmental principles. One of our objective is to reduce water foot print and energy foot print by 50% and 50% respectively by 2021. In order to achieve same we have upgraded the Effluent Treatment plant at Tropicoir Bingiriya and managed to covert the energy source. We continually engage to meet our target by 2021. UNGC – Communication On Progress 2018 2019 11 THE TEN PRINCIPLES ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms Tropicoir is committed to Principle 10 of the Global Compact. Our company’s HR Policies, states that employees and the employers will not engage in fraud or corruption, report any fraudulent or corrupt behavior, report any breaches of the law as well as generally accepted practices of good conduct along with understanding and applying all relevant accountability requirements We are committed to eliminating acts or corruption, and have a zero tolerance policy for any violation of this policy. UNGC – Communication On Progress 2018 2019 12
