t So ec n lu rf o c Ex tr ac t fr om th e Pe ili An tio nu S al Re po rt 20 Non-financial report 19 ns Non-financial report issued by Siltronic AG, Munich (Implementation of the requirements contained in sections 315b, 315c in conjunction with sections 289b to 289e of the German Commercial Code) 1 Foreword 18 6. Supply chain 18 Supplier relationship 2 1. The framework for this non-financial report 2019 18 Conflict minerals 18 Siltronic limbers up to be “Fit for the NAP“ 3 2. The Siltronic business model and 18 Sustainability with regard to customers our ethical principles 3 The Siltronic business model 19 7. Social responsibility and social aspects 3 Corporate ethics at Siltronic 19 Combating legal violations, particularly corruption 3 The impact of ethical principles on the organization and bribery and processes of Siltronic 19 Human rights 4 Non-financial performance indicators 19 Non-profit purposes and “corporate volunteering“ within our organization 20 Relationships with associations and with politics 20 Taxes 5 3. Determining the content of this report 20 Dialog at regional levels 5 Siltronic’s most important stakeholders 20 Partnerships and membership 6 Determining the content of the report in associations and initiatives 21 United Nations Global Compact – 7 4. Environmental aspects Communication on Progress 2019 7 Management of raw materials and supplies 7 Management of energy 22 Limited Assurance Report of the 8 Management of waste Independent Auditor regarding the Combined 9 Management of water Separate Non-Financial Report 10 Environmental aspects and environmental protection measures 11 Emission of greenhouse gases 12 Other air emissions 12 Influence of climate change 13 5. Personnel aspects 13 Headcount and personnel planning strategy 14 Relationship with employee representatives and employees’ rights 14 Diversity and equal opportunity 15 Advanced training and demographic trends in Germany 16 Remuneration and equal pay 16 Occupational health and safety 17 Employee satisfaction Siltronic Annual Report 2019 / Non-financial report / Foreword Foreword GRI 102-14 In order to achieve economic success, companies need to be trusted by society. We take our corporate responsibility seriously. We combine corporate success with responsible action – in our production processes, in our use of resources and in all our interactions with our employees. We are one of the global market leaders of hyperpure silicon wafers and supply all leading consumers of these wafers throughout the semiconductor industry. Silicon wafers are key components in the vast majority of electronic parts that make our lives easier, safer, and ecologically friendlier. Our technologies form the basis for manufacturing more compact and energy-efficient components in the modern world of electronics. Consequently, we contribute towards preserving precious resources and reducing carbon dioxide emissions worldwide. We continually and consistently improve our production processes with the aim of reducing energy consumption and increasing the percentage of supplies that can be reused. In order to make deliveries to our customers as environmentally friendly as possible, we combine deliveries and utilize multiple-­ use packaging solutions. Our employees represent our greatest asset and the cornerstone of our success. We treat one another with respect, honesty, and openness and see the differences between people as a source of enrichment. Our goal is to achieve even greater diversity within our organization, focusing in particular on mentoring more women and employees with varying cultural experiences to take up positions in middle and upper management. We support a work life balance with a variety of measures. Occupational health and safety are deeply embedded in our business processes. Siltronic implements the ten principles of the United Nations ‘Global Compact’ initiative for the protection of human rights, social and environmental standards, and the fight against corruption. We respect internationally proclaimed human rights and promote their observance within our sphere of influence. As a supplier in the electronics industry we observe the principles of the industry initiative Responsible Business Alliance (RBA), which we have been actively supporting as a member since May 2019. Siltronic employees worldwide take on the daily challenge of making our processes better, safer, simpler, environmentally friendlier, and therefore more sustainable. Together, we want to live up to our responsibility to reconcile the impact of our business activities with the expectations and needs of society. Dr. Christoph von Plotho CEO 1 Siltronic Annual Report 2019 / Non-financial report / 1. The framework for this non-financial report 2019 1. The framework for this non-financial report 2019 We see sustainability as the positive impact of our current activities This report is the summarized, separate non-financial report for on future conditions in the ecological, economic, and social the financial year 2019 and applies to both the Siltronic Group spheres. Consequently, the underlying reason for this non-financial and Siltronic AG. Information that applies only to Siltronic AG, is report or sustainability report is the question of how Siltronic conindicated in the text. The non-financial report has been issued and tributes towards the improvement or deterioration of ecological, was made available to the public on https://www.siltronic.com/en/ economic, and social aspects at local, regional, and global levels. our-company/sustainability.html. We believe that sustainable activity is also beneficial for Siltronic Information included in this report was prepared based on the as a company. For instance, we are safeguarding our profitability Sustainability Reporting Standards of the Global Reporting Initiaby deploying raw materials more efficiently and optimizing energy tive (GRI), is aligned to the Sustainable Development Goals of the consumption. Profitability is an important factor in our ability to United Nations and refers to the Code of Conduct of Responsible provide employees with above-average social benefits and offer Business Alliance (RBA). Moreover, this report provides information them a wide range of advanced training measures. A dedicated, regarding sustainability to the degree relevant for reporting the well-trained workforce is more capable of breaking new ground ‘Communication on Progress’ of the United Nations Global Comin the field of research and development, which, in turn, has a pact. The reported period corresponds to that of the consolidated beneficial impact on our profitability in the medium and long term. financial statements and all Group entities were included. We In this manner, a cycle is created that is not only positive for stakeintend to prepare the sustainability report on an annual basis, as holders and the environment, but for Siltronic as a company, too. in the past. GRI 102-50, -52 With this non-financial report we supplement the economic This non-financial report was subject to an audit by the Supervisory aspects outlined in the consolidated financial statements and the Board of Siltronic AG. Hence, the Supervisory Board has apponited combined management report by including ecological and social an audit firm to conduct a corresponding audit. KPMG AG aspects and explaining how we propose to reconcile these with Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has performed an audit using one another. ISAE 3000 to obtain a limited assurance regarding the information required in accordance with Sections 315b, 315e in conjunction with 289b to 289e of the German Commercial Code. GRI 102-56 2 Siltronic Annual Report 2019 / Non-financial report / 2. The Siltronic business model and our ethical principles 2. The Siltronic business model and our ethical principles Section 289c para. 1 of the German Commercial Code The Siltronic business model • Voluntary commitments: Siltronic implements the ten principles of the United Nations’ Global Compact initiative for the proSiltronic is a globally operating market and technology leader tection of human rights, social and environmental standards, ­specialized in manufacturing hyperpure silicon wafers. Since and the fight against corruption. Siltronic adheres to the wafers form the basis for semiconductors all our customers are ­principles of the chemical industry’s Responsible Care® manufacturers of semiconductors. GRI 102-2 ­initiative. In 2017, Siltronic also became a signatory to the ‘Diversity Charter’ by which Siltronic is committed to actively Wafers are produced by melting hyperpure silicon and extracting implement and promote equal opportunity and diversity. As a a crystal from the melt by means of a pulling process. The crystal supplier to the electronics industry, Siltronic observes the Code is sawn into individual wafers, polished, and subject to a final of Conduct set out by the Responsible Business Alliance RBA inspection prior to packaging. We deploy many special-purpose which leading companies in the electronics industry use to machines in the course of manufacturing and a considerable part ­promote social and ecological responsibility as well as ethical of the process takes place in cleanrooms. Production costs are business practices worldwide. Siltronic joined the Responsible attributable (in decreasing order) to personnel, auxiliaries and operBusiness Alliance (RBA) as a member in May 2019. GRI 102-12, -13 ating materials, depreciation, raw materials and energy. GRI 102-9 The production equipment largely consists of machines for pulling The impact of ethical principles on crystals, furnaces, measurement equipment, cleaning systems, and machines for the mechanical and chemical treatment of the wafer the organization and processes of Siltronic surfaces. Most of the wafer manufacturing process takes place in cleanrooms. From our four production sites in Germany, Singapore The above guidelines have an impact on the organizational and USA we dispatch our wafers directly to our customers’ chip ­structure of Siltronic, whereby the most important organizational factories, which are located (in alphabetical order) in Israel, Japan, measures for ensuring the ethical principles are (a) management Korea, Malaysia, Singapore, Taiwan and (mainland) China, the systems, (b) the existence of a separate department for environUSA, and Western Europe. At each of our four largest sites we mental protection, occupational health and safety, and plant run a production, administration and sales department. In­ ­process safety, and (c) reporting channels to the Executive Board addition, we operate small sales or administration units in six and Supervisory Board. ­countries in Asia (China, Japan, South Korea and Taiwan) and Europe (France and Italy). GRI 102-4, -6, -9 We control operational processes via our Integrated Management System (IMS). The IMS outlines processes and responsibilities and Additional information on our business model is available in the defines group-wide standards, including those relating to quality, combined management report. energy, occupational health and safety, environmental protection, and plant process safety. The standards are based on national and international standards, laws, customer requirements, and our Corporate ethics at Siltronic own principles. Selected management systems are certified by a globally operating service provider. The certifications include In order to achieve economic success, companies need to be ISO 14001 for environmental protection, OHSAS 18001 for occutrusted by society. In our efforts to ensure that Siltronic’s business pational health and safety, ISO 50001 for energy management at is conducted responsibly and compliant to all statutory regulations, our sites in Germany, and ISO 9001 and ISO TS 16949 for quality we have developed various guidelines, including: GRI 102-16 management systems. • Code of Conduct: We have drawn up a Code of Conduct for our Group that sets out binding rules for responsible and law-abiding con-duct, which all Siltronic employees are required to observe. The Code of Conduct deals in particular with the topics of behavior towards one another, leadership as an example, dealings with business partners, handling information, separation of private and corporate interests, quality, safety, health and environment, and social responsibility. GRI 102-17 3 Siltronic Annual Report 2019 / Non-financial report / 2. The Siltronic business model and our ethical principles Group management system Non-financial performance indicators within our organization Integrated management system The management of the Siltronic organization is based on financial performance indicators. The most important of these are recorded monthly on a local and Group basis and entered in reporting ISO 14001 ISO TS 16949 ISO 50001 OHSAS 18001 ­systems, where they are compared with previously determined Environmental Quality Energy Health and safety protection targets. Similar to the financial performance indicators, non-financial In order to identify and manage the variety of possible risks ­performance indicators also have a hierarchy according to their entailed in conducting business, the Executive Board has significance. From the wide range of non-financial performance ­implemented a risk management system, which is described in indicators that can be assigned to sustainability, the Executive detail in the combined management report in the chapter ‘Risk Board has selected six performance indicators through which it is and opportunity report’. informed in the course of routine reporting. Each of these indicators has a goal for the fiscal year. The six non-financial indicators Compliance system: we have installed a compliance system aimed and goals relating to the field of sustainability are as follows: at avoiding, identifying, and sanctioning companyrelated Section 289c para. 3 number 5 of the German Commercial Code ­statutory violations, for which the Siltronic compliance organization is responsible. Siltronic has appointed compliance officers in • Goal 1 | Management of raw materials all of its active entities. As a protected reporting channel, we have The specific use of silicon shall remain above 2016 level. also appointed an external ombudsman to whom our employees • Goal 2 | Management of energy and climate and third parties can anonymously report any violations of The specific energy consumption shall decrease by 1.5 percent. ­statutory regulations. The Chief Compliance Officer reports directly • Goal 3 | Management of waste to the CEO of Siltronic AG. GRI 102-17 The waste recyclingrate shall increase by 1.5 percent. • Goal 4 | Management of water As a company working with complex chemical and mechanical The specific water withdrawal shall decrease by 1.5 percent. processes, we have a high degree of responsibility for the operation • Goal 5 | Occupational safety of our equipment as well as for the protection of people and the The loss time injury frequency rate shall remain below 1.8 environment. For this reason, we have appointed employees at (Injuries with loss time per 1 million working hours). production sites, who are specially trained in the fields of environ• Goal 6 | Occupational safety mental protection, occupational health and safety, and plant safety. No injuries with loss time with chemicals shall occur. These employees are grouped together in the Quality Management and Sustainability department. With the groupwide responsibility Non-financial performance indicators are reviewed during the of the parent company in Germany for quality and sustainability year and in the case of negative variances the cause for the deve­ topics, this department defines groupwide systems and guidelines. lopment is analyzed in order to introduce improvement measures. This department reports directly to the CEO. The allocation of responsibilities among the members of the Executive Board is ­presented in the combined management report. GRI 102-11 For information on the composition of the Supervisory Board and its cooperation with the Executive Board, please refer to the ­explanations in the Report on Corporate Governance and the Report of the Supervisory Board. Information on the remuneration of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board is available in the compensation report. 4 Siltronic Annual Report 2019 / Non-financial report / 3. Determining the content of this report 3. Determining the content of this report Siltronic’s most important stakeholders Due to its extensive activities, Siltronic impacts outside individuals, The following chart shows the most important interactions and organizations, companies, and public authorities in various ways. their frequency of interaction. GRI 102-40, -43 Defining stakeholder groups that have been assessed as the most important ones is mainly based on the number of ­interactions with a particular stakeholder group and the involvement of our managers. GRI 102-42 Business model and organization of Siltronic with performance indicators concerning: Asset Consumption of Energy Waste Quality and Sales Costs Accidents management raw materials consumption reduction innovation Economy Ecology Safety Products Siltronic‘s mission statement: To create added value for our stakeholders by offering wafers of outstanding quality at competitive costs. Interaction between Siltronic • Regular audits • Regular audits • Regular workforce • Annual General • Regular applications and its stakeholders • Regular issuing • regular submission meetings Meeting and notiﬁcations of representation of declarations • Regular meetings • Quarterly roadshows • Monthly payment letters • Regular support with works council • Quarterly ﬁnancial of social security • Purchasing principles by experts and supervisory information contributions and board members taxes • Every two years • Joint development • Annual reports supplier day projects to improve • Regular news in • Audits wafers the Intranet • Ombudsman • Regular training courses Personnel, Suppliers Customers including Shareholders, Government Siltronic‘s most important stakeholders organized analysts authorities Supply chain representatives 5 Siltronic Annual Report 2019 / Non-financial report / 3. Determining the content of this report Determining the content of the report In order to identify the topics important for this report – environ• requirements and evaluations by rating agencies mental topics, personnel aspects, supply chain (including human • exchange with network partners within rights), social responsibility and social aspects (including fight German Global Compact Network and working groups against corruption and bribery) –, we determined various sustainwithin Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) ability aspects as a first step. The second step entailed prioritizing the topics according to mateThe identification of sustainability topics is based on the following riality, which also involved a risk assessment. Each topic was then considerations: allocated to a general aspect. The risk assessments conducted did not reveal any reportable risk in the reporting year 2019. • Ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact • United Nations Sustainable Development Goals In a final step, the result was subject to a validation process, which • the requirements of the initiative Responsible Business Alliance was carried out in consultation with internal experts and by (RBA) ­comparing it with the corporate strategy. • customer requirements and evaluations • specifics of our company and industry This resulted in the following list: GRI 102-46, -47 Environmental Topics and aspects aspects Personnel aspects Supply chain Society Compliance x x x x Reduction of specific silicon consumption x Reduction of specific consumption of auxiliary materials x x Reduction of specific energy consumption x Environmental impact of transportation x x Waste recycling x x Water withdrawal x Environmental protection measures x Greenhouse gas emissions x x Diversity x x Advanced training, demographics x x Occupational health and safety x 6 Siltronic Annual Report 2019 / Non-financial report / 4. Environmental aspects 4. Environmental aspects Section 289c para. 1 of the German Commercial Code Sustainable Development Goals 6, 7, 8, 12, 13 Global Compact Principles 7, 8, 9; Responsible Business Alliance Code of Conduct Topic C Management of raw materials and supplies Increased requirements on technical specifications have a negative effect on the efficiency of silicon use. We therefore need to use As wafers consist almost entirely of hyperpure silicon, silicon is by more silicon to produce wafers to fulfill the stricter specifications. far the most important raw material for Siltronic. After oxygen, However, not all types of wafers are effected by increasing specisilicon is the second-most frequently element found in the Earth’s fication requirements. In addition, the product mix of customer crust and is non-toxic. For this reason, we regard silicon wafers as orders influences the efficiency of silicon use. The higher sophisan unrivaled raw material for manufacturing semiconductors and ticated specifications and the product mix resulted in not achieving the raw material of choice for our products in the long term. the target for raw material efficiency in 2017 and 2018. Against this backdrop, the target for raw material efficiency for 2019 was We endeavor to use silicon as efficiently as possible, thereby cont­ to maintain at least the level of 2016. This target was achieved ributing towards reducing environmental pollution and helping us and, compared with the base year 2016, the efficient use of raw remain competitive. The ‘efficient use of silicon’ performance materials has increased by 3 percent. Despite this target achieve­indicator triggers in particular that silicon residues are recycled in ment, our activities are aimed at further reducing the use of silicon. our production cycle, that manufacturing processes are further developed with the aim of increasing yield, and that investments Apart from the raw material silicon, chemicals, gases, and polishare made in new machinery. We set a target value for this perforing agents used as supply materials also play a role in our producmance indicator on an annual basis. The will to achieve the goals tion process. As the various supplies are less important to us than leads to the emergence of new ideas that are tested. If their use silicon, no performance indicators were reported to the Executive in production scenarios looks promising, investments are made to Board. Of course we continuously work on changing our producimplement them. tion processes with the aim of reducing the specific amounts of auxiliary materials required. Specific reductions are usually achieved The following table illustrates how the efficient use of silicon by recycling (e.g. by reducing the use of polishing agents and has developed, whereby the year 2016 was selected as the basis cleaning baths). Progress is usually measured using quantitative for comparison: factors and compared with targets after one or two years. Development of the efficient use of silicon in % Management of energy 100 99 103 100 98 A substantial part of the process of transforming the purchased silicon into wafers is performed at high temperatures and in 75 air-conditioned cleanrooms. The large amount of energy required to drive this process makes wafer production an energy-intense 50 industry. In 2019, energy consumption totaled 686 GWh. Consumption 25 includes production, research and development, and administration. Sales offices are not included in the total as their overall 0 energy consumption is insignificant. Electricity is by far the most 2016 2017 2018 2019 important source of energy. With the higher sophisticated physical and chemical product speci­ fications by our customers, the less electricity is needed for smartphones, tablets, computers, monitors and all other devices with chips during usage. The main reason is that our customers can produce chips with reduced electrical resistance based on our wafers with higher sophisticated technical specifications. Due to the effect of electrical resistance, chips with a reduced demand for electricity will be more powerful. The reduced electricity demand with increased power applies for the full lifecycle of chips. 7 Siltronic Annual Report 2019 / Non-financial report / 4. Environmental aspects Energy consumption The annual target of 1.5 percent on average was not met in 2019. Numerous activities have contributed to increase our energy effiin GWh 2016 2017 2018 2019 ciency and reduce our energy consumption by 4.5 GWh. The tarElectricity consumption 586 601 608 571 geted improvement against the previous year was not met due to Steam, heat 75 75 71 69 reduced production volumes compared with 2018. The energy supply of our production is in single plants relatively independent Natural gas 42 39 35 43 of produced wafer amounts, especially in clean rooms. Fuel oil 7 6 5 4 Total 710 721 719 686 The companywide energy management system is certified in accordance with ISO 50.001:2011 at our sites in Burghausen, Siltronic purchases electricity from the public grid. About Freiberg and Munich. 54 percent of the electricity is consumed in Germany. According to the Federal Association of the Energy and Water Industry (BDEW), 43 percent (previous year: 38 percent) of the electricity Management of waste consumed in Germany from public grids has its origin in renewable sources, which mainly includes wind, biomass and solar. Reuse of product packaging Energy consumption per wafer area In order to reduce packaging waste we use already since 2006 a Basis 2015 (100) system of reuseable packaging to transport our wafers to our 104 customers. This system applies mainly to 300 mm wafers. The 100 98 95 91 reuseable packagingsystem consists of an inner packaging with a box to carry the wafers ((FOSB Front Opening Shipping Box) and 75 a transport box (Hybox), which can contain upto 12 FOSB. As both elements of this reusable packagingsystem affects customer pro50 cesses, customers need to accept the application of this system. Transportbox (Hybox) – Meanwhile nearly 95 percent of our 25 300 mm wafers are dispatched to our customers with reuseable transport systems. With this reuse concept we were able to reduce 0 transport volume by 17,039 m³ and avoid 1,608 tons of waste 2016 2017 2018 2019 from single packaging in 2019. Inner packaging (FOSB) – In addition we aim to increase the rate of reuseable wafer boxes (FOSB). The target of 20 percent in the In order to reduce energy intensity, projects are being initiated reporting year was exceeded at 26 percent. As these boxes are and implemented to lower the specific electricity consumption. also used in cleanrooms, the technological obstacle to use reuseSustainable changes were achieved in recent years especially able wafer packaging is very high. It will be therefore a continuing through improvement projects in the areas of lightning, adjusting challenge to achieve this goal. of cooling water demand and further process optimizations. The ‘efficient use of energy’ performance indicator is reported to the Executive Board on a regular basis and targets are determined annually. Siltronic pursues the strategic target of reducing its specific energy consumption by an average of 1.5 percent per year. On this basis and using a planned production volume, we calculate absolute savings targets in MWh for the sites and absolute targets for the production areas. 8 Siltronic Annual Report 2019 / Non-financial report / 4. Environmental aspects Waste recycling and waste disposal Waste recycling ratio We distinguish between waste treatment methods and waste in % of waste volume 2016 2017 2018 2019 hazardousness. Disposal of hazardous waste is particularly releRecycling ratio 66.2 69.0 70.0 69.2 vant. The composition of waste and disposal methods in the reporting year are shown in the charts below: At our Singapore site we introduced a campaign entitled “BYO Let plastics go“ to raise awareness among our staff. Composition of the waste GRI 306-2 in 1,000 t Management of water Water is primarily used in our manufacturing process for cleaning and cooling purposes. We endeavor to protect natural water resources and use them as sparingly as possible. The definition of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development and our 6.3 risk assessment using the Global Water Tool® defines Singapore non-hazardous as a water shortage area. We are therefore obliged to use water 8.0 especially carefully at our Singapore location. In 2019, essential hazardous improvements were implemented as part of our enhancement project with water restraints. We were also able to improve the rinsing water processing there. At our Burghausen site, we minimized the usage of ground water by optimizing internal processes. Disposal routes of waste GRI 306-2 in 1,000 t Usage of water The following chart shows a multi-year development of the indicator “Water usage in production“ (base year 2015, normalized): 4.4 Disposal Development of water usage 105 100 98 90 88 9.9 Recycling 75 50 Disposal methods as well as the classification of waste into the categories ‘hazardous’ and ‘non-hazardous’ are based on local 25 legal or quasi-legal regulations. 0 The strategic goal to increase the recycling ratio by 1.5 percent in 2016 2017 2018 2019 2019 was not achieved; mainly due to increased amounts of disposal waste as part of the production enhancement project in Singapore. The strategic goal to reduce the amount of water used in pro­ duction processes in relation to amounts of wafers produced is In 2019, a total of 14,346 tons of waste was treated or disposed 1.5 percent per year. of at the production sites. Some 38 percent of the total waste was caused by Siltronic AG. The waste recycling ratio was 69.2 percent. 9 Siltronic Annual Report 2019 / Non-financial report / 4. Environmental aspects The specific usage of water increased sharply in 2019 with a slight Environmental aspects and environmental reduction in the amount of water used and a substantial reduction in the amounts produced. A considerable amount of water is protection measures required irrespective of the wafer amounts produced in our production processes. Despite this and several measures to conserve On an annual basis, we evaluate our environmental aspects using and reuse water, we were not able to achieve this goal. an ABC analysis and implement this on a site level with due regard to relevant aspects of improvement goals and programs. Use of water In 2019, we determined the following relevant environmental in million m3 aspects: air: NOx-emissions; water: water withdrawal; soil: waste amount and contamination; energy: electricity consumption. Environmentally related investments totaled approximately 6.3 EUR 5.0 million in 2019 (previous year: EUR 4.6 million). We For production allocated these investments according to typical environmental aspects, of which EUR 1.0 million accounted for water (previous year: EUR 1.9 million), EUR 1.5 million for air (previous year: EUR 1.5 million) and EUR 2.5 million for climate protection 17.2 (previous year: EUR 1.2 million). For cooling purposes Distribution of environmental investments in 2019 (in EUR million) Recycling of water In order to use water more than once, we add water used in 1.5 Air a production process to other processes wherever possible. In 2019, the volume of water recycled in this way amounted to 2.3 million m3, compared to 2.4 million m3 in the previous year. 2.5 Climate The water recycling ratio was calculated as 36.1 percent (compared to 38.2 percent in 2018). 1.0 Water Discharge of wastewater Our site in Portland is located in an area that has been used by In 2019, we discharged a total of 6.6 million m3 process waste industry for around 100 years. Due to detected contamination in water (without cooling water) in external waste water treatment the soil and the adjacent river, authorities have imposed requireplants. The German production sites accounted for about ments for monitoring and eliminating environmental pollution. As 57 percent of the process waste water. the owner of a property that has been contaminated and borders the river, Siltronic has been subject to specific environmental ­regulations in Portland for many years. In order to fully meet these requirements, we employ an employee who is solely responsible for implementing the environmental regulations. This measure ensures that the necessary coordination with the authorities takes place, formalities are fulfilled, qualified service providers are assigned and the remediation is coordinated. 10 Siltronic Annual Report 2019 / Non-financial report / 4. Environmental aspects Emission of greenhouse gases The groupwide carbon footprint is an essential instrument In 2018 (for the year 2017), we evaluated additional indirect emisfor improving climate protection. In addition to direct greenhouse sions along the value chain for the first time and measured them gas emissions in accordance with Scope 1, we also determine for individual categories.Scope 3 emissions for relevant categories indirect emissions from the purchase of energy in accordance with were determined in 2019 (for the year 2018). We analyzed the Scope 2 and report these emissions as part of the assessment by CDP. data and intend to enhance our greenhouse gas reporting. Greenhouse gas emissions (in t CO2 equivalents) Description according GHG protocol, causes and main sources (in t CO2 equivalents) 2016 2017 2018 2019 Natural gas, fuel, Scope 1 Direct emission climate-impacting gases 17,352 12,512 11,952 12,579 Scope 2 (location based) Indirect emissions Electricity, heat 280,345 268,528 268,208 242,408 The collection methodology complies with the guidelines of the Scope 3: These indirect emissions for all 15 categories of the GHG GHG Protocol for scope 1 and 2, as well as scope 3. To calculate protocol were calculated for first time for 2018. For the individual greenhouse gas emissions, we use current emission factors from categories we applied hybrid methods, average data methods and IEA, DEFRA UK, EPA, UBA and the IPCC 5th assessment report. spend based methods. As a result the following relevant categories were determined: 3.1 Purchased goods and services, 3.10 ProcessFor the calculation all group companies are included. ing of sold products and 3.11 Use of sold products. For emission categories, which are directly influenceable by us we will improve Scope 1: Direct emissions arise on our sites mainly thru combustion the data quality and determine reduction potentials afterwards. of fuel oil and natural gas. Further greenhouse gases account only for a marginal portion of scope 1 emissions. Nevertheless, we are In addition, we motivate our employees to commute environmencontinuously working on more effective use and substitution with tally friendly to our workplaces. The company supports employees gases, which have a lower greenhouse effect. with a bike leasing offer and offers commuter buses for workers on our site in Burghausen. At our site in Portland, Oregon, USA, Scope 2: Indirect emissions arise with the generation and provision we grant our employees subsidies for public transport tickets, and of energy (electricity and heat) at our energy suppliers. Our internal in Singapore Siltronic offers shuttle buses from the plant to various activities to reduce these emissions mainly focus on the improvecity districts. ment of our efficiency of energy use. With these activities we were able to reduce CO2 emissions (scope 1 and 2) per produced wafer area by 2.1 percent annually (compared with 2015). The total amount of CO2 emissions could be reduced by 3.4 percent annually. 11 Siltronic Annual Report 2019 / Non-financial report / 4. Environmental aspects Other air emissions In 2019, NOx emissions amounted to 85 tons (previous year: 104 tons), NMVOC to 41 tons (previous year: 57 tons) and dust to 1,7 tons (previous year: 2,1 tons). Further air emissions were not relevant. In order to minimize NOx-emissions we use dust extraction and washer systems. In our production site in Burghausen we installed a new NOx-washer and a new NOx-measuring device. Air emissions in t 2016 2017 2018 2019 NOx 79 90 104 85 NMVOC 44 53 57 41 Dust 2.2 2.2 2.1 1.7 Influence of climate change The demand for wafers is mainly driven by demand in the areas of mobile communication, computers and servers, data storage on local devices and in the cloud, automotive electronic components, and industry in general. We do not view our business model as being negatively impacted by climate change. On the contrary: without semiconductor components and therefore wafers, electric mobility would not be possible, the feeding in of electricity generated by solar installations and wind farms unthinkable, and a great many smart ways of reducing power consumption unfeasible. Moreover, storing data on semiconductor components consumes less electricity than other forms of electronic data storage. GRI 201-2 12 Siltronic Annual Report 2019 / Non-financial report / 5. Personnel aspects 5. Personnel aspects Section 289c para. 2 number 2 of the German Commercial Code Sustainable Development Goals 3, 4, 5, 8, 10 UN Global Compact principles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 10; Responsible Business Alliance Code of Conduct Topic A, B Headcount and personnel planning strategy On December 31, 2019, Siltronic Group employed 3,669 people (previous year: 3,914), with 62.7 percent of whom were employed by Siltronic AG in Germany, 28.7 percent in Asia, and 8.6 percent in the USA. Headcount as at December 31, 2019 GRI 102-8 Men Women Total Share of total Germany 1,827 472 2,299 62.7 % Of which on permanent contracts 1,826 468 2,294 Of which on temporary contracts 1 4 5 Singapore and other Asian countries 749 305 1,054 28.7 % Of which on permanent contracts 748 300 1,048 Of which on temporary contracts 1 5 6 USA 230 86 316 8.6 % Of which on permanent contracts 230 86 316 Of which on temporary contracts 0 – – Employees in the Group 2,806 863 3,669 100 % A total of 3,190 employees worked full-time (previous year: 3,502) As demand in the semiconductor industry has historically shown and 479 employees worked part-time (previous year: 412). Of considerable ups and downs and as we are required to cope with the part-time workers, 48 percent were women (previous year: these changes, we pursue a flexible strategy in our personnel 54 percent), and 99 percent of the part-time workers were in ­planning. The strategy includes covering a certain percentage of permanent employment (previous year: 100 percent). GRI 102-8 our personnel requirements in production with temporary staff, which also protects the core workforce. If a pronounced upturn Breakdown of employees by region in demand leads to production peaks, we employ temporary staff. (excluding temporary workers) Conversely, if personnel cost cuts become necessary due to a in % ­market downturn, we initially reduce the number of temporary workers. If that measure proves insufficient we stop renewing 8.6 fixed-term contracts, as a second stage. In a third step, we c­ onsider USA introducing reduced working hours for staff in areas particularly impacted by a downturn. 28.7 In order to respond promptly to any significant changes in demand, Asia the personnel requirements resulting from incoming orders are 62.7 continuously compared with current and future staff levels. Any Germany measures planned to substantially increase or reduce the number of employees are discussed by employer and employee representatives in a structured process. On December 31, 2019, Siltronic employed a total of 283 tempora­ry workers (previous year 715), therof 209 men and 74 women (previous year 534 men and 181 women). The last time Siltronic needed to reduce working hours was in 2012. GRI 102-8 13 Siltronic Annual Report 2019 / Non-financial report / 5. Personnel aspects Relationship with employee representatives Diversity and equal opportunity and employees’ rights Siltronic operates in Europe, North America, and Asia and therefore in a culturally diverse environment. In 2019, Siltronic AG, the Siltronic Group cooperates with employee representatives in a largest of the Group’s companies, employed people of 30 different spirit of goodwill, while regular meetings between employer and nationalities. employee representatives are convened. One focus of our efforts is to leverage the existing diversity of Our workforce has always been highly unionized, particularly in modern society and, with this in mind, Siltronic AG has appointed Germany. Since employees are not required to report union a woman as Diversity Officer. The diversity of the workforce and ­membership, and as it is inadmissible for employers to ask, we its wide range of skills and talents also provides an opportunity do not know how many of our employees are union members. for innovative and creative solutions. Among other factors, 63 percent of employees work in units covered by collective ­diversity includes gender, nationality, ethnic origins, religion and ­agreements. This relates to the employees in Germany. GRI 102-41 disability. The combined management report comprises infor­ mation to employees with disabilities. If an employer’s collective bargaining agreement is in place, ­Siltronic is obliged by the employment contract to treat employees We reject discrimination or degradation on the basis of gender, as if the respective collective bargaining agreement were a­ pplicable race or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, sexual orientation – regardless of their membership in a trade union. At sites that do or age. These principles apply throughout the Group and are set not have an established employee representation, there are out in writing as part of our corporate culture. Employees can employees who act as contacts for employee issues. report potential discrimination to their managers, to the compliance officers, the works council, the personnel department, or to In addition to remuneration and working time, essential employee an external ombudsman. The complaint will be reviewed and the rights in Germany include the right to parental leave or maternity complainant informed of the outcome. leave. Naturally, German Siltronic employees make use of this right: As of December 31, 2019, 12 women and one man were All employees at the German locations are required to familiarize either on maternity or parental leave. themselves with the General Equal Treatment Act (AGG) through e-learning training. The training course is applicable to all hierarchy As of December 31, 2019 we employed in total 537 workers from levels. Malaysia, (mainland) China and India at our production site in Singapore. In accordance with the industry ­initiative Responsible Our long-term goal is to raise the level of diversity in Siltronic’s Business Alliance (RBA) we apply rules on working hours and fees, workforce, also by increasing the percentage of women in manage­ that go far beyond legal requirements. We committed ourselves ment positions. At the end of 2019, 2 of 15 positions (previous to cover relevant expenses incurred by foreign workers, especially year 2 of 17) one level below the Executive Board and 3 of travel expenses, expenses for medical examinations or visa fees. 35 positions (previous year 2 of 36) in the second management level were represented by women. The Report on Corporate Siltronic regularly informs the workforce about current develop­Governance provides more information on the proportion of ments that could have an impact on the business performance. women. Employees are comprehensively informed of any significant ­operational changes in a timely manner. Siltronic hereby complies with the respective national and international information ­requirements. 14 Siltronic Annual Report 2019 / Non-financial report / 5. Personnel aspects The following table shows the percentage of men and women at Advanced training and management level at Siltronic AG: demographic trends in Germany Gender distribution (as of December 31, 2019) Competent employees keep the company both innovative and Men Women Total competitive. We encourage our employees to learn throughout Employees in the Group their lives and retain a flexible attitude towards change, as we at management level 45 5 50 believe that we all need to be prepared for longer working lives In percent 90 10 100 in order to cope with the demographic change. To enable employees to make the most of their potential, Siltronic offers a wide Of which first level below Executive Board 13 2 15 range of opportunities for further development. The training measures relate to personality, management, and social competence In percent 87 13 100 as well as technical expertise. Of which second level below Executive Board 32 3 35 On our sites in Burghausen and Freiberg 10 young person started In percent 91 9 100 their apprenticeship within Siltronic with focus on mechatronics, automation engineering or logistics. For new employees we offer We have defined mid-term goals for the percentage of women onboarding trainings to get familiar with the company and its for the first and second level below the Executive Board. Until the culture. end of June 2020, the percentage of women should be at least 18 percent in the first level of management and at least 8 percent Employees and their managers discuss development measures at in the second level. least once a year in a performance review, regardless of hierarchy level, gender or location. After joining the Charta of Diversity in 2018, Siltronic AG signed in 2019 also the charta of equality by the labor union (IGBCE). By In 2019, employees attended approximately 2,000 seminars, fursigning of this charta Siltronic commits itself to actively implement ther education or similar events and participated in just under and promote equal opportunity. A corporate culture is maintained, 14,500 e-learning courses. which is shaped by mutual respect and trust. At the end of 2019, the average age of the typical employee was 44 years. The following table shows the age structure of Siltronic employees worldwide. Age structure (as of December 31, 2019) Male Female Total Upto 30 years of age 15 % 16 % 15 % 31 to 50 years of age 47 % 54 % 49 % Over 50 years of age 38 % 30 % 36 % Total 100 % 100 % 100 % 15 Siltronic Annual Report 2019 / Non-financial report / 5. Personnel aspects Remuneration and equal pay chemical industry (TV BZ Chemie). In addition, there are workplace, shift, and other voluntary allowances, which can vary In order to attract new employees and retain existing ones, both according to business and location. In addition, Siltronic meets the of which we require in order to ensure a successful future, we requirements for an equivalent wage in accordance with the need to offer competitive levels of remuneration. In addition to ­German Temporary Employment Act (AÜG). Temporary workers their basic salary with vacation and Christmas bonuses, employees have received a variable pay equal to the employees of Siltronic AG in Germany receive variable remuneration if the company achieves in Germany in 2019 for the year 2018. The payment was based certain defined financial targets. This voluntary benefit is available on the financial performance of the company. to employees covered by collective agreements and non-pay-scale agreements. There are also variable remuneration components for Occupational health and safety those employed by foreign subsidiaries. Responsibility towards the entire workforce in the area of occuIn addition to the fixed salary and the variable pay, remuneration pational health and safety plays a major role at Siltronic and is includes various other benefits that extend beyond the statutory primarily reflected in extensive preventive measures. In addition, minimum requirements, regardless of whether an employee works the Executive Board receives regular reports on the development full-time or part-time. In Germany, the most important company of accident figures, which are a non-financial indicator, as well as benefits include in particular the company pension scheme, partial on any relevant occupational accidents and related corrective retirement programs, bus subsidies, anniversary bonuses, canteen ­measures. Special attention is given to injuries involving chemicals. subsidies, and preventive health care programs. Company pension The target figure for injuries involving chemicals is 0. plans and health insurance are provided in the USA. With our safety program, we work continuously to improve safety The notes to the group financial statements comprise information standards within the working environment. Key measures include on personnel cost and retirement benefits. the appointment of safety officers, safety inspection tours, training courses, talks with operating staff, and emergency drills, all aimed Fluctuation can be seen as a sign of how well we succeed in at identifying and avoiding unsafe activities – whether when retaining employees and being attractive to new employees. ­operating equipment, handling chemicals, in the workplace, in the office, or on the way to work. The occupational health and safety In 2019, 271 employees (previous year: 601) were hired, of whom standard OHSAS 18001 has been defined as a group-wide 89 (previous year: 231) were in Germany and 182 (previous year: ­standard. Despite these measures, however, accidents still occur. 370) abroad. These hires accounted for 7 percent of the workforce as of the balance sheet date. Some 391 (previous year: 291) The following table shows the development of accident figures, employees left the company. This corresponds to 11 percent of which the Executive Board has defined as an indicator, and on the workforce as of the balance sheet date. Germany was affected which it receives regular reports. in 38 (previous year 40) cases and other countries in 353 (previous year: 251) cases. Fluctuation was low in Germany, regionally Working accidents ­typical higher in Asia and higher due to reduced production ­volume in USA. 2016 2017 2018 2019 Injury frequency rate (LTIF) 1) 3.3 1.9 1.9 2.5 In 2019, several employees received awards for their up to Injuries involving 40 years of service to the company. On our site in Singapore chemicals 2) 25 employees received awards for their 20 year anniversary. In -Number of employees affected 0 1 0 5 total already 258 employees in Singapore are with Siltronic for 1) Injury frequency: number of injuries (employees and temporary workers) with lost time per more than 10 years. 1 million working hours 2) Number of injuries (employees and temporary workers) with lost time involving chemicals We regard it as important to treat temporary workers fairly. We pay at a minimum the wage defined under the collective agreeThe targets for 2019 were 1.8 for the injury frequency rate (LTIF) ment on industry surcharges for temporary employment in the and 0 for injuries involving chemicals. 16 Siltronic Annual Report 2019 / Non-financial report / 5. Personnel aspects For both indicators we did not reach our goals in 2019. Employee satisfaction 18 accidents with loss days occurred. Four employees were affected without health damages by a substance release event. No fatal Under the motto “Your Opinion Counts” an employee survey incidents occurred in the last years. was conducted at the German sites in 2018. In 2019 the results were evaluated and actions derived with a special focus on the The number of accidents has increased first time again in a areas of idea management and feedback culture. On our site in ­multiyear comparison. Our internal cause analysis show that Singapore an employee survey was conducted and the results most accidents are behavior based. are currently evaluated. Therefore we introduced initiatives, which specifically address Siltronic AG was awarded as “Leading Employer 2020 in ­Germany” these causes. These initiatives include awareness-raising ­campaigns and ranked on position 6 (out of 450 companies) within the around the topic Slip, Trip, Fall and program for reporting safety­semiconductor industry. The company achieved 4 of 5 stars in a critical situations. Furtheron we enhanced training measures of German rating of companies in the area of family friendliness. new employees, as our internal reportings for this group ­indicate a higher risk in the first few months. In 2019, we implemented a safety expert workshop on our ­German sites. In several workshops the safety experts exchanged their knowledge and experiences and were provided information on current topics. In two specific workshops the safety experts ­developed safety guidelines for Siltronic AG. To reduce the injury frequency we developed a global system to report near miss. With the systematic analysis of these events we aim to reduce real working accidents. The company supports programs for health prevention of our employees. On our Freiberg site we organized the annual “Health days” under the topic “relax instead of high pressure”. On all German sites the company offers the prevention program “Fit in job” or the participation in offsite “Health weeks”. 17 Siltronic Annual Report 2019 / Non-financial report / 6. Supply chain 6. Supply chain Sustainable Development Goals 7, 8, 9 UN Global Compact principles 1-10 Responsible Business Alliance Code of Conduct Topic E.12 Supplier relationship Conflict minerals In 2019, our purchasing volume totaled almost EUR 845 million The Siltronic AG does not purchase 3TG conflict minerals (gold, (previous year: EUR 728 Mio.). We cooperate with more than tantal, tungsten, tin) from any mines in relevant conflict regions. 3,500 suppliers worldwide, nearly 300 of whom constitute some (§1502 Dodd-Frank-Act). 90 percent of our purchasing volume. The volume purchased in Europe accounts for around 59 percent, around 34 percent are sourced from Asia, and North America accounts for 7 percent. The Siltronic limbers up to be “Fit for the NAP“ most important supplier is Wacker Chemie AG, which not only supplies us with the raw material polysilicon, but also provides a The company was participating in the qualification program of the variety of on-site services at our plant in Burghausen under the German network of Global Compact in the context of the Business terms of a service agreement. Furthermore, suppliers of electricity and Human Rights National Action Plan (NAP) and has prepared and equipment are particularly important. GRI 102-9 itself on the implementation of the NAP. Up until now Siltronic has not been selected in the spotchecks for self assessments. We strive to ensure that our suppliers act responsibly with regard to working conditions, ethical standards, safety standards, and the management of local resources. In 2019, we joined as a member Sustainability with regard to customers of Responsible Business Alliance (RBA), a global industry coalition with the goal of implementing social responsibility in global supply Technical progress and innovation in the interaction between chains. ­Siltronic and many of its customers is of great significance, due to the fact that technical progress in the semiconductor industry is One of the key measures we have enacted is to ensure that our advancing quicker than in many other industries. The technical suppliers commit, within the framework of our general procureadvancement that semiconductor manufacturers are achieving is ment conditions, to comply with the principles of the UN Global above all evident in the fact that electronic circuits are becoming Compact and the Responsible Care® initiative. However, should more compact. Smaller circuits make semiconductors more we detect any violations of these regulations within the framework ­efficient and they consume less electricity at the same time. This of our cooperation, we discuss these observations with the reledevelopment can only be maintained if wafers meet more vant suppliers and demand improvements. ­sophisticated physical and chemical specifications. Our customers set the pace of development. In order to satisfy their expectations, Our expectations of suppliers’ careful and sensible treatment of we have spent between 5 and 6 percent of our sales on research their employees and the environment are also documented in our and development in recent years. Code of Conduct. In 2019, Siltronic conducted a “Supplier´s day” with the topic of “Global supply chain excellence”, where targets and measures in the field of Corporate Social Responsibility were also tackled. 18 Siltronic Annual Report 2019 / Non-financial report / 7. Social responsibility and social aspects 7. S ocial responsibility and social aspects Section 289c para. 2 numbers 3/4/5 of the German Commercial Code Sustainable Development Goals 16, 17; UN Global Compact principles 1-5, 10 Responsible Business Alliance Code of Conduct Topic D For Siltronic, sustainability also means transparency and openness Human rights in the sense of corporate citizenship. This begins with a good relationship with our neighbors and speaking openly about what Our four production sites are located in highly developed indushappens within the plant, as well as addressing questions posed trialized countries, where there is a low risk of human rights by the public worldwide. This is the only way to create the spirit ­violations compared to less developed nations. A certain degree of social trust that companies need in order to be economically of risk, however, does remain. Since we want to actively fight successful. With these points in mind, Siltronic assumes social human rights violations within our company as well as in the responsibility, particularly in the regions near its various locations. upstream and downstream supply chain, we have taken measures Our concepts in this respect extend beyond the above-mentioned to identify possible contraventions. global initiatives RBA and the United Nations Global Compact: Via our Code of Conduct, we explicitly endorse the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact initiative. The first two Combating legal violations, principles of the Global Compact deal with upholding human rights and the exclusion of human rights abuses. Based on the first particularly corruption and bribery principle of the Global Compact “support for human rights” and the second principle “exclusion of human rights abuses”, Siltronic According to the Corruption Perception Index of Transparency implements the following measures in particular: International (CPI), Siltronic operates predominantly in countries with a medium to low risk of corruption. • Siltronic does not purchase materials, goods, or services from suppliers or service providers who do not undertake to uphold We resolutely oppose any form of transgression or violation of human rights. We implement this aim by requiring suppliers and the law. Irrespective of the national probabilities of occurrence, service providers to accept our relevant purchasing principles. our compliance system described above is designed to avoid, • We train our employees at specific seminars to ensure comp­ ­prevent, identify and sanction compliance violations in the form liance with internationally proclaimed human rights. of corruption, fraud, infringements of competition rules, and • If we become aware of potentially critical aspects with regard other manifestations of white-collar crime, in every market in to human rights, we analyze them. Should a situation turn out which we operate. to be critical in the face of analysis, we take action. • We commit ourselves in our Code of Conduct and in dealings Employees are required to report any violations they observe to with customers to uphold human rights and to exclude any their managers, compliance officers, the works council, or the abuses thereof. responsible members of staff in the personnel department. Moreover, both employees and third parties can anonymously report violations of legal regulations to an external ombudsman, who Non-profit purposes and has been appointed by Siltronic. The Company investigates every reasonable suspicion, examines the case and defines measures to “corporate volunteering“ remedy any weaknesses identified. It also takes any disciplinary measures deemed necessary. The Chief Compliance Officer reports In 2019, Siltronic supported overall 29 activities in Germany, to the Executive Board of Siltronic AG on a monthly and ad-hoc ­Singapore and in the USA. basis. GRI 102-17 Employees within Germany participate in the cent donation Employees who have contact with business partners are required ­program organized by the Wacker Relief Fund in which employees to complete an e-learning course on compliance. Furthermore, all consent to having their monthly salary rounded downwards to the employees in sales and marketing are required to undergo online next lower amount in euros. These remaining cent amounts are training courses on antitrust law. GRI 102-17 then donated. 19 Siltronic Annual Report 2019 / Non-financial report / 7. Social responsibility and social aspects Every year, Siltronic employees at the Freiberg site take part in the Dialog at regional levels Nepal run in the autumn. The charity run that is organized from a school close to Freiberg collects money to fund the construction At all locations, we maintain regular exchanges with the authorities of schools in the Gati region of Nepal. In addition, Siltronic AG has in the field of environmental protection. made a donation. In acknowledgement of this commitment our manufacturing At our Portland/USA location, our employees have been support­company in the United States has been awarded the “Gold Award ing needy families in the region for more than 20 years. In 2019, for No Pretreatment Violations” and the “Silver level for Sus­ Siltronic Portland also supported local schools and education tainability at Work” by the Certification Bureau of Sustainability ­centers and funded selected students. from the city of Portland, Oregon. At our Singapore site, the company supported 4 students At the site Freiberg (Germany) employees are committed to within the “Singapore Scholar Sponsorship”. Since 2017 Siltronic “Weltoffenheit“ and joined the initiative “Wirtschaft für ein weltofhas been partnering within this program and has supported fenes Sachsen“ in March 2019. This network initiative aims to ten students. actively assist the integration process of migrants in order to enhance the economic power of Saxonia. Relationships with associations and with politics Partnerships and membership in associations and initiatives We are committed to responsible behavior towards political parties We have taken part in the following initiatives: and non-governmental organizations. We represent our political interests in accordance with the standpoints we have publicly CDP Climate change, Water Security (Investor, Supply chain) expressed. Our approach to politics is based on factual considera­ tions, and we are open to dialog with all democratic parties. Any In 2019, we participated for the second time as an individual donations made to political parties require the approval of the company in the rating initiatives of CDP on Climate Change and Executive Board of Siltronic AG. Water Security. We do not hold special positions in any association or organizaProgram 2018 2019 tion of which we are a member. Siltronic has not participated in CDP climate change C B legislative procedures. GRI 415-1 CDP water security C BTaxes UN Global Compact In 2019, Siltronic’s effective income tax expense amounted to Since 2017 Siltronic has participated in the UN Global Compact EUR 21.9 million (previous year: EUR 105.1 million). and published a “Communication on progress” report for the first time in 2019. In each tax jurisdiction where a subsidiary or a permanent ­establishment gave rise to a tax obligation, significant expenses In addition, the company has participated in local programs of the were incurred for effective income tax (in relation to earnings German Global Compact Network (peer-learning group on climate before taxes) or tax payments. strategy; program “Fit for NAP – National Action Plan on Business and Human rights”) Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) Siltronic AG has been a member of the initiative Responsible ­Business Alliance (RBA) since April 2019. 20 Siltronic Annual Report 2019 / Non-financial report / 7. Social responsibility and social aspects United Nations Global Compact – Siltronic is a participant of the UN Global Compact since 2017 and hereby reports on its progress. This overview gives a reference Communication on Progress 2019 between the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and the progress in the individual topics of this report in the year 2019. GRI 102-12 Ten principles of the Relevant headings Selected measures and progress in the reporting year 2019 UN Global Compact in this report The Siltronic Code of Conduct was updated, where we commit to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, the requirements of the initiative Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) as well as the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. • Corporate ethics Human rights at Siltronic Siltronic joined the industry initiative Responsible Business Alliance as member. Within Responsible Business Alliance we conducted selfassessments and audits on Principle 1: our production sites. • The impact Support of human rights of ethical principles We have trained our employees in generell and according their job tasks to observe global human rights. on the organization Siltronic has purchased only materials and services from suppliers and contractors, Principle 2: of Siltronic who commit themselves to comply with the human rights. This is part of our purchasing guidelines. Exclusion of As part of our suppliers day we presented our principles of social responsibility. human rights abuses • Human rights Siltronic committed itsself in our dealings with customers to uphold human rights and exclude any abuses thereof. We participated in the qualification program “Fit for NAP” of the German Global Compact Network. The Siltronic Code of Conduct was updated, where we commit to the ten principles of the Labor standards • Corporate ethics UN Global Compact, the requirements of the initiative Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) as well as the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. at Siltronic Principle 3: As a supplier to the electronics industry, Siltronic observed the code of conduct set out by the Responsible Uphold freedom of association Business Alliance RBA. Siltronic became a member of Responsible Business Alliance. • Relationship with employee representaTogether with Responsible Business Alliance we conducted selfassessments and audits Principle 4: on our production sites. tives and employees’ Eliminate all forms rights A majority of employees are working on production sites with independent employee representations. of forced and compulsory Siltronic participated in the “Charta of Diversity” and the “Charta of Equality”. • Diversity and Principle 5: Siltronic implemented processes, where employees or affected business partners are able to report equal opportunity any case of violations against labor standards to internal or external functions. In addition to the supervisor Abolition of child labor these cases can be reported to the HR department, works council or compliance officers per site and to an • Sustainability with external ombudsman. Principle 6: regard to customers Elimination of discrimination Siltronic committed itsself against customers to ensure freedom of association, abolition of all types of forced labor and child labor and elimination of discrimination. Environmental protection • Environmental Relevant investments to improve environmental protection were implemented in the aspects of air, water and climate protection. protection measures Principle 7: The Siltronic managementsystem is certified globally against the standards ISO 9001 and Precautionary environmental ISO TS 16949 for Quality, ISO 14001 for Environment, OHSAS 18001 for Safety; and ISO 50001 • The impact protection for Energy at the German sites. of ethical principles on the organization Non-financial goals were implemented with the ambition to reduce the specific use of raw materials, Principle 8: the specific energy consumption, and to increase the waste recycling rate. of Siltronic Initiatives for improved The annual sustainability report was prepared and verified by external auditors (non-financial report). environmental responsibility • Dialog at regional levels Siltronic offered commuting buses for employees and supported the use of public transport. Principle 9: Siltronic created with the research and development of technologies the base for manufacturing • Influence Development and diffusion of envismaller and more energy-efficient components, which can contribute to preserve resources and to of climate change protect the climate. ronmentally friendly technologies The Siltronic Code of Conduct was updated, where we commit to the ten principles of the • Corporate ethics UN Global Compact, the requirements of the initiative Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) as well as Anticorruption at Siltronic the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. We have trained our employees in generell and according their job tasks to observe anticorruption rules. Principle 10: • Combating legal Siltronic implemented processes, where employees or affected business partners are able to report Measures to fight corruption violations, particularly any case of violations against labor standards related to corruption to internal or external functions. corruption and bribery In addition to the supervisor these cases can be reported to compliance officers per site, works council, human resources department or an external ombudsman. 21 Siltronic Annual Report 2019 / Non-financial report / Limited Assurance Report of the Independent Auditor regarding the Combined Separate Non-Financial Report1 Limited Assurance Report of the Independent We conducted our audit work in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised): Auditor regarding the Combined Separate “Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of HistorNon-Financial Report1 ical Financial Information” published by IAASB. This Standard requires that we plan and perform the assurance engagement to To the Supervisory Board of Siltronic AG, Munich obtain limited assurance whether any matters have come to our attention that cause us to believe that the Report of the entity for We have performed an independent limited assurance engagethe business year January 1 to December 31, 2019 has not been ment on the combined non-financial report (further: „Report“) prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with §§ 315b and of Siltronic AG, Munich, (further: “Siltronic”) and the group accord315c in conjunction with 289b to 289e HGB. We do not, however, ing to §§ 315b and 315c in conjunction with 289b to 289e HGB provide a separate conclusion for each disclosure. In a limited (German Commercial Code) for the business year from ­January 1 to assurance engagement the evidence gathering procedures are December 31, 2019. more limited than in a reasonable assurance engagement and therefore significantly less assurance is obtained than in a reasonManagement’s Responsibility able assurance engagement. The choice of audit procedures is The legal representatives of Siltronic are responsible for the prepasubject to the auditor’s own judgement. ration of the Report in accordance with §§ 315b and 315c in conjunction with 289b to 289e HGB. Within the scope of our engagement, we performed amongst others the following assurance procedures: This responsibility of the legal representatives includes the selection and application of appropriate methods to prepare the Report – Inquiries of personnel on corporate level, who are responsible and the use of assumptions and estimates for individual disclosures for the materiality analysis, in order to gain an understanding which are reasonable under the given circumstances. Furthermore, of the processes for determining material sustainability topics this responsibility includes designing, implementing and maintainand respective reporting boundaries of Siltronic ing systems and processes relevant for the preparation of the – A risk analysis, including a media search, to identify relevant Report in a way that is free of – intended or unintended – material information on Siltronic sustainability performance in the misstatements. reporting period – Reviewing the suitability of internally developed Reporting Independence and quality assurance Criteria on the part of the auditing firm – Evaluation of the design and implementation of the systems We are independent from the entity in accordance with the and processes for determining, processing and monitoring requirements of independence and quality assurance set out ­disclosures relating to environmental, employee and social in legal provisions and professional pronouncements and have ­matters, respect for human rights, and combating corruption fulfilled our additional professional obligations in accordance and bribery, including the consolidation of the data with these requirements. – Inquiries of personnel on corporate level who are responsible for determining disclosures on concepts, due diligence proOur audit firm applies the national statutory provisions and cesses, results and risks, for conducting internal controls and ­professional pronouncements for quality assurance, in particular consolidation of the disclosures the Professional Code for German Public Auditors and Chartered − Evaluation of selected internal and external documentation Accountants (in Germany) and the quality assurance standard of – Analytical evaluation of data and trends of quantitative inforthe German Institute of Public Auditors (“Institut der Wirtschaftsmation which are reported by all sites for consolidation on prüfer”, “IDW”) regarding quality assurance requirements in corporate level audit practice (IDW QS 1). – Evaluation of local data collection, validation and reporting processes as well as the reliability of reported data based on a Practitioner’s Responsibility sample of the site in Freiberg (Germany) Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Report based − Assessment of the overall presentation of the disclosures on our work performed within our limited assurance engagement. 1 Our  engagement applied to the German version of the Report 2019. This text is a translation of the Independent Assurance Report issued in the German, whereas the German text is authoritative. 22 Siltronic Annual Report 2019 / Non-financial report / Limited Assurance Report of the Independent Auditor regarding the Combined Separate Non-Financial Report1 Conclusion Based on the procedures performed and the evidence obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Report of Siltronic for the business year from January 1 to December 31, 2019 is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with §§ 315b and 315c in conjunction with 289b to 289e HGB. Restriction of Use/Clause on General Engagement Terms This report is issued for purposes of the Supervisory Board of Siltronic AG, Munich, only. We assume no responsibility with regard to any third parties. Our assignment for the Supervisory Board of Siltronic AG, Munich, and professional liability is governed by the General Engagement Terms for Wirtschaftsprüfer and Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaften (Allgemeine Auftragsbedingungen für Wirtschaftsprüfer und Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaften) in the version dated January 1, 2017 (https://www.kpmg.de/bescheinigungen/lib/aab_english. pdf). By reading and using the information contained in this report, each recipient confirms notice of provisions of the General Engagement Terms (including the limitation of our liability for negligence to EUR 4 million as stipulated in No. 9) and accepts the validity of the General Engagement Terms with respect to us. Munich, March 4, 2020 KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Hell ppa. Graff 23
