C S R 2019 C O R P O R AT E S O C I A L RESPONSIBILITY WORKWEAR WITH A POINT OF VIEW DE by MA AB L D E SIG N Nybo Workwear A/S (hereafter Nybo Workwear) is a In 2013, we have conducted a structured process aiming family owned company, which has started by the married at integrating CSR further into our business strategy. We couple Peder and Margit Nybo Jensen in 1962 under the have looked deeper into our potential risks and identified name Nybo Jensen Konfektion A/S. The couple wanted our most significant stakeholder. Furthermore, we have to create a brand of workwear garments with a higher conducted a self-assessment of process and materials standard than what was available at the time. Margit in order to prioritize those CSR activities that create most Nybo took some construction courses. Peder Nybo had value to both our business and the society around us. sales in his blood, ever since he sold doves to the market These priorities are reflected in our report. in Viborg as a kid. It was therefore natural for them to base Nybo Workwear on Jutlandish values of decency and trustworthiness. As Peder Nybo said: “A good deal is a deal, that’s is good for both the seller and the buyer”. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS These ideals manifested themselves in their quality proWe are constantly setting new targets for improvement duct as well as the responsibility they took for their homeand will in 2020 work more specific with Sustainable Detown, Viborg where they have started many initiatives. velopment Goals. We have pointed out 4 goals end 2019 We are acknowledged purveyor to H. M. The Queen of and will work with these for the coming years. (See page Denmark as the only work wear supplier in Denmark 4). Today the next generation of the Nybo family are involved in the company in different positions. Therefore, the vaABOUT OUR CSR REPORT lues of Peder and Margit Nybo live on in the business The purpose of our CSR reporting is to provide a today, as we find it essential to take a corporate social com¬prehensive picture to our stakeholders on our CSR responsibility. We do that because of our main reasons: per¬formance in 2019. Our CSR report form at the same time the obligatory Communication on Progress (COP) 1. We believe that we must behave decently in rereport to UN Global Compact. lation to other people our own employees, our suppliers’ employees, our customers, their cusThe report covers our 3 locations: Headquarter in Viborg, tomers and others we meet on our way. Denmark and our 2 production facilities in Dobele and Jelgava, Latvia. 2. We believe that we have a responsibility for our environment and nature – to pass it on in a good In order to ensure a transparent, balanced and reasoncondition for future generations. able presentation of our CSR performance, we are inspired by general accepted reporting principles: Global 3. We believe that decent behavior and sound busiReporting Initiative (www.gri.com). ness are interdependent. As we will continue our strategic and systematic work 4. We appreciate that many of our customers focus with CSR, any constructive comment for further improveon CSR and place high demands on ourselves. ments are highly appreciated. CONTINUED SUPPORT TO GLOBAL COMPACT We hope you will enjoy reading it! Nybo Workwear has been supporting the UN Global Compact since 2010. Together with our core values, these 10 principles form the basis for our holistic approach to CSR. 02 CSR REPORT 2019 PEOPLE Good working conditions are key to success We understand people as all activities related to managing safety issues in both Denmark and Latvia. In Denand developing our employees. This includes a safe and mark we had a very low sick-leave at 1,25% which is healthy working environment, leadership and compliance 4% lower than 2018. In Latvia we had a sickleave at with Nybo Workwear ‘s Code of Conduct. 7.85% which is 23% lower than 2018. Nybo Workwear employs 178 persons – 27 are working at • We continued our cooperation with Viborg Municithe headquarter in Denmark and 130 are working at our pality to include socially vulnerable citizens into our two production facilities in Latvia. company. In 2019, we had 3 persons employed on We are proud to have a very high length of employment – special terms. both in Latvia and Denmark. • We have had 3 internal meetings with our staff to train the Values, mission and vision for the company. • Our sub-contractor in India is also sponsoring eduPOLICIES AND STRATEGIES cation of girl child and underprivileged kids in areas We want to offer a desirable, developing and challenging near their factory. place of work that is able to attract and retain quality-minded, well-qualified and passionate employees. We believe that our employees are the most important key to success. WHAT’S NEXT FOR 2020 We respect and live up to the national labor market laws in • We continuously focus on improvements concerning Denmark and Latvia. health and safety among our employees. Our ambiAll conditions regarding employees are described in detail tion is to have a stable workforce that cares about in our Handbook for personnel. This is handed out to all each other and Nybo as an attractive place to work. employees and kept up-dated with all new guidelines for The concern for our employees has always been at the company. With this, we go further than the rather strict the heart of the Nybo Workwear company spirit. laws of labor and employee rights in Denmark and Latvia • We still want to improve our data management on and we implement additional training, health insuCSR to cover both Denmark and Latvia and to have rance and personnel celebrations. a close follow up on our subcontractors. • Establish continues improvements through dialog with the employees regarding sickness and phyWHAT WE SAID IN 2019 sical work environment. • We continuously focus on improvements concerning health and safety among our employees. Our ambition is to have a stable workforce that cares about each other and Nybo as an attractive place to work. The concern for our employees has always been at the heart of the Nybo Workwear company spirit. • We still want to improve our data management on CSR to cover both Denmark and Latvia with same monthly KPI structure. • Establish continues improvements through dialog with the employees regarding sickness and physical work environment. WHAT WE ACHIEVED IN 2019 • We continued our English language training in Latvia for 7 people. In DK 1, person had a course. • Continued systematic employee development dialogues for all employees in Denmark and all managers in Latvia. • Increased systematic documentation on health and CSR REPORT 2019 03 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS An universal call to action to end poverty, protect the planet and improve the lives and prospects of everyone, everywhere. 04 CSR REPORT 2019 PURCHASE A trustful partnership is the key to responsible sourcing We understand purchase as all sourcing activities related • We will have zero tolerance when it comes to corto procurement and supplier management at Nybo Workruption. wear. Nybo Workwear has main suppliers of textile distributed in Europe and Asia. Our European suppliers are all subject to strict European legislation and control and the WHAT WE ACHIEVED IN 2019 same for our suppliers in Far East. • All suppliers have conducted the Nybo Workwear Our key suppliers in Laos and China holds an Amself-assessment if they are not certified with fori BSCI certification and key supplier in India holds a SA8000 or Amfori BSCI. SA8000 certification. • Our existing suppliers all live up to our high stanOur focus is always to cooperate with suppliers, which dards for quality and responsibility. are Amfori BSCI, SA8000 or similar audited. • Our supplier in Laos is a member of Amfori BSCI and we have awaited that the audit should take place in December but it has been post phoned to 2020. POLICIES AND STRATEGIES • We have not had any situations where a supplier Our ambition is to do business with suppliers who meet has failed in our cooperation and no corruption. the same high standards concerning quality, ethics, environment and security of supplies as we do ourselves. We only source from international recog¬nized suppliers. We believe that we achieve the best results through WHAT IS NEXT FOR 2020 trustful partnerships striving for improvement in regards • All European suppliers with a purchase of more to human right, labour rights and environmental issues. than 500.000 DKK must sign the FairFashion Code Therefore, we are convinced that it is through a long-term of Conduct as an integrated part of the contract with partnership with our key suppliers that we achieve the Nybo Workwear. best results. Regular visits in the places of production • Asian suppliers with a purchase of more than guarantee observance of the agreed conditions. 100.000 DKK are obliged to sign the FairFashion Nybo Workwear is a member of the trade association Code of Conduct as an integrated part of their con“Danish Fashion and Textile” that has developed a rectract as well as fill in the Nybo Workwear – self-asognized code of conduct targeting suppliers named Fairsessment. Furthermore, we only work with suppliers Fashion. Our goal is to ensure that our suppliers live up which has Amfori BSCI with a A-B grade or SA8000 to standards like FairFashion. or similar urdited. • We will work on improvements in socialand environmental aspects at our sub-contractors in Asia. • We will have zero tolerance when it comes to corWHAT WE SAID IN 2019 ruption. • All European suppliers with a purchase of more than 500.000 DKK must sign the FairFashion Code of Conduct as an integrated part of the contract with Nybo Workwear. • Asian suppliers with a purchase of more than 100.000 DKK are obliged to sign the Fair Fashion Code of Conduct as an integrated part of their contract as well as fill in the Nybo Workwear-self-assessment. CSR REPORT 2019 05 PRODUCT High quality in everything we do We understand “solutions” as our full assortment of prodWHAT WE ACHIEVED IN 2019 ucts, processes, customer relations, and sales and mar• We did have our own Oeko-Tex 100 – product class keting activities. II certification on our finished products and are very As a textile company our main impact on society is resatisfied with this. lated to the quality and content of the products we sell. • 38% of our total standard products is certified with It means that our focus is constantly on environmentally bluesign or STeP, which is environmental certificafriendly fabrics and accessories we use in our products. tions. It is less than 2018 as we had to change a lot of fabrics from a supplier who closed to a new without environmental certification. POLICIES AND STRATEGIES • Our Tencel collections which has started up in Since the foundation of Nybo Workwear, we have strived 2011/12 is still of a very high interest even it is an old towards high quality in everything we do. We believe that collection. quality and responsibility are interrelated. Our collection Nature in organic cotton and regeneWe also believe that we have an obligation to develop rated polyester is available in 5 colors and We have innovative and environmentally friendly products, which also expanded the collection with one more model will be a benefit for all involved. for women as we see a big interest in these sustainNybo Workwear works only with experienced and interable garments on the market – especially in Danish national recognized sub-suppliers of raw material for inTenders for garments for municipalities. dustrial washable products. All specifications of fabrics • We have had focus on sustainable products – and and accessories are determined and controlled accorfor us it is not only to use sustainable fabrics but ding to international standards regarding quality, environalso to produce quality products with a long lifetime, mental requirements and healthy working conditions. A so the customers must have as few supplies of garcontinuous follow-up takes place regarding the fulfilment ments in the contract with the end-user. Our news of the agreed demands and arrangements. in collections in sustainable and innovative fabrics In our catalogues and on the web, we clearly indicate have been postponed to 2020 as we have had a which certificates relate to each product. It assists our longer development on some of the fabrics. customers in making a responsible choice. • In 2019 we have reduced our use of air freight and our planning of orders has been much more efficient. WHAT WE SAID IN 2019 • We will continue to live up to our customers’ demands concerning environmental and social irresponsible products and processes. WHAT IS NEXT FOR 2020 • We will continue to contribute to new innovative and • We will continue to live up to our customers’ desustainable solutions within fabrics, accessories, mands concerning environmental and social irreand finished products and be a frontrunner in the sponsible products and processes. work wear business. We will make a concept of a • We will continue to contribute to new innovative and more sustainable collection in 2019. sustainable solutions within fabrics, accessories, • We will focus on using fabric suppliers, which are and finished products and be a frontrunner in the certified with the STeP or bluesign environmental work wear business. We will launch alars new a certification. concept of a more sustainable collections in 2020 • We will still focus on our transport, follow our carbon and use of other sustainable blends. footprint within this activity our seaand air freight • It is very important for us that we are participating from Far East suppliers. As we have made a stricter in network groups for development of sustainable planning system, we are sure that it will be less in solutions and how we can work together with our 2019. customers. • We will focus on using fabric suppliers which are certified with STeP or bluesign where it is possible. • We will still focus on our transport, follow our carbon footprint within this activity our seaand air freight from Asian suppliers. 06 CSR REPORT 2019 Nybo still a frontrunner in sustainable work wear Nybo Workwear do not just want to be a manufacturer of light work wear. We also still want to be an innovative frontrunner of sustainability and ecology. In 2015 we did launch our very first sustainable collection: Nature. Nature is a collection of upper parts made of regenerated polyester and organic cotton. Nature is available in 5 colors, which indicate purity, freshness and healthiness thereby supporting the good qualities of the sustainable fabric. We have also expanded the collection with one more model for women. Regenerated polyester is made of e.g. old dumped plastic bottles found in nature or at landfill sites. In contrast to the production of traditional polyester, no oil is used in the production of regenerated polyester and therefore the consumption of energy and the CO2 emissions are profoundly less. Organic cotton protects the environment because no pesticides are used in the production. A production without pesticides naturally also contributes to improved living and working conditions of the cotton farmers. With Nature, the user does not only get a high-quality product. He also gets a product produced under sustainable and resource-saving conditions and the user actively supports a production with a good conscience and takes responsibility for our common future. We believe in natural way to have sustainable products is the right way as use of TENCEL fibers which is a replace instead cotton and production is made in a sustainable loop. At Nybo Workwear, we believe that sustainability is imperative in the future production of work wear and we have now taken the first step. We will focus on having a total concept of sustainable collections in different ways; new types of fibers, BCI-cotton, organic cotton and recycle polyester to offer to our customers. We have focus on sustainable products – and for us it is not only to use sustainable fabrics but also to produce quality products with a long lifetime, so the customers must have as few supplies of garments in the contract with the end-user. CSR REPORT 2019 07 NYBO WORKWEAR’S GARMENTS MEET THE FOLLOWING STANDARDS STANDARD 100 by OEKO-TEX® The Oeko-Tex 100 standard regulates and controls the use of harmful substances in textile production such as that there is not used pesticides and heavy metals. Approval under this standard ensures fabrics pose no risk to health and will provide “skin friendly” clothing. REACH REACH is the regulation of the European Union, adopted to improve the protection of human health and the environment from the risks that can be posed by chemicals, while enhancing the competitiveness of the EU chemical industry. It also promotes alternative methods for the hazard assessment of substances in order to reduce the number of tests on animals. AP PR O VE D FOR IN DU S ISO 15797 IA TR · L LA UNDERIN G IS1579O7 L LA UNDERIN G As one of the first in our industry, we use the international test standard ISO 15797 (European Textile Services TR IA · Association ETSA). A careful selection of raw material guarantee, that Nybo Workwear products meet the requirePR ments of industrial washing. DU S AP FOR IN OVED STeP by OEKO-TEX® STeP stands for Sustainable Textile Production and is a worldwide certification system for environmentally friendly and socially responsible production facilities in the textile industry. The certification is carried out by Hohenstein Institute, owner of the OEKO-TEX® brand. MADE IN GREEN by OEKO-TEX® The MADE IN GREEN label verifies that an article has been tested for harmful substances. This is carried out through certification in accordance with OEKO-TEX® STeP. It also guarantees that the textile product has been manufactured using sustainable processes under environmentally friendly and socially responsible working conditions. TENCEL™ TENCEL™ branded lyocell and modal fibers are produced in a environmentally responsible process from the sustainably sourced natural raw material wood. TENCEL™ fibers are found in the collections of many leading designers. One of the most outstanding qualities of TENCEL™ fibers is the ability to enhance breathability. The smooth fiber surface absorbs and releases moisture efficiently and therefore supports the body’s natural thermal regulation. bluesign® The bluesign® system is the solution for a sustainable textile production. It eliminates harmful substances right from the beginning of the manufacturing process and sets and controls standards for an environmentally friendly and safe production. This not only ensures that the final textile product meets very stringent consumer safety requirements worldwide but also guarantees a sustainable product. 37.5® MATERIAL TECHNOLOGY 37.5 Technology is a dynamic thermoregulation technology that triggers off of humidity. 37.5® technology helps warm you up when you’re cold and cool you down when you’re hot. • 37.5 Technology provides UVA and UVB protection. 08 CSR REPORT 2019 NYBO WORKWEAR’S GARMENTS MEET THE FOLLOWING STANDARDS The Social Accountability-8000 standard (SA8000) The Social Accountability-8000 standard (SA8000): The leading certificate when it comes to socially responsible productions. The certificate ensures proper working conditions by testing the companies on many parameters: Employes are guaranteed a healthy and safe workplace with decent working hours, a proper wage and the right to organize themselves when negotiating their terms of employment. It also ensures that there is no child labour, no forced labour and no discrimination. 1. No child labour 2. No forced or compulsory labour 3. A healthy and safe workplace 4. The freedom of association and right to collective bargaining 5. No discrimination 6. A respectable treatment of the employees no physical violence or mental abuse 7. Decent working hours 8. Fair remuneration a proper salary 9. A well-managed system and organisation Amfori BSCI Amfori BSCI: Based on the UN’s principles about the business world and human rights Amfori has developed 11 principles that must be followed to ensure proper working conditions. For example that the wor-kers have fair and legitimate contracts, decent working hours, that young employees work on special terms and that the production is eco-friendly. 1. The freedom of association and right to collective bargaining 2. Fair remuneration a proper salary 3. A healthy and safe workplace 4. Special protection for young workers 5. No forced labour 6. Ethical business behaviour 7. No discrimination 8. Decent working hours 9. No child labour 10.No precarious employment fair and legitimate contracts 11.Protection of the environment. UN Global Compact since 2010 The UN Global Compact since 2010: Ensures human rights, decent working conditions, an eco-friendly production and no corruption. Human rights 1. Companies should support and respect the protection of internation all human rights. 2. Companies should ensure that they are not violating human rights. 3. The freedom of association and right to collective bargaining 4. No forced labour 5. No child labour 6. No discrimination Environment 7. Companies should have a preventive attitude towards environmen tal challenges and be at the forefront of the development. 8. Companies should take initiative to promote responsibility for the environ ment. 9. Companies should encourage the development and dispersion of environmental technologies. Anti-corruption 10. Companies should work to eliminate corruption in all its forms, e.g. bribery and extortion. ISO 9001 In order to strengthen our production in Eastern Europe, our Latvian based company SIA Nybo Dobele is now certified according to ISO 9001. This means that Nybo Work Wear will be even more competitive when it comes to ensuring the quality demands from our customers and to optimizing the daily processes in our Baltic organisation. CSR REPORT 2019 09 PROCESS Environmental precautions from the very beginning We perceive “process” as all the internalized activities running in production. In Denmark we have saved across our own company value chain, including produc1,8%. tion, logistics, properties and utilities. • We have reduced our use of outdoor lamps with 90% Our facility in Viborg, Denmark is home of our administraand changed 10% of our indoor bulps to LED. tion and stock. Our environmental challenges are mainly • In Denmark we have saved 3,5% gas and in Latvia an related to our production facilities in Dobele and Jelgava increase on 11,8% as it has been a colder winter and in Latvia. As a textile, producing company our main task demand for heating. is to produce high quality work wear, which means that • Our water consumption has been reduced with we have very limited environmental issues related to ha6,75%. It is more than in 2018 and we are satisfied, zardous waste and our water consumption. as our goal was a reduction on 3%. • We brought 48,0 tons of material back to full recycling in 2019. It is less than in 2017 and 2018. We POLICIES AND STRATEGIES have recycled less in Denmark and Latvia as we have We consider ourselves as an integrated part of our comless waste of fabric and less production compared to mon environment. In spite of our modest size and po2018. sition as a minor Danish player, we are determined to demonstrate our will to contribute to the preservation of our environment and resources. WHAT IS NEXT FOR 2020 • We still want to continue reducing our energy and gas We continue our recycling project of paper, cartons and consumption in Denmark and Latvia with 3%. plastic in cooperation with Zala Josta Ltd., which a Lat• Our aim is to reduce our water consumption by 3% vian company is caring for a clean Latvia. We collect and total. sort all waste: fabric, paper, cartons and plastic for recy• We will continue to recycle as much as possible in cling. Our systematic work with recycling has given us the Denmark and Latvia. Zala Josta certificate, which certifies that our production site “Sia Nybo Dobele” is environmentally friendly. We have a special focus on the end-to-end handling of cardboard boxes, as this is our main packaging consumption. All boxes are sorted, cleaned, pressed and recycled. In Denmark, we sort all waste: paper, cartons and plastic and sell it for recycling. Carton boxes from suppliers will be used for shipments to the customers if quality is ok. We use a minimum of plastic bags in our cartons as possible. WHAT WE SAID IN 2019 • We still want to continue reducing our energy consumption in Denmark and Latvia with 3%. • Our aim is to reduce our water consumption by 3% total. • We will continue to recycle as much as possible in Denmark, Latvia and Nybo Asia. WHAT WE ACHIEVED IN 2019 • In our facility in Latvia, we have used same energy as in 2018. We have had more than full capacity 010 CSR REPORT 2019 Key figures regarding employees Denmark (Viborg) Latvia (Dobele and Jelgava) Total Employees total 27 151 178 Blue collar 4 126 130 White collar 23 25 48 Sick leave 1.25 7.85 Injuries 0 2 2 Employee Development Dialog 25 130 155 Employees training 1 7 8 Employess on spec. training 3 0 3 Environmental figures Denmark (Viborg) Latvia (Dobele and Jelgava) Total Energy consumption Electricity kWh 66,216 200,120 266,336 Gas m3 22,751 14,060 36,811 Water consumption m3 120 736 856 Recycling tons 6.76 41 48 2019 CSR REPORT 2019 011 Key figures regarding employees Denmark (Viborg) Latvia (Dobele and Jelgava) Total Employees total 27 151 178 Blue collar 4 126 130 White collar 23 25 48 Sick leave 1.25 7.85 Injuries 0 2 2 Employee Development Dialog 25 130 155 Employees training 1 7 8 Employess on spec. training 3 0 3 Environmental figures 012 CSR REPORT 2019 Denmark (Viborg) Latvia (Dobele and Jelgava) Total Energy consumption Electricity kWh 66,216 200,120 266,336 CSR Performance at Nybo Workwear A/S CSR Performance at Nybo Workwear A/S Subject Subject Objective Objective Result Result Global Compact Global GRICompactPageGRI Page Purchase Purchase Implementing Supplier All All Implementing Supplier suppliers suppliers of fabrics of fabrics Completed Completed All principles All principles General 4,5,7General 4,5,7 Codeof Code Conduct of Conduct sweing andand sweingsign supplier sign supplier Code of Conduct Code of Conduct Number of suppliers that All suppliers has to Completed All principles All General 4,6,7 Number of suppliers has undergone that document screening All suppliers that they to haslive Completed principles All principles All 4,6,7General 4,6,7 REACH-Directive has undergone screening updocument to REACH-Directive that they live principles 4,6,7 Product Development of REACH-Directive up to REACH-Directive Our collection of environmental 9 5 and environmental friendly friendly Tencel products is still Product Development of customers products of very Nature much interest from our Collection 9 5 and environmental friendly of upper customers and more parts made of collections in different blends has polyester been customers products regenerated launched in 2017. We have now and organic cotton Charisma 5 colours in collection Nature which isPremium/Tennis a collection of upper Our collections parts made of regeneratedof environmental friendly polyester Tencel and organic products cotton. We can see that customers have a big focus on these Product and customers We will have all our products We now have our didcompared to own OekoTex 9 PR3 5 Development of products certified with earlier in 100public tenders.class II product environmental friendly Oeko Tex 100 product certification end 2019. Product and customers 95% of ours products is 99% Oeko Tex 100 9 PR3 5 products Certifications: Development of Class II 38% bluesign/STeP Oeko-Tex 100 certificed 74% bluesign/STeP Oeko-Tex environmentalStandard 100, fabrics/accessories. friendly We aim that 50% of our products STeP, bluesign, ISO 1579775% Certifications: used fabrics of our products hasisbluesign Oeko-Tex Standard 100, certified or STeP with Process bluesign, STeP, Electricity ISO 15797 bluesign/STeP. consumption See notes on page 12 7 EN3 8 266.336 kWh Process Total waterconsumption Electricity consumption 355.791Reduce kWh by 3% See notes 856 onm3page86,75% reduction 7 7 EN3 8 5.022 kWh 10.815 kWh less 7 EN5 8 Gas Reduce by 3% 36.811 m3 3,50% reduction 7 than 2017. We had to stop the Recycling Initiatives to reduce Increase by 3% windmill48intons 13,4% as itincrease June 2018 7 EN2 8 People and Diversity electricityof workforce Efficient use of windmill Blue could not workcollar: 130 anymore. 1, 2, 6 LA1 9 society Total water consumption Reduce by 3% 918 m3White 5,46%collar: reduction 48 7 Gas Reduce to English 38.141 LV by 3% m3 -7 5,5% increase society Employee training Access empolyees 1.2 LA10 9 Recycling Maintain 2017 level 55.4 tons 30.5 reduction EN2 8 People and Diversity of workforce language training in LV DK: 1 employees Blue collar: 228 1, 2, 6 LA1 9 society Individual courses DK White collar: 69 society Employee training Access to English LV 7 empolyees 1.2 LA10 9 language training in LVNybo Asia: 9 employees Employee development LV 130 empolyees 1.2 LA10 9 Nybo Asia. Individual DK: 11 employees courses DK DK 27 employees Employee development LV 10 empolyees 1.2 LA10 9 Access to labour unions All employees 100% Nybo Asia: 8 employees 1, 2, 3 LA4 9 DK: 31 employees Collective bargaining Access to labour unions All employees 100% 100% 1, 2, 3 1, 2, 3 LA4 9 LA4 9 Wage levelbargaining Collective 100% 100% 1, 2, 3 1, 2, 3 LA4 9 LA4 9 Staff Wage compensation level 100% Pensions, health insurance, 1, 2, 3 1, 2 LA4 9 LA3 9 Staff compensation Pensions, health insurance, compensation on sick 1,leave, 2 LA3 9 compensation on sick leave, pregnancy etc. pregnancy etc. Healthand Health safety: and safety: 1. Zero 1. Zero injuries injuries Pensions, Pensions, health insurance, health insurance, 1.2 1.2 LA7 9 LA7 9 1.1.Rates Rates of injury of injury 2. Improve 2. Improve health health compensationcompensation on sick leave, on sick leave, 2.2.Health Health programs programs programs programs pregnancy pregnancy etc. etc. 3. Sick leave 3. Sick leave 3. Reduction of sick 4. 3. Reduction of sick 1. 2 incidents during 2018 1. 2 incidents during 2019 4. National laws on OHS leaves 2. Health insurance, canteen, National laws leaves 4. Observe and respect 2. Health massage, nurse, doctor insurance, canteen, 4. Observe and respect massage, national labour marked 3. DK:1,3%; Latvia 10,3%; nurse, doctor on OHS labour marked national laws 3. DK:1,25%; Nybo Asia 0,8% Latvia 7,85%; laws 4. 100%4. 100% Number Number of employees of employees onon Contribute to an inclusive 3 employees 2 employees on specialon in 1, terms special terms 2, 6 in 1, 2, 6 LA13 9 LA13 9 special specialterms terms Contribute to an inclusive DK. labour marked DK. labour marked Implementation of Code of Nybo Workwear's Implementation of Code of Nybo Workwear's Conduct Conduct companies companies in Denmark in Denmark andand Latvia Latvia mustmust sign our sign our Code Codeof Conduct. of Conduct.Nybo Our sub Asia is a member of BSCI. contractors also sign our Code of Conduct and is member of Amfori BSCI or SA8000 or similar. CSR REPORT 2019 013 NYBO WORKWEAR A/S IN BRIEF Company name Nybo Workwear A/S Address Industrivej 24-26 8800 Viborg DK-8800 Viborg Phone +45 8727 3000 E-mail: info@nybo.com CVR nr.: 36 74 51 18 Locations of operations Nybo Workwear A/S is headquartered in Viborg, Denmark. We have two production facilities in Latvia. The company is represented on all North European markets. Our customers consist of laundries and dealers of work wear. Nybo Workwear A/S offers a broad assortment of fashionable work wear for users within Health & Care, Gastronomy & Catering, and Light Industry. Number of employees 2018 178 Contact person Helle Nybo Holmberg +45 87273006 hnh@nybo.com Helle Nybo Holmberg CEO, Nybo Workwear A/S 014 CSR REPORT 2019 CSR REPORT 2019 015 www.nybo.com | info@nybo.com | +45 87 27 30 00
