03 Letter from the CEO 04 About us Progress with the 10 Principles 08 of the Global Compact Sustainable development 21 goals (SDGs) We have faced great challenges in 2020 but it has also been a year of lessons learned. At TGV, our conviction and commitment to continue advancing in the construction of the path that drives us to be better every day is as strong as ever. This year we had to adapt to challenging circumstances. That process drove us to quickly analyze and implement concrete actions to deal with the effects produced by the COVID-19 crisis that the world is experiencing. Ernesto Galindez As part of the quarantine measures, we focused on actively preventing the President and spread of the disease among our employees. We strove to minimize the Co-Founder of TGV impact of the pandemic on our business with the aim of sustaining everyone's jobs and the normal operation of our industry. On behalf of TGV Excelencia en Soluciones Informáticas, I want to take this opportunity to wish you continued good health and reaffirm our support for the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. 03 We are technological partners of the digital transformation of our clients. We are experts in the development and implementation of custom software, and the implementation and extension of world-class packages, such as SAP and JD Edwards. TGV has more than 25 years of experience providing solution for the biggest IT projects deployed in Argentina, Latin America, the United States, Europe, Asia, and Africa. We offer knowledge and mastery of technologies, as we accompany our clients in the adoption of timely and appropriate digital solutions for each business. We have forged lasting relationships with our clients with the support of our multidisciplinary team of more than 300 trained professionals. From leading private companies to government entities, our clients have come to expect quality, innovation, and TGV's adaptability to their needs. 04 To be our clients' main To be recognized by global • Associative approach toward technological partner, offering markets as a world-class the client knowledge and innovation in IT consultancy. • Creativity and innovation the digital transformation of • Teamwork their business processes. 05 WEB/MOBILE DEVELOPMENT We develop apps focused on their ease of use, transparently integrating multiple technical platforms and simplifying extreme technological complexity. We simplify the complex. LEGACY SYSTEMS We provide solutions adapted to the performance and reliability requirements of the financial industry. JD EDWARDS CONSULTING Alliances and Certifications Our vast experience with JD Edwards allows us to make the necessary functional and technical adaptations to fit our clients' processes. SAP CONSULTING We help our clients to maximize their use of the full range of SAP products. 06 08 The Global Compact's ten principles-which are derived from United Nations’ declarations on human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption-enjoy universal consensus. The data analyzed correspond to a self-evaluation regarding the company’s progress with respect to these principles. 09 Yes No F/A N/A Does the company comply with all relevant regulation on issues covered by the Global Compact x principles? ASSESS Does the company identify and assess the risk, opportunity and impact of its operations on issues x covered by the Global Compact principles? DEFINE Does the company have a policy statement in line with the Global Compact principles? x Do the company's decision-making processes and management systems include issues covered by the x Global Compact Principles? Does the company promote issues covered by the Global Compact principles in its interactions with x suppliers and business partners? IMPLEMENT Does the company positively contribute to community development? x Does the company have a trusted procedure for hearing, processing and settling internal and external x concerns/complaints? COMMUNICATE Does the company communicate progress on the Global Compact principles with stakeholders? x 10 40% 35% 35% 33% 30% 25% 25% 20% 15% 10% 7% 5% 0% Actions Actions not Further N/A completed completed Attention Management *Information corresponds to the company's overall performance and management. 11 Yes No F/A N/A Does the company ensure that its workers are provided safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities? x HEALTH AND Does the company ensure that workers are provided with the protective equipment and training SAFETY x necessary to perform their tasks safely? Does the company actively involve workers in health and safety work? x Does the company ensure that the workweek is limited to 48 hours; that overtime is infrequent and x limited; and that workers are given reasonable breaks and rest periods? Does the company provide a living wage that enables workers to meet the basic needs of themselves x HOURS, WAGES AND and their dependents? LEAVE Does the company ensure that workers are paid holiday leave, sick leave, and parental leave in x accordance with international minimum standards? Does the company ensure that all workers have an official employment status? x Does the company protect workers from workplace harassment including physical, verbal, sexual or x psychological harassment, abuse, or threats? FAIR TREATMENT Does the company respect the privacy of its workers whenever it gathers private information or monitors x the workplace? 12 Yes No F/A N/A Before buying, renting, acquiring or otherwise accessing land or property, does the company ensure that all affected owners and users of the land or property, have been adequately consulted and x compensated? COMMUNITY IMPACTS Does the company take steps to ensure that company security arrangements are in accordance with x international principles for law enforcement and the use of force? Does the company engage with local communities on the actual or potential human rights impacts of its x operations? PRODUCT Does the company take steps to prevent risks to human rights arising from product defects or improper x STEWARDSHIP use or misuse of company products? Does the company seek to avoid involvement in human rights abuses owing to government or societal COUNTRY RISK x practices? 13 50% 44% 45% 40% 35% 33% 30% 25% 20% 15% 15% 10% 8% 5% 0% Actions Actions not Further N/A completed completed Attention Human Rights *Information corresponds to the company's overall performance and management. 14 Yes No F/A N/A Does the company recognize the rights of its workers to freedom of association and to bargain x collectively? FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION If independent trade unions are either discouraged or restricted, does the company enable workers to x gather independently to discuss work-related problems? Does the company take all necessary measures to ensure that it does not participate in any form of FORCED LABOR x forced or bonded labor? CHILD LABOR Does the company comply with minimum age standards? x Does the company ensure that employment-related decisions are based on relevant and objective DISCRIMINATION x criteria? 15 90% 78% 80% 70% 60% 50% 40% 30% 20% 15% 10% 5% 3% 0% Actions Actions not Further N/A completed completed Attention Labor *Information corresponds to the company's overall performance and management. 16 Yes No F/A N/A Does the company support a precautionary approach to environmental issues? x PRECAUTION Does the company have emergency procedures in place to prevent and address accidents affecting x the environment and human health? Does the company take measures to prevent and reduce energy consumption and emissions of x greenhouse gases? Does the company take measures to reduce water consumption and treat wastewater? x Does the company take measures to prevent and reduce the production of waste and ensure x responsible waste management? RESPONSIBILITY AND Does the company prevent, reduce and treat air emissions? x PERFORMANCE Does the company prevent and reduce impacts on the surrounding environment from noise, odor, light x and vibrations? Does the company minimize the use and ensure safe handling and storage of chemicals and other x dangerous substances? Does the company prevent, minimize and remedy significant impacts on biodiversity? x Does the company ensure that natural resources are used in a sustainable manner? x TECHNOLOGY Does the company encourage the development and use of environmentally friendly technologies? x 17 60% 55% 50% 40% 30% 19% 20% 16% 10% 10% 0% Actions Actions not Further N/A completed completed Attention Environment *Information corresponds to the company's overall performance and management. 18 Yes No F/A N/A Does the company take a clear stand against corruption? x Does the company assess the risk of corruption when doing business? x COMPANY Does the company ensure that relevant workers are properly trained? x CULTURE AND PROCEDURES Do the company's internal procedures support its anti-corruption commitment? x Does the company's anti-corruption initiative cover agents, intermediaries and consultants? x JOINT ACTIONS Does the company take joint actions with others to engage in and promote anti-corruption initiatives? x 19 100% 89% 90% 80% 70% 60% 50% 40% 30% 20% 11% 10% 0% 0% 0% Actions Actions not Further N/A completed completed Attention Anti-Corruption *Information corresponds to the company's overall performance and management. 20 On September 25, 2015, the U.N. approved the 2030 Agenda on Sustainable Development to eradicate poverty, protect the planet and ensure prosperity for all. This agenda brings together 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), including the elimination of poverty, the fight against climate change, education, women's equality, the defense of the environment, and the design of our cities. 21 22 This goal seeks to ensure a healthy life and promote well-being for all at all ages, through initiatives that help eradicate a wide range of diseases and address numerous and varied persistent and emerging health issues. This goal seeks to ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote life-long learning opportunities for all. Education is the basis for improving our lives and sustainable development. In addition to improving people's quality of life, access to inclusive and equitable education can help provide the local population with the tools necessary to develop innovative solutions to the world's greatest problems. This goal promotes sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all. In order to achieve sustainable economic development, societies must create the conditions necessary for people to have access to quality jobs, stimulating the economy without harming the environment. There will also have to be job opportunities for the entire population of working age, with decent working conditions. 23 This goal seeks to reduce inequality in and between countries. The international community has made great strides to pull people from poverty. The most vulnerable nations, least developed countries, landlocked developing countries and small developing island states continue to make progress in the area of poverty reduction. However, there are still inequalities and large disparities regarding the access to health and education services and other productive assets. This goal encourages urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts. Climate change affects all countries on all continents, producing a negative impact on their economies, people's lives and communities. This goal is aimed at revitalizing the Global Alliance for Sustainable Development. A successful sustainable development program requires alliances between governments, the private sector and civil society. These alliances, which must be constructed based on principles and values, a shared vision, and shared goals, that prioritize people and the planet, are necessary at global, regional, national and local levels. 24 The United Nations Global Compact fosters responsible business practices that generate powerful changes in markets and societies. At TGV, we have accepted this challenge and are committed to embracing these principles, contributing to the co-construction of a more sustainable and inclusive global economy. Given the circumstances of the global pandemic, we did everything possible to respond quickly to the crisis. In March 2020, before the national government decreed social, preventive, and mandatory distancing in Argentina, TGV instituted the home office remote work modality for all its employees and supplied them with alcohol gel to prevent the spread of the disease. We launched an awareness campaign in line with the government's official guidelines (from Argentina’s Ministry of Health) in parallel to this initiative. Committed to our employees' well-being, we delivered office chairs to all employees in their homes who needed one, handling all of the logistics, to ensure maximum comfort during their workday, help prevent injury, and promote good posture Likewise, we designed and implemented training and support activities to safeguard employees' psychological and emotional well-being. They included help for anxiety management and tools to optimize remote work. 25 For several years we have been carrying out an educational program called Little School, aimed at providing internships to students in their last year of high school as well as recent high school graduates. These internships are focused on the different technological platforms that our business offers. This year we were able to bring onboard 10 talents, who were identified and selected thanks to our partnerships with Mindhub, Capton, and the city government's Employability Fair. Betting on the professional development of our team, we reactivated our “Mentoring” program, where junior profiles are supported to create a climate of trust and to identify opportunities for growth within our organization. Likewise, we continued to offer mid-level managers training opportunities to strengthen their knowledge in their area of expertise. Adapting to the current context of the pandemic, the company continues to offer all staff fully subsidized virtual English classes and discounts at several leading educational centers. 26 The company took action to minimize the impact of the crisis created by the pandemic on our business and was able to maintain everyone's job. Our commitment to protect workers from workplace harassment, including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse or threats, is guaranteed within the framework of our code of ethics and professional conduct policy. We recognize the right that workers have to form or join the trade organizations of their choice. We provide each worker with all the necessary tools so that working from home continues to comply with the safety parameters, ensuring optimal working conditions for our team. This action was complemented with the dissemination of ergonomics activities facilitated by our Occupational Risk Insurer. Despite the global context and its economic and financial consequences, the company has focused its efforts on paying workers their wages in a timely and regular manner, guaranteeing a sufficient wage to meet their basic needs and that of their closest dependents. 27 Aligned with our corporate values, we ensure that decisions regarding hiring, salaries, promotion, training, discipline, retirement, and termination are based exclusively on impartial criteria and not on discriminatory characteristics of any aspect (race, gender, age, religion, culture, etc.) As a result, our team of more than 300 highly trained professionals enjoys equal opportunities for development and job growth. To ensure the continuity of our in-office paper and plastic recycling programs in support of the Garrahan Foundation, we launched recycling awareness campaigns for our employees in their homes, providing information about the protection of the environment, as well as the necessary measures to ensure hygiene and prevent the spread of Covid-19. Once we can return to the offices, we will continue to have boxes and collection points for paper and plastic bottle caps throughout the company's physical offices, the content of which we will send to the Garrahan Foundation. 28 We maintain strategic alliances with the Buenos Aires Information Technology Pole (POLOIT) and the Argentine Software Industry Chamber (CESSI) to promote the growth of information technology companies in the region. In this context where conditions of social vulnerability are accentuated by the COVID-19 pandemic, we formed alliances with two non-governmental organizations Fundación TEMAS and Fundación Convivir. To the latter, we donated 10 liters of alcohol gel, essential for the health and good hygiene of the vulnerable families living in the shantytown “Villa 21/24” in Barracas, Argentina. 29 www.tgv.com.ar Info@tgv.com.ar linkedin.com/company/tgv tgv_arg
