Communication on Progress 2020 UN Global Compact 1 Contents 0 1 How we deliver responsible business To Our Clients and Collaborators Our priority SDG targets 0 2 Our Core Values Ethical conduct Anticorruption policies and compliance 0 3 Social Impact Pro bono and sponsorships Teaching Responsible advice CASE: Save the Children 0 4 Environmental Commitment Reducing Our Footprint Engaging Our People CASE: Green week 0 5 Work Environment Employee satisfaction Workplace inclusivity Workplace diversity and equality Career development 0 6 Reporting & Data Reporting approach Goals and progress Awards and recognition Wiersholm at a glance 2 To Our Clients and Collaborators Contents We are pleased to share our goals and progress this past year related to the focus areas of the UN Global Compact. In this report you will get an overview of our commitment to the SDGs, what 0 1 How we deliver responsible business measures we have taken in 2019 to make positive social impact, how we execute our environmental commitment and promote an inclusive workplace for our employees. 0 2 Our Core Values One of the issues we are particularly concerned about is gender equality. The legal profession, and especially business law firms, has traditionally been dominated by men, but we are happy to see progress 0 3 Social Impact within the industry. In Wiersholm, women now constitute 54 % of our workforce. However, we have a long way to go until we have equal representation of women in our partnership. We are determined to increase the percentage of female partners year by year. 0 4 Environmental Commitment Another issue especially important to us, which you can read about in this report, is our partnership with 0 5 Work Environment Save the Children to strengthen children’s rights. In 2019, we entered into a 5-year agreement standing on three main pillars: financial project support, pro bono legal work and a responsible business trainee scheme. 0 6 Reporting & Data Wiersholm consists of nearly 250 people making an effort every day to ensure we meet our goals and make a positive difference for our stakeholders, the environment and society. I am proud of what we achieve together, and I would like to extend a big thank you to everyone who has contributed to our dedication to ESG and the UN Global Compact. Kind regards, Morten Goller Managing Partner 3 Our priority SDG targets Contents The world has entered the “decade to deliver” on the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Wiersholm is committed to playing our part, and we are 0 1 How we deliver responsible business accelerating our actions to contribute to realising the SDGs. 0 2 Our Core Values 0 3 Social Impact SDGs we prioritise 4.5 By 2030, eliminate gender disparities in education and ensure equal access to all levels of education and vocational training for the vulnerable, including persons with disabilities, indigenous peoples and children in vulnerable situations 0 4 Environmental Commitment 5.1 End all forms of discrimination against all women and girls everywhere 0 5 Work Environment 5.5 Ensure women’s full and effective participation and equal opportunities for leadership SDGs to which we contribute at all levels of decision-making in political, economic and public life 0 6 Reporting & Data 10.2 By 2030, empower and promote the social, economic and political inclusion of all, irre­ spective of age, sex, disability, race, ethnicity, origin, religion or economic or other status 10.7 Facilitate orderly, safe, regular and responsible migration and mobility of people, including through the implementation of planned and well-managed migration policies Partnerships for the goals We are committed to engaging in partnerships to contribute 12.5 By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, to the SDGs, in the legal industry and beyond. recycling and reuse 16.3 Promote the rule of law at the national and international levels and ensure equal access to justice for all 16.5 Substantially reduce corruption and bribery in all their forms 4 02 Contents 0 1 How we deliver responsible business 0 2 Our Core Values 0 3 Social Impact Our Core Values 0 4 Environmental Commitment 0 5 Work Environment 0 6 Reporting & Data 5 Ethical conduct Contents As lawyers we have a special responsibility to promote justice and prevent injustice. We should not only provide our clients with the highest service and 0 1 How we deliver responsible business quality, but also show responsibility in how we run our business and in our 0 2 Our Core Values contributions to the society around us. 0 3 Social Impact Human rights Working environment Ethics As lawyers, we have a special responsibility for Wiersholm is a knowledge firm and our Wiersholm conducts its business in accordance 0 4 Environmental Commitment respecting and promoting human rights in our employees are our most important assets. with the highest ethical standards for law firms. own business and in our advisory services. Our We consider the following principles to be This imposes high demands on our managers lawyers and employees shall respect human fundamental to Wiersholm being an attractive and employees and entails: 0 5 Work Environment rights in accordance with the UN’s guiding workplace that ensures everyone a good physical • Wiersholm ethics committee – a sparring principles and the recommendations of the and psychosocial working environment: 0 6 Reporting & Data partner whenever dilemmas arise in ongoing Norwegian Bar Association • Zero tolerance for discrimination and matters, advising the management on ethical Sustainability harassment issues related to the management of our business All employees are expected to comply with • Diversity our procedures for collecting, sorting and • Dilemma training – an intergal part of our • Responsible management and employee recycling of waste, procedures for reducing introductory programmes and regular participation paper consumption, as well as considering the professional seminars for all employees environment during business travels. • Supplementary training – in accordance with the current rules of conduct for lawyers and the Norwegian Bar Association’s requirements for regular supplementary ethics training. 6 Anticorruption policies and compliance Contents The basic principle of a responsible and sustainable law firm is that we, in our own business, comply with the requirements and rules that apply 0 1 How we deliver responsible business to our type of business activities. For us, this is not enough: Ethics is an 0 2 Our Core Values essential part of our profession and the spine of our law firm. In everything we do, Wiersholm must maintain high ethical standards. 0 3 Social Impact To fulfil these ambitions, Wiersholm implemented Wiersholm’s ethics expertise and awareness new ethical guidelines in 2018, strengthening the and contribute to good ethical judgements. 0 4 Environmental Commitment focus on ethics in the business. Ethics and dilemma Going forward, Wiersholm will ensure full training is an integral part of Wiersholm’s intro­duct­ implementation of the new mandate. 0 5 Work Environment ory programs and our annual seminars, “fag­dager”, In Wiersholm, we have developed and for all employees. All lawyers are obliged to comply implemented routines related to AML, anti0 6 Reporting & Data with the ethical guidelines from the Norwegian corruption, conflict check, labour rights and Data Bar Association and with the Bar Association’s Privacy, and we have systems for follow-up and requirements for regular training in ethics. internal control. Wiersholm’s own ethics committee shall be Internal compliance within these areas are a sparring partner where dilemmas arise in essential for a law firm as a profiled external ongoing cases, and shall advise the management adviser within these areas. To secure compliance on ethical issues related to the business and sufficient internal control, Wiersholm has management. During 2018, the mandate appointed a dedicated Compliance & CSR for the ethics committee was extended and Officer who is responsible for the internal strengthened, and the ambition is that the Compliance program and internal CSR committee shall be more dedicated and assignments. proactive in its work, contribute to deepening 7 Contents 0 1 How we deliver responsible business 0 2 Our Core Values 03 0 3 Social Impact 0 4 Environmental Commitment 0 5 Work Environment 0 6 Reporting & Data Social Impact 8 Pro bono and sponsorships Contents Wiersholm has a strong and proud pro bono tradition and donates several FTEs of pro bono work a year. In 2019, we worked pro bono for the following partners: 0 1 How we deliver responsible business NOAS – Norwegian Organisation partnership with HumAk we also contribute to the has been a pro bono partner for the Foundation. 0 2 Our Core Values for Asylum Seekers lectures being held during the HumAk week. The Foundation primarily focuses on young Wiersholm has established a collaboration with people who are at risk of being left on the outside 0 3 Social Impact Kronprinsparets Fond – The Crown Prince of the community, and the Foundation therefore NOAS and annually litigates approximately 8-10 and Crown Princess’ Foundation cases on behalf of asylum seekers who risk being always collaborates with selected initiatives that 0 4 Environmental Commitment Approximately 10 years ago, the Norwegian aim to give young people new arenas where they deported from Norway. This is part of Wiersholm’s Crown Prince and Crown Princess decided to can succeed. community involvement, in which we provide pro change the foundation established in connection 0 5 Work Environment bono legal assistance in connection with legal with their wedding in 2001. The new vision of Save the Children reviews of asylum cases of principal importance. the Foundation was “The Crown Prince and Wiersholm provides legal assistance as part of 0 6 Reporting & Data HumAk – Norwegian Law Students’ Crown Princess’ Foundation will strengthen our corporate partnership with Save the Children. Humanitarian campaign young people’s sense of community so that This collaboration includes pro bono advice, Wiersholm is proud to be the main partner of everyone feels they belong and can participate”. professional contributions to Save the Children, HumAk. In 2020, the mission is “Courtrooms on In connection with the restructuring and involvement in specific Save the Children wheels for children” in Malawi in collaboration transformation of the Foundation, Wiersholm was projects, as well as a joint trainee programme and with Save the Children. A late summer festival engaged as the Foundation’s advisor, and since financial support. concludes the campaign. Through our the conclusion of this engagement, Wiersholm 9 Teaching Contents As leading commercial lawyers, our knowledge and conferences Oslo Privacy Conference, Oslo Compliance Forum, Transfer Pricing Forum and Nordic Buy Out Forum have become some of the industry’s experience are our most important assets and our most 0 1 How we deliver responsible business most important platforms for knowledge and experience sharing. In total, valuable and sustainable contribution to businesses Wiersholm hosted 57 seminars, lectures or conferences in 2019 – more than 0 2 Our Core Values and society. Each year, we spend several FTEs creating one event a week. value for others. Thirdly, a number of our leading lawyers contribute to the development of law 0 3 Social Impact and society through the seats they hold in the committees of the Norwegian Firstly, we contribute to educating tomorrow’s lawyers and leaders by Bar Association. 0 4 Environmental Commitment lecturing at universities and colleges, including the University of Oslo and BI Norwegian Business School. We teach at several legal forums such as JUS (lawyers’ education centre), seminars at the Law Society and JUC Norway, at 0 5 Work Environment universities, through private tutoring of students in our office auditorium, and we participate as speakers at external seminars and conferences. We also 0 6 Reporting & Data have an extensive trainee programme, and 80 trainees gained experience at Wiersholm in 2019. In addition, we saw 30 students attending our weeklong Summer School. Secondly, we share our knowledge with our peers and contribute to increased competence in businesses by arranging seminars and conferences in multiple legal areas, focusing largely on sustainability and human rights. Our biggest events in 2019 were Oslo Compliance Forum and Nordic Buy Out Forum with approximately 200 and 400 attendees respectively. Our four annual 10 Responsible advice Contents By virtue of our profession and leading position as a law firm, we have a duty to conduct our business in a 0 1 How we deliver responsible business responsible and sustainable manner, and at the same 0 2 Our Core Values time provide high-quality advisory services to our clients. We strive for excellence and rely on leading 0 3 Social Impact international standards. 0 4 Environmental Commitment Our Code of Ethics summarises what we expect from our employees, our In our terms of business, we have committed ourselves to be an active partner partners and our management in the areas of human rights, sustainability for our clients in their efforts to ensure respect for human rights. We take the 0 5 Work Environment and the environment, working environment and diversity, as well as ethics initiative to discuss the risk of human rights violations, and assist our clients in and compliance. The Code of Ethics supplements our other procedures the work to minimise such risk. We reserve the right to withdraw from the and business principles, and is based on leading international standards for assign­ment should our client decide not to follow our advice in this respect, or 0 6 Reporting & Data responsible business conduct, including the UN Global Compact, the UN if it becomes clear to us that the assignment may result in a violation of human Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and the Norwegian Bar rights. Association’s rules and guidelines. For Wiersholm, it is important to focus on the respect of human rights in all parts The Code of Ethics serves as a guide for our day-to-day business, both for how of the business. Therefore, we have implemented respect for human rights as we conduct our internal affairs and how we practice our advisory services. The part of the agreements with all suppliers in a separate supplier policy, in which Code of Ethics clarifies the principles underlying our role as an employer, as a the suppliers must confirm their compliance with the human rights principles. provider of legal services and as a purchaser and community participant, and To secure compliance and sufficient internal control, Wiersholm has a states what we expect from our staff as employees, colleagues and lawyers. dedicated Compliance & CSR Officer, who is responsible for the internal Ethics and dilemma training is an integral part of Wiersholm’s introductory Compliance programme and internal CSR assignments. programmes and our annual professional seminars involving all employees. 11 Case: Partnership with Save the Children Contents The key for stronger impact is to join forces with a business that strives for the same goals as you, but does 0 1 How we deliver responsible business not have the same expertise as you do. 0 2 Our Core Values 0 3 Social Impact We, as lawyers, are particularly concerned about justice and human rights, and as part of our 0 4 Environmental Commitment ESG strategy we have decided to dedicate our competence and efforts to making a difference 0 5 Work Environment for children’s rights. In 2019, Wiersholm entered into a 5-year strategic partnership with Save the 0 6 Reporting & Data Children. The partnership between Save the Children and Wiersholm is founded upon shared values and common objectives, but also on our complimentary capabilities. Save the Children are experts in children’s rights programming, with a strong local presence in more than 100 countries around the world; Wiersholm’s lawyers are experts in commercial law, with a strong presence in the Nordic corporate sector. The sum is bigger than its parts. 12 Contents In the first year of our partnership, Save the Children and Wiersholm have cooperated to 0 1 How we deliver responsible business advance children’s rights in three complimentary ways: 0 2 Our Core Values • Responsible Business Trainee: Two talented professionals have entered into a 0 3 Social Impact joint trainee scheme, working at Wiersholm on commercial projects and at Save the Children on legal issues concerning children’s rights. 0 4 Environmental Commitment Responsible Business Trainees Edith Thorseng and Sunniva Skar presented the report • Pro bono legal work: Our partners and Revocation and the best interests of the child for Save the Children and NOAS. 0 5 Work Environment lawyers have provided specialised legal services to take a load off Save the Children’s administration and advise the organisation’s 0 6 Reporting & Data The partnership is structured to make as much various aspects of the partnership, for instance management wisely on current legal issues. impact as possible through our competence (1) in interviewing and identifying talented • Financial project support: Wiersholm has and the resources at hand, defined by a team of candidates for the Responsible Business Trainee committed to donating an annual amount of lawyers and business support staff at Wiersholm scheme, (2) in contributing with legal services and NOK 500,000 to Save the Children projects. in cooperation with Save the Children. advise as part of our pro bono scheme, and (3) in Our first donation was dedicated to Save discussing and deciding upon projects to support A dedicated Wiersholm lawyer (partner) is the Children’s work for vulnerable children financially, following recommendations from Save responsible for overseeing the partnership in Norway, including a campaign to address the Children. and the primary contact on our side. The violence and abuse against children. responsible partner is also in charge of the annual coordinated activity plan for our partnership. Wiersholm partners play an active role in the 13 Contents In 2019, Wiersholm supported projects in Norway, Football Federation to prevent and detect • Financial project support: Wiersholm’s and in 2020, we will be supporting projects in abuse against children and young people in donation has supported Save the Children’s 0 1 How we deliver responsible business Myanmar. In addition to the donation from the sports. Wiersholm’s lawyers have also assisted work in Norway to prevent violence against firm, Wiersholm employees give extra individual on issues such as revision of supplier contracts, children, and particularly the development and donations to our project through an optional other cooperation agreements, compliance distribution of animated films and educational 0 2 Our Core Values monthly salary gift to Save the Children. and hearings. In 2019, Wiersholm provided material in schools, in collaboration with the legal advice worth NOK 700,000. Norwegian public broadcaster, NRK. 0 3 Social Impact The partnership has evidently had an impact on both organisations and on children’s rights. 0 4 Environmental Commitment • Responsible Business Trainee: The trainees carried out a legal investigation into children’s 0 5 Work Environment best interests in cases where their refugee status is terminated. Save the Children used the report in their advocacy work. The trainees 0 6 Reporting & Data presented the legal investigation in a public seminar on children’s rights in immigration cases, which Save the Children and Wiersholm hosted in cooperation with the Norwegian Organisation for Asylum Seekers (NOAS). • Pro bono legal work: Wiersholm advised Save the Children when they entered into a new framework agreement with the Norwe­ gian Agency for Development Cooperation (NORAD), as well as when they entered into a cooperation agreement with the Norwegian 14 04 Contents 0 1 How we deliver responsible business 0 2 Our Core Values 0 3 Social Impact Environmental Commitment 0 4 Environmental Commitment 0 5 Work Environment 0 6 Reporting & Data 15 Environmental Commitment Contents We are committed to continually improving our environmental performance as an integral part of our business’s strategy and operation. 0 1 How we deliver responsible business We concentrate our efforts along two lines: (1) to reduce our organisation’s 0 2 Our Core Values environmental footprint in the areas waste, transport and energy, and (2) to positively utilise the indirect impact we have on the environment 0 3 Social Impact through our suppliers and partners. 0 4 Environmental Commitment Reducing our environmental footprint 0 5 Work Environment We are an office-based organisation and our environmental footprint is therefore relatively 0 6 Reporting & Data small. That said, we are constantly making changes to reduce our negative environmental impact. More than half of our CO2 emissions today come from transport. We have updated our transport and travel guidelines. We encourage our employ­ ees to limit air travel and to use environmentally sound alternatives such as virtual meetings. We work systematically to reduce waste. After switching to double-sided printing as the default choice, we have saved about 176,700 sheets of paper a year. 16 Contents In 2019, we started using electronic signing of documents and so far the switch has saved the 0 1 How we deliver responsible business environment 819 kg of wood, 18,274 litres of water, 1,842 kg of CO2 and 121 kg of other waste. 0 2 Our Core Values Our employees’ engagement is critical to achieve our goals. We therefore place great emphasis 0 3 Social Impact on building awareness within the organisation. “Green Week” is an example of such an initiative, where we highlighted how even small changes in 0 4 Environmental Commitment our employees’ habits can have an impact on our total environmental footprint. 0 5 Work Environment 0 6 Reporting & Data Air travel Our environmental footprint Waste 2,43% The Nordics -9,9% Transport 32,30% Europe 22% 240,20 tons of CO2 Long distance 10% Energy 65,27% 17 Contents Making a positive impact through our In 2019, we also joined the industry partnership suppliers and partners Green Forum to exchange ideas on how the legal We have set clear requirements when it comes to sector can contribute to environmentally friendly Eco – lighthouse 0 1 How we deliver responsible business environment in our supplier contracts. The aim is and sustainable development. to ensure that all new and existing suppliers meet Wiersholm has been environment­ 0 2 Our Core Values ally certified through Eco-light­ our environmental standards. We also require of our 30 largest suppliers that they have an house since 2018. Eco-lighthouse 0 3 Social Impact is Norway’s most widely used environmental certification such as Miljøfyrtårn, ISO 14001, EMAS or equivalent. certificate for businesses, and the 0 4 Environmental Commitment first national scheme in Europe to be We are also committed to choosing eco-labelled recognised by the EU. products whenever that is an option, and even at 0 5 Work Environment We use Eco-lighthouse as an a higher cost. environmental management system 0 6 Reporting & Data to improve our environ­mental performance in the areas of waste management, energy consumption, -2,3% procurement and transport. Fuel consumption Supplier policy 21 of 30 of our largest suppliers are environmentally certified 18 Engaging Our People Contents Wiersholm’s “Green Group” “Green Forum” – an industry partnership 0 1 How we deliver responsible business In 2019, Wiersholm established an internal “Green Group”, dedicated to making “Green Forum” is an initiative started by internal green groups across Wiersholm even more sustainable and environmentally friendly. The Green different law firms in Oslo. The Green Forum aims to be a meeting place 0 2 Our Core Values Group consists of lawyers and Wiersholm’s Purchasing Manager, in close where we exchange ideas and inspiration on how law firms and our business dialogue with management, administration and HR. relationships can con­tribute to environmentally friendly and sustainable development. 0 3 Social Impact The group’s mandate is to identify areas of improvement, including transportation and business travels, purchasing, marketing, waste handling In January 2020, Wiersholm hosted the fourth Green Forum meeting with 0 4 Environmental Commitment and recycling, and to propose specific measures to lower the firm’s approximately 60 participants from other law firms and private and public environmental footprint in the respective areas. This has resulted in the businesses. Among the speakers were lawyers from Wiersholm, who talked development of a new transport policy, which encourages and focuses about sustainable finance, the regulation of green bonds and ESG, all topics that 0 5 Work Environment on sustainable transport, the review of Wiersholm’s carbon footprint are becoming increasingly important to businesses across different sectors. and opportunities of carbon offsetting and climate neutrality, focus 0 6 Reporting & Data on environmentally friendly events (both internally and externally), the Knut Johannesen, Managing Director of introduction of environmental footprint as a separate item in Wiesholm’s Sagene Brewery AB, internal index and the establishment of a working group with a mandate to Wiersholm lawyers identify areas of law, under which sustainability may represent a business Helene Bogen and Anne opportunity or a risk to clients. Katrine Ramstad, and Nils Thommessen (former MP at Wiersholm and partner and Senior Advisor in Summa Equity) shared their insights at Green Forum. 19 Case: “Green Week” 2019 Contents In November 2019, we put Monday’s theme was recycling environment on the agenda for Across the globe, so much food and packaging 0 1 How we deliver responsible business sadly ends up being thrown away as trash. As the a whole week at Wiersholm. Green Week began, everyone at Wiersholm was 0 2 Our Core Values The “Green Week” was an reminded of our commitment to recycling and internal campaign focused on reducing our waste, be it plastic, paper, food and so on. 0 3 Social Impact raising awareness about the environmental initiatives we 0 4 Environmental Commitment are taking as a company and 0 5 Work Environment how we measure our progress. Tuesday’s theme was transport During Green Week, we also Today, more than 50% of global CO2 emissions 0 6 Reporting & Data invited everyone in the firm to are caused by petroleum transport. Everyone contribute with ideas on how to at Wiersholm was once again reminded of our guidelines for transport and travel, and make Wiersholm an even greener encouraged to use green methods of transport company. whenever possible. 20 Contents Wednesday we focused on procurement Friday quiz and brainstorm On Wednesday, we informed our employees of On Friday, we challenged all partners and 0 1 How we deliver responsible business our procurement routine for suppliers. Part of employees to take a quiz about the highlights the requirement is that suppliers must minimise of the week, and we announced a winner from 0 2 Our Core Values negative environmental impact and make active those who contributed with ideas for new green choices to reduce emissions. In addition, a measures. supplier shall ensure that subcontractors fulfil the 0 3 Social Impact same requirements. We also showed the positive consequences these measures have had on our 0 4 Environmental Commitment environmental footprint. Thursday we focused on reducing food waste 0 5 Work Environment Thursday’s focus was on reducing food waste and asking for feedback from our employees on what we can do to be even greener. Although we 0 6 Reporting & Data recycle our food waste at Wiersholm, we aim to also reduce the amount of food we throw away. The feedback on this initiative was so positive that the Green Week will now be an annual event at Wiersholm. We strive to further raise awareness and strengthen our commitment to making our business as green as possible. 21 Contents 0 1 How we deliver responsible business 0 2 Our Core Values 05 0 3 Social Impact 0 4 Environmental Commitment 0 5 Work Environment 0 6 Reporting & Data Work Environment 22 Employee satisfaction Contents In January 2020, we conducted an “employee experience survey” among our employees to obtain 0 1 How we deliver responsible business information about the status quo and input on how 0 2 Our Core Values we may develop and improve. The survey was structured around six main areas: working environment, 0 3 Social Impact competence and career development, management, motivation, diversity and ethics. The survey will be 0 4 Environmental Commitment conducted annually and is designed in such a manner 0 5 Work Environment that it may be reused to measure progress. 0 6 Reporting & Data 92% would recommend others to apply The results of the survey were very encouraging. Wiersholm’s culture is perceived as welcoming and inclusive among employees, satisfaction is very for a job at Wiersholm high across the entire firm and employees find that Wiersholm creates a good working environment for 92% would recommend others to apply for a job at 94% are proud to be a Wiersholm employee Wiersholm, 94% are proud to be a Wiersholm employee and 95% feel that they can be themselves at work. At the same time, we found that we have a potential for improvement in management and competence development. 95% feel that they can be themselves at work Following the survey, we have therefore initiated a management development programme for our partners to make them even better equipped for their roles 23 Contents as managers. The management development programme consists of four Furthermore, we have made some changes to our internal sponsorship sessions and individual conversations in each interim period. The sessions programme, so that all employees have an HR sponsor, a professional sponsor 0 1 How we deliver responsible business focus on raising awareness of the management role, intrinsic motivation, and an onboarding sponsor. The purpose of the scheme is for all employees communication, collaboration and follow-up. In addition, each group has a to have their own team of sponsors who actively support the employees’ subsequent semi-annual meeting so as to reinforce learning with the passing professional and personal development. Following the survey, we also 0 2 Our Core Values of time. This autumn, a third group of partners will be participating in this updated our internal “Wiersholm School” with digital solutions to ensure good programme. The goal is for the entire partnership to participate, which is training and with various courses to clarify the expectations of employees 0 3 Social Impact why every bi-annual partner meeting also includes a part of this important and management. In addition, we have introduced new staffing procedures to management development programme. We have observed that the partners’ ensure a more even distribution of job tasks among employees. 0 4 Environmental Commitment strengthening of the management role has had a positive effect on our Our goal for next year’s survey is to maintain a correspondingly high score in employees in the form of increased satisfaction and mastery. working environment, motivation, diversity and ethics, while we hope that the 0 5 Work Environment measures we implement this year will further improve the score in the areas of management and competence development 0 6 Reporting & Data 24 Workplace inclusivity Contents Wiersholm consists of the legal industry’s most accomplished professionals, who have an excellent 0 1 How we deliver responsible business understanding of the commercial context. The 0 2 Our Core Values complexity of our clients’ demands requires us to combine our competence, industry insight, legal 0 3 Social Impact expertise and understanding as a team in order to create the best possible solutions for our clients. 0 4 Environmental Commitment 0 5 Work Environment As people are our most valuable assets, we strive to create an inclusive workplace environment where employees can develop both professionally 0 6 Reporting & Data and socially. As our workplace environment consists of a diverse group of people, we have to offer activities and initiatives that reflect our workplace diversity. Our initiatives include after-work socialisation, football and golf tournaments, seminars and educational courses, group workouts, which all contribute to making Wiersholm a great place to work. Trust is embedded in our collaborative workplace culture. We trust and respect one another to do our best every day; we listen and provide each other with valuable feedback in order to learn more about our profession, each other and ourselves. The inclusiveness of our culture was reflected in our employee experience survey, in which the vast majority of our employees confirm that Wiersholm is an accommodating and inclusive place to work. Two defining aspects, which substantiate our inclusive culture, are workplace diversity and career development. 25 Workplace diversity and equality Contents At Wiersholm, we continually strive to create a culture that encourages fathers as well as mothers to take parental leave, a number which has increased significantly in recent years. However, in 2019, diverse workplace that reflects the diversity of the 0 1 How we deliver responsible business female students constituted 63.5 per cent of law admissions compared to 36.5 world we serve. per cent male students. This gender disparity in student admissions poses new challenges to diversity and equality. 0 2 Our Core Values As our clients develop and face new challenges, we believe that the breadth We have a diversity committee, which consists of both female and male senior of knowledge, diverse backgrounds and unique experience each employee 0 3 Social Impact partners, as well as HR, which has developed and implemented a number brings to the firm allows us to deliver better service to our clients and creates of initiatives, such as the home office scheme, to ensure that we foster an a stronger organisational culture. Consequently, we work hard to recruit, inclusive culture. The home office scheme allows employees a fixed number 0 4 Environmental Commitment advance, retain and promote people from minority backgrounds. of home office days each month. The initiative is also available to colleagues who require reasonable adjustments (due to e.g. mental health issues, etc.) and 0 5 Work Environment We encourage our colleagues to bring their diverse selves to the workplace employees with care responsibilities or extended families. and acknowledge the importance of creating an inclusive workplace environment. During Pride month, we celebrate the LGBTQIA community 0 6 Reporting & Data by showing our support through visibility at work. Our employee experience survey shows that our employees feel they can be themselves at work, which is vital in order to foster a diverse workplace culture. Our employees also Female partners 19% consider workplace diversity to be an asset. Additionally, to ensure gender equality at all levels we continually work 50% of partner promotions last 3 years were female to achieve our goal of a gender-balanced partnership, which takes time. During the last three years, women have constituted 50 per cent of our partner promotions to achieve our goal of 1/3 female partners by 2028. To Female lawyers in total 48% retain a gender-balanced talent pool in the decision making process, we • > 1/3 goal for women in partnership within 2028 systematically work with talent development and follow-up before, during and after parental leave to ensure inclusion. In this manner, we create a workplace • Equal pay and equal retention rate for men and women 26 Contents 16 Languages spoken fluently 0 1 How we deliver responsible business 0 2 Our Core Values 14 Countries represented 0 3 Social Impact 0 4 Environmental Commitment 0 5 Work Environment 0 6 Reporting & Data Wiersholm collaborates with Mino.jur, a student-driven organisation for Wiersholm is a corporate sponsor of Styrelisten, a non-profit initiative minorities at the Oslo and Bergen faculties of law. The organisation aims connecting female talent with boards of directors as a measure to promote to create networks and contacts among minorities, and contribute to their more competence and diversity in the boardrooms. professional development. We hold and host a series of seminars and events We regard diversity as a strength and an integral part of our vision, strategy together with Mino.jur to increase our visibility and we believe this collaboration and continued success. That we are all different is a competitive advantage plays an important role in our efforts to attract more legal talents with minority that will enable us to deliver better services to our clients. We therefore backgrounds. We have started to see the results of our efforts. Currently, our aim to create a culture that will attract, recruit and retain people of various workforce originates from 14 different countries across four continents and nationalities, religions, ethnicities, sexualities, gender expressions, (dis)abilities covers 16 different languages (mother tongue or similar), including Arabic, and ages. Hindi, Persian, Russian, Albanian, German, French and American. Additionally, 27 Career development Contents The majority of our employees started their Wiersholm In recent years, we have agreed on a clear set of priorities and initiatives that include a focus on everyday actions and inclusive leadership, and on improving careers as students, either through our trainee 0 1 How we deliver responsible business the dialogue and increasing the engagement. We recognise that we need programme or as scholarship holders. Our employees’ targeted initiatives and programmes, but believe that an everyday two-way 0 2 Our Core Values career development is an ongoing process throughout dialogue with our employees is the most important foundation for creating individually tailored career paths for each employee. their careers at Wiersholm. 0 3 Social Impact We also know that predictability, facilitation and teamwork are key factors for employee motivation. Our role is to create a set-up that allows employees to reach their own career goals at their chosen pace. We place great emphasis 0 4 Environmental Commitment on teamwork and help each other in order to ensure that each individual can successfully combine work and family. 0 5 Work Environment The legal framework changes rapidly, which means we have to stay up-todate on recent legal trends and laws. Thus, we ensure that our employees stay 0 6 Reporting & Data updated in order to provide our clients with competitive legal expertise. Furthermore, we share our knowledge and experience with industry leaders and fellow lawyers by hosting seminars and courses within Wiersholm’s areas of expertise. Oslo Compliance Forum and Oslo Privacy Conference are amongst the industry’s most valuable knowledge sharing platforms. 28 04 Contents 0 1 How we deliver responsible business 0 2 Our Core Values 0 3 Social Impact Reporting & Data 0 4 Environmental Commitment 0 5 Work Environment 0 6 Reporting & Data 29 Contents Reporting approach Setting targets This report outlines our activities and achievements across the following four Our goals, KPIs and activities for the coming year are set by the responsible 0 1 How we deliver responsible business areas: Ethics, Social Impact, Environmental Commit­ment, and Work Environ­ teams and approved by the management team at the beginning of the year. ment. 0 2 Our Core Values Since last year’s reports, we have made an effort to further align our ESG work with UN Global Compacts SDGs. Analysing our own organisation against a 0 3 Social Impact wider framework helps us to accelerate our actions to realise the SDGs. Reporting cycle 0 4 Environmental Commitment The team leaders provide quarterly reports on progress within the four prioritised areas to our Managing Partner, ESG Responsible, and Compliance 0 5 Work Environment Officer. The team leaders, ESG Responsible and Managing Partner keep our Organisational set-up employees informed on the progress in connection with the general meetings 0 6 Reporting & Data ESG is one of six strategic areas for our organisation. An ESG responsible (allmøter) for the whole company. We also run internal campaigns to raise partner heads our ESG work. Wiersholm’s Facility Manager is responsible for awareness and provide information about ongoing projects through other following up on our environmental commitments. internal communication channels such as our intranet and internal information monitors. The Facility Manager is responsible for reporting on our environmental commitment. HR is responsible for the work environment. Wiersholm has a We submit our annual report to the Eco-lighthouse in March/April. The report dedicated Compliance & CSR Officer, who is responsible for the ethical side presents the results of our environmental commitment and certain KPIs within of business through our internal compliance programme and internal CSR the work environment. assignments. Our marketing department is responsible for the work related to We submit our Communication on Progress (CoP) report annually to the UN social impact together with our pro bono responsible partner. Global Compact. It is important for us that our stakeholders know that we are a responsible and trustworthy company. Therefore, we share the annual CoP with central stakeholders such as clients, suppliers, and employees as well as with the wider community. 30 Goals and progress Ongoing In progress Achieved Contents Social Impact GOAL PROGRESS UPDATE SDGs 0 1 How we deliver responsible business Strengthen Save the Children’s capacity to advance We are the legal supplier for our main partner Save children’s rights through pro bono legal services the Children and cover the organisation’s need for 0 2 Our Core Values legal assistance in Norway. This year we contributed to the renewal of their contract with Norad and The Norwegian Soccer Association. 0 3 Social Impact Strengthen Save the Children’s internal legal In 2019 we established a joint trainee program with 0 4 Environmental Commitment competence to advance children’s rights Save the Children – Responsible Business Trainee. 0 5 Work Environment Increase awareness about children’s rights in society We co-hosted a seminar on children’s rights with Save the Children and NOAS. 0 6 Reporting & Data Assist NOAS in their legal work for asylum seekers We led 6 cases for NOAS in 2019 and provided assistance equivalent to three FTEs in asylum cases. Support human rights initiatives We signed a two-year sponsorship agreement with the humanitarian student organisation HUMAK 2020 raising money for Save the Children. Increase knowledge and share best practice in legal We hosted the leading professional conferences Oslo areas related to ESG and human rights Compliance Forum and Oslo Privacy Forum as well as several seminars on employment law and ESG. 31 Contents GOAL PROGRESS UPDATE SDGs Continue with trainee-program and Wiersholm 80 trainees and 30 attending Wiersholm Summer 0 1 How we deliver responsible business Summer School for students School in 2019 0 2 Our Core Values Contribute with speakers on seminar and 57 external seminar for clients in 2019 conferences i.e. for The Bar Association, legal – more than any previous years network (JUC, JUS), universities and colleges 0 3 Social Impact Host breakfast/lunch seminars and webinars with topics relevant for clients and market in general. 0 4 Environmental Commitment Implementing a new AML-routine and KYC-system Established a systematic approach meeting the new AML rules – KYC is not yet completed 0 5 Work Environment 0 6 Reporting & Data Follow-up ESG training for all employees – on ethics, All employees have been trained through the marketing CSR and human rights groups, and all new employees receive AMLK training and ethics training Advise our clients on human rights as part of the Our policy is now incorporated in our order confirmation assignments 32 Contents Environmental Commitment GOAL PROGRESS UPDATE SDGs 0 1 How we deliver responsible business Energy Current energy use is 128,76 kWh per m2 Target: 120.00 kWh per m2 0 2 Our Core Values Residual waste* Currently: 10,630 kilograms 0 3 Social Impact Target: 9,900 kilograms 0 4 Environmental Commitment Waste sorting* We currently sort 55,05% of the waste Target: 60% 0 5 Work Environment Fuel consumption The fuel consumption went down 0 6 Reporting & Data Target: We encourage our employees to use taxis by 2,3% in 2019 or similar transport as little as possible Air travel Air travel has continued to decrease: Target: We encourage our employees to limit air • The Nordics: -9,9% travel and use environmentally sound alternatives • Europe: -22% such as virtual meetings • Long distance: -10% Supplier policy One more supplier was certified in 2019. Ensure that new and existing suppliers meet our Currently 21 of our 30 largest suppliers are environmental standards environmentally certified Target: Our 30 largest suppliers should have an environmental certification such as Miljøfyrtårn, ISO 14001, EMAS or equivalent 33 Contents GOAL PROGRESS UPDATE SDGs Procurement We are currently buying 37 eco labelled products 0 1 How we deliver responsible business We are obliged to choose eco labelled products whenever possible, even if the cost is higher 0 2 Our Core Values 0 3 Social Impact Work environment 0 4 Environmental Commitment 1/3 women in the partnership within 2028 to 50 per cent of partner promotions last three years demonstrate our commitment to increasing gender were women. We currently have 19 per cent women diversity in our partnership in partnership 0 5 Work Environment Achieve 40 per cent gender balance in promotions 60% of our last promotions were women. to senior associates and managing associates Women currently account for 47% of our managing 0 6 Reporting & Data associates and 64% of our senior associates Continue to ensure equal pay for equal work The average salary for women/men are: • Managing associates: 50/50% • Senior associates: 51/49% • Associates: 50/50% Ensure 50 per cent of women on Wiersholm’s board We are now 50% women in the boardroom 34 Contents GOAL PROGRESS UPDATE SDGs Balanced gender representation in recruitment We have a policy (and we deliver) to always have gender 0 1 How we deliver responsible business processes balance in the recruitment team during interviews 0 2 Our Core Values Employee satisfaction Wiersholm’s culture is perceived as welcoming and Build a work environment where: inclusive among employees, satisfaction is very • Employees report high job satisfaction high across the entire firm and employees find that 0 3 Social Impact • Employees will recommend others to apply Wiersholm creates a good working environment for the for a job at Wiersholm employees. 92% can recommend others to apply for 0 4 Environmental Commitment • Employees are proud to be a Wiersholm a job at Wiersholm, 94% are proud to be a Wiersholm employee employee and 95% find that they can be themselves at • Employees find that they can be themselves work 0 5 Work Environment at work Secure a healthy workplace by constantly The annual absence is below 3.0 0 6 Reporting & Data monitoring the risks to employees’ physical and mental health. Keep the rate of employees on sick leave below 3.0% 35 Awards and recognition Contents Finansavisen’s lawyer survey 2020 Chambers Europe Awards 2020 Kantar Sifo Prospera 2020 Highest ranking of all Norwegian firms. Named “Norwegian Law Firm of the Year” Among the leading firms and top-ranked 0 1 How we deliver responsible business Won the categories: in the categories: • Investigation and Compliance • Banking, Finance & Insurance 0 2 Our Core Values Chambers Europe/Global 2020 • Data Protection • Employment & Pension Ranked in 18 categories, in nine of which as 0 3 Social Impact • Energy and Climate “Band 1”. 47 individual rankings, including 15 top • Public Procurement rankings • Public Procurement • Intellectual Property 0 4 Environmental Commitment • Investigations Legal 500 2020 0 5 Work Environment • Data Protection & Integrity Ranked as “Tier 1’ in 16 of 19 categories. 27 lawyers with individual rankings 0 6 Reporting & Data IFLR1000 2020 Top-ranked/”Tier 1” in all five categories included in the survey 36 Wiersholm at a glance Contents Financial results (2019) Equality and diversity Social impact Revenue (NOK) 850 100 937 Female partners 19% • 5-year agreement with Save the Children 0 1 How we deliver responsible business Expenses 435 860 782 Female lawyers in total 48% • 6 cases for NOAS in 2019 0 2 Our Core Values Pre-tax earnings 413 102 126 Countries represented 14 • 57 external seminars for clients in 2019 Growth 9,5% Languages spoken fluently 16 • Provided assistance equivalent to 3 FTEs 0 3 Social Impact in asylum cases 0 4 Environmental Commitment 0 5 Work Environment Our People Environmental footprint Employees 260 240,20 tons of CO� in 2019 0 6 Reporting & Data Lawyers 184 Emissions from transport 32,30% Partners 41 Emissions from energy 65,27% Lawyers admitted to the Supreme Court 18 Emissions came from waste 2,43% 37 About Wiersholm Contents Wiersholm is one of Norway’s largest law firms and your discussion partner and legal advisor in transactions and strategic processes. We offer professional, enterprising and highly skilled lawyers 0 1 How we deliver responsible business who provide value-creating solutions based on comprehensive commercial and industry insight. We place great importance on always acting with professionalism, with a people-focused approach. When choosing us, you choose a dynamic law firm with integrity, quality and personal commitment 0 2 Our Core Values that puts you and your needs first. 0 3 Social Impact 0 4 Environmental Commitment 0 5 Work Environment 0 6 Reporting & Data Contact us: esg@wiersholm.no Dokkveien 1, PO Box 1400 Vika, 0115 Oslo, Norway Copyright © 2020 All rights reserved wiersholm.no 38
