UN Global Compact COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 O FFI C E O F A RC H I T EC T U R E INDEX STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT 3 INTRODUCTION TO NORDIC 4 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 7 THE NORDIC 2020 GOALS  16 Nordic — Office of Architecture joined the UN Global Compact on the 9th of november 2016. This is our communication on progress on the implementation of the ten principles and the 17 UN sustainability goals for the report period of 2019. The report is funded on continuous dialog with our board and the dialog and reporting from our sustainability network, spanning across all office groupings. The report is part of our framework for transparency and broad staff involvement in developing our company ethical standards and sustainability culture. Our report can be downloaded from the UN Global Compact website and our Nordic website [ www.unglobalcompact.org / www.nordicarch.com ] We welcome feedback on its contents. 2 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT As one of Norways largest architectural practices and with The report period has been an exciting time of exploring international departments and projects, we feel a big responsibility possibilities of collaboration and knowledge sharing with our new in raising the standards for our business and in delivering on our majority owner Norconsult. The coming period will be exiting for ethical and sustainable ambitions in our project, towards our staff, our office, as our headquarter in Oslo is moving to new premises. our clients and the communities we work in. This is a chance to implement our policies in new ways to further improve our routines and project development. We believe this will give us a chance to further raise the bar and improve our efforts. The global construction industry has a huge impact on peoples lives, the environment and the shaping of our future communities. We welcome the opportunity to contribute to a more sustainable Nordic Office of Architecture wishes to express our continued tomorrow and to share our ongoing progress. support for the UN Global Compact and hereby renew our ongoing commitment to the initiative. Our policy We are committed. is founded in our office culture and includes our commitment to the UN Global Compact principles and our strive to continuous improvement through a culture of Oslo, 08.04.2020 transparency, democracy and quality management. Yours sincerely, Since our last report, our office has continued its growth, with an increase in staff, projects and markets. This gives us new and valuable input to our practice and incentives to take further action towards sustainability. Our project portfolio has a large proportion of complex projects Eskild Andersen like airports and hospitals. Such facilities have large numbers of users and huge impacts both in their lifespan as buildings, as CEO of Nordic Office of Architecture functions in the local and larger community, and as physical frames for individuals in pressed life situations. The potential for disseminating best practice through such projects is substantial and of our highest priorities, and we are proud of our achievements and the feedback we receive. 3 WE ARE NORDIC OUR VISION At the end of 2019, our office consisted of approximately POWERED BY COMMITMENT 230 dedicated individuals from around 30 different We are Nordic, a community that have created a culture countries. Based in Oslo, with offices in Copenhagen, for beautiful and outstanding architecture – a culture Iceland and London, we are actively involved in projects Powered by Commitment. on several continents. We aim to be an enduring and significant presence renowned for a culture of quality architecture. Our portfolio comprises the full spectrum of architectural projects, specialising in complex, substantial projects of > COMMITTED TO SOCIETY civic importance. We are geared towards taking complete We are committed to creating the society of tomorrow responsibility for projects with extreme complexity and through architecture that makes a difference. From the high demands on logistics and efficiency. grandest airport to a humble cabin; with the end user in focus, we design buildings & structures that are lasting Over the years, we have gained extensive expertise and beautiful. through a wide variety of projects ranging from large urban masterplans to furniture and interior fittings. We work in integrated multidisciplinary teams to achieve the > COMMITTED TO OUR CLIENTS most innovative and sustainable solutions. Our flexible, We are committed to our clients; to always give our best project based organisation is ideal for work on advice, to provide the best solutions, in short – total competitions and projects of all scales globally, and forms dedication. a platform for learning and sharing across disciplines, projects and localities. > COMMITTED TO OUR EMPLOYEES Nordic covers the following fields: We are committed to give all our employees the best -Masterplanning and urban planning possible opportunities to develop as creative and skillful -Architectural design individuals. -Interior, furniture and product design -Visualisation and film, BIMand design management 4 OUR APPROACH SECURING QUALITY THROUGHOUT NORDIC SHARING TO IMPROVE Nordic is one of the largest architectural practices in We are proud of sharing the achievements in our projects Norway, with several branches and subdivisions. With a with the general public and with the building sector in wide range of projects, both in scale and complexity, it is particular. Continuously raising the bar, and opening up crucial to have a common quality system that is robust for discussion and critique is a means towards innovation. and flexible enough to cover the whole range of our work. Our work is part of the public realm, and we owe it to INTRODUCTION TO NORDIC This includes systems to optimize the sustainability society to aim for the best we can achieve. We present potential of our projects. In the report period, Nordic has our work in a wide range of media and forums, targeting evaluated our systems to look into potential for the whole range from professionals, education and to the improvement in supporting our staff in systematic general public. sustainable design. The work will continue in the coming report period. CHALLENGING AMBITIONS Our experience and expertise form a fundament for KEEPING ON TOP OF OUR GAME advising our clients and partners on their possibilities Keeping at the forefront of architectural practice and and emerging trends. We are keen on taking on tasks that promoting innovation is key to delivering provident bring the architecture business further towards a more solutions to our clients. To continue to achieve this, we sustainable society, and add value for our clients. work on all levels of our organisation to both increase our knowledge, share experience and best practice, and to promote creativity and innovation. Setting aside time to TEAMING UP TO EXPAND OUR SCOPE discuss important topics face to face across the Architecture is a profession that increasingly overlaps organisation has proven a success. Using our online with a range of adjacent disciplines and with growing portal for everyday updates on what is going on in complexity. We continue to partner up with companies, projects and across the company is an important institutions and persons that expand our understanding, information channel. Securing each individual a career knowledge and methodology, fuelling the creativity and plan and allocated time to obtain new knowledge is vital. innovation necessary for delivering cutting edge In our lecture series Nordic talks, a large proportions of solutions in our projects. the 2019 talks were on sustainability. 5 6 Communication on progress 2019 COMMUNICTION ON PROGRESS 2019 TO TRULY UNDERSTAND OUR CLIENTS’ NEEDS AND ALWAYS GIVE THE BEST POSSIBLE ADVICE, TO CONTRIBUTE TO THE SOCIETY OF TOMORROW, TO NURTURE THE TALENT THAT MAKES IT ALL POSSIBLE — THIS REQUIRES TRUE COMMITMENT, THIS IS WHAT DRIVES US. NORDIC — OFFICE OF ARCHITECTURE 7 OUR VALUE FRAMEWORK AND THE TEN PRINCIPLES ANTI-CORRUPTION OUR FRAMEWORK AND STATUS 1 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. > Nordic has zero tolerance for corruption. We always advise our clients without self-interest or third party advantage. We are open about everything we do, both in our work and in relation to our clients and partners. After an initiative from staff, we have started a more transparent line with reports to staff on office finances. LABOUR 2 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to > Nordic supports the right to association. Salary of the first 15 years of seniority is secured through collective agreements. Rights and benefits are the same for all staff, and openly available on our intraweb. Staff appoints a union representative that leads the collective bargaining. collective negotiation processes. The representative is freely available to staff as support and mediator in issues or conflicts with the management. Staff is represented on our office board. 3 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. > Nordic fulfils all its responsibilities on health and safety according to national legislation in our office locations. Specified work hours and corresponding regulations are according to The Norwegian Labour Inspection Authority. The office promotes regular work hours and avoiding overtime. > Nordic has zero tolerance for child labour. Through increasing use of 4 The effective abolition of child labour. building certification systems like BREEAM, we gain knowledge of how to specify building materials with certification on origin, ensuring ethical and sustainable production, including abolition of child labour. > Nordic has zero tolerance for discrimination. The well-being and 5 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and prosperity of our staff is a core value, and our staff diversity greatly contributes to inspiring our office culture and our projects. We occupation. actively work to support the careers of minorities and women to disseminate diversity to all levels of our organisation. We measure salary levels to ensure we offer equal salaries regardless of gender. 8 HUMAN RIGHTS OUR FRAMEWORK AND STATUS 6 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. > Nordic is committed to the protection of human rights. We strive to improve our policies, procedures and project development to strengthen the position of human rights within our sphere of influence. > COMMUNICTION ON PROGRESS 2019 Nordic fulfils all its responsibilities on health and safety according 7 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses to national legislation in our office locations. Through our work we shall contribute to building a better society in every country where we are engaged, including promoting human rights. In the reporting period we have undertaken our first quick check Human Rights Impact Assessment to target areas of improvement. ENVIRONMENT 8 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. > Nordic recognizes the threat posed by climate change to our planet, and supports the targets of the Paris agreement on reducing climate gas emissions. We are in progress of setting out office emission targets and the supporting systems to reach these goals. We continue to pursue provident solutions for our business and our projects. > We have implemented a sustainability framework as part of our 9 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. office project methodology. We have an expert group on sustainability issues available to all projects. They are involved in the continuous improvement of our practice and in disseminating knowledge across our organisation. 10 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. > Nordic counsel projects and clients on the designand business opportunities of sustainable solutions in their projects. We work on disseminating knowledge on sustainable design throughout the organisation. We are open to the opportunities offered by new environmentally friendly technology and encourage innovation and implementation in our projects and organisation where possible. 9 ACHIEVEMENTS IN THE REPORT PERIOD ON THE PRINCIPLES The report period has been marked by several new and demanding projects that in turn required rapid growth in staff and new internal systems and platforms. A busy start of the year delayed the start of planned actions, but in April the forum of department level Global Compact coordinators came into place. Through this network the entire company is linking knowledge&resources and project needs, and ensures reporting on project sustainability progress. We have also spent time through the reporting period on clarifying roles and responsibilities on different levels of the Global Compact organisation. The group level coordinators have undertaken thorough mapping of each department s' project status and staff resources regarding sustainability, challenges and achievements for common learning, and of relevant sustainability topics for tasks at hand. Each department has set its own sustainability goals and ideas for action. The group level mapping ensures that the main goals for the coming period cover all relevant topics in the company, and highlights current office goals that are still to be addressed. Our 2019 project portfolio had a majority within large infrastructureand hospital projects. In addition, a number of projects within more mainstream architecture programmes and scales were undertaken. This includes projects within housing, leisure, schools, hotels, offices and urban planning. Nordic also delivered several competition entries. This wide scope of work required different strategies for following up th GC goals. 10 ANTI-CORRUPTION HUMAN RIGHTS INHOUSE INHOUSE Nordic practices a zero tolerance policy on corruption, In 2018 we undertook a human rights impact assessment clearly stated in our office presentation material. to evaluate our office standings. We identified areas we want to improve, but have only allocated responsibility and initiated the work. We plan for this work to be COMMUNICTION ON PROGRESS 2019 IN OUR PROJECTS undertaken in the 2020 report period. We have encountered no irregularities regarding We continue to support the NGO Architects Without corruption in the report period. Borders with direct and indirect funding. IN OUR PROJECTS We have not established office wide procedures for securing human rights in all supply chains, or for securing local interests beyond the legal standard procedures. We hope to undertake this in the near future. “Carpe Diem” village concept housing/institution for elderly with dementia challenges. Under construction. 11 LABOUR INHOUSE The minimum salary of the first 15 years of seniority is The management has focused on improving the physical set up as a stepped ladder, securing a good salary work environment and staff contentment. Measures development for all in the start of the career. Nordic does include regular and annual staff surveys. not have central salary negotiations, but a dialog with elected staff representatives. All have the right of Focusing on supporting each individual employee, the individual talks. program Nordic Path was launched as a tool for clarifying ambitions on career direction and development. All staff are offered insurances and pension schemes above the legal minimum and within the upper range in Nordic has also given special attention to promoting the our field of business. careers of staff of different backgrounds and gender. The goal is that all levels of the company reflects the diversity The office supports sports activities with a fixed of the general staff. monthly sum as a health incentive. Nordic also offers annual health checks through an affiliated medical centre. -The office has decided to employe a second HSEAlso annual adjustment of the personal workspace by an manager to secure resources and improve facilities and ergotherapist is available. routines for staff related issues. By parental leave, Nordic supports staff financially by In the report period, we have improved routines for bridging the gap between public benefits and ordinary integrating and supporting new staff, including a salary. buddy-program. The annual individual appraisal talks have shifted focus to be more career supporting in topics to be discussed. IN OUR PROJECTS Nordic actively tracks the office total for sick leave, as We follow all legislative regulation on HSE-related issues an indicator on contentment and appropriate work load. in our building projects, including HSE-cards and protective equipment at hand for building site visits for The office abolished the office handbook as a separate relevant staff. document in order to include office guidelines in the employer contract. In this process, the guidelines were We support start up companies through our “foot in the adjusted This is a measure to secure that changes in the door”-program, bringing onboard young companies as guidelines decided by the management imply a revision of apprentices in our projects. the contract to be discussed with staff. 12 ENVIRONMENT INHOUSE Nordic is a member of the Norwegian Green Building Council (NGBC), and is committed to working for a more sustainable building industry through our line of business. This period we signed the Norway Architects Declaration COMMUNICTION ON PROGRESS 2019 of Climate and Biodiversity Emergency. By signing the declaration we commited to pursue nine concrete acts to deal with the emergency. A main focus has been on reviewing our design framework in terms of raising environmental issues from concept phase to completion in our projects. Both methodology, knowledge at hand and supporting tools need to reflect increasing complexity and need for documentation. Above: T2 OSL airport During the period we have mapped our inhouse Below: Laksevåg verft sustainability resources. The mapping enables better use of our current assets and uncover areas for improvement. Nordics training program provides a fixed sum for each employees preferred training. This period we have encouraged staff to chose training in environmental assessment and now have a growing group of trained and experienced staff for international and Norwegian BREEAM, as well as DGNB. We continue to use BREEAM methodology as our preferred tool for securing sustainable qualities in our projects, as this is the preferred tool in Norway. In the report period we have decided to develop our common design methodology to include environmental issues relevant for the individual design phases. This has resulted in a concrete goal for the coming period. 13 The Sustainability Group has held quarterly meetings with the Global Compact Coordinators, for support and coordination of tasks. The coordinators have in turn established a framework of goals, tasks and information flow with their respective heads of department and the connected group of project leaders. In the period the move of the Nordic headquarters to a more centrally located building in Oslo has been announced. The listed building is currently undergoing extensive refurbishment in dialog with heritage authorities and aims for a BREEAM Very Goodcertification. Nordic has played an active role in the decisionmaking regarding the new office, and sees the move as a great opportunity to improve office routines to reduce our emission footprint from office operations. Above: Stavanger University hospital Nordic is committed to be part of bringing new and Below: Telegrafen new Nordic HQ from 2020 innovative solutions to our line of business and has engaged in several research initiatives in the 2019 period. In the Stavanger University Hospital we have been involved in innovative modular design and setting up local element production to save resources. In the period we have joined three research intiatives in the application for funding, for urban scale thermal energy storages, smart city gis-modelling and age friendly urban development. The initial work has been undertaken on the first initiative. 14 IN OUR PROJECTS The project Mjøsbyen Eco-Village aims to become a The Health department health focused, energy efficient development with a strong identity and sense of community. The Aleris hospital extention boasts Energy Class A. The study for transforming Bragernes in Drammen The Stavanger University Hospital works towards a resulted in a masterplan with focus on people´s health, COMMUNICTION ON PROGRESS 2019 BREEAM Very Good rating. development that handles degrowth and upholding the Our human rights focus on deinstitutionalizing health city’s high sustainability goals. care, and using architecture for healing and belonging, empowers a group that is in a difficult life situation and that is challenged in advocating its needs. This period we The housing group completed a project with a particular sensitive approach, The housing group has an ongoing portfolio of modular the Carpe Diem Dementia Village. massive wood projects that result in housing with low emissions from material use. Commercial, hotel and education A second initiative on sustainability is a project that researches the impact of choosing only local materials In the New Government Quarter we work towards a and how that impacts the emission profile. BREEAM Excellent-rating. The group also contributes in the discussion and project The HOT Nordic hotel in Gardermoen is well into planning development of age friendly housing and and also targets a BREEAM Excellent-rating. neighbourhoods, looking into the particular needs of such housing compared to standard solutions in the Norwegian Masterplanning market, and the financial restraints and implications on concepts in remote versus central locations. Oslo Airport City works toward becoming a zero emission smart city urban development. Laksevåg Verft in Bergen is looking into smart city design and has an ambitious energy strategy that includes new energy storage solutions for urban areas. The project also has a strong focus on social sustainability and economic empowerment in urban design. 15 THE NORDIC 2020 GOALS ON SUSTAINABILITY Our goals for 2020 is a continuation of our 2019 goals. In addition to our set of goals, Nordic has set an extra focus on climate gas reduction as a bridging topic that affect all mankind massively in the overseeable future. ANTI-CORRUPTION LABOUR We want to strengthen our efforts against We want our HSE-systems to represent best corruption and bribery in every form. practice in our line of business. INHOUSE INHOUSE Improve our contractual framework to include values on Further develop our work on HSE, including clarifying and zero tolerance on corruption in all our line of business. expanding our documentation routines, ensuring optimal working conditions for staff and establishing grievance Establish guidelines for staff suspecting irregularities, to guidelines in cases regarding HSE-matters. make it easier to take action. Look into supporting further aspects of diversity, for instance evaluating our integration of staff with health IN OUR PROJECTS AND SPHERE OF INFLUENCE challenges or recruiting trainees with a challenged Promote the GC principles and our ethical standards. background. Clearly communicate our line of no tolerance for corruption. Establish efficient means of corruption risk assessment in IN OUR PROJECTS AND SPHERE OF INFLUENCE our projects, including corresponding measures, and make Ensure that national legislative standards are being met by generally available and present to relevant staff. our partners and subcontractors. Develop guidelines on responsible specification in design. Educate more, both inhouse and in our projects. 16 HUMAN RIGHTS We want our office routines to reflect that the We want to promote and secure the human rights rights, safety and well-being of our staff is a core in our line of work and sphere of influence, and value. support human rights-initiatives both through donations and active participation. INHOUSE INHOUSE Continue our Human Rights Impact Assessment work with Develop guidelines on promoting the human rights to SUSTAINABILITY GOALS 2020 annual revisions of our standings, looking into ways to partner companies and clients, particularily in the improve our framework and our concrete impact. international projects. Involve project teams from our Closer collaboration with workers' representatives on international projects on experiences and potential learning verification of office policies and routines. from former and current tasks. Complete work on procedures for personal information, Establish long term support and engagement in charitable according to the EU GDPR directive. organizations or -initiatives that offer humanitarian aid beyond our direct line of work. Clarify and expand policies on anti-discrimination, harassment and cultural sensitivity. Appoint responsible staff where relevant and identify need for training. Establish IN OUR PROJECTS AND SPHERE OF INFLUENCE grievance guidelines to make it easier to take action. Establish procedures and contractual framework for securing human rights in our supply chains, both in our direct project development and through our associated suppliers. Establish routines for early identification of local and indigenous land use-interests, and facilitate consulting processes that seek to safeguard their needs. 17 ENVIRONMENT We want to continuously strengthen and disseminate state of the art knowledgde and methodology in our organization and our area of influence. INHOUSE IN OUR PROJECTS AND SPHERE OF INFLUENCE Continue to train staff in best practice sustainable project Contribute with our knowledge on sustainability externally development for different phases and programs. Further by actively engaging in the public debate, and sharing data disseminate inhouse knowledge and hands-on methodology and experience through events like public lectures, to staff through the departments, the office sustainability exhibitions and conferences. group and our internal web. Increase presence and availability Update our website project section with more of inhouse expertise, and promote more discussion and comprehensive information on sustainable features. reflection on both inhouse and project quality improvement. Strengthen the effort to implement high environmental standards through improving methodology, access to knowledge and support in the projects. Monitor and improve our office environmental profile, and seek to further reduce waste, energy use, unnecessary travel and other resource consumption. Improve indoor climate, sustainable mobility options and choose sustainable options where possible. 18 We want to raise the bar in the building industry, by challenging ambitions, multi-disciplinary collaboration, and pursuing innovative solutions. INHOUSE IN OUR PROJECTS AND SPHERE OF INFLUENCE Improve our contractual framework to always include Support project leaders in the client dialogue on SUSTAINABILITY GOALS 2020 optional services for securing best practice environmental establishing the sustainable profile, and securing it through standards. This can include BREEAM certification, plushouse all project phases. design or other relevant frameworks or services. Promote principles for enabling communities and Pursue an innovative and sustainable approach to tasks at challenged individuals reach both social and economical hand, for example through initiating early multi-disciplinary prosperity. Influence our clients to take greater responsibility collaborations and research initiatives, or joining research in these respects in the construction phase of building programmes. projects. Promoting trainee or internship programmes for Spark the commitment of our staff and increase challenged groups or communities can be one response. possibilities to engage and influence the office sustainable agenda. 19 SUSTAINABILITY FOCUS OF 2020 In the course of the work on sustainability in 2019, the need to directly adress the climate gas emissions in our line of business and in society has become evident. Thus we have decided to create a focus area for our joint effort across our company to secure our contribution to reaching the Paris agreement climate goals. STRATEGY CIRCULAR ECONOMY & TRANSFORMATION Merely designing energy efficient new buildings isn’t enough to reach the Paris agreement target of 45% reduction in emissions by 2030. Nordic believes that the most efficient approach is to contribute to changing the building industry from a linear to a circular philosophy. AREA USE & COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT Context sensitive design minimizes overall resource use and enables the use of local resources. Sustainable community development secures both long term resilient and climate friendly systems and solutions, while creating a good framework for health, welfare and well-being. MATERIALS & ENERGY Measures in these areas are the architects most effective means to help reduce emissions associated with the individual building’s life cycle. 20 GOAL: ZERO EMISSION BY 2040 ACTION ITEM • Always consider possibility to reuse area and built structures. • Enclose information on re-use and recycling in BIM-models. • Create durable buildings and cities by designing for flexibility and quality SUSTAINABILITY GOALS 2020 • Integrate state of the art knowledge, methods and means of documentation. • Calculate, measure and share climate gas emission factor of all projects. • Evaluation of climate gas is mandatory at all design stages, including the concept selection stage. 21 O F F I CE O F ARCH I TEC TUR E
