S U S TAIN A BIL IT Y RE P O RT 2 0 1 9 MAKERS OF TOMORROW MILESTONES 1995 2015 Cybercom is founded in Stockholm by a group of IT consultants. UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon invites Cybercom and CEO Niklas Flyborg to the UN Global Compact Private Sector Forum in 2004 connection with adoption of the 17 UN Sustainable Development Cybercom implements its first Code of Business Ethics and Conduct. Goals (SDGs). The goals are to be met by 2030. Cybercom decides to work actively to support the goals and Agenda 2030. 2009 Cybercom stops giving gifts to employees and clients and 2016 allocates the funds to supporting SOS Children’s Villages. Cybercom is the first in its industry to create an offering that includes the 17 SDGs. 2010 Cybercom becomes a main sponsor of the charitable Cybercom begins reporting according to the Global Reporting Initiative. NGO Hello World! Cybercom’s first group of sustainability ambassadors is appointed. Cybercom begins measuring its CO2 emissions. 2018 Cybercom heads up the digitalisation consultancy industry’s Roadmap for a Fossil Free Sweden 2045. 2011 Cybercom signs the UN Global Compact and commits to the 10 principles. 2019 Cybercom signs on to the Science Based Targets Initiative. 2013 World Finance names Cybercom the most sustainable Cybercom begins analysing assignments for the 10 largest company in the ICT industry in 2019, and in Sweden we are clients with regard to possible sustainability impacts. nominated for the Corporate Citizen of the Year award. The UN Global Compact names Cybercom an Ambitious 2014 Climate Leader. UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon visits Cybercom The digitalisation consultancy industry’s Roadmap for Fossil Free in Stockholm to be inspired by its work with diversity, Competitiveness is presented to the Swedish government. inclusion and migration of international workers. In partnership with the Swedish Royal Institute of Technology (KTH), Cybercom develops a training course in digital sustainability for all employees at Cybercom. CONTENTS MAKERS OF TOMORROW MAKING PROGRESS WE SUPPORT 2 About Cybercom 26 Management approach 3 2019 in brief 26 Stakeholders and engagement 4 CEO’s comment 27 Corporate governance 6 World and market 30 HR governance 8 Strategy and value creation 31 Risks and opportunities 12 Targets and outcomes 33 Economics 35 Environmental and climate outcomes MAKING TOMORROW 35 Social outcomes The annual sustainability report of Cybercom Intressenter AB, reg. no. 559184-2447, is hereby presented by the board of directors. This is the 14 Sustainability programme 36 Management Group’s tenth Sustainability Report. The previous report was published in April 2019. The Sustainability Report constitutes Cybercom’s statuto16 Our clients 37 Auditor’s report ry sustainability report as required under the Swedish Annual Accounts 22 Our employees 37 Board of directors’ signatures Act. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. The Sustainability Report also serves as Cybercom’s 23 Our business 38 GRI Index annual report to the UN Global Compact. A complete list of disclosures 41 Contact details under GRI and the Global Compact is provided on page 38–39. The auditor’s opinion on the statutory sustainability report is on page 37. The sustainability report has not been externally reviewed. CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 MAKERS OF TOMORROW Cybercom helps clients succeed in the connected world and contribute to a sustainable future. We combine technical expertise and business insight to create innovative, secure and sustainable solutions that help our clients ­capture the opportunities of digitalisation. We are Makers of tomorrow. About Cybercom This is Cybercom Cybercom Values Cybercom is an innovative consultancy firm that leverages technical expertise and good business insight to help businesses and organisations capture the opportunities of digitalisation and create the sustainable solutions of tomorrow. Driven by sustainability and innovation, we specialise in system Passion We are driven by a passion to change things for development, cloud services and IT security, improving business the better and are proud of our achievements. ­efficiency and designing digital business models. Our more than1,300 employees work on an international basis with everything from driverless cars, smart industrial robots and connected cranes to national eIDs, health apps, public sector e-services, information security and cloud-based data management. We have employees Sweden, Finland, Denmark, Poland and Innovation India and assignments in about 20 countries. We are innovative and contribute with new ways of thinking, business models and solutions. Vision We are making a sustainable tomorrow and are our clients’ most trusted business partner in the connected world. Business concept We help you capture the opportunities of the connected world. By combining technical edge with strong business insights we provide Trust solutions that are innovative and enhance sustainability. We build trust through honesty, transparency and respect. 1,752.8 102.8 SALES PROFIT AFTER 66% BUSINESS WITH 1,334 EMPLOYEES 45 NATIONALITIES (SEKM) AMORTISATION SUSTAINABILITY (SEKM) EFFECTS 2 CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2019 in brief Highlights in 2019 Business 2019 • The UN Global Compact named Cybercom an Ambitious Climate • Houdini sought out Cybercom to help the company identify attractive Leader. lifestyle solutions with the potential to reduce the consumption of • The Municipality of Jönköping nominated Cybercom as “Initiative of resources. the Year” to highlight activities that are promoting sustainability and • Cloud services from Cybercom are generating new assignments from transparency. customers such as the: • The Half Earth Project, a proponent of biodiversity, named Cybercom – multimedia and online firm Schibsted a Future Company. – a world-leading and innovative toy company • Cybercom joined the Science Based Target initiative. • Business incubator Lead selected Cybercom as its partner to pick up the pace within sustainability. • Cybercom was awarded the status of Amazon Web Services Premier Consulting Partner. • Valmet, the leading global developer and supplier of process technologies, automation and services for the pulp, paper and energy industries, • Cybercom presented the Digitalisation Consultancy Industry’s Roadmap awarded Cybercom an important Managed Service Contract for for a Fossil Free Sweden to Swedish Minister for Environment and Amazon Web Services. Climate (Green Party) and Swedish Minister for Business, Industry and Innovation Ibrahim Baylan (Social Democratic Party). • Cybercom’s IT security experts are trusted by E.on, the Swedish Police Authority, the Swedish Migration Agency and the Swedish Public • Cybercom’s clients gave Cybercom record-high scores in this year's Employment Service. client survey. The Customer Satisfaction Index was 80: 14 points above the industry average. • Cybercom is entrusted with the installation of the CIAM (Customer Identity Access Management) security solution platform at the Swedish • CEO Niklas Flyborg participated in the UN Global Compact Sweden Public Employment Service. Round Table on sustainable development. • Cybercom is awarded numerous framework agreements with • Cybercom’s Gothenburg office was recognised as Office of the Year customers including: by Newst, which is owned by SF Invest. – City of Gothenburg • Cybercom was named the most sustainable firm in the ICT sector – Kraftringen by World Finance for its transparent and comprehensive sustainability – Swedish Agency for Digital Government reporting, commitment to 1.5°C, science-based emissions targets and its work with the UN SDGs. • Cybercom is nominated as the Social Actor of the Year in Sweden. “We are convinced that New majority shareholder is the potential for long-term growth and profitability can investing in sustainable companies only be found in sustainable Formica Capital became the new majority shareholder of Cybercom in February companies and we consider 2019, with a 51 percent equity interest. Cybercom’s position in digitalisation and Cybercom a prime example.” sustainability was the deciding factor in the investment. Formica is owned by the Olsson Eriksson family and makes influential investments in companies that comOLOF CATO bine profitable business with a clear commitment to promoting a sustainable CEO, Formica Capital future. The other major shareholders in Cybercom are JCE Group with 41 percent, Tequity with about 6 percent and CEO Niklas Flyborg with about 2 percent. Five-year review Our offering Operational performance and key figures 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Operating income, SEKm 1,752.8 1,678.1 1,463.0 1,353.9 1,259.6 • Sustainability and business design Operating profit after depreciation 102.8 142.3 112.5 67.8 38.3 and amortisation, SEKm1) • Product and service development Total assets, SEKm 2,092.2 1,102.9 978.4 895.0 879.4 • IT security Average number of employees 1,271 1,223 1,157 1,110 1,150 • Cloud services Number of employees at end of year 1,334 1,290 1,262 1,203 1,218 • Business efficiency Operating margin, %1) 5.9 8.5 7.7 5.0 3.0 Equity/assets ratio, % 49 57 53 48 44 1) Operating profit after depreciation and amortisation pertains to profit before impairment of goodwill and a capital loss on the sale of a subsidiary. Depreciation and amortisation rose by SEK 33m in 2019, related to changes in the ownership structure during the year. CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 3 CEO’s comment From best practice to next practice As we enter a new decade, we can proudly of excellence in key service areas. Technology of all the business we won in 2019 provide recap not only 2019 but ten years of strong is advancing at blinding speed and we are a positive contribution to one or more of the commitment to sustainability. We have deliberchoosing our areas of focus to bring clarity 17 SDGs. We are seeing a positive correlation ately accelerated our work to identify sustainto our employees and clients. to our financial performance, as we have – for ability effects in our business, we have eduInnovation is the nerve centre of our busiyet another year – delivered growth and profitcated ourselves and gathered colleagues in the ness and our innovative capacity drew even ability while creating social benefit and industry to make a joint shift and contribute to closer to the client this year by means of bunenabling environmental gains. solutions for Agenda 2030. Cybercom supports dled business offerings. Sustainability is our The challenge is maintaining credibility and the UN Global Compact and its 10 key princimission, which will become part of our business transparency, which is why we are working with ples on human rights, labour rights, the envito an increasing extent, and we are winning international organisations to jointly draft a ronment and anti-corruption. Our goal is to be more sustainability-related advisory assignstandard for how sustainable business should net-positive. As a consultancy firm, we select ments in the energy and industrial sectors. Our be measured. During the year, we made a forassignments where we can add business value, Sustainability Ambassadors partnered with KTH mal commitment to preparing climate-related social benefit and positive impact on the enviExecutive School to design a course in digital targets in 2020 that meet the standards of the ronment. Technology and digitalisation entail sustainability that all Cybercom employees will Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi). an agenda of transformation and our focus is take in order to gain knowledge and insight Current and future skills shortages are to assure positive effects. We are taking this into the challenges the world is facing and the another challenge for us and the industry. We message into social debate and cooperative impacts we can and want to achieve. must arouse interest among children and young organisational fora. We carefully scrutinise our offerings from a people, ensure attractive academic prosustainability perspective. As of 2019, all quotagrammes and, like our free trade agreements, Strategic directions tions are evaluated based on their contributions also maintain valuable exchanges of skills across 2019 was the starting year for a new three-year to the global SDGs before they are submitted to national borders. This will require input from plan for Cybercom. Our strategic directions are clients. We have been analysing sustainability social actors, politicians, academia and the specialisation, innovation and sustainability. effects in our deliveries to larger clients since business community. Internally, we have identiIT security and cloud services are our strong 2013. We can proudly note a positive trend and fied activities to improve ourselves. We also growth areas along with a number of centres we now evaluate all business. A full 66 percent realise that we can achieve better results in 4 CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CEO’s comment “Cybercom has positioned itself as an agent of change and solutions. Sustainability is our business.” partnership with others. Accordingly, we have gence) to improve Finnish social services. In Our ambition is to ensure and demonstrate for example supported HelloWorld! since the Poland, we suggest to government agencies good sustainability effects in all assignments. beginning and have been a main partner to automate routine checks of water quality to Towards that end, we launched the sustainabilWomen in Tech for many years, as we were achieve faster results through a network of senity course that all employees will complete in once again in 2019. The industry needs more sors, machine learning and data analysis. In order to contribute to Cybercom’s business. women. Women make up 20 percent of our addition to minimising health risks, this saves We take a holistic view and see beyond the people at Cybercom. That is not good enough, time and money. technology to ensure a sustainable tomorrow. and our target is a minimum of 30 percent We are leveraging innovation and ML women employees. I will continue to push (machine learning) to create solutions that preAwards and recognition ­initiatives until we succeed. vent crime in partnership with the Swedish I am delighted with all of the outstanding Enforcement Authority. Innovation is also the awards and recognition we received in 2019. In Value-creating business key word in our work with Skellefteå Municifine company, we were named an Ambitious Cybercom’s client list is outstanding. Every sinpality to create a new digital assistive device Climate Leader by the UN Global Compact, the gle day, we are doing good at companies and that gives structure to daily activities to support Most Sustainable Company in the ICT Sector organisations that want to develop and make citizens with disabilities. We are introducing and one of the top three Swedish social actors. the world a better place. Kone, Valmet, Schibdata-driven predictive maintenance of the ÖreWe have also celebrated with clients who have sted, the Public Employment Service and Zenusund Bridge through ML. This involves replacing won awards for user experience and innovaity are a few of the clients where we have made time-based activities and reducing corrective tions. Cybercom’s position as an important new and exciting advances. As a digitalisation maintenance, which results in longer sustainsocial actor is growing stronger and we are consultant, we are enhancing the innovativeability, reduced use of finite resources and being invited to share our experiences and ness of government agencies and local authorilower costs. We are using cloud-based services points of view. Strong employee engagement ties that are becoming more efficient and delivto cost effectively and securely streamline data has made us a part of internationally sustainering services in new and smart ways. I would management for manufacturing industries in able business. I would like to extend heartfelt especially like to draw attention to our agile Denmark, Sweden and Finland. thanks to all of my colleagues at Cybercom who development teams, whose tasks include helpWe are contributing to IT security at the are driving progress within our company, with ing the Swedish Tax Agency implement the EU European level by assisting DIGIT (Directorateour clients and in society at large. Together we DAC6 directive. The aim is to increase transparGeneral for Informatics). Our Signport signaare #Makersoftomorrow, which comes with a ency in cross-border tax arrangements. This ture service is gaining ground with Swedish responsibility we are happy to take on. strengthens competition on equal terms for government agencies, such as the Swedish businesses and has a clear connection to SDG National Courts Administration and the SwedNIKLAS FLYBORG 16 Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions. In the ish National Export Credits Guarantee Board, President, CEO and Maker of tomorrow same spirit, we are using AI (artificial intellithat want to simplify application processes for citizens. This is saving paper, time and money. Women In Tech As an aspect of our ambition to attract more women to the tech industry and to Cybercom, we are main partners in 2019, and also 2020, along with Accenture, Ericsson and EY, to Women in Tech, the largest inspiration and networking event for women in the Nordics. FOTOGRAF: HILDA ARNEBACK CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 5 World and market An era of intensive change We are living in an era of intensive change. The digital revolution, globalisation and the demands for transition to sustainable business imposed by the climate crisis are altering the conditions of modern society. Cybercom’s business is based on this insight, and the underlying social trends are benefiting our industry. Digitalisation can be an engine of change Worry about climate change has transformed projects since 2019 to determine which have a towards a more sustainable society, particularly in the last year to become a more or less collecsustainability aspect and which of the UN SDGs through tools that reduce the use of resources tive awareness that we are in the midst of a have the strongest links to our business. Turn to and emissions. That means the world needs global climate crisis. The pace of business initiapage 16 to find out more about Cybercom’s specialists who can link business insight with tives for a sustainable future must accelerate – contributions. technical expertise. and this is a business opportunity for Cybercom. The widespread support of the UN SustainDigitalisation – the Fourth The climate crisis demands swift able Development Goals and Agenda 2030 is a Industrial Revolution transition clear sign of the willingness of business to make The scope and significance of digitalisation are According to the annual Global Carbon Budget a positive contribution to sustainable social vast – we are in the midst of a Fourth Industrial report, global carbon emissions rose during development. We believe our sector can conRevolution that affects us all. 2019 by 0.6 percent. Clear changes in every tribute to all SDGs, especially 3, 4, 5, 9, 11 and This is not merely a technical shift. It is a total part of society are necessary if we are going to 13. Cybercom is driven primarily by the quest to transformation of how we interact with each achieve the Paris Agreement target of limiting create solutions that use digital technology to other, including how we do business. The global warming to 1.5 degrees – and there is no help shrink our clients’ climate footprint. We impact is great – according to the IDC report time to waste. have been systematically following up client FutureScape 2019, more than 60 percent of 6 CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 World and market global GDP will be digitalised within two years. nected patients in rural areas, early detection of Cloud services are one of Cybercom’s service Businesses that fail to grasp the opportunities water leaks and energy-smart homes are just a areas, where we offer everything from advisory of digitalisation will be left behind. few examples of how 5G can be used. to operational services. We are primarily speIT is no longer merely a support function. It is 5G will also accelerate the development and cialised in cloud services from AWS and Azure often the core of a business and the mechanism use of artificial intelligence (AI) and machine and achieved AWS Premier Consulting Partner of production. Collection and analysis of big learning, leading to higher efficiency, more status during the year. real-time data makes it possible to streamline automation and better decision input. Accordboth production and use. Servitisation is ing to the Danske Bank IT Update published in Security is an increasingly becoming increasingly widespread – consumers 2019, nearly 60 percent of Nordic companies important aspect and businesses are no longer buying products are already using AI and 30 percent are planDigitalisation also brings new risks. Inadequate alone, but often complex solutions that include ning to do so. security can have serious consequences, from digital services. IDC predicts that a third of all screen-based disruption or breakdown of vital public operaRelationships are changing; it is no longer apps will be replaced by AI technology by 2024 tions like energy supply to threats to personal obvious who is the owner, producer or user. and that 30 percent of companies will be using privacy and identity. One example is the smart home, which often conversational speech tech for customer Physical assets can also be affected. Secure incorporates connected services from multiple engagement within two years. and resilient systems are essential to making providers, such as energy management or optimal use of technology, along with the abil­single-use door codes for home deliveries. Cloud services are the new black ity to assess risks and opportunities and take Digital solutions are also improving the effiMore than 60 percent of Nordic companies action in the right direction. Information secuciency of public management and contributing bought cloud services in 2018 according to the rity is a priority service area for Cybercom, to the democratic process. Danske Bank Market Update 2019. The perwhere we are using experience, tools, skilled centage is also rising in Europe, but from a consultants and agile methods to help clients in 5G is redrawing the map lower level – about a quarter of companies in various industries create the right level of secuThe rollout of 5G began in earnest in 2019. Europe bought cloud services last year. rity and ensure regulatory compliance. 5G is going to connect the world considerably Users now expect to have constant and faster and more reliably, with fewer lags. The mobile access to information, documents, sysShortage of qualified labour technology will be the most powerful technotems and apps. Consequently, major changes The Nordic digitalisation consultancy industry is logical leap in the mobile industry thus far, need to be made within many organisations. growing steadily and thus benefits from strong ­create new conditions for large segments of When they use cloud services, companies pay underlying trends. But there are also chalbusiness and industry and pave the way for for and manage only the services they need, lenges, including a shortage of qualified workmachine-to-machine communication in the without having to store and own them. Secuers. The inability to recruit and retain the right Internet of Things (IoT). 5G will also be a crucial rity, the user experience and flexibility can be employees is the main obstacle to growth. That technological boost in giving humanity a higher. also applies to Cybercom, which is meeting the chance to meet the Paris Agreement target In the FutureScape 2019 report, IDC predicts challenge in various ways, including concentraof limiting the rise in global temperature. that 75 percent of all IT spending will be related tion on innovation and sustainability – two Communication for self-driving cars, sensors to 3rd platform technologies, where data is areas that are very attractive to younger that say when a robot needs service, weather stored in the cloud instead of on local servers to employees. Read more about Cybercom as a information linked to traffic planning, conenable constant access. workplace on page 22. AI IT security Cloud 35% 284% 75% With annual growth of 35 percent in AI spendMore than 7,000 known data breaches 75 percent of all IT spending in 2023 will be ing in the Nordics, the market will surpass exposed more than 15 billion records in related to the 3rd platform – the cloud. EUR 1 billion by 2022. Additional uses are being 2019, a 284 percent increase from 2018. identified and adoption of AI applications is growing. Source: IDC Nordic Digital Insights 2019 Source: Risk Based Security 2019 Year End Data Breach Report Source: IDC FutureScape 2019 CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 7 Strategy and value creation Business insight and digital expertise Cybercom’s vision is to make a sustainable tomorrow and be our clients’ preferred business partner in the connected world. Our strategy to 2021 is clearly focused on innovation and ­sustainability and is based on the insight that digitalisation and advances in technology are catalysts of global sustainability. The cornerstones of Cybercom’s 2. Greater specialisation We specialise in our 4. Expanded client base: We are focusing on strategy to 2021: core skills and service areas. Groupwide Centres ­clients for whom Cybercom’s knowledge and 1. Sustainability, innovation and of Excellence are accelerating specialisation and services create the most value. We will enter ­connectivity are our core skills and are what becoming guarantees that we will always be on into solid partnerships with more clients that make us the leading digitalisation consultancy the leading edge. have an express ambition in one of our specialfirm. Connectivity is our home playing field and ist areas. sustainability will be developed into an increas3. Makers of tomorrow is our mission and ingly important component of the business. We our identity. We are moving from words to 5. Value-based growth We are generating are developing solutions to reduce climate action, cross-pollinating technical expertise growth by servitising and prioritising solutions impact and monitoring how our solutions are with business insight and creating innovative that generate high value for our clients while promoting attainment of the 17 UN Sustainable solutions for a sustainable future. We are focusenabling growth without having to increase the Development Goals. We are carrying the baning on profitable areas and investing in thought workforce. ner of leadership in the industry and are striving leadership and targeted skills development in towards net positive impact. We are continuorder to grow faster than the market. We ously exploring new and better methods. We inspire colleagues, share insights, are changeare finding new paths and building new skills driven, work in teams, reinforce our leadership through groundbreaking client projects and our capabilities and are the best workplace for Innovation Zones. Makers of tomorrow. 8 CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Strategy and value creation Our offering SUSTAINABILITY AND BUSINESS DESIGN BUSINESS EFFICIENCY PRODUCT AND SERVICE DEVELOPMENT CLOUD SERVICES IT SECURITY Cybercom offers services and solutions in IT security areas including business advisory, developCybercom helps businesses and organisations formulate IT security strategies and identify the right level of security. This involves ment of digital, sustainable business models legal and regulatory compliance, for example, and mitigating the and system development, cloud services and risks of data breaches and cyber attacks. Services include risk IT security. analysis, compliance, e-signature, security management and ­further development of already secure systems. Sustainability and business design Cloud services We help our clients rapidly develop and launch successful and Using cloud services is more or less standard in business today sustainable business ideas, concepts or digital apps that are based and the cloud enables digital transformation, efficiency and cost on insights into user needs. Time-to market is cut in product savings. Cybercom is a qualified cloud service partner and offers development and quality, functionality and the user experience the full range from advisory to operational services. We work are improved. with cloud services, security issues and migration, implementation and ongoing management, among else. Cybercom’s consultants are mainly specialised in services from Amazon Web Service (AWS) and Microsoft Azure. Product and service development Cybercom offers efficient teams of qualified consultants who deliver modern, agile development of products, systems and serBusiness efficiency vices. We develop sustainable digital solutions that make clients In Business Efficiency, we offer strategic business advisory where more competitive and innovative. This might, for example, includwe help clients evaluate and design business strategies, organisaing improving and implementing large systems in the public sectional structures and digital maturity. We identify and analyse tor or developing websites, mobile apps and software apps. assets, strengths, conditions, challenges and opportunities. A plan is drawn up thereafter that includes strategic initiatives to futureproof the organisation’s competitiveness and market relevance. CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 9 Strategy and value creation How Cybercom creates value Cybercom is driven by the insight that digitalisation is a catalyst of global sustainability. We create value for clients, employees, society and owners by helping clients succeed in the connected world and contribute to a sustainable future. RESOURCES BUSINESS MODEL 1,300+ employees, 45 nationalities. WE ARE INNOVATING FOR A SUSTAINABLE AND CONNECTED WORLD Offices in five countries. Assignments in 20 countries. Sustainability and Product and IT security Business design service development Cloud services Business efficiency Partnership STRATEGIC STRATEGICTARGET TARGET AREAS AREAS Equity Sustainable Innovation Client value business Employee Growth Profitability satisfaction Intellectual capital 10 CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Strategy and value creation VALUE RESULTS DISTRIBUTED VALUE 2019 CONTRIBUTION Greatest contributions to the UN SDGs in 2019 by Cybercom and its clients Employees: 51.6% assignments CLIENTS CSI 80 In addition to providing a solution we add a sustainability filter to all assignments Very high client satisfaction Other external expenses: 35.7% EMPLOYEES SUSTAINABLE Professional development BUSINESS 66 through varied assignments, Innovation Zones and Centres Society (tax and charity): 1.7% of Excellence % Share of business that contributes to the global SDGs Investment activities: 3.8% SOCIETY More connected citizens, eNPS 18 cities and consumers A higher percentage than the industry index (17) Lenders, financial net: 0.6% would recommend Cybercom to friends and family OWNER Strong profitability and return, growth strategy Owners, dividends: 6.6% CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 11 Targets and outcomes The targets that govern our business In its strategy for 2019–2021, Cybercom has identified the target areas of client value, specialisation (profitability), innovation, sustainable business, Makers of tomorrow (employee satisfaction) and One Cybercom (growth). These are critical and steer our operations and day-to-day activities in the right direction. TARGET AREA TARGET OUTCOME 2019 COMMENTS CLIENT VALUE The Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) Via the annual client survey, Cybercom will improve every year. 80% 72% measures perceptions of the company as a strategic partner and our performance in the areas of value creation and on-time delivery. 2019 2018 SPECIALISATION The operating margin* for the Cybercom Profitability shows how we are develop­( PROFITABILITY) Group will be above 13 percent and ing towards greater specialisation with above 15 percent for the growth areas 9.7 more value-add services. High profitabil9.1 of IT security, cloud services and certain ity means we are investing in areas that Centres of Excellence by the end of create value for our clients. 2021. 2019 2018 * Operating margin excluding acquisitionrelated amortisation. INNOVATION 80 percent of employees will have spent Systematic innovation efforts are more than 40 hours on projects within moving us towards the position of an Innovation Zone as of 2021. 16% ­innovation consultants. SUSTAINABLE 80 percent of all assignments will Sustainability will be integrated into our BUSINESS ­contribute to the UN SDGs. assignments, offerings and culture. All 66% assignments are registered in the CRM system with regard to how they contribute to the global SDGs. EMPLOYEE The employee net promoter score Strategy, leadership and career develop­S ATISFACTION – (eNPS) will increase annually from the ment opportunities promote employee 18 ­M AKERS OF TOMORROW baseline score of 18 in 2019. satisfaction. Measured via aggregated “pulse checks”. ONE CYBERCOM 4.5% The Cybercom Group will grow by Uniform and repeatable processes will (GROWTH) 30 percent in the period of 2019–2021. support a culture of collaboration and Growth will top 50 percent for the Cybercom Group knowledge sharing. We use the same growth areas of IT security, cloud model for investing in and developing 21.0% ­services and certain Centres of offerings and solutions in all Cybercom ­Excellence. regions, enabling exponential growth in Growth areas addition to the number of employees. The groupwide perspective increases internal collaboration and helps us reach our full potential. 12 CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 MAKI NG OF TOMORROW Cybercom’s solutions mean that our clients can make a positive impact on the market. And on the planet. An assignment cannot get any more important than that. Working closely with our clients is second nature to us. Ideally, we want to be considered a partner and engine of value creation in their business. We earn that trust only by staying one step ahead and constantly ­sharpening our specialist skills. Sustainability programme Ambitious sustainability agenda At Cybercom, we regard sustainability as part of our raison d’être. Contributing to attainment of the UN global SDGs is one of our main goals. Science-based targets for science based climate targets within the frameDuring 2020, Cybercom will prepare and net positive impact work of the Science Based Targets initiative adopt long-term climate targets and activities The company’s contributions to a sustainable (SBTi). The ambition is to make sure we do to become climate-neutral. tomorrow are being made on several levels, what we can in our internal operations to preIn partnership with the KTH Executive and we categorise the work in three areas: vent global warming from exceeding 1.5 degrees School, Cybercom Sustainability Ambassadors • Our Clients – while acting as a role model for others. and the Head of Sustainability and Communi• Our Employees The SBTi began with an open letter from a cations designed a Digital Sustainability course. • Our Business large assembly of companies, UN leaders and The course is provided via an e-learning platsocial actors. They addressed a challenge to form and contains 14 modules covering topics Cybercom is also shaping opinion and blazing business leaders to draft business-related cliincluding the UN SDGs, social challenges, the trails by means including leading the digitalisamate targets that are in line with what science role of the IT and digitalisation industry in overtion consultancy industry’s Roadmap for a Fossil demands if we are to achieve the Paris Agreecoming environmental challenges, sustainable Free Sweden, joining the Science Based Targets ment target to limit global warming. value propositions, circular business models, initiative and being proactive within the UN The world needs to create a healthy econpositive and rebound effects, sustainable codGlobal Compact. omy with net zero emissions by 2050. This is ing principles, transformative challenges and Our company culture encourages individual going to take swift and comprehensive changes financial evaluations. The course also sumsustainability initiatives and we seek external in society, which requires both leadership and marises Cybercom’s sustainability programme partnerships to contribute to the global SDGs. substantial investments. At Cybercom, we want and the company’s frameworks, actions and In 2019, Cybercom committed to ambitious, to contribute in every way we can. governance aimed at attaining its goals. SUSTAINABILITY AGENDA Take climate action with maintained profitability Net positive impact by 2030 Fossil free in our own operations by 2045 OUR CLIENTS OUR EMPLOYEES OUR BUSINESS • Client satisfaction • Employee satisfaction – • Reduced environmental Makers of tomorrow and climate impact • Sustainable and climate-positive assignments • Diversity and inclusion • High ethics • Innovation • Training in sustainability and • Active anti-corruption work • One Cybercom the potential contributions of • Information security and data ­digitalisation ­protection • Academies and Innovation Zones • Responsible purchasing 14 CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Sustainability programme Cybercom: Leading the industry towards a Fossil Free Sweden. During 2019, Cybercom initiated and was The digitalisation consultancies’ The digitalisation consultancies the project manager for the digitalisation key commitments challenge the Swedish government consultancy industry’s roadmap for a fossil • By 2030, cut energy use in the industry to take seven actions: free future within the framework of Fossil by at least half and be climate-neutral by • Appoint a digital transformation committee Free Sweden. Thirty-three companies signed 2045. with international ambitions. the roadmap, which calls the government to • Train employees on the impacts of digitali• Update appropriation directions with action and shows how digital solutions can sation from a climate and sustainability requirements for digital low energy accelerate progress towards a ­fossil-free perspective. ­strategies. future. • Agree a framework to report positive and • Encourage reporting of Scope 4 (Next “We have to work on several fronts to negative contributions (Scope 1–4, includscope)/avoided emissions that unpack the optimise current systems and accelerate iniing avoided emissions). potential of ­digitalisation to help com­panies tiatives as well as to transform business and • Launch a web platform containing educabecome suppliers of fossil free solutions. society by developing entirely new system tional materials, methods and case reports • Appoint a fast-track inquiry into open solutions and business models. Digitalisation including climate impacts. data that supports global sustainability. consultancies will play a critical role in bring• Clarify the responsibility for digitalisation ing this about”, said Niklas Flyborg, PresiWorking groups were established in the and sustainability within all government dent and CEO of Cybercom, when the roadautumn of 2019 to develop and agree on ministries. map was presented to Swedish Minister for future efforts. • Allocate resources for a national knowlBusiness, Industry and Innovation Ibrahim edge boost. Baylan and Swedish Minister for Environ• Establish Testbed Zones for sustainable ment and Climate Isabella Lövin. ­digital transformation. CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 15 OUR CLIENTS Client assignments with sustainability filters Cybercom adds a sustainability filter to all client assignments and records their sustainability so that we can track how we are contributing to social development. When we use innovative thinking and established methods to promote information security, business design for net positive impact and innovative service design, for instance, the potential for clients is huge. Advisory for climate positive impact we work closely with the client to explore more fun and more efficient. This attracts users The opportunities of digitalisation and the chalpotential new business models and value propand makes life simpler or better for users. lenges of the climate crisis leave no doubt: the ositions that transform global sustainability entire business sector needs to think again. challenges into business opportunities. We help Development and innovative thinking Cybercom supports its clients at every step of the client create a sustainable business strategy via Innovation Zones the way towards net positive impact (NPI). This that revolves around the opportunities of digiInnovation Zones are hubs for development involves reaching a level where the positive contalisation. We define how the work should be and innovation found at all Cybercom offices. tribution to the environment is higher than the organised, map out the risks and how they can This is where employees, clients and other partclimate footprint left by the activity. be avoided and contribute innovation and the ners can test ideas, try new technologies and We help our clients shift focus from internal production of prototypes and action plans. develop prototypes in a creative environment. sustainability problems to external business Once we have defined what is to be achieved, The teams are cross-functional and the process opportunities. Including the NPI approach gives we move into the delivery phase. This is where can best be described as empirical innovation. companies and organisations the courage to we develop, test and manage digital solutions Innovation Zone started in 2013 and think bigger and in new paths. This leads to based on user insight while promoting a sus­developed over the years and in 2016 become innovative services and new revenue streams. tainable future. We identify needs and behava ­strategic, groupwide concept that boosts Our digital sustainability offering can be iours and design services that are more sustainCybercom’s competitiveness as a supplier and divided into two phases. In the strategy phase, able, faster, more convenient, more human, as an employer. The 2019 client survey beat all previous deliver outstanding service. Clients perceive scores with a CSI of 80 on the Kantar Sifo Cybercom as a trustworthy supplier that pro“It feels like they have a index, compared to the average of 66 for vides services that reflect their needs. The good understanding of the tech and IT firms in northern Europe. Our areas in which our scores have increased world and thus give good consultants rank the highest and our brand most are strengthening client competitiveposition has been significantly enhanced in a ness and delivering on budget. answers and do not miss a strong trend that has accelerated since 2014. • 10 out of 10 would do business with us thing. Cybercom feels The biggest positive changes are found in again modern.” the scores for our employees, who provide • 9 out of 10 are happy to recommend us CLIENT TESTIMONIAL sustainable advice, understand the client’s • 4 out of 10 see clear sustainability effects business and challenges, are honest and from the solutions we deliver. Digital sustainability offerings STRATEGY DELIVERY Advisory Innovation Development Testing Management Strategic advice in the Innovation and Agile development Testing that assures Management, monitoring and areas of business design ­prototypes within of secure and efficient function, user experiimprovements of digital solutions and digital sustainability digital solutions digital solutions ence (UX) and security and climate-neutral cloud services A selection of clients ASSA ABLOY, Ericsson, the Finnish Digital and Population Data Services Agency, Finnish National Agency for Education, Husqvarna, IKEA, KONE, MTV Finland, Posti Group, S Group, SKF, Stockholm County Council, Swedish Public Employment Service, Swedish Tax Agency, TDC and Volvo Cars. 16 CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR CLIENTS Helping our clients become net positive COMPANY OWN EMISSIONS ACROSS THE NET POSITIVE IMPACT EMISSIONS ENTIRE VALUE CHAIN 100% 0% SCOPE 1 Emissions across the SCOPE 2 entire value chain 100% SCOPE 1–3 (Scope 1 to 3) Avoid emissions 200% (Next scope) 300% 400% Buildings Use phase Other Supply chain 500% IT Other Transportation Own emissions From Best Practices to Next Practices impact. In this way, they become a part of the Carbon footprint Cybercom aims to use new technology, digitalisolution to the climate challenge we are facing. A company’s carbon footprint is based on the sation and innovation to help clients design busiThe types of solutions that are positive from company as a source of emissions and includes ness solutions that have positive social impact. a social perspective can generate entirely new the climate impact of the business across the The global Sustainable Development Goals green revenues and promote growth and comvalue chain. The established framework for cal(SDGs) are the focus. Cybercom has developed petitiveness. If the carbon handprint is bigger culating the emissions was developed by Green leading-edge skills in the climate area and Low than the carbon footprint, this growth becomes House Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol). Energy Demand solutions. The social conseclimate positive. This approach aligns with the Scope 1 | Direct GHG emissions quences of the client’s product or service are increasing demands on the capacity of business • Emissions from sources owned or controlled what we call the “climate handprint”. The proto contribute to key political objectives like the by the company, for example, emissions from cess includes calculating the reduction of emisEU Green Deal. owned or controlled oil-fired boilers or vehisions and even avoiding emissions in the comNext Practices are the future solutions that cles that run on fossil fuels. munity where the client’s products and services contribute a positive carbon handprint with Scope 2 | Indirect GHG emissions are used. Cybercom’s goal is net positive impact. higher growth and competitiveness. They are • Indirect emissions from the use of grid-distribThis happens when the positive carbon handthe technologies, products, services and busiuted energy (from purchased electricity, district print outweighs the negative carbon footprint. ness models that can replace current solutions heating, district cooling, steam). and deliver net positive social impacts from a climate perspective. Functionality and user Scope 3 | Other indirect GHG emissions Carbon handprint experience are key elements of the solution. It • Other indirect emissions (for example, from The carbon handprint includes the consemust also be scalable, so that the positive social purchased transportation, business travel, quences that arise in society when technology, consequences spread across the entire world as goods, materials and services). products, services, or business models are used by customers and citizens. A carbon handprint more people adopt the solution. Methods for Best Practices refers to when companies apply gives the company an opportunity to make a calculating the carbon handprint are beginning the best current solutions to reduce their busipositive contribution to society. When compato be established, but there is no standard yet. ness’s climate footprint. Focus is on optimising nies and organisations focus on studying the operations to reduce the company’s emissions, handprint, they are able to develop “Next Pracrisks and associated costs. Standards have been tices” – the solutions that enable system modiestablished that cover well-established methods fications that have significant positive climate of compliance and reporting. CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 17 OUR CLIENTS THE APP THAT HELPS EVERYONE’S LIVES WORK For most people, mundane chores like cooking, cleaning and laundry are routine and require limited effort, but it is not that way for everyone. For some people, planning is a hardship. Being dependent upon others for structure in everyday life can feel frustrating and difficult. Todej (pronounced “Today”) is a mobile app that helps people plan their time better and conserve their energy. The app, which Cybercom developed in partnership with Skellefteå Municipality, was created mainly for people with cognitive difficulties, but can also be useful for other people who want to get things done in an entertaining way. There are also elements of gamification that motivate people to use the app. “Residents of the municipality who have cognitive impairments will now have the opportunity to live like other people do, to live more independently. Many are dependent on ­personal assistance to manage various everyday tasks,” says Carina Norman, an organisational developer at Support and Service, Skellefteå Municipality. SDG 10: REDUCED INEQUALITIES HELPING FIGHT CRIME AND CLEAR DEBT The Swedish Enforcement Authority seizes money and property from criminal activities every year worth millions of kronor an effort that demands efficient methods. Cash, cars, watches, bitcoin and works of art are just a few examples of the items seized by the agency. The Enforcement Authority sells the property at auction to clear debts and pay damages to victims of crime. This also prevents the money being invested in further criminal enterprises, such as the purchase of drugs or weapons. In its crime prevention work, the Enforcement Authority took the ­initiative in 2019 to explore the effects of coordination among employees, artificial intelligence and smart processes within the agency. This was the starting shot of the Harpoon project. As an aspect of the work to develop and test new and innovative methods, Cybercom was involved in creating prototypes that were subsequently further developed for several initiatives within various agency activities. “Since the beginning of the year, we have worked with our colleagues in special collections who work with serious organised crime focused on crime prevention by combining law and up-to-the-minute technology in machine learning. Thus far, the project has resulted in 15 Minimum Viable Products (MVPs) that we plan to produce within the near future,” says ­Nicklas Burman, IT strategist at the Swedish Enforcement Authority. SDG 16: PROMOTE PEACEFUL AND INCLUSIVE SOCIETIES (TARGET 16.4 ­SIGNIFICANTLY REDUCE ILLICIT FINANCIAL AND ARMS FLOWS, STRENGTHEN THE RECOVERY AND RETURN OF STOLEN ASSETS AND COMBAT ALL FORMS OF ORGANISED CRIME). 18 CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR CLIENTS IOT IS ASSURING WATER QUALITY IN POLAND Water is the most essential element in our lives, where supply and quality are critical to a functioning society. In order to ensure good quality in our drinking water, regular tests are performed and are followed up with evaluations. It can take days to get the results of water sampling, which means that any deterioration in water quality can impact many people before corrective measures can be taken. On the other hand, it is possible to prevent people becoming ill from polluted water by automating and shortening the response time for test results. In this project, aimed at assuring water quality more efficiently, Cybercom was involved in developing sensors that continuously analyse parameters including temperature, pH value, flow, cloudiness and odour. The method makes it possible to rapidly identify and localise changes in the water that indicate the growth of pathogenic microorganisms. SDG 6: CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION MACHINE LEARNING PREDICTS ­MAINTENANCE OF THE ÖRESUND BRIDGE Like many others, the Öresund Bridge is on the brink of a more digitalised future. In efforts related to this, a strategy has been drafted for maintaining the bridge by increasing the use of data-driven predictive maintenance. Predictive Maintenance (PdM) is based on machine learning (ML) and is an application of advanced AI technology. The initial project in the effort was run by Cybercom, which was assigned to develop a demo of an ML application that can predict when and where maintenance should be performed. The method also gives the user information about vulnerabilities in the operating chain. The purpose of data-driven PdM is to replace manual status inspections and time-based activities and reduce corrective maintenance. SDG 9: INDUSTRIES, INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE (9.4 UPGRADE INFRASTRUCTURE AND RETROFIT INDUSTRIES TO MAKE THEM SUSTAINABLE) CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 19 OUR CLIENTS INNOVATIVE INITIATIVE CONTRIBUTES TO A MORE SUSTAINABLE APPAREL INDUSTRY Outdoor gear company Houdini partnered with Cybercom in 2019 to study the positive and negative environmental impacts to which an apparel company contributes, with particular focus on how a sustainable lifestyle can be promoted on a global level. The work included in the two-year Regenerate Lifestyle Initiative project includes a report intended to inspire dialogue among apparel companies all over the world. The goal of the initiative is to show how attractive lifestyle solutions could take humanity towards the far-reaching Half-Earth ambition. The report is the first step in the process of studying various strategic opportunities for a sustainable future. “This is exactly the kind of innovative attitude with a positive vision that we need if we are going to have a chance to reverse the negative sustainability trends of today. Through this initiative, Houdini will strengthen its position as one of the first companies in the world among the third-generation susLearn more: tainability leaders that are focusing on the positive contribuwww.half-earthproject.org/discover-half-earth/ tions of business to society”, says Dennis Pamlin, Accelerator Net Positive and Digital Sustainability Business at Cybercom. The Half Earth project unites deep scientific research, leadership and commitment with the idea that if half the area of the Earth is protected, 85 percent or more of all species will also be protected. SDG 12: RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTION AND CONSUMPTION MUNICIPALITY DIGITALISES GENERAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN A general development plan is something that every municiThe aim of the project was to create a dynamic, easy to pality in Sweden prepares to indicate the direction of longuse tool. The new maps makes the work of officials and term development of the physical environment. It is governed ­architects easier, while citizens can more conveniently access mainly by the Swedish Planning and Building Act and the municipal guidelines for future areas for development and Environmental Code and is meant to show which areas that preservation of land and water use. The digital general develare suitable for different purposes. opment plan was launched on Luleå Municipality’s website Luleå Municipality contacted Cybercom about its need to during spring 2019. digitalise its general development plan and integrate it with SDG 11: SUSTAINABLE CITIES an interactive map to make it more user-friendly and available AND COMMUNITIES on their website. In the past, the general development plan comprised downloadable PDFs. The target groups included officials with Luleå Municipality, officials at government agencies, architectural firms and residents of the municipality. 20 CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR CLIENTS CYBER SECURITY IN SOUTH AFRICA In an increasingly digitalised world, the need for cyber security has also grown at the individual level, organisational and societal levels. A research partnership between Sweden and South Africa began in 2019 to study the role of cyber security in our interactions with the world and how that understanding can contribute to greater global sustainability. Scientists in each country attended meetings during the year and began forming networks to reinforce their international perspectives on the subject. Efforts include a clear plan for skills transfer between the countries. The project is divided into three themes: • Societal level – cyber security and the UN SDGs –Within this theme, the researchers are studying the definition of global sustainability with cyber security taken into account. The next stage of the work will involve how cyber security should be managed in each of the 17 global SDGs. • Organisational level – sustainable management of information security – This theme deals with how we can sustainably manage information security in organisations. The focus is on identifying needs for new management methods that rely on human behaviour and motivation rather than micromanagement. • Individual level – cyber resilient citizens – This involves studying citizens’ understanding of cyber security in order to identify new research directions in the subject. Fredrik Blix, Principal, Cybercom Group and senior lecturer at Stockholm University, is running the project jointly with colleagues from Rhodes University, University of Cape Town, Stockholm University and Örebro University. SDG 17: PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS AGILE CLOUD MANAGEMENT MODEL ACCELERATES BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT The increasingly digitalised society is putting huge demands on capacity in ­legacy and complex IT solutions. Systems that were once efficient now need to be modernised to meet changing business needs. For a corporate group that does business in multiple sectors, this can entail an even greater challenge to assure the life cycle of IT systems, accelerate the implementation of new system modifications and build new services. This was the case for Paulig – the biggest coffee and food company in Finland. Paulig contacted Cybercom to discuss their need to migrate legacy systems to a cloud environment. The outcome was a business-oriented and sustainable cloud management model. The management model defines, for instance, how Paulig can continue building its cloud services internally and how the company can develop the cloud project, in concrete terms, within the organisation. This makes it possible to develop and modernise existing and new services for customers in a much more efficient way, as well as to strengthen and assure responsible business processes. SDG 12: RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTION AND CONSUMPTION CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 21 OUR EMPLOYEES Working at Cybercom We call ourselves Makers of tomorrow. Makers because we are making digitalisation happen and moving rapidly from idea to action. Tomorrow, because we want to create a better tomorrow and because digital development should always equate to sustainable development. We learn from experience, benefit from our collective capabilities and are creative in how we apply technology. Boundless innovation Within digitalisation, there are no boundaries between countries, cultures, genders, social backgrounds, age or religion. Diversity is the prime ingredient for developing innovative solutions for a more sustainable future. We know that at Cybercom. At Cybercom, we are the same and we are different. We have a few things in common: our down-to-earth approach and genuine interest in sustainable development and our eagerness to help clients capture the opportunities of digitalisation. We share Cybercom’s values of passion, innovation and trust. We are also a diverse mix of personalities, profiles and specialists. fully chosen range of skills-enhancing activities at skills development for employees between Our employees come from 45 different in our specialist areas. assignments into a strategic, groupwide concountries. The youngest is 20 and the oldest is cept that boosts Cybercom’s competitiveness 69. Twenty percent are women. We are workInternal academies ensure skills as an employer and as a supplier. ing actively to increase diversity and have been development A great deal of energy was devoted to measuring employees’ perceptions of diversity There are some 20 internal academies at Cyberspreading the culture of innovation and the and inclusion within the company since 2019. com devoted to subjects including cloud techmethodology within the group during the year. Change happens fast these days and no one nologies, innovation, machine learning, proThe goal is to increase the percentage of can predict exactly what expertise is going to be gramming languages, agile testing, leadership employees who participate in innovation-driven needed. Knowing that, we have an agile and technical advisory. Some of the courses client projects. The target is for 80 percent of approach and methods capable of handling lead to certification. employees to work at least 40 hours per year change. We are fast learners, flexible and The overall ambition is to secure skills proviwith innovation projects by 2021. The figure for inclined towards development, all key skills at sion and contribute to continuous learning and 2019 was 16 percent. Increasing the number of Cybercom. internal exchanges of experience. There are many employees who participate in innovation projspecialists within Cybercom who are thought ects, and not only the total number of hours A skills arena for people aiming leaders in the industry and their skills are an spent, is an important aspect of the goal. to grow and develop extraordinary resource for the entire company. Each office has a dedicated Innovation Cybercom is a healthy workplace that devotes a Cybercom worked in 2019 to improve the Leader who leads the work and there is a Head great deal of energy to attracting, developing quality of the academies and the eligibility of Innovation at the group level who coordiand retaining skilled and creative colleagues. requirements have been more clearly defined. nates the projects of each office and encourColleagues and culture are essential parts of the About 20 academies were active during the ages greater collaboration among offices. company’s strategy, with focus on skills, innovayear and a total of about 230 employees partiction and long-term leadership. ipated in one or more of them. Efforts to strucCourageous and secure leaders The company is an arena of skills. Here at ture targets, outcomes and eligibility requireCourageous and secure leaders focused on Cybercom, employees gain experience from difments will continue in 2020. ­sustainability and business will take Cybercom ferent industries, companies and organisations. into the future. They also have opportunities to work across the Innovation zones for creative We believe strongly in a cross-functional entire field of IT and develop in various roles. development approach and are always seeking new ways to Above all, they learn in client assignments – There are Innovation Zones at all Cybercom collaborate. Being a leader at Cybercom every single day, we are working in the thick of offices – creative hubs where ideas are born, involves boosting employees, promoting collabthe digital revolution. That is why the breadth technologies tested, pilot projects launched and oration and diversity and facilitating business and development potential that Cybercom can prototypes developed. The innovation teams that creates value for the client, Cybercom and offer are very special indeed. are cross-functional and the process can be a sustainable future. Each employee ultimately owns their develdescribed as empirical innovation. Cybercom’s leadership index is 8.0, outperopment. Cybercom shows the way by creating Started in 2013, the Innovation Zone conforming the industry average of 7.8. clear development paths and offering a carecept has evolved from a limited format aimed 22 CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR BUSINESS High ethics and environmental awareness High ethics, environmental awareness and responsible business characterise every aspect of Cybercom’s business and operations. We are committed to being net ­positive by 2030 and fossil free by 2045. A code of conduct governs how we behave towards others and each other. Internal environmental work through technological progress. As a complelic transport. In another example, all offices and smart use of resources ment to the Code of Business Ethics and Conhave showers and dressing rooms to make it Internally, Cybercom has made good progress duct, Cybercom has an environmental policy easier for people to run or cycle to work. in the environmental area. But the biggest diforiented towards sustainable business. Cybercom has identified business travel as ference we can make is to help clients impleCybercom has an environmental managethe most material key figure where the comment solutions to reduce their negative enviment system. The Swedish part of the system is pany can have the most impact. Travel is mearonmental impact and increase their positive certified under ISO 14001. The environmental sured, regulated and monitored. impact. programme is based on the company’s environBusiness travel has been reduced and we Our ambition is to attain net positive impact mental policy, environmental targets and action travel more often by train, as opposed to flying. by 2030, meaning that Cybercom’s solutions plans. Cybercom has almost no company cars. During and client assignments will have more positive Each office adjusts the general environmen2019, Cybercom sourced and awarded a conimpacts when they are used than they require tal targets and action plans to their specific cirtract to a new travel provider to provide better in development. They should thus add more cumstances. LED lighting and time-controlled opportunities to measure and monitor business social or environmental benefit when they are lighting are being installed where possible and travel. used than the finite resources they require in sorting and recycling waste are standard operproduction. ating procedure at all offices. Legal and appropriate conduct By 2045, we will be fossil free in our own As a service company, Cybercom does not High ethics must characterise every aspect of operations, meaning that Cybercom’s business have much direct environmental impact, but is Cybercom’s business and operations. Cybertravel must be fossil free and our offices heated committed to reducing emissions from business com’s Code of Business Ethics and Conduct using renewable energy. Our purchases will be travel and commuting, for example. The various guides employee conduct and business ethics limited to products that are fossil-free in usage IT solutions employees use for communication are a standing item on the executive team’s and production. with clients and internally are helping us sucagenda. Environmental aspects are included in Cyberceed in these initiatives. This has not only Cybercom respects human rights. Respect com’s Code of Business Ethics and Conduct. reduced travel, it has helped streamline collabofor the individual’s privacy and dignity is fundaThe company’s negative environmental impact ration. mental to all relationships, both within Cyberwill be reduced, the business will act according Employees and clients are informed about com and with clients, partners and other exterto the precautionary principle and contribute how Cybercom’s offices can be reached by pubnal stakeholders. CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 23 OUR BUSINESS Naturally, Cybercom has particular responsibe carried out with respect for and protection Responsible purchasing bility for its own employees. All sustainabilityof personal privacy. All Cybercom suppliers must sign our Supplier’s related principles and positions are specified in Cybercom works systematically with inforCode of Conduct, which aligns with the Cyberthe company’s Code of Business Ethics and mation security based on the company’s inforcom Code of Business Ethics and Conduct in all Conduct, which governs how employees are mation security and data protection policy. The material respects, including environmental meant to act. work is aimed at protecting the company guidelines. We have replaced our own data All employees complete web-based training against intentional and unintentional threats centres with cloud service providers to cover sessions aimed at preventing corruption. The and complying with applicable laws, regulaour own needs and in our business, which has training is based on our Code of Business Ethics tions and the requirements and the expectadramatically reduced our emissions. and Conduct and contains various possible tions of employees and clients. We are coordinating other purchases for dilemmas on which employees must take a Defining the right level of security involves offices and employees by concentrating them position. establishing acceptable risk exposure, performto fewer suppliers to ensure good environmenWe also implemented a whistle-blower ing an analysis and describing on that basis the tal effects. Products must be made with the channel in 2019 for anonymous reporting of organisational and technical security measures least possible environmental impact. This violations of the Cybercom Code of Business required. includes the manufacturing process, choice of Ethics and Conduct. Reports are dealt with by When GDPR went into full effect in 2018, materials, transport and working conditions. an external party. There were no cases of corCybercom implemented a new security organisaWe rely on the supplier’s disclosures concerning rupt conduct or discrimination reported during tion and new policies and instructions to ensure environmental impact and work environment. the year. compliance and raise the level of protection. We do not perform our own audits of suppliers. Skills transfer and the exchange of experiWe also seek to select products that are sustainInformation security and data ence among our internal security organisation able over time in that, for example, all or part of protection and our IT secure business area were reinforced the product can be reused. Work related to information security and data during the year and are creating added value protection involves ensuring the confidentiality, for Cybercom and our clients. accuracy and accessibility of all information Cybercom had no cases of loss of client data assets. Information management must always in 2019. 24 CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Nicklas Burman, IT strategist at the Swedish Enforcement Authority Niklas Flyborg CEO Cybercom M A KING PROGR ESS What gets measured gets done. That is why we have goals and targets for both financial performance and sustainability that keep us on the right track. The thing is, our clients, owners and employees do not care only what we do, but also how we do it. We deliver the right results, the right way. Management approach Management approach The management approach to sustainability at Cybercom is based on the company’s vision, values, Code of Business Ethics and Conduct and other policy documents. Sustainability is integrated with the business and the company’s executive leadership team is responsible for strategic and operational control of the company’s sustainability work and for monitoring the results. ­Sustainability aspects are prioritised based on a materiality analysis. The latest materiality analysis was completed in 2018 and essentially confirmed earlier assessRESULTS OF THE 2018 MATERIALITY ANALYSIS ments of the company’s most material sustainability aspects. Aspects related to offerings, ­clients and employees should be the highest 5 priorities. Sustainable products and services are HIGH Equal treatment Sustainable products and Cybercom’s most material sustainability aspect, services 4 Materiality for stakeholders an assessment that was further reinforced in Skills development Legal and appropriate conduct the 2018 materiality analysis. 3 Sound corporate culture The right to equal treatment is another Smart use of resources aspect that stakeholders – employees in particFinancial stability ular – considered more important. 2 Human rights Information security The analysis thus strengthens the underResponsible purchasing standing that aspects related to offerings, cli1 ents and employees should be Cybercom’s top LOW priorities. 1 2 3 4 5 As regards employees, the study illustrates the importance of culture, leadership and LOW External impact HIGH behaviour. The most highly prioritised aspects in this dimension are equal rights, equal treatment and equal opportunity, along with skills development. STAKEHOLDERS AND ENGAGEMENT The analysis shows that Cybercom also Cybercom’s key stakeholders are employees and the union organisations that represent them, needs to address a number of aspects related to clients, owners and suppliers. The table below presents the aspects that are usually the subresponsibility and compliance. ject of Cybercom’s engagement with each group of stakeholders, the communication and The materiality analysis is based on mapping engagement methods used and how engagement affects Cybercom’s operations. aspects in two dimensions. First, the impact of various sustainability aspects on the external world was assessed. Second, the analysis identiHow engagement Stakeholder Communication & affects Cybercom’s fied the importance of sustainability aspects to group Topics engagement operations Cybercom’s stakeholders (in this case, employClients • Offering • Ongoing dialogue via • Development of offerees and clients) when they make decisions • Quality Cybercom’s key account ings and solutions linked to the business. • Delivery performance managers and other • Sales training • Privacy and security sales representatives • Quality, environment and • Business ethics and consultants information security and HIGH-PRIORITY • Working conditions • Client surveys management systems • Climate performance • Interviews ASPECTS • Procurement procedures Employees • Skills development • Biweekly “pulse checks” • Training • Work environment • Interviews • Managerial conferences • Corporate culture • Ongoing engagement • Employee events and • Diversity and equal vision and values opportunity ­meetings Sustainable products Investors • Profitability and growth • Annual general meeting • Code of Business Ethics and services and owners • Responsible business • Board work and Conduct, sustain• Business ethics • Interviews ability report Suppliers • Suppliers’ environmental • Suppliers’ Code of • Suppliers’ Code of work C ­ onduct ­Conduct Equal treatment 26 CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Corporate governance Corporate governance The general meeting is the company’s supreme operations. Several functions and roles in the Cybercom also has a Suppliers’ Code of governing body. It is at the general meeting business areas and support functions are Conduct. The Suppliers’ Code of Conduct that shareholders are able to exert their influinvolved in sustainability work. ­covers the same areas as Cybercom’s internal ence. The board is responsible for the Group’s Cybercom’s marketing forum and the comCode of Business Ethics and Conduct, except organisation and governance under the Swedpany’s recruiters also contribute to Cybercom’s for financial reporting and external communiish Companies Act. Established procedure sustainability initiatives. Finally, Sustainability cation. Cybercom’s internal Code of Business ­dictates divisions of responsibility between Ambassadors from various parts of the organ­Ethics and Conduct and the Suppliers’ Code the board and the CEO. isation support the work of the Head of Susof Conduct are available on cybercom.com. tainability and Communications by running varIn brief, the Cybercom Code of Business Board of directors ious projects. These projects in 2019 involved ­Ethics and Conduct covers the following areas: The board addressed matters during the year things like production of the sustainability trainsuch as strategy, the business plan and budget, ing course provided to the entire organisation Legal and regulatory compliance All Cyberthe company’s financing and industry trends. The in early 2020. com employees are responsible for acting in board of directors monitors the work of managecompliance with laws and regulations applicament through monthly reports on matters includCode of Business Ethics and Conduct ble to Cybercom’s operations and deliveries. ing financial performance, key data and progress The company’s Code of Business Ethics and When necessary, legal advice should be sought. in prioritised activities. This also includes followConduct constitutes Cybercom’s main sustainCybercom applies the Swedish Code of Corpoing up sustainability and innovation work. ability policy. The Code of Business Ethics and rate Governance. Cybercom reports and presConduct is based on the UN Global Compact ents corporate information in compliance with Sustainability organisation and its principles on human rights, labour applicable laws and regulations. The executive leadership team is responsible for rights, the environment and anti-corruption. strategic and operational control of the compaIt was written in 2004 and was most recently Human rights Cybercom respects human ny’s sustainability work and for monitoring outupdated in 2016. The Code of Business Ethics rights as laid down in the UN Universal General comes. Sustainability work is led and coordiand Conduct applies to all employees and sets Declaration of Human Rights. Everyone must nated by the company’s Head of Sustainability standards for employee professionalism and show respect for individuals and their privacy and Communications. Cybercom does not have integrity to ensure that everyone acts legally and dignity. Cybercom will not in any way cona separate sustainability organisation, as susand appropriately in relation to Cybercom’s tribute to violations of human rights. tainability work is integrated in all aspects of stakeholders. CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 27 Corporate governance Labour law and working conditions. CyberEnvironment Cybercom shall minimise the The company’s assets and confidential com supports freedom of association and the company’s negative environmental impact. information. All business decisions shall be right to collective bargaining. Cybercom does Cybercom respects the precautionary principle made with the good of the company in mind. not permit child labour. and seeks to actively contribute to reducing Employees will be professional in their relationCybercom does not tolerate any forms of negative environmental impact through ship with Cybercom and will not pursue comdiscrimination. All employees have equal rights responsible measures and technological petitive activities. Client trust is of vital imporand must never be subjected to unjust treatadvancement. Cybercom acts in compliance tance to Cybercom. All employees will treat ment due to gender, sexual orientation, ethnic with laws and internationally recognised client information in complete confidentiality. origin, religion, beliefs, political affiliation or ­directives. Information about Cybercom’s clients may only disability. All employees must show respect for be used in the implementation of the project in each other and for Cybercom’s business partCorruption and other prohibited business question. This confidentiality remains in force ners and take personal responsibility for compractices Cybercom complies with the Swedish even after the project has been completed. bating discrimination. Anti-Corruption Institute’s Code of Gifts, There is a clear policy for handling confidential Cybercom offers pay that complies with Rewards and other Benefits in Business, and information. According to Cybercom's security national minimum wage legislation. All employworks actively to combat corruption and unethpolicy, all employees sign non-disclosure agreement contracts must be correctly drawn up. ical practices. Employees must not give or ments. There are clear rules for the handling of, Cybercom also ensures that working hours are receive gifts, benefits or bribes that constitute and access to, materials belonging to Cybercom. compliant with local legislation. a breach of this code. Cybercom is opposed to All employees must have time for rest and any form of money laundering and has taken Professionalism. Freedom with accountability relaxation. Cybercom shall not in any way utilise the relevant measures to prevent financial and focus on the individual are important conforced labour and will always ensure that the transactions that are of criminal intent. Cybertributory factors in Cybercom being able to working relationship between Cybercom and com is politically independent and does not attract highly skilled staff. Cybercom seeks to the employee is at the employee’s own free will. sponsor political organisations. offer all employees the opportunity for personal and professional development. A workplace Health and safety Cybercom shall provide a Financial information and other external that is open, creative and flexible sets the healthy and safe workplace in compliance with communication Cybercom shall be transparcourse for being able to offer clients profesinternationally acknowledged standards. ent and provide relevant information when so sional and attractive products and services. To Cybercom works proactively to prevent accirequired. This means that the company shall sum up, Cybercom shall always conduct itself dents and work-related illnesses. All employees always provide fair and correct information. ethically in its dealings with all its stakeholders. are offered health and safety training as Cybercom’s goal is for communication to required. contribute to a stronger brand. 28 CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Corporate governance CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 29 HR governance Management of employee aspects We develop our leaders and mine the colWe are working on several fronts to ensure Employee aspects are managed at the group lective intelligence of the Cybercom Group an attractive employer brand and to find level. Aims and goals are essentially the same by means including: new employees: throughout Cybercom, although execution may • A groupwide long-term leadership develop• We use a wide variety of recruitment channels vary from country to country. ment programme and cast the net widely both within and outWork with employee aspects was further • Methods for collective intelligence developed side Europe. developed in 2019 in several ways, including: by researchers at the Stockholm School of • We manage the process of applying for work • A new HR strategy was launched at a leaderEconomics permits for foreign colleagues ourselves, and ship conference with 150 participants. we offer language instruction and cultural • HR processes were further streamlined by Offering conditions that attract the right ­orientation classes. improving data-driven tools in areas including employees is essential and those offered by • We are aware that diversity strengthens our headhunting, recruitment and employee Cybercom include: creative and problem-solving capacities and measurements. • Highly flexible and individualised terms of are careful not to reject (or favour) anyone • Digital signatures of all employee contracts employment on the wrong grounds – discrimination is have been implemented in Sweden and will • Competitive compensation and generous, ­prohibited. also be implemented in Poland, Denmark ­relevant benefits • More equal gender distribution is one of the and Finland. • Social security benefits company’s main goals. The current target is • The previous annual employee survey has • Insurance policies with various arrangements for the proportion of women to be 30 perbeen replaced by biweekly “pulse checks”. in different countries cent. (We are meeting the target at the board The four indices tracked are: Inclusion and • Collective agreements in Sweden and Finland and executive level, but still fall somewhat Diversity, Employee dialogue, Efficiency that include benefits related to pensions and short overall, as the distribution at the end of and Collective Intelligence. parental leave supplement, for example the year was 20 percent women and 80 per• Monitoring of the Diversity and Inclusion • Attractive, centrally located offices with good cent men.) index was introduced. access to public transport links • We are partners to the Women in Tech net• Offices that are inviting meeting places for work and event arena and the non-profit There is a skills shortage in the industry and creativity and innovation organisation Hello World! that is dedicated Cybercom is therefore working actively to be an • A good working environment that promotes to spreading knowledge and commitment to attractive workplace and maintain the capacity health and well-being science, technology innovation and art using to attract the right skills. • Variation and development on the job and digital tools. help matching the right person to the right • We continuously develop the Cybercom Employee career development is task ­culture to ensure a working environment continuously monitored through • Solutions that make life easier on the job and where the company benefits from everyone’s • An annual Professional Development Invenencourage a good life/work balance perspective and skills. tory with the employee’s line manager. • Various types of workplaces to ensure flexibil• Quarterly follow-up ity and comfort while encouraging moveThe key policies upon which Cybercom’s ment, for example by the opportunity to play management of employee aspects are: table tennis at the offices. • Code of Business Ethics and Conduct • Health and Safety Policy and Procedures • Diversity and Inclusion Policy • Equal Opportunity Plan • Procedure for Dealing with Discrimination OUR SCORES AS AN EMPLOYER LEADERSHIP EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION 8.0 7.2 7.4 INDUSTRY INDEX 7.8 INDUSTRY INDEX 7.1 INDUSTRY INDEX N/A* * Although there is no industry index, we still wish to measure and monitor our progress. 30 CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Rifsks and opportunities Risks and opportunities Like all companies, Cybercom is exposed to a number of risks that could affect the Group’s business, earnings and financial position. In response, ongoing risk assessments are performed that identify risks and initiate the actions required to manage them. Market and Description Action operational risks Skills provision Cybercom’s business is dependent upon its capacity to attract and Cybercom works continuously with working conditions, company recruit skilled employees and upon its employees maintaining their ­culture, leadership and skills development to ensure that the company skills, continuing to develop and staying motivated. There is high is an attractive employer and has the right skills available. There are demand for qualified labour and the company may have difficulty about 20 internal academies for skills development within the comrecruiting employees to a sufficient extent. High employee turnover pany. Innovation Zones are found at all of the company’s offices to or loss of key people could therefore have negative impact on the provide for skills transfer, explore new technology and benefit from company. the drive and creativity of employees. Cybercom works with brandbuilding activities and recruitment through, for example, participating in conferences, seminars and courses. The company invites university students to write degree papers within Cybercom’s operations. Skills provision to the Nordic markets is augmented with capacity from the centres of excellence in Cybercom’s Polish and Indian operations. The company recruits globally and offers flexible and individualised terms of employment and centrally located offices to attract the right employees. See also the Our Employees section on page 22. The economy The Nordic IT and consultant services market for digitalisation conThe company has developed areas of expertise where market demand sultancy services is affected by the general economy. Deterioration is expected to remain strong for decades. In addition, the company of the general business climate could therefore affect demand for further develops skills in new areas on an ongoing basis and monitors the company's services. national and global market trends. Operations are based on the global megatrends of digitalisation and sustainability, which creates some resilience against economic fluctuations. Client concentration Cybercom’s ten largest clients account for 48 percent of the compaCybercom often has many different, mutually independent projects in ny’s sales and the largest client accounts for 22 percent of sales. progress for its larger clients. The company strives to maintain a good Cybercom aims to establish long-term client relationships. Several balance among clients from different industries and geographies to organisations have been Cybercom clients for many years. mitigate risk exposure. Cybercom’s target is for the ten largest clients to account for 50 percent of sales while no individual client accounts for more than 15 percent of the company's revenues. The strategy for 2019–2021 is to reduce the dependency on large clients and increase the share of strategic partnerships. Capacity utilisation risk Cybercom's revenues are highly dependent upon the number of Cybercom is developing its business and deepening expertise in areas consultant hours sold. Reduced demand for consultant hours affects where demand is growing and is expected to continue growing for capacity utilisation and may be caused by any number of factors, many years ahead. The company's services cover the entire project life including economic downturns and/or lacking the right consultant cycle and consultants are equipped to successfully take on various skills. Moreover, there is risk that clients may in some cases disconroles. Employees are continuously further developed. The office-based tinue projects at short notice, which in turn may prevent Cybercom Innovation Zones are helping ensure that the company has knowledge from immediately occupying the consultants involved in other and expertise in the latest technologies. The company also works with assignments. a large number of sub-consultants so that capacity can be adjusted to the current state of the economy and variations arising from our clients. The strategy for 2019–2021 is to increase sales of bundled solutions that are scalable and value-based rather than sold per hour. Price level and client The level of prices charged to clients are a key component of the Cybercom's strategy calls for the company to work actively with sales ­commitments company’s earnings. When prices are negotiated with the client on outreach and offer more advisory services by engaging in dialogue an ongoing basis, earnings are affected immediately if market prices with multiple stakeholders on the client side (operations, purchasing fall. Fixed price assignments and other commitments to clients, and IT) and moving higher up the value chain. The company continuwhere Cybercom promises to provide a solution or service at a price ously further develops its procedures for assessing and controlling risks agreed in advance constitute another type of price risk. The comin client assignments. For that portion of sales generated by clients pany thus bears the risk that the cost of delivering the assignment with which the company has made general agreements, Cybercom is might be incorrectly estimated. not affected by changes in the price level unless the general agreement is renegotiated, which entails lower risk. The strategy for 2019– 2021 is to increase sales of bundled solutions that are scalable and value-based rather than sold per hour. CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 31 Rifsks and opportunities Market and Description Action operational risks Ethical risks Ethical risks include employee failure to comply with national All Cybercom new employees are required to sign the company’s ­regulations, Cybercom’s Code of Business Ethics and Conduct Code of Business Ethics and Conduct. This is also mandatory for the or employee involvement in corruption, bribery or other irregularicompany’s sub-consultants. Preventive actions are taken at all levels ties. Such actions may damage the brand or lead to legal sanctions of the company by means of communication, training and dilemma and fines. exercises. Environment and As a service company, Cybercom has relatively little environmental Cybercom’s environmental programme is based on the company’s climate-related risks and climate impact. Environment and climate-related risks have environmental policy, targets and action plans. Linked to the target been assessed as low, and are connected to office operations and of a fossil-free Cybercom by 2045, the company is working towards related purchasing, business travel and employee commuting. fossil-free business travel and heating offices with renewable energy. Health and safety risks Cybercom’s greatest health and safety risks are repetitive strain The company’s premises are designed to encourage physical move­injuries and stress-related disorders. ment and variation in working posture. Aimed at minimising stress, Cybercom strives to maintain an open, communicative, reassuring and transparent culture. The company’s employees are provided occupational health services according to their individual needs, as well as tools and equipment to prevent repetitive strain injuries, for example. Human rights Cybercom’s business is heavily dependent on human resources. Cybercom’s management works continuously to ensure that all operaThis entails risk linked to discrimination based on gender, sexual tions follow the company's Code of Conduct and Business Ethics. ­orientation, ethnic origin, religious identity, political affiliation, Everyone must show respect for the individual and their privacy ­disability or age. and dignity. Bank and client There are clauses in the company’s loan agreements as well as Cybercom’s financial structure is good and the company strives to ­agreements ­certain client agreements that give the other party the option to maintain a stable financial base that provides favourable conditions ­terminate the agreement if major changes to the ownership strucfor dialogue with banks. The company has many different client ture occur. If an agreement is terminated, it may have negative agreements, assignments and several large clients. impact on the company. Financial risks Cybercom is exposed to several financial risks, such as liquidity risks, These risks are described in Cybercom’s annual report for 2019. interest rate risks, currency risks and credit risks. 32 CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Governance Economics Generated economic value Consolidated income statement The table shows Cybercom’s generated direct economic value and how this is distributed to various stakeholder groups. SEKk 2019 2018 Net sales 1,723,042 1,663,761 SEKk 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Other operating income 29,745 14,318 Generated direct Employee benefits –923,055 –878,475 ­economic value Other external expenses –603,329 –618,399 Revenues 1,752,829 1,678,203 1,463,498 1,353,925 1,259,598 Depreciation and amortisation –123,597 –38,878 Distributed economic Operating profit 102,806 142,326 value Employee benefits –901,452 –851,299 –785,184 –766,570 –782,933 Financial income 1,788 1,262 Other external expenses –624,171 –645,037 –522,884 –480,000 –408,590 Financial expenses –12,115 –4,552 Charitable donations1) –802 –663 –989 –549 –575 Profit before tax 92,479 139,036 EBITDA 226,403 181,204 154,440 106,806 67,500 Taxes –20,466 –32,574 Profit for the year 72,014 106,462 Investment activities –66,276 –19,197 –24,580 –23,363 –23,873 Net finance income/ expense –10,326 –3,291 –2,592 –5,588 –2,621 Cybercom Holding AB was acquired by Cybercom Intressenter AB in Dividends –115,000 0 0 0 0 February 2019. The consolidated financial statements were prepared in Corporation tax paid the new principal company, Cybercom Intressenter AB, in operation as of by country2) February 2019. The income statement has been prepared pro forma so Denmark –941 –1,970 –1,062 0 0 that Cybercom’s operations in January are included in the consolidated Finland –6,894 –8,965 –7,368 –3,503 –925 financial statements in order to provide a fair view of operations in this India –428 –1,058 –2,138 –754 –573 report. The 2019 balance sheet pertains to the Cybercom Intressenter Italy 0 0 0 0 –1 Group. The comparative figures for 2018 year pertain to the Cybercom China –42 Holding Group. The acquisition has affected the consolidated financial Poland –3,929 –1,322 –1,314 –2,730 –1,755 statements in the form of higher amortisation of allocated acquisitionRwanda 0 0 0 –187 0 Singapore 0 0 0 –466 185 related assets in the amount of SEK 33m in 2019, an increase in goodwill Sweden –16,962 –15,616 –13,008 –4,215 –1 of SEK 640m and an increase in intangible assets by SEK 385m compared South Korea –645 0 –1,316 –1,163 –809 to Cybercom Holding at 31 December 2018. Taiwan –36 –87 –114 –126 –121 Tanzania 0 0 –404 –431 –802 IFRS 16 Leases was implemented from the 2019 close of books. The Chad 0 0 0 –583 –546 accounting standard reduced other external expenses by SEK 48.7m, Germany 0 0 0 –10 0 increased depreciation and amortisation by SEK 45.4m and financial Retained economic expenses by SEK 1.8m. Profit after tax increased by SEK 2.2m. Right-of-use value 4,923 129,700 100,545 63,687 35,658 assets recognised in the balance sheet rose by SEK 143m and lease liabilities 1) A  s of 2017, the value of pro bono work has been included in the “Charity” item. 2) In some cases where the company delivers products or services to another country, withholding rose by the same amount. tax is deducted from the ­payment to Cybercom. In countries where the company has paid withholding tax during the year, the amounts were included in total tax paid. IFRS 16 Leases was implemented from the 2019 close of books. The effect of the accounting standard was a reduction of other external expenses by SEK 48.7m and a corresponding increase in EBITDA, while investing activities increased by SEK 45.4m. CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 33 Governance Consolidated balance sheet Consolidated statement of cash flow SEKk 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 SEKk 2019 2018 Assets Operating activities Noncurrent assets Profit before tax 102,806 139,036 Goodwill 974,795 335,040 Adjustment for non-cash items 113,760 27,922 Other intangible assets 375,207 45,994 Cash flow from operations 216,566 166,958 Property, plant and equipment 26,840 33,557 Income tax paid –40,548 –32,681 Right-of-use assets 143,759 – Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 176,017 134,276 Financial assets 438 856 Change in trade receivables 46,513 –39,938 Deferred tax assets 8,630 4,811 Change in other current receivables 15,449 –18,905 Total noncurrent assets 1,529,669 420,258 Change in trade payables –18,334 37,602 Current assets Change in other current liabilities 5,381 5,685 Trade receivables 436,301 481,310 Cash flow from operating activities 225,027 118,720 Tax assets 760 221 Investing activities Other receivables 11,235 25,973 Investments in intangible assets –2,991 –78 Prepaid expenses 20,047 18,731 Investments in property, plant and equipment –9,840 –17,188 Cash and cash equivalents 94,173 156,444 Sale of financial assets 446 429 Total current assets 562,517 682,679 Sale/acquisition of subsidiaries, net effect on Total assets 2,092,186 1,102,936 cash and cash equivalents –1,479,445 10,157 Equity and liabilities Cash flow from investing activities –1,491,831 –6,680 Equity Financing activities Share capital 98 50 Shareholder contribution 496,969 – Other contributed capital 972,222 391,558 Share issue 475,352 – Provisions 2,851 19,256 Dividends –115,000 – Retained earnings including profit for the year 55,056 223,292 Borrowings 512,500 – Equity attributable to owners of the parent 1,030,227 634,157 Change in other non-current liabilities –46,150 –35 Total equity 1,030,227 634,157 Repayment of debt –120,856 –20,000 Noncurrent liabilities Cash flow from financing activities 1,202,815 –20,035 Deferred tax liability 94,303 21,178 Cash flow for the year –63,989 92,005 Liabilities to credit institutions 400,134 193 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning Lease liabilities 99,666 – of the year 156,443 61,319 Other noncurrent liabilities 1,477 1,230 Exchange rate differences in cash and cash ­equivalents 1,719 3,119 Total noncurrent liabilities 595,580 22,600 Cash and cash equivalents at the Current liabilities end of the year 94,173 156,443 Advances from clients 17,107 27,205 Provisions for restructuring measures 2,496 842 Trade payables 151,583 169,446 Tax liabilities 4,190 13,404 Liabilities to credit institutions 73,929 82,611 Lease liabilities 46,481 – Other current liabilities 41,258 34,314 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 129,334 118,357 Total current liabilities 466,378 446,179 Total equity and liabilities 2,092,186 1,102,936 34 CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Governance Environmental and climate outcomes Electricity usage 2019 2018 2017 Carbon emissions, metric tons 2019 2018 2017 2016 Electricity usage (MWh)1) 935 2,195 2,037 Energy use, Scope 21) 136 293 290 321 Electricity usage (MWh/SEKm in sales) 0.5 1.3 1.4 Business travel, Scope 32) 203 204 277 182 1) Refers to offices and own data centres. Total 339 497 567 503 Emissions (metric tons/SEKm in sales) 0.19 0.30 0.39 0.37 1) E xcluding energy use and carbon emissions from operations in India. The reduction in carbon emissions between 2018 and 2019 were achieved through the sale of a data centre in Finland in late 2018. The conversion factors used are the average country factors. 2) Refers to Cybercom’s business travel by air. The data were provided by the travel agents Social outcomes ­Cybercom uses in each country. 2019 2018 2017 Age and gender Training hours per ­distribution Number Women, % Number Women, % Number Women, % employee 2019 2018 2017 Board of directors 8 50 8 50 9 33 Women 32 32 18 <30 0 0 0 0 0 0 Men 27 38 19 30–50 5 40 5 40 6 17 Total 28 37 19 >50 3 67 3 67 3 67 Development Managers 125 27 121 30 121 26 reviews 2019 2018 2017 <30 7 43 6 17 3 33 Percentage of 30–50 100 25 96 26 91 19 ­employees given development reviews >50 18 39 19 47 27 52 Women 100 95 94 Other employees 1,209 20 1,169 19 1,141 19 Men 100 94 90 <30 354 18 374 20 338 22 Total 100 95 91 30–50 697 20 657 19 664 19 >50 158 20 138 21 139 21 Collective bargaining agreements 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 Percentage of total Employed by employees covered by Cybercom Number Women, % Number Women, % Number Women, % collective bargaining Under indefinite agreements, % 74 74 76 ­contract 1,333 20 1,285 20 1,251 20 – Full-time 1,288 20 1,249 20 1,231 20 Absenteeism, % 2019 2018 2017 – Part-time 45 29 36 25 20 40 Sweden 2.9 2.9 2.9 No. of temporary Finland 2.7 3.0 2.4 employees 1 0 5 20 11 73 Total 1,334 20 1,290 20 1,262 19 Poland 2.4 3.1 2.5 Denmark 2.3 1.5 3.2 2019 2018 2017 Average 2.7 3.0 2.8 Employees by country Number Women, % Number Women, % Number Women, % Sweden 809 21 785 22 775 22 HR key figures 2019 2018 2017 Finland 188 13 179 15 171 12 Percentage of employees with university Poland 300 22 289 21 277 21 degrees, % 85 86 89 India 23 13 24 17 21 14 Average experience, Denmark 14 14 13 15 18 39 years 11 10 11 Total 1,334 20 1,290 20 1,262 20 Average term of employment, years 3.6 3.6 4.0 Average age, years 37 36 37 2019 2018 2017 Change in workforce Women Men Total Women Men Total Women Men Total New hires 405 399 425 <30 35 124 159 34 140 174 44 141 185 30–50 45 178 223 51 155 206 45 177 222 >50 8 15 23 5 14 19 7 11 18 New hires as a percentage of the total number of employees 31% 31% 35% Employees who have left Cybercom 361 364 372 <30 22 75 97 25 77 102 25 85 110 30–50 45 182 227 45 187 232 28 204 232 >50 14 23 37 9 21 30 8 22 30 Percentage of employees who have left of the total number of employees 28% 29% 30% CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 35 Executive management Management Niklas Flyborg Ebbe Bo Hansen Dennis Lundqvist President and CEO, Cybercom Group Head of Connectivity Denmark CIO Cybercom Group Born 1962 Born 1957 Born 1976 Degree in Economics and Business AdministraMsC Computer Science, Diploma Programmes M.Sc. Electrical and Electronics tion, Stockholm School of Economics Single Courses, Copenhagen Business School Engineering, KTH With Cybercom since: 2012 With Cybercom since: 2004 With Cybercom since: 2016 Previous: Mandator, Cell Network, Previous: Regnecentralen, Cap Gemini, Previous: ÅF, Epsilon Observer/Cision, Capgemini ­International Datasupport, Logica, Ciber Richard Brolin Camilla Öberg Tony Hendrell General Counsel, Cybercom Group CFO Cybercom Group Head of Cybercom AWS Business Group Born 1973 Born 1964 Born 1978 LL.M. Stockholm University Degree in Economics and Business AdministraB. Sc. Software Engineering, Stadia Helsinki With Cybercom since: 2018 tion, Stockholm School of Economics With Cybercom since: 2010 Previous: Law firm of Sandart & Partners, With Cybercom since: 2012 Previous: Atea, Alma Media, MTV Kamera Interactive, af Petersens Law Firm, Previous: Logica, WM-data, SEB, Lexicon and SunGard Data Systems Inc., Openlink Swegro group Financial LLC Göran Dahlberg Head of Secure Annika Nordlander Kristina Cato Born 1973 Head of Connectivity Sweden Head of Sustainability and Communications Huthwaite International, ETS Assessment Born 1959 and Development, Technical Foundation Cybercom Group Systems Engineering, Mid Sweden University Year (KTH) Born 1968 With Cybercom since: 2014 With Cybercom since: 2013 M.A, Uppsala University Previous: Ericsson, Fujitsu, Merkantildata, Previous: Postnord, Observer/Cision, With Cybercom since: 1999 DFind IT, Proffice. Romeike, Imedia Previous: Linköping University Hospital Tapio Koivisto Bo Strömqvist Head of Connectivity Finland Head of Sales Cybercom Group Born 1980 Born 1964 B. Sc. Media Technology, Metropolia Helsinki BSc in Systems Analysis, Linköping University, With Cybercom since: 2004 Washington State University Previous: Alma Media, Andritz With Cybercom since: 2012 Previous: Rational Software, IBM, TDC, Cision, Enea Jan Matulewicz Head of Connectivity Poland Linda Westlund Born 1978 Head of HR Cybercom Group MBA, University of Łódz Born 1978 With Cybercom since: 2016 B.Sc. in Sociology/Human Resources Previous: Ericpol Management, Mid Sweden University With Cybercom since: 2014 Previous: Uniflex Bemanning, Mistat 36 CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Auditor’s report Auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report To the general meeting of shareholders in ­Cybercom Intressenter AB, reg. no. 559184-2447 Engagement and responsibility The board of directors is responsible for the 2019 statutory sustainability report and for its preparation in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. Scope and orientation of the examination Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory ­sustainability report. This means that our examination of the statutory sustainability report is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinion. Opinion A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. Stockholm, 27 March 2020 KPMG AB Helena Arvidsson Älgne Authorised Public Accountant Board of directors’ signatures Stockholm, 25 March 2020 Board of Directors CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 37 GRI Index Index for Global Reporting Initiative and the UN Global Compact The following index provides page references to where GRI disclosures can be found in our sustainability report. The index also includes references to the principles of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) (www.unglobalcompact.org). GRI STANDARDS 2016 Page reference Remarks UNGC GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016 Organizational profile 102-1 The name of the organisation Inside cover 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 2, 8–9 102-3 Location of headquarters 2 102-4 Location of operations 2, back cover 102-5 Ownership and legal form 3 102-6 Markets served 2, back cover Scale of the organisation, including number of employees, 102-7 entities, sales, equity 33–35 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 35 Principle 10 102-9 Supply chain 24–27 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain 3 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 28 102-12 External initiatives 8, 14 102-13 Membership of associations 14, 15 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4–5 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 27 Principle 10 Governance 102-18 Governance structure 27 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 26 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 35 Principle 3 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 26 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 26 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 26 Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 38 All entities unless otherwise stated 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 26 102-47 List of material topics 26 No corrections have 102-48 Restatements of information 38 been made 102-49 Changes in reporting 26 102-50 Reporting period Inside cover 102-51 Date of most recent report Inside cover 102-52 Reporting cycle Inside cover 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 41 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with GRI Inside cover 102-55 GRI content index 38–39 102-56 External assurance 37 38 CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI Index GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 26 103-2 The management approach and its components 27–29 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 23–24, 28–30 SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES GRI 200: ECONOMIC 2016 GRI 201: Economic performance 2016 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 2, 33–34 GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 32 Principle 10 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 24 Principle 10 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 24 Principle 10 GRI 300: ENVIRONMENTAL 2016 GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation 35 Principles 7, 8 302-3 Energy intensity 35 Principle 8 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 17, 35 Principles 7, 8 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 17, 35 Principles 7, 8 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 17, 35 Principle 8 GRI 400: SOCIAL 2016 GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 35 Principle 6 GRI 403: Occupational Health 2016 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days. 35 In view of the nature Absenteeism and number of work-related fatalities. of the business, Cybercom has elected to report only absenteeism. GRI 404: Training and education 2016 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 35 Principle 6 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 35 development reviews Principle 6 GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunity 2016 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 35 Principle 6 GRI 406 Incidents and discrimination and corrective actions taken 2016 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 24 Principle 6 GRI 407: Freedom of association and collective bargaining 2016 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of 39 Cybercom reports association and collective bargaining may be at risk. the percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Other employees are covered by the right to collective bargaining with the Principles 1, 2, 3, 4, employer. 5, 6 GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of client privacy 24 and loss of client data CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 39 MAKING TOMORROW Cybercom’s solutions mean that our clients can make a positive impression on the market. And on the planet. An assignment cannot not get any more important than that. Working closely with our clients is second nature to us. Ideally, we want to be considered a partner and engine of value creation in their business. We earn that trust only by staying one step ahead and constantly sharpening our specialist skills. 40 CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Would you like to know more about Production: Cybercom’s sustainability work? Cybercom in partnership with Hallvarsson & Halvarsson Niklas Flyborg Photo: President and CEO Mattias Bardå, Hilda Arneback (p.5), ­Houdini (p.20), Fredrik Blix, Istock photo niklas.flyborg@cybercom.com och Unsplash. +46 70 594 96 78 cybercom.com Cybercom Group +46 8 578 646 00 Box 7574, 103 93 Stockholm, Sweden Cybercom has offices in Bydgoszcz | Copenhagen | Gothenburg Helsinki Jönköping | Karlskrona | Linköping | Lodz | Lund | Malmö | Mumbai Stockholm | Sundsvall | Tampere | Västerås | Warsaw | Östersund
