You will like the future Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability 20 Report 18 WELCOME to the 4 Sustainability Letter from the Report 2018 Executive Chairman 5 Letter from the Chief Operating Oﬃcer For the first time, Redexis prepares its Sustainability Report, with the aim of publishing the most relevant non-financial information for the 2018 year, and as a supplement to the information presented in 6 the company's Annual Report. Milestones The contents of this document are based on 2018 the results obtained in the Materiality Analysis carried out by Redexis, which puts together the 10 most relevant matters for the Group in 2018, and takes into account advanced transparency and Strategy corporate communication criteria. and creation of Value This Sustainability Report reviews Redexis' activity and results and brings forth a vision of 20 its business model, environmental and social Our activity management and strategic approach. in 2018 The objective of the presented information is to communicate, in an understandable manner that is accessible to all audiences, how Redexis creates value through its activities in a way that is coherent with the environment. 38 In addition, it demonstrates the Group's commitment to the Ten Principles of the Global Perspectives Compact and the United Nations Sustainable for 2019 Development Goals, and represents the company's Progress Report in the implementation 44 of these principles. Readers can access this Sustainability Report, the About Annual Report and additional information, through this report the Redexis website at www.redexisgas.es We carry energy. 2 We deliver future. Contents 3 Sustainability 20 Report 18 gas to 500 municipalities throughout the will result in important savings both in centres, and connecting 45,000 new whole national territory. electricity consumption and costs. homes, businesses and industries. All At Redexis we have this activity contributes greatly to the included in our strategy, This deployment promotes sustainable The future lies in innovation and in the development of the regions in which digitalisation of processes, and that is why, in a transversal manner, economic growth in all territories where we operate, simultaneously improving Redexis is present, creating direct and at Redexis, we now have in place artificial the quality of life of residents and all business areas and indirect employment, and boosting intelligence algorithms which allow us ensuring the continuity and safety dimensions related to energy eﬃciency in regional business to improve eﬃciency and commercial of the energy supply. One of our and industry. The purpose is clear: to oﬀer activities for users who wish to be main commitments here at Redexis sustainability in order to Letter from more and better services, reinforcing security and increasing our commitment connected to our networks. is to a responsible management of the environment and a reduction of achive a more responsible economic, social and the Executive Redexis increases its to the environment. Letter from greenhouse gas emissions. environmental growth At Redexis, we have adopted as our main value daily, and constitutes an Among the measures implemented Chairman commitment the fight against climate change, the development of renewable energies and the reduction of emissions. innovative, dynamic Group in constant evolution the Chief for the control of emissions is the 2018 calculation of our Carbon Footprint, in its scopes 1 and 2, and biomethane for its injection into the Operating network. the inclusion and certification of our One of Redexis' most relevant milestones As a Group, and implicated in the Management System under the ISO Apart from working towards the Based on the commitment of Redexis to a more sustainable society and economy, we have put together this in regards to sustainable mobility is the signing of an agreement with Cepsa, a global energy group, for the creation of development of a sustainable and environmentally friendly economy, we have incorporated into our management Oﬃcer 50.001:2001 standard, which provides the necessary tools for managing our energy resources in a more eﬃcient conservation of our environment, from Redexis we have been promoting during the year other strategic aspects first Sustainability Report, in which we the largest network of Natural Gas Vehicles systems the ISO 14001:2015 and ISO manner. such as safety and security, both of provide the most relevant non-financial (NGV) refuelling stations in Spain, with the 50.001:2001 standards, which enable us our facilities and the people who company information. aim of broadening the oﬀer of energy to improve our environmental and energy The Redexis 2018 Sustainability In the same vein, from Redexis we work within them. The reduction solutions. management to make it more eﬃcient. Report reflects the company’s are promoting the use of natural gas of our combined hazards index is Redexis' strategy demonstrates its commitment to the principles of vehicles as a mobility alternative, as a demonstration of our success in ambition for the future, articulated Within the framework of our In accordance with our commitment transparency, communication and it allows for increased eﬃciency, with this area, reaching our goal of 'zero' around three priority axes: people, environmental responsibility, during the to transparency, during 2018 we good governance, by bringing savings close to 50% as compared accidents among our personnel. financial stability and sustainability. year 2018 we have carried out innovative have created the Appointments and forth all relevant non-financial to fuels derived from oil, and for projects that facilitate future access to Remunerations Committee and the Audit information. a reduction in greenhouse gas Redexis' commitment towards the The best example of the success of renewable energies, such as renewable and Risk Committee, both established emissions. men and women that compose it has such a strategy is Redexis' leadership gas or hydrogen. We have already planned within the Board of Directors. In parallel, At Redexis we have included in our led to the signing, during 2018, of the among infrastructure sector companies to invest more than 60 million Euro in new we are firmly committed to integrating, strategy, in a transversal manner, In order to equip Spain with a network 2nd Collective Bargaining Agreement, in the GRESB 2019 Ranking, a global projects for the promotion of both vectors within the Group's strategy, the United all business areas and dimensions of infrastructures that could cover the which will be valid until the end of sustainability index, which awarded the during the 2019-2025 period. We have, for Nations Sustainable Development Goals, related to sustainability in order supply of gas for natural gas vehicles, 2021, and the 2nd Equality Plan, whose company a five star rating, the highest example, announced our participation in with the aim of promoting the sustainable to achieve a more responsible we have signed an agreement with objective is to foster equal treatment possible grade. the 'Power to Green Hydrogen' project, growth of society and the environment. economic, social and environmental Cepsa for the creation, during the next and opportunities for all. promoted by the Balearic Government, growth. This commitment has been two years, of the largest refuelling From Redexis we bolster the potential of which aims to create, by 2021, the largest Through all these actions, Redexis recognised recently by the 2019 station network in the country. Finally, I wish to thank everyone our gas networks as our main ally in the green hydrogen production plant in increases its value daily, and is constituted GRESB Ranking, which awarded at Redexis for their commitment, process of energy transition, and with Europe for the supply to vehicles, hotel as an innovative, dynamic Group in Redexis a maximum score of 5 stars, At Redexis we are working on because it is only through your a fundamental role in the attainment infrastructure and industrial estates in constant evolution, which puts its modern and credited it as the leader in the projects to promote the reduction of dedication, eﬀort and professionalism of the goals established by the Paris Palma de Mallorca. infrastructures at the service of society in infrastructure sector. greenhouse gas emissions and develop that we are able to continue growing Agreement. order to provide energy in a way that is the concept of circular economy. as an organisation and tackling all our In-line with our support for renewable sustainable and in agreement with the During the year 2018 we have invested Some examples of these innovative challenges, now and in the future. Redexis has been a symbol of energy energies, at Redexis we are also paying new energy transition model. 138.4 million Euro in the deployment technologies are the Lloseta project investment in 2018, representing attention to photovoltaic solar power. of natural gas networks, increasing in Mallorca for injecting hydrogen into 37% of the total investment of sector We have already begun to oﬀer families our infrastructures by 5.1%, building the natural gas distribution network, Cristina Ávila companies. This year, we have deployed and industries a more eﬃcient and Fernando Bergasa 508 kilometres, put into Service 17 and biomethane projects through CHIEF OPERATING over 508 kilometres of network, bringing environmentally friendly option, which EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN new municipalities and four urban which excess biogas is converted into OFFICER We carry energy. 4 We deliver future. Letters 5 Sustainability 20 Report 18 Milestones 2018 January February June October • Redexis and EIB sign a loan • Castilla-La Mancha: Redexis • ATP, USS and GT Fund / CNIC complete • Andalusia: Redexis will reduce emissions and for 125 million Euro for will provide natural gas at their acquisition of Redexis. inaugurates the arrival of energy bills for municipal the development of gas El Casar (Guadalajara). natural gas in Chiclana de facilities. infrastructure. • Balearic Islands: Redexis and the la Frontera (Cádiz). • Castilla-La Mancha: Redexis, Mallorca Transport Consortium work for • The National Centre for • Balearic Islands: Redexis sponsor of the Yepes Football the promotion of vehicle gas. • Extremadura: Redexis Experimentation of promotes the development Hydrogen and Fuel Cell March and the Inca City Council Academy. of natural gas with the Technologies (CNH2) July provide natural gas access to 8,000 homes. • Balearic Islands: Redexis deployment of new shares its most innovative • Redexis signs a collaboration networks in Moraleja projects with Redexis. participates in the Energy agreement with Conaif. • Region of Murcia: Redexis starts supplying (Cáceres). • Community of Madrid: Advisory Council. Redexis participates in the natural gas in Abarán. • Balearic Islands: Redexis • Redexis and Enagás create ‘H2Gas’ • Region of Murcia: First collaborates with East Campaign for the Safety of • Canary Islands: Orlando Viera, to boost renewable hydrogen. • Redexis, national sponsor of the broadcast supply of natural gas in Mallorca Cup 2018, a Gas Installations. new regional director of Redexis in the Canary Islands. of the opera Lucia di Lammermoor from the Sangonera La Verde, in the tournament that promotes Royal Theatre. capital city of Murcia. women’s sport. • Andalusia: Redexis and the City of Vera (Almería) May • Andalusia: Redexis inaugurates • Region of Murcia: Redexis the arrival of natural gas in Conil sponsors the ‘Rio de Letras’ de la Frontera (Cádiz). cycle, which convenes leading Spanish writers in Blanca • Andalusia: Redexis contributes to the improvement of air quality in • Community of Madrid: Redexis Villanueva del Arzobispo (Jaén). signs an agreement for the April • Aragón: Redexis starts natural development of the private Renove Plan for Boiler Rooms. • ATP and USS agree to increase their gas supply in Torrente de participation in Redexis together Cinca (Huesca). • Balearic Islands: Redexis once with new financial investors. again supports the youth November • Balearic Islands: Redexis football teams of Club Esportiu inaugurates the arrival Constancia de Inca. • Andalusia: Redexis promotes Hellín Municipal Indoor • Andalusia: Redexis provides natural of natural gas in the Mallorcan the development of natural Pool (Albacete). gas to Bajo de Guía hoteliers in town of Llucmajor. gas is the Valdelagrana urban Sanlúcar de Barrameda (Cádiz). centre in El Puerto de Santa • Community of Madrid: María (Cádiz). Redexis participates in the • Community of Madrid: Redexis Campaign for the Safety of promotes the development of natural • Castilla-La Mancha: Redexis Gas Installations. gas by extending natural gas in will take natural gas to the Cercedilla. • Redexis participates in the 6th Gasnam Congress (trade association for the December promotion of natural and renewable gas in ground and maritime transportation). • Region of Murcia: Plásticos del Segura incorporates natural gas into its industrial processes, powered by Redexis. We carry energy. 6 We deliver future. Milestones 7 Sustainability 20 Report 18 Key figures Operational MUNICIPALITIES SERVED Non-financial figures CONNECTION POINTS (thousands) figures 681 650 ACCIDENT FREQUENCY RATE DIRECT EMPLOYMENT 500 COMBINED1 485 + 4.8% + 3.1% -9.9% 93 243 85 234 2.62 336 women 2.36 2017 2018 2017 2018 319 +9.4% men 0% for NETWORK LENGTH (km) DISTRIBUTED ENERGY (GWh) its own +3.8% personnel 10,498 34,065 9,990 32,277 2017 2018 2017 2018 + 5.1% + 5.5% TOTAL ENERGY CARBON FOOTPRINT (t CO2e)3 CONSUMPTION (GWh)2 Scope 1 91,043 87,680 -3.7% 2017 2018 2017 2018 +4.2% Scope 2 -5.6% 16 17 434 418 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 1 Scope 2 Financial figures 2017 2018 2017 2018 REVENUE (€M) EBITDA (€M) CAPEX (€M) 244 (1) Number of accidents occurred per million of hours worked, by company personnel and contracted staﬀ. 232 (2) Total consumption includes oﬃces, LNG plants, transmission positions and vehicle fleet. 169 (3) Carbon footprint includes oﬃces, LNG plants, transmission positions, vehicle fleet and diﬀuse emissions. 162 138 129 + 5.4% + 4.5% + 7.1% 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 We carry energy. 8 We deliver future. Key figures 9 Sustainability 20 Report 18 Strategy Global and creation vision of value Redexis is an integral energy economic development. The Group infrastructure company engaged maintains a solid a continuous Redexis is founded in the development and operation expansion plan, with 1.3 billion on excellence and of natural gas transmission Euro invested since 2010 and the and distribution networks, the creation of more than 3,000 direct innovation as a means distribution and commercialization and indirect jobs. to contribute to of liquefied petroleum gas and the promotion of natural gas vehicles Additionally, Redexis works social well-being and and renewable applications of firmly on the development and sustainable economic natural gas and hydrogen. creation of value in the territories development in which it is present, as well as Redexis is founded on excellence for environmental care, and is and innovation in daily work as a adhered to the Spanish Network means to actively contribute to of the United Nations Global social well-being and sustainable Compact. MISSION: To be a comprehensive energy infrastructure company, maximizing growth and eﬃciency, and contributing decisively to sustainable development and the generation of value for its stakeholders. VISION: Mission, To be a leading energy infrastructure company, firmly committed to its customers, employees and vision shareholders and admired for its ability to improve and create value. and values VALUES: Advance, Inspire, Care, Live, Overcome. We carry energy. 10 We deliver future. Strategy and creation of value 11 Sustainability 20 Report 18 A strategy that is profitable and sustainable As an energy infrastructures challenges of the energy sector, and With this purpose, Redexis has company, Redexis is supported with the guarantee of having an defined its strategic axes, adapted on an eﬃcient business model, extensive infrastructure that moves to current and future contexts: capable of dealing with the new towards a sustainable model. Leader in the GRESB sustainability index Redexis is the leader of the GRESB ranking, a global sustainability index for Balanced growth, focused on companies in the infrastructures sector, and has been awarded a five star business that provides security, rating, the highest possible, in the ESG (Environmental, Social and Governance) stability and long-term visibility. component. GRESB, after reviewing more than 390 companies, recognised Operational excellence, based the excellent performance of Redexis in 2018, promoting best practices in on the adoption of the most sustainability, social action and good governance. advanced technology for providing quality and value added solutions in every project and service. REDEXIS' CONTRIBUTION TO SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT: Innovation, as an axis for DIMENSION SDG ACTIONS progress, transformation and improving the eﬃciency of all its activities. Development of new artificial intelligence tools with Risk management, identifying new algorithms for the improvement of the retail ECONOMIC security, safety, health and eﬃciency of sales agents and for optimising network environmental standards in deployment. advance, and appraising risky events as a function of their probability and potential impact. Over 98% of purchases were done to local suppliers, which shows a commitment to the creation of jobs and SOCIAL Redexis is moving towards to economic growth in the municipalities where the company operates. a more eﬃcient business model These strategic axes are based on THREE PILLARS: Commitment to the development of refuelling stations for natural gas vehicles (NGV), promoting their demand as fuel for fostering sustainable mobility. ENVIRONMENTAL PEOPLE: FINANCIAL STABILITY: SUSTAINABILITY: key in the materialised in cost control, cash The Group is committed to supporting development of flow generation, the development of the attainment of the Sustainable Calculation of the Carbon Footprint in its scopes 1 and 2, Redexis. investments and the maintenance of an Development Goals (SDG) through contributing to a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. 'Investment Grade' rating level. its activities. We carry energy. 12 We deliver future. Strategy and creation of value 13 Sustainability 20 Report 18 Natural gas, transition towards Energy for the future: a low-emissions economy new opportunities Natural gas is key for working towards a more sustainable circular economy, because it constitutes a competitive and clean energy source for homes, Natural gas is here to accompany other more contaminating types, and circular economies based on Spain in its energy transition. its therefore crucial for transitioning the utilisation of energy, which businesses and industry. The country has a significant gas towards a low-emissions economy. could be consumed by homes, infrastructure in place, modern Natural gas contributes substantially businesses and industry, and is and flexible, to guarantee the to improving air quality, due to lower based on renewable sources. safety of supply. emissions of NOx and SO2, as well as particles. Therefore, natural gas is and will From an economic perspective, continue to be the fastest-growing the natural gas sector represents a New solutions energy source in any reducedhighly relevant economic activity From the point of view of mobility, emission scenario. It is our ally for a within the national economy, the introduction of gas into the clean future, and it plays a decisive demonstrated by the more than transport sector is showing great role in the attainment of the goals set 9.5 billion Euro invested in the lest progress, especially necessary forth by the 2015 Paris Agreement decade by gas sector companies, considering the fact that the sector (global framework against climate according to Sedigas data. In is responsible for 26% of CO2 change) and the United Nations CLEAN: low CO2 emission energy source, which emissions in Spain. Against this addition, from a social point of 2030 Agenda for Sustainable contributes to improving air quality. view, the sector represents about background, natural gas vehicles Development. 0.5% of GDP and employs 150,000 (NGV) are an immediate solution people directly or indirectly, for improving air quality through according to Sedigas. Natural gas the use of alternative fuels. is an energy source with a high Natural gas is and level of acceptance, as shown Additionally, new initiatives will continue to be Advantages ACCESSIBLE AND by the increase in the number of are being developed related to AVAILABLE: a wide network of consumers. renewable energy sources such the fastest-growing deployed modern infrastructures. as hydrogen or biomethane, energy source in any of natural In regards to environmental factors, this type of energy represents an both distributable through the infrastructures deployed by de-carbonisation scenario gas: adequate solution for displacing Redexis. All this will promote EFFICIENT: promotes industrial competitiveness due to higher eﬃciency. SAFE: increases the security and stability of VERSATILE: contributes to the the energy supply. development of renewable energy sources such as hydrogen or biomethane. We carry energy. 14 We deliver future. Strategy and creation of value 15 Sustainability 20 Report 18 Corporate Governance Ethics and integrity EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Mr Fernando Bergasa Cáceres Executive Chairman Ms Cristina Ávila García Chief Operating Oﬃcer Corporate governance is a key the relations with all its stakeattain corporate goals and suMr Antonio España Contreras Chief Financial Oﬃcer Director element of Redexis' vision, as it holders. pervise their compliance. Mr Ignacio Pereña Pinedo General Counsel and Company Secretary Board of Directors strengthens and boosts investor Mr Borja Polo Baños Strategy and Business Development Director trust. The Group is committed to Corporate governance includes (For additional information, Mr Javier Crespo Millán Operations Director the implementation of guidecomposition, structure and govplease access the Redexis Annual Mr Diego Sánchez Muslera Network, Facilities and Transmission Director lines and good practices for the erning bodies, and establishes Report at www.redexisgas.es) promotion of transparency in the means that can be used to Mr Andrés Oliva García Residential Commercial Director (B2C) Mr Javier Migoya Peláez Tertiary and Industrial Commercial Director (B2B) SHAREHOLDERS Ms Mercedes Barreiro Hernández Resources Director Mr Miguel Mayrata Vicens Business Diversification Director Redexis Gas S.A. is the holding company of a group of by two pension funds and infrastructure funds that Ms Estefanía Somoza Villar Corporate Communications and Public Aﬀairs Director energy infrastructure companies, owned in equal parts participate jointly. Ms Mireya Martínez San Martín Internal Audit Director ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE INFRASTRUCTURE BOARD OF DIRECTORS COMMITTEES PENSION FUNDS FUNDS 99.98% 100% 100% During the 2018 financial year, Remunerations Committee, and has shown its commitment to 33.3% 33.3% 33.3% Redexis Gas Redexis Gas Redexis two committees have been set the Audit and Risk Committee. In the principles of good corporate Universities Arbejdsmarkedets Murcia, S.A. Servicios, S.L.U. GLP, S.L.U. up within the Redexis Board of spite of having no legal obligation governance and transparency CNIC Corporation Guoxin Guotong Superannuation Tillægspension – ATP Limited Fund LLP Directors: the Appointments and to establish any of these, Redexis towards its stakeholders. Scheme – USS 100% Redexis Infraestructuras, S.L.U. CODE OF CONDUCT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE POLICIES Redexis has a Code of Ethics in the ethical and responsible The entity in charge of ensuring BOARD OF DIRECTORS STRUCTURE place, approved by the Board behaviour of the Group's compliance with the Code of of Directors on March 19, 2013, professionals. In turn, this Code of Conduct and other regulations The Redexis Board of Directors is mandated to administer the company. which establishes the set of Ethics has been created following is also responsible for corporate On August 31, 2019, its members are: principles and behavioural the guidelines and policies of the governance, in this case, the guidelines intended to guarantee corporate governance system. Redexis Secretary General. NAME APPOINTMENT DATE CATEGORY POSITION OR LAST RE-ELECTION RESPONSIBLE TAXATION Mr Fernando Bergasa Cáceres May 19, 2016 Executive Executive Chairman Another material aspect of the Redexis manages its fiscal obligations In 2018, tax contributions to Corporate Governance system is in a prudent and transparent manner, municipalities and autonomous Ms Cristina Ávila García September 19, 2014 Executive Director and Chief Operating Oﬃce Responsible Taxation1, and in this through an eﬃcient management communities where the Group Mr Niels K. Jensen May 23, 2019 Proprietary (nominated by ATP) Director sense, Redexis' activity contributes which is in line with the company's operates totalled more than 3.6 directly to the national, regional and strategy. The company complies million Euro, which contributes Mr Ng Chik Sum Jackson June 20, 2018 Proprietary (nominated by Guotong) Director local tax administration through with tax regulations, acts responsibly to their development and Mr Oliver Jan Schubert June 20, 2018 Proprietary (nominated by Guotong) Director the direct payment of taxes. and promotes cooperative and sustainability. transparent relationships with Tax Mr Ulrik Dan Weuder December 10, 2013 Proprietary (nominated by ATP) Director Administrations. Mr Stephen Alan John Deeley December 10, 2013 Proprietary (nominated by USS) Director (1) Responsible Taxation consists in managing tax aﬀairs applying good taxation practices and acting transparently, paying taxes in a responsible and Mr Gavin Bruce Merchant July 24, 2017 Proprietary (nominated by USS) Director eﬃcient manner and promoting corporate relationships with diﬀerent governments in order to avoid significant risks and unnecessary conflict. Mr Ignacio Pereña Pinedo March 19, 2013 Not applicable Secretary Non-Director We carry energy. 16 We deliver future. Strategy and creation of value 17 Sustainability 20 Report 18 Risks and At Redexis, risk management and control are based on independence, anticipation, opportunities commitment to business objectives and the involvement of senior management. Redexis responds to its stakeholdall organisational areas involved in decision making and responds with The system is based on the COSO the diﬀerent types of risks and Promotion of a clear ers, and, as shown in the Materiality management. maximum guarantees to any threats model, the Integrated Framework establishes the prescribed measures organisational culture, shared Analysis developed by the company and opportunities that may arise. of Internal Control accepted as an for their mitigation, or the actions to by all Redexis employees, that (see About this report ), considers For this purpose, it has developed international standard and that has be taken in case they materialise and propitiates the prevention of risk management as a crucial aspect its own model for the identification For the company, an eﬀective risk become the Redexis preference in cause eﬀective damage. behaviour that could lead to of its operation, the latter underof possible risks and their appraisal management is essential to be the design, implementation and criminal responsibility of the stood as the identification of potenbased on the probability of occurable to attain its strategic goals, execution of internal control and Additionally, the General Secretariat company, its managers, and its tial risks and the development of rence and their potential impact on and to be able to identify competithe evaluation of its eﬀectiveness. will promote the following actions directors. models that allow the company to goals. This model provides a logical tive advantages and new business for risk management and internal prevent these risks, encompassing and systematic method that favours opportunities. The diﬀerent risk management control: Establishment of objective activities area coordinated from the control and supervision measures company's Internal Audit area. Its Institution of the processes with the aim of preventing the main function is to serve as a link necessary for preventing aforementioned behaviours by between the diﬀerent departments, legal infringements related to employees at all levels. The model of RISK MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL in place at Redexis enables: the Chair and General Management, criminal or reputation-related on one side, and the Audit and risks and limiting, as much as Processing of any The identification and The reduction of company An increase in trust and security Risk Committee, on the other, possible, situations of criminal communications received through management of risk at a company vulnerability against diﬀerent perception by the Board of Directors and other stakeholders, facilitating and supervising the responsibility for the company, the Reports Channel, both external level and by area or department. risks by proper evaluation and implementation of good practices. actively contributing to the based on the fact that key and internal. mitigation through concrete The purpose of the above is to prevention and detection of The improvement of decision action plans. risks are being monitored and making related to risk response. communicated in a timely manner. ensure that the system identifies criminal behaviour. The alignment of diﬀerent The establishment of an integral risk tolerance levels An improvement in risk report for the identification and to company goals. information and communication. monitoring of key risks. We carry energy. 18 We deliver future. Strategy and creation of value 19 Our Business Activity As an operator of energy energy solutions, succeeding In addition, it boosts industrial infrastructures, Redexis offers in continuously improving the competitiveness, which in turn efficient and innovative services quality of life of thousands of contributes to improving Spain's which facilitate access to natural families through the provision economic and environmental gas and other renewable of a safe and reliable service. sustainability. REDEXIS IN SPAIN Presence in 11 autonomous communities: 2ND largest operator in Aragón, Andalucía, Baleares, gas transmission Canarias, Castilla-La Mancha, 3RD largest operator in gas natural distribution and Castilla y León, Cataluña, Comunidad de Madrid, Creates 3,000 jobs, direct and Comunidad Valenciana, 2ND indirect. in LPG Extremadura and Murcia. Investments in infrastructure development at a rate that is unique to the sector: Growth that quadruples the sector mean in distribution. Accounts for 30% and comprises of active users. 7% of annual additions We carry energy. 20 We deliver future. Our activity 21 Sustainability 20 Report 18 Redexis' results OPERATIONAL DIMENSION reinforce its growth strategy and constitute OPERATIONAL DATA UNIT 2017 2018 Climate change and environment an incentive for NG (P<4b) # 570,097 595,067 NG (P>4b) # 278 286 continued investment LPG # 79,278 85,159 in the deployment of Connection points # 649,653 680,512 new energy networks Provinces served # 27 27 in Spain, as well as in Municipalities new business lines and with authorisation (NG+LPG) # 485 500 The protection of the environment and are thus managed transversally value-added services Length of the network (km) Km 9,990 10,498 and the fight against climate change through all business areas and are priority objectives for Redexis, included in its business model, related to natural gas. Length of the distribution network Km 8,348 8,855 Length of the transmission network Km 1,643 1,643 Energy distributed GWh 32,277 34,065 SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT No. of gas pipelines # 51 51 Redexis has an Integrated Policy, environmental management approved by high management, to be at the top of the Group's which defines the principles objectives. aimed at achieving continuous improvement in relation to the The principles defined in the environment, and considers Integrated Policy are: TRANSMISSION DISTRIBUTION LPG Redexis contributes to the energy In 2018, Redexis added 487 kilometres In 2018, it increased its LPG customer structure of Spain through the to its natural gas distribution network, base through the acquisition of 3,400 investment of 250 million Euro reaching 7,908 kilometres, deployed connection points for LPG, reaching a in primary and secondary gas over 250 municipalities, and operating total of 85,159 supply points. It operates INTEGRATE EDUCATE, PREVENT AND pipelines since 2010. 595,353 natural gas connection points. a network of 947 kilometres and provides environmental advocate, raise CONTROL the service in 437 municipalities. protection in awareness and environmental corporate strategy report impact of its activities ECONOMIC-FINANCIAL DIMENSION OPERATING DATA* 2017 2018 Revenue 231.8 244.3 RESPECT and MANAGE RATIONALISE Distribution regulated 100 105.6 COMPLY WITH environmental risk resources Other distribution-income regulated 28.3 25.9 environmental in an adequate Transmission regulated 63 61.9 legislation manner Regulated LPG business 25 28.4 Other operating income 3.3 8.9 Self-constructed non-current assets 12.2 13.5 EBITDA 162.2 169.4 Margin 70 % 69.3 % Redexis has incorporated all these In this way, the Group can anticipate principles into its Integrated Management any risky situation that could aﬀect its Margin (excluding the dilutive eﬀect of the LPG Margin) 75 % 75.6 % System, adapting the provisions of working locations and is able to minimise Capex 129.3 138.4 the ISO 14001:2015 environmental and mitigate potential consequences. Profit for the year 49.7 29.9 management standard and incorporating the ISO 50001:2011 standard, which A good example of the relevance * in millions of Euros verifies the efficient and sustainable use of environmental management of energy. within the Redexis world is the company's contribution to Sustainable Redexis has proven its ability to access capital markets by means of bank facilities, Additionally, Redexis has set up an Development Goal 7: Affordable and bond issues and loans with the EIB. Environmental Emergency Plan within its Clean Energy, through the development 1,150 M€ Long-term bonds with + 300 M€ Revolving bank loan for + 285 M€ EIB (Juncker = 1,735 M€ Contributing to the Management System, in which it describes the actions that must be carried out if an environmental emergency ever occurred. and promotion of new energy formulas, such as hydrogen and biomethane, which reduce greenhouse gas emissions. total backing from capital corporate use that includes Plan EFSI) development of markets investments in new networks infrastructure in Spain We carry energy. 22 We deliver future. Our activity 23 Sustainability 20 Report 18 RESPONSIBLE USE OF RESOURCES Europe is moving towards a circular mising the handling of hazardeconomy based on an eﬃcient use ous and non-hazardous waste, of resources and a focus on reducestablishing objectives for the tion, re-use and recycling. reduction of environmental indicators and contributing to The Group, through its Integratthe transition towards a circular ed Management System, is optieconomy. CLIMATE CHANGE: GENERAL CONTEXT 2018 has been full of environmental and To this we must add that the European TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION IN 2018 (GWh) climactic challenges. Spain and the European Commission updated, on November 28, 16.9 Union are facing important challenges in 2018, its roadmap towards the systematic the fight against climate change and the de-carbonisation of the economy with the reduction of emissions. intention of making the European Union 0.1 0.1 0.8 14.2 1.7 carbon neutral by the year 2050. TOTAL The framework for the energy and climate CONSUMPTION policy in Spain is determined by the In the beginning of 2019, with the approval CNG FUEL DIESEL NATURAL GAS ELECTRICITY European Union (EU), which, in turn, is of the preliminary draft of the Climate conditioned by a global context especially Change and Energy Transition Law, the Note: Total consumption includes oﬃces, LNG plants, transmission positions and vehicle fleet. aﬀected by the Paris Agreement, signed in Ministry for the Ecological Transition 2015, and representing the most ambitious aspires to totally de-carbonise the Spanish international response so far to the economy by 2050. challenge of climate change. This legislative project is one of three pillars Redexis considers climate change most to global warming. This is why This new normative framework brings of the Strategic Framework for Energy and to be an environmental challenge the Group works continuously to regulatory certainty and creates favourable Climate, which is complemented by the that is to be fought at a global reduce its own through important conditions for the implementation of National Integrated Plan for Energy and level, and that calls for everyone's investments in infrastructure and in the considerable number of required Climate and the Fair Transition Strategy. contribution if we are to mitigate its the optimisation of its operations, investments. In addition, it empowers The Strategy, which will be subject to eﬀects. CO2 emissions, for example, thus increasing its energy European consumers to become active public information, is part of the Strategic is one of the factors that contributes eﬃciency. participants in the energy transition, and Framework for Energy and Climate, and is sets binding goals for the EU in 2030: focused on facilitating the modernisation of the economy and its transition towards a sustainable and competitive model that 40 % reduction in emissions of for all the EU 32.5 % contributes to stop climate change. One of the areas of development of this new CO2 EMISSIONS (t CO2 e) regulatory framework is the development greenhouse improvement of alternative fuels such as hydrogen and 3,603 gases (GHG) in energy biomethane. compared to 1990. eﬃciency. 23 19 197 2,795 569 Redexis' eﬀort in fighting climate change 32 % of renewables over total 15 % is evident, as demonstrated by its commitment with SDG 13, Climate Action, CNG FUEL DIESEL NATURAL GAS ELECTRICITY TOTAL electrical and the activities and projects it carries out consumption interconnection in for the attainment of this goal. of gross final energy, Note: CO2 emissions include oﬃces, LNG plants, transmission positions and vehicle fleets. member States. We carry energy. 24 We deliver future. Our activity 25 Sustainability 20 Report 18 Likewise, Redexis develops tools initiatives is related to calculating 'Calculation' seal of the Ministry for measuring and controlling the carbon footprint, in its for the Ecological Transition for greenhouse gas emissions, with scope 1 and 2, an exercise in its natural gas transmission and the final aim of reducing them. information and transparency distribution activities carried out One of the most important that has earned the company the in its Madrid facility. CONTINUOUS VIGILANCE: EXAMPLES OF LANDSCAPE 2017 2018 CARBON RESTORATION AND IMPROVEMENT FOOTPRINT(T CO2E) SCOPE 1 SCOPE 2 TOTAL SCOPE 1 SCOPE 2 TOTAL Oﬃces 2.1 158.5 160.6 136.4 136.4 LNG plants 402 91.7 493.7 456.7 82.7 539.4 Transport positions 2,334 259.9 2,593.9 2,424.1 262.5 2,686.5 Vehicle fleet 253 253 238.6 238.6 Son Reus-Inca-Alcudia Diﬀuse emissions 88,390.6 88,390.6 30,810.9 30,810.9 Review of the restoration project carried out in 2015. (1) Scope 1 emissions are direct emissions produced by the burning of fuels by the emitter. (2) Scope 2 emissions are indirect emissions generated by the electricity consumed and bought by the emitter. Cas Tresorer-Manacor-Felanitx (3) Applied, in scope 1 of the 2018 carbon footprint, a new per-event sectoral methodology in the calculation of methane emissions Archaeological monitoring of of the distribution facilities. the area and application of fire prevention measures. PROTECTION OF BIODIVERSITY Yeles-Seseña Redexis is committed to the If these facilities are close to Habitat restoration through the protection of natural capital and protected zones or areas of high planting o trees, in collaboration biodiversity. The way of managing biodiversity, Redexis carries out with the Esquivias City Hall. its activity takes into account specific studies with the aim of, if the integral treatment of any necessary, adapting the project produced impact, maintaining a to reduce or compensate for Villacarrillopreventive attitude against their any impact on these areas. In Villanueva del Arzobispo generation and correcting the addition, the company implements Application of diﬀerent measures ones that do materialise. a vigilance program for both for preventing impact on wildlife: construction and operation phases mitigating the barrier eﬀect PREVENTION AS A RULE with the purpose of applying any caused by the trench, covering Always following the principle necessary preventive and corrective the free ends of the pipe, of precaution, the Group carries measures related to, among verifying the results of previous out environmental studies other things, waste management, studies, and removing individual during the design phase of all construction machinery and wildlife specimens trapped in its infrastructures and facilities vehicle control, communication trenches, especially herpetofauna in order to minimise possible with environmental entities and specimens. negative impacts throughout compliance with established their life cycle. environmental specifications. Villanueva del PREVENTIVE APPROACH IN THE CONSTRUCTION OF A PIPELINE Arzobispo-Castellar Use of a trencher that allowed the company to re-utilise the removed material, reduce inert leftover materials, and facilitate restitution work. In addition, the Guadalimar river course was crossed using the directional drilling procedure, avoiding any eﬀect on banks Control of environmental Environmental Waste Archaeological Landscape and edges. obligations presented in Vigilance management control restoration the Environmental Impact Program and Declaration improvement We carry energy. 26 We deliver future. Our activity 27 Sustainability 20 Report 18 DRIVING INNOVATION In its eﬀorts for developing sustainable environmental on two essential objectives: to promote sustainable behaviour, Redexis applies to its activities the precepts mobility and to foster renewable energies as energy of circular economies, a key economic model in the fight carriers in order to facilitate the transition towards a against climate change. In this context, Redexis focuses low-emission energy model. NATURAL GAS VEHICLES RENEWABLE GAS: HYDROGEN AND BIOMETHANE Renewable gases such as hydrogen and to be used when necessary. Therefore, the biomethane will be fundamental in the energy infrastructure of the Spanish gas system is once transition process that is occurring in Spain. again uplifted, this time as an energy storehouse. Renewable gas acts as a CO2 drain; its negative Renewable gas is sourced from organic waste emissions reduce atmospheric contaminants to (animal and vegetable waste and waste water), improve air quality and contribute to the circular from biomass and from the surpluses from economy. It also constitutes a competitive renewable electrical energy. In all these cases, alternative, as it is completely interchangeable a gas (methane or hydrogen) is obtained which with natural gas and does not require additional is then injected into the gas network systems investments. Natural Gas Vehicles (NGV) are an effective natural gas for vehicles in Spain, and a 146% alternative for a more efficient, cleaner and growth in Natural Gas Vehicle registrations. more sustainable mobility with additional Furthermore, there were 71 public refuelling Biomethane is a clean gas, obtained from advantages, such as the reduction of CO2 and stations, of which 19 were created in 2018 and renewable sources, and totally equivalent to contaminant emissions. According to Sedigas 46 are projected for the near future. natural gas, which is obtained from biogas data, 2018 has brought an increase of 26% in through an upgrading process that increases the percentage of methane in the mix. Synthetic In this line... methane can be obtained from synthetic gas (syngas) or hydrogen through physical-chemical or biological transformations. Redexis and Cepsa will create the largest natural gas refuelling station Hydrogen will bring about a revolution Among the many benefits of biomethane is its network in Spain in the energy sector. Produced from water contribution to the circular economy through and renewable energy, it is a totally dethe leverage of waste and its transformation into Redexis is committed to providing the country carbonised gas which can be used in any energy, and the support for rural development with a nationwide network of natural gas activity sector, especially in mobility. in agricultural and livestock environments. refuelling infrastructures for light and heavy vehicles, with easy access and refuelling times Redexis has announced investments It is still a type of energy that is not highly similar to traditional hydrocarbon refuelling. amounting to 60 million Euro over the next developed in Spain, although its production five years to promote initiatives related to this potential is big: estimated at more than renewable energy source at a national level, 20 TWh/year, which represents 6% of the Agreements for the future with the aim of starting up a flagship initiative to address the use of pipeline-transported current consumption of natural gas, or 50% of residential-use natural gas. hydrogen, as well as the storage of electricity produced from this type of energy. Redexis is promoting innovative initiatives The company is signing agreements with diﬀerent vehicle manufacturers for the development to produce biomethane and inject it into its Redexis is a Trust member in the Foundation natural gas network in collaboration with public of infrastructures to serve new vehicle fleets that use this kind of fuel. for the Development of New Hydrogen administrations, technologists and organic Technologies in Aragón and the Spanish waste processing companies. In 2018 it signed an agreement with the Mallorca Transport Consortium for the promotion of Hydrogen Association. NGV in regular inter-urban public transport. It also forged an alliance with the Zaragoza Auto Taxi Cooperative for the construction, startup and maintenance of a gas refuelling station in the city. We carry energy. 28 We deliver future. Our activity 29 Sustainability 20 Report 18 Human teams and talent Redexis has a solid corporate route that is to be followed and At the end of the 2018 year, the FLEXIBLE COMPENSATION them to configure their COMMUNICATION: Redexis culture that defines its manner how to do it. Group's workforce amounted to MODEL: through this model, compensation based on their maintains a fluent dialogue of working and allows it to 336 people who, through eﬀort Redexis promotes the needs, with an every expanding with its employees with the aim successfully face the challenges This philosophy is also applied and commitment, contribute responsibility and commitment offer of available products and of fostering transparency and of the future. Its strength lies in its to the human team, so that the to making Redexis a reference of its people, as it allows services. transversal communication. values, attitudes and aptitudes, organisation and its people are company in its sector. which determine, at any time, the aligned at all times. LABOUR RELATIONS KEY FIGURES 2017 2018 In 2018, Redexis signed the to all employees, while has closed negotiations for the 2nd Collective Bargaining modernising work, economic 2nd Equality Plan, which boost Number of employees (on December 31, 2018) 319 336 Agreement, backed by trade and operational conditions and aspects related to women's %men/women 73%/27% 72%/28% unions. This agreement, in force social benefits. rights in the workplace and Mean age 43 43 until 2021, brings stability, equality of opportunities within predictability and sustainability More recently, the company the organisation. Mean seniority (years) 10 10 Employees with open contracts 99.4% 99.1% Total total turnover rate (%) 6% 5.5% HEALTH AND SAFETY Absenteeism rate (average) 1.3% 1.7% Redexis goes far beyond mere guidelines established in compliance with the established the requirements of the The low accident legislation, and promotes a OHSAS 18001:2007 standard, indexes are a BREAKDOWN OF WORKFORCE BY: continuous improvement in working was audited in 2018 to ensure testimony of the conditions and in the management total integration of workplace of safety, health and well-being. The health and safety with business success of company < 30 ISLANDS> 51 YEARS YEARS MANAGEMENT BOARD MEMBERS ZONE NORTHobjective is for Redexis to be as safe strategies. In this same line, policies related to MEDITERRANEANas possible, and for this purpose, it Redexis works to oﬀer its 15% 7% 30-40 ADMINISTRATION 2% 1% TECHNICIANS ZONE 10% CENTRE involves its workers, collaborators, employees a health and wellHealth and Safety YEARS 15% 82% 64% users and other stakeholders related being plan, promoting healthy 33% 26% to its activity. lifestyles. It eﬀorts in this area resulted in a successful PROJECTS FOR Redexis' Integrated Management approval of the Healthy CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT 41-50 45% System, which follows the Company audit in 2018. YEARS Defining and implementing a new tool for Management by ACCIDENT FREQUENCY RATE Goals. AGE GROUP CATEGORY GEOGRAPHICAL AREA Promoting the Training Plan as the main route for developing knowledge and PEOPLE MANAGEMENT 11.71 professionalisation. The company has based its order to capture this talent, professionals. For this purpose, it Reinforcing internal people management policy on Redexis oﬀers a stable work develops a specific plan and has 6.14 communication. three axes: environment that allows for launched tools such as 'Campus 4.54 Consolidating the Global the development of individual Redexis', a platform that fosters Programme for Talent TALENT ATTRACTION: capabilities through internal collaborative learning. In 2.79 2.62 2.36 1.98 Identification, Evaluation and Redexis' success is based largely promotion. addition, it implements, since Management. on its human team, excellent 2014, the program 'Promoting 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 professionals who share the TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT: talent energetically', which Converting the people same values as the company Redexis carries out training 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 management model into the oﬀers a first contact with the and are committed to its programmes for boosting lever that will promote digital professional world to 25 recent Accident frequency rate (own personnel) transformation. mission, vision and values. In the skills and capacities of its graduates. Accident frequency rate (combined) We carry energy. 30 We deliver future. Our activity 31 Sustainability 20 Report 18 Infrastructure Redexis works every day to reach the highest standards of safety in its security transmission and distribution networks, thus reinforcing the quality of its services. Redexis has a very modern network for asset updates, while still oﬀering what is established in its asset AT ALL LEVELS of infrastructures, of which more magnificent safety ratios. integrity management plans. than 60% of the transmission These plans, based on risk analysis, Guaranteeing the safety of strategy. For this purpose, the the most advanced technology, network has been deployed in recent In any case, and always taking into are designed with the aim of people, facilities and supply is company is supported by a provides real-time monitoring of years and a significant proportion account the principle of precaution, improving maintenance eﬃciency a priority objective in Redexis' Control Centre which, through the main facilities. of the distribution network has Redexis carries out over its and management, increasing the been built between 2005 and infrastructure preventive, predictive lifespan of infrastructures and 2008. This means that the network and continuous improvement significantly reducing the number requires only minimal investment actions systematically, in-line with of interventions. NETWORK OPERATION Distribution network Redexis has a Control Centre age profile (2018) from which the main parameters PEOPLE FACILITIES DISTRIBUTION that define the state of its <3 YEARS: 14% Redexis works to guarantee the Through a SCADA (Supervisory Through its Control Centre, Redexis infrastructures are supervised, safety of all people involved in the Control And Data Acquisition) carries out important logistical such as pressure, flow or gas temperature, as well as providing 3-5 YEARS: 9% gas supply chain, and this applies system, which includes diﬀerent work in order to guarantee the to people from the company's field-mounted sensors, central units supply and distribution of LNG and remote access to the facilities. 5-10 YEARS: 38% own staﬀ and also to externals. and communication equipment, LPG in municipalities which, due to Gas pipelines and specific points It ensures everyone is properly the Control Centre collects, in realtheir geographical location, are not in the distribution network are 10-15 YEARS: 35% trained and has the appropriate time, the values and the state of the suitable for viable interconnection permanently monitored, which 15-20 YEARS: 3% knowledge for carrying out diﬀerent parameters that define to existing networks. In 2018, provides high levels of operating specific work in company facilities, the operation of the Company’s this was translated into the security. >20 YEARS: 1% and applies a strict control over main facilities. management and supervision of facility access. For uses, it provides 10,000 dispatches of tanker trucks. an emergency telephone contact In 2018, Redexis launched centre (CAT). several measures for increasing The company also expanded the the availability and quality of storage capacity of its satellite information, such as the integration LNG plant located in the Sant of supervision and communication Llorenç des Cardassar (Mallorca) equipment for satellite LNG plants, municipality, whose capacity was REDEXIS the implementation of real-time increased from 240 to 340 cubic PARTICIPATES IN pressure recording equipment metres through the assembly of a THE V CONTROL in distribution networks, and third cryogenic deposit. CENTRE the launching of a pilot radio SEMINAR communication project for lowcoverage UMTS/GPRS facilities. This forum summons all main Spanish energy operators on a yearly basis. The company REDEXIS BECOMES PART OF THE participated in the GAS INSTALLATION SECURITY CAMPAIGN round table devoted to IN THE COMMUNITY OF MADRID the problems of LNG logistics. The purpose was to oﬀer users a set of practical advice for using gas installations safely and avoiding accidents. We carry energy. 32 We deliver future. Our activity 33 Sustainability 20 Report 18 Service quality Supply chain For Redexis, users and customers improving their quality of life and this purpose, the company bases its are at the centre of the decision the competitiveness of companies relationship with them on three main making process and operations, and that use natural gas. Oﬀering the best pillars: investment, service quality and the company works constantly for possible service is essential, and for listening to their needs. RESIDENTIAL SEGMENT CLOSE TO Redexis is committed to which helps users read gas USERS responding to the sector's new metres, and the development AND CUSTOMERS needs and expectations, and of the electronic invoice, which develops and implements new simplifies access to the same, Redexis invests a artificial intelligence tools to improves productivity and lot of resources in optimise operations and open reduces the use of resources for oﬀering an excellent new possibilities in the creation the benefit of the environment. user support. It works of value in innumerable contexts. In this same line, Redexis updated Two examples: the digital app in 2018 its website to promote its Redexis, following a continuous it seeks to minimise business, which is used for monitoring incessantly to achieve ‘YoLeoGas Multidistribuidora’, value added services. improvement process, attempts technical, environmental, health documentation and certifications maximum eﬃcacy in to optimise its purchase and safety risks, and those related provided by the diﬀerent the operation of its management model in order to to labour conditions and ethical suppliers. Redexis carries out support channels, tools and platforms through TERTIARY AND INDUSTRIAL SEGMENT guarantee maximum objectivity behaviour in the totality of the audits on its collaborators with the Over the last years, Redexis which are now saving up to 40% in the selection of suppliers and supply chain. For this purpose, it aim of verifying compliance with a constant innovation has helped numerous Spanish through the use of this energy an optimal quality of contracted establishes a contracting process specific requirements defined and improvement businesses and industries to gain source. services. in which it applies unified and in the contracting agreements. process. competitiveness, providing savings universal contractual conditions In 2018, 11% of suppliers with a of 20% to 50% in their energy bill. In the industrial sector, which Given the volume of purchases for the totality of the company's commercial relationship of more consumes about 25% of the from collaborating suppliers, it scope of action. than 100,000 Euro were audited In 2018, the company signed country's energy, Redexis helps is essential for the company to for human resources, health and important framework agreements numerous companies to improve have selection processes that The company also has in place a safety, quality management, with public entities, and more their production processes guarantee equal opportunities Record base (RePro, a system of environment, and corporate agreements have been reached through access to natural gas. In and free competition. Additionally, external supplier classification) social responsibility. with the hotel and tourism sectors the last three years, the company CUSTOMER SUPPORT for making natural gas available in has increased the volume of gas CENTRE their establishments. In this line, to tertiary and industrial clients A COMMITMENT TO in the last three years Redexis has by 42%, adding more than 3,100 PROXIMITY IN NUMBERS: taken gas to more than 330 hotels, new users. Redexis promotes mid and longterm commercial relationships with EMERGENCY SUPPORT the aim of oﬀering stability and CENTRE trust to its suppliers. In addition, and in-line with its commitment towards communities, 98% of Suppliers: 98% +1,100 purchases carried out in 2018 were Purchase to local businesses, which fosters volume: Local 167 WEB the economic development of purchases: WWW.REDEXISGAS.ES the regions in which it operates. In this line, the company organises million Requests/work orders: +50,500 information sessions to explain the Euro requirements for being approved as a supplier, and for describing the purchase processes. We carry energy. 34 We deliver future. Our activity 35 Sustainability 20 Report 18 REDEXIS AND THE SUSTAINABLE For Redexis, improving the quality of DEVELOPMENT OF COMMUNITIES: Communities life of society, and especially, of the communities in which it is present is a strategic axis of its business model. PURCHASES: INVESTMENT: EMPLOYMENT: through its it supports social As an infrastructure operator, Redexis plays an important role in the sustainable development of the local its activity promotes Procurement Policy, it investment in areas economies in which it operates, devoting part of its profits to social investment. direct employment in strengthens long-term in which it operates. the localities in which relationships with it is present. local suppliers. A CONSTANT DIALOGUE In the development of its policies activities. To facilitate this Redexis maintains a and strategies, Redexis maintains communication, the company is a constant and fluent contact with present, and collaborates actively constant and fluent all its stakeholders, favouring with diﬀerent sector associations, dialogue with its CONTRIBUTION: ENVIRONMENT: dialogue and the participation such as Sedigas, Gasnam, the maintains a strict works for the care of the sector's institutions, Spanish Hydrogen Association, stakeholders and protection of the policy related to tax companies and agents in its and Conaif. contributions in the environment through communities in which the prevention and it operates. mitigation of possible negative impacts of its activities. EFFECTIVE CONTRIBUTION due to continuous contact with local institutions and communities, Redexis is able to identify needs and interests and develop initiatives relevant to the social, cultural and environmental context for the benefit of citizens and the environment. These are some of WITH THE ENVIRONMENT: the most relevant examples for 2018: WITH SAFETY: Faithful to its environmental For promoting a culture of commitment, Redexis participated health and safety, the company in diﬀerent forums, events, sessions participated in several related and conferences related to energy events, such as the Campaign for transition or sustainable mobility. the Safety of Gas Installations in the Some of the highlights include the Community of Madrid. VI Gasnam congress 'Natural gas: intelligent ecology for mobility', the III Energy Forum 'National Plan for Energy and Climate', the Smart Mobility Forum on 'Energy eﬃciency in transport. Gas-powered vehicles', and the Sedigas session on 'The future of renewable gas in Spain'. WITH CULTURE: WITH YOUTH AND SPORTS: The company continued to sponsor the Royal Redexis continued its sponsorship, for an Theatre in 2018, with the aim of reaﬃrming its additional year, of the youth football categories WITH THE LOCAL ECONOMY: support for the institution's cultural and artistic of the Club Esportiu Constancia of Inca (Mallorca) To support the local business world, program. In addition, for the second consecutive and the Yepes Football School. The company Redexis chooses collaborating year, Redexis participated in the 'Opera Week' also worked to strengthen the links between companies based on proximity through the sponsorship of the initiative to bring the business world and sports, participating criteria. In this line, Redexis also the opera Lucia di Lammermoor, of Gaetano in diﬀerent events such as the V Carrera de participates in installers conventions Donizetti, to more than 42 Spanish provinces. las Empresas (Zaragoza), the III edition of the with the aim of promoting a Prevention race for raising awareness of the sustainable growth strategy. In In the literary field, Redexis was one of the problem of workplace accidents (Madrid) and the 2018, it participated in the V Annual promoters of the 'Rio del Letras' initiative, European women's U14 football tournament East Installers Convention, with over 250 organised by the Blanca City Hall (Murcia). Mallorca Cup, held in Cala Milor. attendees. We carry energy. 36 We deliver future. Our activity 37 Perspectives 2019 The evolution and progress ally for a clean future and plays the commitment to creating value of Spain carry new inherent a decisive role in achieving the for the society and environment expectations and needs, many of goals set by the Paris Agreement. in which it operates. The Group which aﬀect the energy sector. It is presented as the most optimal analyses the sector's opportunities Increase in energy demand and alternative for tackling the and tries to answer to its needs. supply continuity, eﬃciency, problem of air quality in cities, with digitalisation and innovation, hardly any need to develop new Redexis maintains a healthy promotion of renewable gas and infrastructures and representing relationship with all its stakea greater social implication are the an increased economic eﬃciency holders, among them, Public current sector trends. for end consumers. administrations and Regulatory Bodies, with the purpose of Natural gas is and will continue In this context, Redexis focuses its promoting measures that conto be the fastest-growing energy strategy on balanced and sustainatribute to improving regulated source in all of the reduced ble growth, operational excellence, natural gas activities. emissions scenarios. It is the innovation, risk management, and Network deployment and customer connectivity Natural gas plays a relevant role and increase the quality of life of within the Spanish energy mix millions of homes, businesses and and the gas sector continues to industries. The company continues grow in both consumption and to invest in the deployment of penetration, although it still has networks with the objective of a wide margin for improvement. increasing its customer base and The investment levels of the obtaining higher eﬃciencies, both last ten years, of 9.5 billion Euro, in new municipalities and in those according to the 2018 Annual in which it is already present. In Report published by Sedigas, 2018, it requested 23 preliminary shows the importance given to the administrative authorisations. development of the gas system and the creation of jobs. In the industry sector, Redexis is vehemently promoting the use In this context, Redexis has invested, of gas and helping companies since 2010, around 1.3 billion become more competitive. The Euro and added more than 5,700 volume of Redexis' industrial kilometres to its network, which energy distribution has grown 4.5 has helped reduce the energy bills times faster than sector averages. We carry energy. 38 We deliver future. 2019 Perspectives 39 Sustainability 20 Report 18 Commitment to Focused on a technological innovation low-carbon economy To respond to the needs of a and implementation of artificial artificial intelligence field, which The European Union (EU) actively improving air quality. It focuses also promotes the development market that is increasingly global, intelligence in the infrastructures will have implications in our fosters the evolution towards a on the development of renewable of renewable gas as an ally for technological and digitalised, sector, and the use of advanced business strategy. In addition, low carbon emission society and, energies such as hydrogen, attaining the objectives of Agenda Redexis has incorporated new algorithms for creating new roads to it is committed to continue for this purpose, promotes the biomethane or photovoltaic 2030, bringing value into past technologies and functionalities growth has positioned the company implementing the best standards necessary energy transition. energy as key energy carriers in investments and into the gas to reduce development processes at the technological vanguard. and techniques available a zero-emission context and the infrastructures that it has already and provide great advantages in for the construction of new Redexis is committed to fighting natural evolution towards a dedeployed, and will continue to costs and eﬃciency. The company Redexis will continue developing infrastructures and the expansion against climate change and carbonised economy. The company deploy, throughout the country. is a pioneer in the development and moving forward in the of the already existing ones. HYDROGEN A transversal carrier that will benefit sectors such as mobility and Promotion of industry, apart from being mixable with natural gas, which means it can use the same distribution networks. Thus, Redexis could facilitate its eﬃcient transmission using its extensive network. natural gas vehicles AN ENERGY SOURCE WITH HUGE POTENTIAL Redexis will invest • Hydrogen is an unlimited resource. It is obtained from close to 60 million Transport acts as a catalyst for the facilitate sustainable mobility and solution to transport fleet companies water and is part of a renewable cycle with zero carbon emissions. Euro in national growth and diversification of the lower carbon emissions. In this frame of or individuals. It already has in projects related economy, although it does bear a mind, Natural Gas Vehicles (NGV) oﬀer place an implementation plan for • Through hydrogen, electricity can be stored, which means that the totality of the country's electrical generation capacity can be used. to hydrogen and certain social cost in environmental an immediate solution and, a shown gas refuelling stations at a national terms. For this reason, it is necessary by the data of the Sedigas 2018 Annual level for the 2019-2020 period, • Through its storage in the gas network, hydrogen renewable gases to find ways of developing measures report, Spaniards are responding very which envisions the launching of 61 can be incorporated into both the gas and electricity systems. up to 2025 to address the least positive eﬀects. positively to this fuel type. facilities, with a total investment of 35.6 million Euro. Through them, the In this context, the Council of Ministers Redexis is supporting the company has committed to providing approved, on April 30, 2019, the development of NGV refuelling Spain with a nationwide network of Spanish Strategy for Sustainable stations, promoting the demand natural gas refuelling infrastructures BIOMETHANE Mobility (EEMS), a national reference of natural gas as an alternative for light and heavy vehicles, with easy A clean fuel obtained from biogas. This type of energy is not highly framework for guiding and bringing fuel in transport, and providing access and refuelling times similar to developed in Spain, but has great potential. In this context, Redexis is coherence to sector policies that a comprehensive and complete traditional hydrocarbon refuelling promoting innovative projects to produce biomethane and inject it into its natural gas network in collaboration with public administrations, technologists and organic waste processing companies. AN ALLY OF DE-CARBONISATION • Biomethane contributes to reducing methane emissions, diﬀuse but direct, into the atmosphere. • It oﬀers a viable solution to certain types of waste that currently pose a significant environmental management problem. • Indirectly, it enables the transformation of waste and biomass into organic agricultural fertilizers from renewable sources. We carry energy. 40 We deliver future. 2019 Perspectives 41 Sustainability 20 Report 18 SOLAR POWER A renewable and totally clean energy, ideal for Spain's climate characteristics. The company Monitoring and continuous proposes, for families and industries, an eﬃcient and environmentally friendly alternative with a photovoltaic product which provides important savings in electrical power consumption and that oﬀers total control over energy production for a more economical consumption. improvement mechanisms Redexis analyses the perspectives a value proposal that will result in and new indicators that will help of its stakeholders in order an improvement of the quality of face the challenges of climate to guide and monitor their life of people. change and eﬀectively reduce CO2 objectives, action plans and emissions. In addition, it focuses sustainability-related practices. The company is committed on continuous improvement, The development of its strategy to continue managing and promoting programs and actions involves inherent social and improving environmental aspects that enable the alignment of environmental issues, addressed related to its activities through the its daily operations with its with the objective of presenting development of new action plans sustainable long-term strategy. REDEXIS OFFERS SOLUTIONS FOR PROMOTING SELF-CONSUMPTION: Solar energy helps reduce carbon dioxide • Savings of up to 30% in electricity bills emissions, and • A sustainable energy solution, 100% renewable therefore, improves air • Fast and simple installation: Redexis takes care of everything quality • A service life of more than 25-30 years. We carry energy. 42 We deliver future. 2019 Perspectives 43 Sustainability 20 Report 18 About this report SCOPE AND COVERAGE MATERIALITY MATRIX 1. Regulatory compliance 2. Ethics, integrity and transparency The 2018 Sustainability Report puts together the most relevant its contribution towards the 4.0 3. Risk management 23 is the first of its kind published topics for the Group in 2018, and attainment of the Sustainable 25 22 7 4. Responsible taxation 2 by Redexis. Its informational takes into account advanced Development Goals. 3 20 5. Good corporate governance scope coincides with the financial transparency and corporate 21 17 1 In addition, this information 6. Integration of corporate consolidation period, from January communication criteria. social responsibility in business 1, 2018 to December 31 of the same responds to the 2018 Progress 7. Labour health and safety year. It comprises both Redexis Gas This report reviews and analyses Report of the United Nations 14 S.A. and its subsidiary companies. Redexis' activity and results, the Global Compact, and includes 3.0 8. Professional development vision of the sector, the business work carried out by Redexis to 33 15 4 9. Labour loyalty The contents of this document model, the company's strategic contribute to the attainment of 12 5 10. Fair compensation 28 16 are based on the results obtained approach and environmental the United Nations Sustainable 11. Healthy work environment 11 24 31 29 in the Materiality Analysis, which and social management, and Development Goals. External relevance 12. Diversity and equality (Harassment prevention) 8 6 13. Labour flexibility 2.0 27 30 32 14. Service quality 10 19 15. Complaints resolution systems MATERIALITY ANALYSIS and customer satisfaction 16. Crisis and emergency management For the development of strategy it an external independent firm is a act on, and make sure that they are 18 17. Industrial safety is crucial to identify stakeholders, perfect example of this. aligned with the expectations of 13 9 as well as their most relevant issues. diﬀerent stakeholders. In the same 18. Cybersecurity The Materiality Analysis carried out Thanks to this study, Redexis has way, the analysis has also defined 1.0 19. Supply safety by Redexis with the guidance of been able to establish priorities to the contents of this report. 20. Adaptation to climate change (external) 21. Innovation applied to the use of sustainable technologies 26 22. Establishment of environmental STAKEHOLDERS objectives for emissions 0.0 23. Adaptations to climate change 0.01 0. 2.03 0. 4.0 (de-carbonisation) 24. Establishment of environmental objectives for biodiversity USERS Internal Relevance 25. Circular economy AND EMPLOYEES FINANCIAL 26. Establishment of environmental goals CLIENTS COMMUNITY for ground contamination Corporate Users and Environment Local governance clients communities 27. Establishment of environmental goals for water People and Secure Suppliers and talent infrastructures collaborators 28. Supply chain safety 29. Extension of corporate culture to the supply chain (compliance with PUBLIC The objective of this report is to showcase the Group's performance in relation to codes and promotion of policies) ADMINISTRATIONS COLLABORATORS COMMUNITY essential aspects such as the environmental, social, financial, and those related 30. Audit and supervision systems with AND AND SUPPLIERS sustainable criteria REGULATORY to good corporate governance, responding to stakeholder expectations and moving forward in its commitment to the creation of value in the territories in 31. Sustainability criteria in the relationship BODIES with collaborators and suppliers which it operates. 32. Creation of direct and indirect employment 33. Creation of shared value (social investment) We carry energy. 44 We deliver future. 2019 Perspectives 45 Sustainability 20 Report 18 Contact information REDEXIS Registered oﬃce: Mahonia Street, 2, Floor 2. 28043, Madrid Customer Service Call Centre: 900 811 339 Readings: 800 76 05 77 Safety and emergencies: Redexis makes available an Emergency Service, accessible 24 hours, 365 days a year, to provide actions necessary for guaranteeing the safety of people and assets, and opening and closure operations for gas installations and emergency actions due to any type of incident: smell of gas, fire or explosion, as described in the ITC-ICG-01 of the Technical Regulation for the Distribution and Use of Gaseous Fuels, approved by Royal Decree 919/2006. To communicate any urgency, please contact Redexis Emergencies at: 900 924 622 Corporate contact addresses: Corporate website www.redexisgas.es Investor Relations: investor.relations@redexis.es Communication: comunicacion@redexis.es Complaints: canaldenuncias@redexis.es We carry energy. 46 We deliver future. Contact information 47 You will like the future
