1 Purpose | Snapshot | Strategy | People | Environment | Community | Governance P R O G R E S S O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2020 P R O G R E S S O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 2 0 2 Purpose | Snapshot | Strategy | People | Environment | Community | Governance 03. 09. 12. 16. Purpose & Snapshot Strategy People Culture 3 President’s Message 9 Impact Review 12 UN Global Compact 16 Team Development Contents. 4 COO’s Message 10 About Us 13 SDGs 18 Our Commitment to 5 Our Purpose 11 Timeline 14 SDG Action Manager Justice and Anti-Racism 6 What We Do 15 B Corp 20 Mental Health 7 Our Culture 21 Goals Review 8 CRAFT Values 23 Focus for the Future 27. 36. 44. Environment Community Governance 27 Our Environment 36 Our Community 44 Our Governance 28 Goals Review 37 Strategic Partnerships 45 Feedback + Communication 31 Focus for the Future 41 Supply Chain 46 Stakeholder Groups 42 Goals Review 47 Leadership 43 Focus for the Future 49 Structure P R O G R E S S O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 2 0 3 President’s Message PPuurrppoossee | Snapshot | Strategy | People | Environment | Community | Governance A Message from our President “ 2020 has been a year like no other. Global, national and local issues are defining our year and in many ways our generation. A global pandemic, loss of loved ones, mass unemployment and, as I write this, our home state of California is on fire. Our skies are full of unhealthy air and there’s no question our climate crisis is killing humans and ecosystems. Then in May, just as we realized that Covid-19 was not going away I see reason for great anytime soon, the murders of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery and Breonna Taylor, among others, proved optimism as we take beyond any doubt that we must no longer ignore the unresolved, and unacceptable lack of social justice. the opportunity to I find the heartache and discomfort of the last few months deeply interconnected. So many businesses reaffirm that “how we are experiencing challenges, yet I see reason for great optimism as we take the opportunity to reaffirm continue” will be full of that “how we continue” will be full of kindness and grace to all, helping others and our environment. kindness and grace to When MaCher became a certified B Corp in 2014, we signed the B Corp Declaration of Interdependence all, helping others and and promised to conduct business as if people and place mattered. We expressed ambition to do no harm, benefit all and act with dependency and responsibility to each other and our future generations. our environment. These principles continue to guide us and are more important than ever. We are focused on playing our part to critically identify the inequities and inequalities that exist throughout society. We are listening and learning. As an example, we have created a Justice, Equity, Diversity and Inclusion (JEDI) team to help us build awareness and gain an understanding of how we ” dismantle white supremacy. We will identify additional ways to work with our customers and partners, where individually and together we can help solve some of our most pressing social and environmental injustices. As you review our progress and our challenges detailed in this report, I invite you to ask questions and share your own experiences with your sustainable practices. So many times, our very best work is when it is amplified through the ripples of our partnerships and collaborations. Derek Hydon President P R O G R E S S O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 2 0 4 A Message from Our CO O Purpose | Snapshot | Strategy | People | Environment | Community | Governance A Message from our COO Over the last 12 months, I have faced some of the most challenging days of my 18 years at MaCher, but I am also grateful to be part of some of our most innovative moments. The COVID-19 pandemic has affected everyone, every business and every industry. Personally, I have had to learn to balance the schooling of my children and my family’s well-being while listening to and finding ways to support our team as they adapted to their new realities. I’ve learned to stop apologizing for my children’s on screen cameos and I’ve embraced the joy of a spontaneous hug during a tiring day or company-wide applause for a background TikTok routine. Every week brought a new set of challenges for us to overcome together and along with it came a new definition of work-life balance. We embarked on a journey towards self-management a few years ago, We are reorganizing our Culture & Talent Team to ensure a when we flattened our organization and removed layers of management and safe space to report grievances and evaluating structures and hierarchy. We are a team not managed by a “boss”, but accountable to each systems that would prevent Black, Indigenous or Persons of other and our common goal. Self-management has allowed us to pivot during Color from thriving in our business. We know we can do more the pandemic and utilize skills within our team that may not have shown up in and we will. We are committed to breaking the systemic racism a more traditional structure. structures within and beyond our business. It has birthed a whole new way of supporting each other and building on our While it’s certainly a different journey from the one I envisaged culture from a distance. We have experienced everything from meditation at the start of the year, the dedication from our MaCher team sessions, public speaking practice to virtual happy-hours and family discos. to adapt to the circumstances without wavering on our mission is inspiring. We are innovating in the face of adversity and it’s We saw the deepening of our transition to this model through our team’s turning out to be far more a rewarding experience to be with a involvement and passion around the Black Lives Matter movement as it gained team that has everyone’s interests at heart. renewed and heightened attention. Self organization practices showed up in the formation of our Justice, Equity, Diversity and Inclusion team (JEDI). We Annette Levy are taking a good look internally reviewing every aspect of our recruiting, COO interviewing, hiring, training and onboarding procedures. P R O G R E S S O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 2 0 5 Our Purpose PPuur rppoossee | le S n a p s h o t | | SSt tr raat teeggyy | | PPeeooppl e | Environment | Community | Governance Our Purpose We partner with brands to help them express who they are, designing thoughtful products and meaningful solutions that get them noticed. We’re a certified B Corp, using our business as a force for good to provide the best workplace, care for our environment and positively help others. We make better things, to make things better. P R O G R E S S O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 2 0 6 W h a t We D o Purpose | Snapshot | Strategy | People | Environment | Community | Governance Case Studies Here are two examples of how we make better things to make things better: Removing single use plastics and improving Davines the guest experience Products made by the sustainable beauty company and fellow B Corp Davines use Regent Cruise Line natural ingredients, cultivated with care. Regent Cruise Line had realized that their To highlight the relationship between beauty, practice of giving guests plastic bottles of agriculture and local traditions, Davines water was wasteful and unsustainable and invited us to design a beautiful bracelet. they wanted to make a change. We worked The focus of the program was to promote with Regent and the CDC to design a water conversations about the need for healthy food bottle that could be washed in commercial and community supported agriculture (CSA) dishwashers and then be re-used onboard. farms, to preserve and protect unique plant The use case for Regent was simple; by species and local traditions. providing access to premium filtered water and giving each guest a stylish stainless steel reusable bottle, they improved the guest experience, lowered their costs (buying and Building conversations that warehousing bottled water) and removed 2 million single use bottles from their ships and help protect unique plant our eco-system. species and local traditions P R O G R E S S O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 2 0 7 Our Culture PPuurrppoossee | Snapshot | Strategy | People | Environment | Community | Governance Our Culture Our purpose and values guide us through everyday work and life. Our team and their collaborative effort is at our core. We believe our company is only as good as the people who make it go each day and so we treat each other as family. This inspires us to do right for each other, our clients and the world around us. P R O G R E S S O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 2 0 8 C R A F T Va l u e s PP uu rr p p oo ss ee | Snapshot | Strategy | People | Environment | Community | Governance Collaboration C Working together towards shared goals CRAFT Values Respect R Care for each other & our environment Our CRAFT values are at the core of who we are. We strive to provide the best workplace, to care for our environment and to positively help others. These values guide us as we navigate new terrain or face Authenticity challenges as a team. Our CRAFT culture holds us A Bring your best accountable to our business, our partners and to each self to work other as we continue to evolve and grow together. Family Pride F Shared values and open communication Trust T Be clear, be honest, be accountable P R O G R E S S O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 2 0 9 Impact Review Purpose | Snapshot | Strategy | People | Environment | Community | Governance Impact Improvements Net Impact Deficiencies Zero 1.5 C 2.6m 1 Educational training on Justice, Equity, Diversity and Declared Climate Signed on to Business Formed our first Formalized giving 2% Reusable water bottle Inclusion topics for Emergency, joined 500+ Ambition 1.5°C and Justice, Equity, of revenue program eliminated our team members B Corps to become Net committed to Science Diversity and Inclusion 2.6 million single use Zero by 2030 Based Targets (JEDI) team plastic bottles 2 Initiative (SBTi) No reduction in PVC and PU material usage 34% 3 Decrease in reusability of our Increased our 2020 B Completed Participated in Global Lobbied with SDG Action products from 5 Corp re-certification environmental self Climate Strike and Black Members of Congress, Manager Panelist at 96% to 92% score to 129, an assessments with top Lives Matter protests LEAD on Climate 2020 UN Climate Week increase of 34% 10 significant suppliers P R O G R E S S O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 2 0 10 About Us P u r p o s e | | SSnnaappsshhoot t | | SSt tr raat teeggyy | | PPeeooppl e le | Environment | Community | Governance 100% carbon C-TPAT certified and neutral for US validated since 2010 operations Average employee tenure of 6.9 years Honored by B Lab as ‘ B e s t fo r t h e Wo r l d ’ 2019 92% OF OUR PRODUCTS ARE REUSABLE Donate 2% SUPPLY CHAIN ALIGNED WITH UN DECLARATION gross revenue OF HUMAN RIGHTS 100% pass rate on UN Global Compact material compliance Participant since CERTIFIED B 2016 CORP SINCE 2014 98% on-time delivery P R O G R E S S O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 2 0 11 Timeline Purpose | Snapshot | Strategy | People | Environment | Community | Governance 2020 Recertified as a B Corp with a score of 129.4 1991 + Formed official JEDI team Founded 2018 USA 1993 Expanded Operations to Our first Cambodia and nonprofit 2015 India donation to Introduced + UN Global The Midnight Self-Managed Compact Mission business model Participant 2001 + Female Board 2019 Membership 2 team members Creation of v1 of our CRAFT Culture 2016 joined partnership + Signed SBTi UN Global + Joined B Corp Net Compact 2017/18/19 Zero 2030 initiative Signatory Honoree for B Corp Best for the World 2003 Formation of significant non-profit partnerships with Heal the Bay and Tourism Cares 2017 2014 B Corp Certified as a B recertification, Corp, score 84.3 score 96.4 2008 Launched our Green Commute initiative P R O G R E S S O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 2 0 12 UN Global Compact Purpose | Snapshot | Strategy | People | Environment | Community | Governance UN Global Compact Using the UN Global Compact as our guiding framework, we prioritize our own sustainability efforts in order to encourage, and promote ripples of systemic change within our circle of influence. The UN Global Compact’s ten principles guide our strategies, policies and decision making in all areas of our value chain. We align our strategies and operations with universal principles on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption and take actions that advance broader societal goals. Our progress is measured against the 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). P R O G R E S S O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 2 0 13 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Purpose | Snapshot | Strategy | People | Environment | Community | Governance UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) The United Nations’ 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development is a critical ‘call to action’ to achieve 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in the next 10 years. We closely identify with 9 of the SDG goals as areas of high and medium impact for the development and implementation of our environmental, social and governance goals. P R O G R E S S O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 2 0 14 UN Global Compact Purpose | S n a p s h o t S| t rSattreagt e ygy | People | Environment | Community | Governance SDG Action Manager This year, the UN Global Compact HIGHEST IMPACT AREAS collaborated with B Lab to launch the SDG Action Manager. This tool maps sections of the B Impact Assessment to each SDG. Given Healthcare and wellness Environmentally preferred input materials benefits for employees its transversal nature, SDG 17 Minimized environmental impact of (Partnerships for the Goals) is Supply chain safety packaging incorporated into every module. Environmental impact tracking of suppliers This framework has helped us remain accountable by using Team member training and Energy use reductions MID IMPACT AREAS a scorecard evaluation against development GHG management each SDG to highlight areas of Specific training on social and strength in our business and environmental issues areas that need improvement. Anti discrimination policies & Company transparency pay equality Code of ethics Female representation Supply chain code of conduct LOWER IMPACT AREAS across all levels of business Work flexibility for parents Supplier diversity tracking Contributing to local community stakeholders Green commute participation Telecommuting options Climate change mitigation in operations P R O G R E S S O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 2 0 15 B Impact S core: B C orp Pa SPnuarppsohsoet | | S n h soet u rpps o | Strategy | People | Environment | Community | Governance 34% Our B Impact Score has improved by 34% since 2016 B Impact Score: B Corp 2% We publicly committed to invest 2% of our annual revenue in social and environmental enterprises At MaCher, we strive to balance creating a better world with creating profits. We make products that solve business problems, that people will actually use, that are made out of quality materials so that they can last, and that strengthen the relationships between brands + We advanced our work in and their customers. resource conservation; diverting waste and increasing our use We know that the industry we work in is not perfect neither are of recycled fabrics over virgin we, but we want to be part of the solutions to make things better. materials in our products We proudly became part of the B Corp community in 2014. This means that we are committed to meet the highest standards of social and environmental 3yrs Best for the World Changemaker Honoree for past 3 years performance, transparency and accountability and have our actions verified by B Lab. P R O G R E S S O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 2 0 16 Our Culture Purpose | Snapshot | Strategy | PPeeooppl lee | Environment | Community | Governance Team Development Our team culture is paramount and we work hard to develop a welcoming family environment. Our self-management structure guides us to take ownership and be accountable and responsible. No hierarchy, no ‘bosses’. HOW WE SHOW UP TO DEVELOP OUR CULTURE We provide access to Employee Assistance program Flexible work plans for varying lifestyles Weekly Zen for 10 program guided team meditation We provide extensive onboarding training including Parents are supported through flexible return to work anti-harassment and unconscious bias training schedules and paid time off after welcoming a child 20 paid company hours dedicated to volunteering Nursing mothers are provided for in the office space 360 reviews for all team members We have a flexible paid sick leave policy Professional leadership and development coaching for 100% paid premium on medical insurance + additional all team members paid optical and dental program FYI team lead education platform for sharing Our employee handbook is in accordance to the UN knowledge on social and environmental issues Convention of Human Rights We offer long and short term disability and life insurance P R O G R E S S O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 2 0 17 A To a s t t o Te a m w o r k Purpose | Snapshot | Strategy | p ll ee | PP ee oo p Environment | Community | Governance A Toast to Teamwork 2020 has been a whirlwind for us all, presenting incredible challenges and making us question our practices like never before. Shifting to remote working because of the COVID-19 pandemic brought a renewed focus to the well-being of our team members. Our learnings grew into a Remote Work Handbook. Part guide for staying connected and cultivating wellness, and part call-to-action to reflect, improve and urge businesses to use their operations as a powerful force for good in the recovery. We miss each other and can’t wait for the day that our potluck lunches and coffee runs can be shared in person again. Until that day, we will continue to find new and innovative ways to show up for one another and maintain our culture from a distance. P R O G R E S S O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 2 0 18 Our Commitment to Justice e t | | SSt tr raat teeggyy | | CP ue lot u p rl e SPnuarppsohsoet | | SPnuar p sohs o e | Environment | Community | Governance Our Commitment to Justice & Anti-Racism At MaCher, we stand against anti-Black racism and all forms of oppression. We commit to putting practices in place that support Black, Indigenous and People of Color team members; cultivating a culture that minimizes bias and recognizes and addresses systemic inequities. As we continue to learn about the inequities, inequalities and injustices deeply rooted in our society, we will focus on transforming our dialogue and discussion into action. P R O G R E S S O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 2 0 19 Black Lives Matter Purpose | Snapshot | Strategy | PPeeooppl lee | Environment | Community | Governance Black Lives Matter 1 2 This year, the fact that we are not all in this world together has never been clearer. The systemic racism in our society has been How are we educating What inequities and highlighted not just by the senseless deaths of George Floyd, ourselves about racism? inequalities exist in our Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery and many others, but also by We are committed to 6 internal business? the rate at which Black, Indigenous, People of Color and those education programs per year We are reviewing our hiring, onliving in poorer areas with higher levels of pollutants have been on JEDI topics (Justice, Equity, boarding and ongoing team disproportionately affected by COVID-19. Diversity and Inclusion). development processes to learn how We have recognized some of our own inadequacies. We were US Black History lesson for all they can be improved to be more not public enough with our stance in solidarity with the Black team members. aligned with JEDI best practices. community, we made some mistakes in our internal management Resource sharing platform for of colleagues and we realized that our work environment needs books, articles and videos. to do more to be fully inclusive and equitable for everyone. We have work to do to expand our culture and break down racism and we are working on addressing these questions: 3 4 5 How do we best allow What practices do we have How are we allowing our space in our business for in place that support Black team members to bring conversations around and People of Color team their authentic selves and structural racism? members? culture into our business? We formed a JEDI task force to advise We are reorganizing our Culture & We are still working on this and and collect feedback from internal Talent Team to ensure a safe space are making it a focus for the and external voices. to report grievances and evaluating upcoming year. Our JEDI team is leading discussion structures and systems that would groups every quarter for our team. prevent Black, Indigenous or People of Color from thriving in our business. P R O G R E S S O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 2 0 20 Mental Health Purpose | Snapshot | Strategy | PPeeooppllee | Environment | Community | Governance Mental Health The COVID-19 crisis has affected everyone. Whether we were affected personally by illness, or by the mental toil that lock down, a lack of sociability and a deep concern for our family and friends has had on our lives. At MaCher, we have tried to take away the stigma of talking about mental health. HERE’S HOW WE SUPPORTED OUR TEAM Mental Health check in text system Bi-monthly team feedback survey ‘Zen for 10’ meditations, twice per week Mindfulness coloring series to disconnect #remote_life channel on Slack to share experiences Social distancing handbook Employee Assistance Program access to free consultations ‘Distant Disco’ to end the week 6.75hrs Company Yoga Virtual happy hours and coffee chats of group meditation P R O G R E S S O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 2 0 21 Progress O n Our 2019 C ommitments Purpose | Snapshot | Strategy | PPeeooppl lee | Environment | Community | Governance OUR CULTURE: 2019/20 PROGRESS What we pledged How we showed up Our SDG How can we for the last 12 months Score Alignment be better? Expand the content and quality We implemented a weekly We still need to work of MaCher’s health and wellness mindfulness and meditation program. towards a clear policy program. Develop clear policy, We also started to support our team and assistance program education and assistance around with mental health conversations that supports all harm reduction, mental health through our FYI educational program. team members with and alcohol and drug misuse. challenges faced during mental health crisis. Healthy meals at all company We prioritized moving to healthy, events and celebrations. organic and plant based foods as well as supporting local businesses for our catered events. We increased our minimum full time Guarantee that all full salary to $50k after 1 year of service. time employees earn During COVID-19, all full time team a fair, livable wage. members were asked to take reduced salaries, but we did not reduce any salary below our minimum of $50k. Did Not Meet Expectations Met Expectations Exceeded Expectations P R O G R E S S O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 2 0 22 Progress O n Our 2019 C ommitments Purpose | Snapshot | Strategy | PPeeooppllee | Environment | Community | Governance 2019/20 PROGRESS What we pledged How we showed up Our SDG How can we for the last 12 months Score Alignment be better? Increase the number of team members 92.3% full time team members were engaged with our development engaged with external coaches to 90%. coach Iris Gelt Warner and created IDPs (Individual Development Plans). Amplify the effect of our Gender discrepancies are still hugely We have not found a platform to help others in improving their gender 3 prevalent across the world. COVID-19 has only performance in gender equality equality performance. 4 exacerbated the issue and we feel we can do to all stakeholder groups. more to encourage other businesses to work alongside us to close these gaps. We don’t have a specific solution but are always looking for options to consider. We are focused on training all our team Train 4 diversity, equity and Only 1 team member completed additional training. Some of our team members further on JEDI topics. We have inclusion specialists to increase our members have started their training but were unable to complete all formed our first JEDI team that will be JEDI practices and engagement modules due to impact of COVID-19. reviewing our hiring, on boarding and internal across our team. education practices to create a more inclusive space at MaCher. 100% of our team members attended an FYI on Diversity in the Outdoors Demonstrate our commitment to JEDI aimed to improve our knowledge in the historical barriers that Black We provided a town hall meeting and an practices by encouraging 20% of our Americans face when participating in outdoor adventure and travel. anonymous survey to our team to learn where team to participate in further education. 100% of team members also attended a US Black History lesson aimed we may be underperforming in this area and at improving our knowledge on this historical causes of systemic racism are using that feedback to craft our ongoing prevalent in today’s society. team education. Did Not Meet Expectations Met Expectations Exceeded Expectations P R O G R E S S O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 2 0 23 Focus For The Future Purpose | Snapshot | Strategy | PPeeooppl lee | Environment | Community | Governance Focus for the Future Our Pledge Next 12 Months We will develop and offer a We will offer six We will continue to paid internship program that JEDI related training support the mental provides mentorship and opportunities to all wellbeing of our team professional development team members. members through to high school and university our ‘Zen for 10’ twicelevel students from weekly meditations. diverse and traditionally underrepresented backgrounds. P R O G R E S S O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 2 0 24 K P I s : F e a t u r e O f Te a m M e m b e r s Purpose | Snapshot | Strategy | PPeeooppllee | Environment | Community | Governance Team Member Features Michelle Based on my experience with mediation and yoga, I was interested in helping provide regular meditation sessions to the team. I helped create Zen for 10, a weekly meditation practice available to everyone at MaCher. Breanne Jamila I lead an internal mentorship program My goal is to create a culture of openness to provide all team members access to and a support system around mental health education and to develop leadership skills no challenges for our team. I provide multiple matter their role, identity or background. avenues for team members to let me know if they are struggling and in need of support. P R O G R E S S O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 2 0 25 K P I s : F e a t u r e O f Te a m M e m b e r s Purpose | Snapshot | Strategy | PPeeooppl lee | Environment | Community | Governance Team Member Features Anna While we had systems for trash and recycling collection, we had no process for the disposal of our office food waste. I found a local garden with composting infrastructure a few blocks from our office and now we partner with them for composting all our green office waste. Richard Jules I created one-on-one support and I created a sales tool and guidance for any team member engagement strategy with wanting to participate in a run, consumer insights and learnings endurance or fitness challenge. around Diversity and Inclusion in the beauty industry to share with clients and partners. P R O G R E S S O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 2 0 26 K P I s : F e a t u r e O f Te a m M e m b e r s Purpose | Snapshot | Strategy | People | Environment | Community | Governance Team Member Features Ben I created our own, internal public speaking/design thinking group called Venice Speech. The process was finding a way to merge a more traditional public speaking club platform with that of a contemporary, design thinking one. Jon Betsy I work with our supply chain partners on My goal was to review the baseline of our commitment to the SEDEX framework. individual poly-bag usage and create We currently have 4 of our top 10 reporting a mechanism to document how orders under the 4-Pillar structure and another were being packed. We are now 3 reporting under the 2-pillar structure. tracking weight of polybags per order to Additionally, we have selfreported data determine true progress. This small shift from our top 10 suppliers allowing us to in focus has a big impact on reducing establish our baseline for environmental our overall plastic consumption. impact in our supply chain. P R O G R E S S O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 2 0 27 Our Environment SPnuarppsohsoet | | S P nu h soet a rpps o | Strategy | People | | EEEnnnvvvi riiroroonnnmm meeennnt tt | | CCoommmmuunni ti tyy | | GGoovveer rnnaannccee Our Environment The next decade is critical. The recent report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) warned of severe consequences of a failure to prevent global warming. To limit the temperature increase to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels, emissions need to halve by 2030 and drop to net-zero by the middle of the century for the best chance of avoiding the worst impacts of climate change. We believe in science and the power of community effort to urgently meet the challenge. To that end, we made two commitments this past year: SBTi This year, we are implementing Science Net MaCher joined 500+ B Corps that publicly committed to 1.5 C In September of 2019, we joined the global movement of Based Targets throughout our business to help us track Zero accelerate the reduction of their greenhouse gas 200 other leading companies in the Business Ambition for 1.5°C and measure our reductions 2030 emissions and reach a 1.5 degree trajectory by 2030 P R O G R E S S O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 2 0 28 Our Progress Purpose | Snapshot | Strategy | People | EEnnvviirroonnm meenntt | Community | Governance 2019/20 PROGRESS What we pledged How we showed up Our SDG How can we for the last 12 months Score Alignment be better? Establish end of life We have not completed the instructions and are Develop closed-loop product disposal instructions extending this goal to 2021. We spent the year options and work with industry for our products. understanding the infrastructure of waste management partners to resolve barriers to in the US and how to best educate consumers on what recycling and repairs. can be done with products at the end of life. Reduce logistics Over 50% of our orders have reduced logistics packaging We are working on converting packaging by 25% using by more than 80% per order. We have eliminated over every order to bulk packing 2019 baseline by 2021. 800K poly bags this year. when possible. Our policy focuses on removing plastics where possible We are looking for large scale Establish company or replacing virgin plastic with recycled content. We do solutions to replace or minimize policy on plastics not promote compostable plastic products as the end use of all virgin plastics. Our reduction, recyclable and of life infrastructure is not readily available. We designed biggest challenge is finding compostable plastics. an educational FYI ‘Trash Talk’ to educate our team on replacements for PVC and PU different plastic types and recycling capabilities around materials. the world. We developed a tracking system to measure We are looking for options to Implement an open-loop packaging use on orders. We have worked on one manage end of life of packaging recycling test with 2 clients test case with a client but have yet to implement it. waste, through either eliminating to properly dispose/recycle packaging or capturing it before packaging waste. it ends up in landfill or waterways. Did Not Meet Expectations Met Expectations Exceeded Expectations P R O G R E S S O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 2 0 29 Our Progress Purpose | Snapshot | Strategy | People | meenntt | EEnnvvi irroonnm Community | Governance 2019/20 PROGRESS What we pledged How we showed up Our SDG How can we for the last 12 months Score Alignment be better? Quarterly update of Sustainable The Sustainable Materials Toolkit is now a living document as we discover We are always looking for materials that Materials Toolkit. new materials and apply their use to new products. We are always lessen our impact on the environment. Our developing this tool based on most best available material innovations. biggest hurdle has been finding the right replacements for PVC + PU materials. Create Progress on Sustainability impact We designed a tracking system to monitor our clients impact progress. We will design and implement a new tracking reports for 12 clients by 2021. This system was interrupted during a transition away from a project system to fulfill this pledge. management software we had used to track the impact components. We have not been able to successfully implement the reporting mechanism to all clients but we have produced 1 successful case study. Carbon offsetting is not the solution to Increase adoption of a carbon Only 2% of our clients’ orders based on spend were offset through our solving our climate crisis but it can be used to offset to 10% of all orders by 2020. carbon offset program. reduce carbon debt. Our focus is shifting to regenerative practices in the future. We will still encourage our clients to first measure and reduce emissions and then offset remaining emissions that can’t be avoided. 25% team using green Prior to the pandemic lock down we had 23% of our team engaged in our With remote work becoming the new normal, commute program. green commute program. we believe our future work commute emissions will be reduced significantly. 100% of team with 100% of our team set individual sustainability goals or COVID-19 had a significant impact on the sustainability KPI Key Performance Indicators. team’s abilities to achieve their individual goals. We had a 65% completion rate on the goals set, we hope to get an 80% conversion rate next year. Did Not Meet Expectations Met Expectations Exceeded Expectations P R O G R E S S O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 2 0 30 Our Progress Purpose | Snapshot | Strategy | People | EEnnvviirroonnm meenntt | Community | Governance 2019/20 PROGRESS What we pledged How we showed up Our SDG How can we for the last 12 months Score Alignment be better? Science Based Targets Initiative In 2019 we signed the SBTi commitment We have 24 months to (SBTi) Sign the commitment letter and are now working on our targets. create our scope 1-3 letter and set science based baselines and submit our emissions reduction targets by reduction goals to SBTi. 2021/22 FY for US footprint. Design and develop new This year we focused on using recycled fibers Develop closed-loop product ranges focused on and other sustainable materials to replace virgin product range. recycled materials or closedmaterials. Our NPD team traveled to India to develop loop design Incorporate new product ranges with our supply partners closed loop design into a using recycled materials. We increased orders product that has a positive using recycled materials by 5%. Our new design environmental impact by impact toolkit is being applied to all new product 2021. development. 13% of our travel clients adopted our reusable We are working to add new Expand our reusable water water bottle program to replace single use plastic reusable product ranges to offer bottle initiative to eliminate water bottles. our travel and beauty clients single use plastics. including: Bamboo cutlery sets, reusable straws and face masks. Did Not Meet Expectations Met Expectations Exceeded Expectations P R O G R E S S O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 2 0 31 Environment: Focus for the Future Purpose | Snapshot | Strategy | People | meenntt | EEnnvvi irroonnm Community | Governance Focus for the Future 40% Provide quarterly team training  Increase the use of  Present a minimum focused on topics such as waste RPET or other recycled of one circular design mitigation, material innovations fibers or of sustainably concept to our Our Pledge and regenerative practices certified materials to clients every quarter 40% of all orders Next 12 Months  Build Scope 3  Reduce logistics  Create Progress on  Establish end of life GHG emissions packaging by 25% Sustainability impact disposal instructions for inventory system using 2019 baseline reports for 12 clients all products made Next 2 Years By 2030 100% of our products Remove all single Approval on SBTi goals Net Zero are reusable use plastics from for emissions reduction emissions our products P R O G R E S S O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 2 0 32 Our Material Performance Purpose | Snapshot | Strategy | People | EEnnvviirroonnm meenntt | Community | Governance Material Performance Last Year’s Performance Year on Year Next Year & Beyond Last year, we pledged to Sustainable material transition performance 40% NEXT YEAR: 40% products PVC measure and eliminate PVC Year on Year from sustainable usage from our products by 2023. materials By 2023: This year we converted more of our products to 2018-2019 FY 2019-2020 FY 60% products sustainable materials however we did not see a made from difference in our PVC material usage. We are committed sustainable 26% 31% to finding alternative solutions for PVC and PU materials. materials 53% 48% 21% 21% Material Spotlight RPET is the fabric made from recycling plastic bottles. By encouraging the use of this material for our products (rather than PU, PVC or other virgin LIGHT YELLOW materials), 308,900 plastic bottles were Sustainable Materials diverted from landfill. YELLOW Other Non Sustainable Materials BROWN PVC P R O G R E S S O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 2 0 33 Spotlight: D esigning for our Environment Purpose | Snapshot | Strategy | People EE nn | v vi ri or on nmme en n tt | CCoom mmmuunni ti tyy | | GGoovveer rnnaannccee Created a Spotlight sustainable materials toolkit Shared learnings on Sustainable Packaging Created a ‘design Panel at Credo Clean principles guide’ Designing for Beauty Summit with for a product’s life cycle their 130+ brands our Environment As a company that manufactures products, we know that we have an extra responsibility We care to tackle waste, plastic pollution and climate change and work towards a circular economy. Designed Focused all a tracking new product This year, applying Design Thinking principles, system to show development on we’ve increased our focus on designing sustainability recycled and products that have less impact on our impact of sustainable environment, sourcing the most sustainable products materials materials and then actively sharing our learnings with others. Developed a ‘Sustainable Trunk Show’ to showcase our product and materials ideas P R O G R E S S O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 2 0 34 T h e I m a g i n a r y Tr a v e l C o m p a n y Purpose | Snapshot | Strategy | People | meenntt | EEnnvviirroonnm Community | Governance The Power of Imagination The Imaginary Travel Company is a concept developed by the team at MaCher that reimagines the intersection of travel, sustainability and mindfulness. Travel is a life changing experience. Our concept is to maximize wanderlust while minimizing the carbon footprint. For the debut collection, we focused on the adventure traveler. A savvy traveler whose passion for exploring the world ignites a desire to reduce their environmental impact. The Adventurer travels light, carrying only necessities for each excursion. The collection is sustainable and transparent by design; boldly highlighting its ethical manufacturing. All materials used are either recycled or renewable and the energy used in making them has been offset with The Conservation Fund. The artwork advertises the material properties and life cycle data. Products are thoughtfully designed with features to help eliminate single-use plastic waste and encourage reusability while traveling. View the full collection: https://imaginarytravel.co/sustainabletraveler P R O G R E S S O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 2 0 35 C elebrating Earth Month at MaCher Purpose | Snapshot | Strategy | People | Environment | Community | Governance Celebrating Earth Month at MaCher Each year, in celebration of Earth Month, every team member commits to making a personal change in their life. 2018 32% adoption of which 50% hit their goal These pledges remind us that our individual efforts are so vital in creating positive change, spreading awareness and helping us to be mindful of the choices we are making everyday. 2019 74% adoption of which 85% hit their goal 2020 100% adoption of an Earth Day Pledge Daph Anna Tarina Plant a fruit Shift 90% of Ride bike at tree on my toiletries to zero least once a sidewalk so the waste optionsweek to work fruit is available Bite toothpaste, to pick for the solid shampoo, neighborhood conditioner, face Angela Jon wash and lotion Richard Sandra Eat plantTake shorter Organize a No more based diet 3 showers by using volunteer day to single-use straws times a week my “timer block.” 5 do with my family minutes if shaving and washing hair, 3 minutes if not P R O G R E S S O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 2 0 36 Our Community Purpose | Snapshot | Strategy | People | Environment | Community | Governance Our Community We amplify our voice and scale our impact through key partnerships with those organizations in our community who share our goals and values in order to create greater positive change that benefits everyone. Over the past year, a core focus has been leveraging these partnerships to help us reduce the use of plastics, particularly single use plastic water bottles. With COVID-19, there is an increased focus on sanitation and hygiene across the world. As a result, plastics reduction has been scaled back. We believe a COVID-19 world can and must include sustainable solutions, resilience measures for communities and workers and the protection of biodiversity. We will continue to have conversations with businesses and suppliers on how they can reduce single use plastic reduction, utilizing our multi-stakeholder partnerships such as Tourism Cares, USTOA and Heal the Bay. P R O G R E S S O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 2 0 37 Strategic Partnerships P Snuar ppos sheo t| |S nPaupr sphooste | Strategy | People | Environment | CCoommmmuunni ti tyy | Governance B Lab The Conservation Fund Strategic Partnerships Our support of B Lab We partner with The extends from our Conservation Fund for our recertification fees, to B carbon offsetting program Local LA development and for both our operational In 1993, we made our first donation as a business to the LA sponsorship of events. footprint offset and our Midnight Mission. Since then we have consistently grown our clients orders. giving partnerships through an informal program to invest back into our community through nonprofit organizations and industry groups. For many years we have substantially given to various organizations in need. Tourism Cares In October 2019, we publicly announced our formal Our support is varied from commitment to distribute at least 2% of our annual gross board representation, cash revenue to our nonprofit and social enterprise partners. and product donations as well as pro bono support In particular, we want to support those organizations who are from multiple MaCher helping advance social and environmental change across team members. the industries that we operate. These include travel, retail and CEW UN Global Compact beauty. We are also looking to invest in organizations that help further our goals around Justice, Equity, Diversity and Inclusion We support CEW and Our support for the in our workplace and our community. Cancer & Careers through Foundation for UN product design and Global Compact donations for their events. is through cash donations. P R O G R E S S O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 2 0 38 Community Partnerships Purpose | Snapshot | Strategy | People | Environment | Co C om mmm uu nn ii tt yy | Governance Community Partnerships In recent months like many organizations, MaCher has fully woken up to sheer scale of the many inequities and injustices within our society and we are more determined than ever to leave behind an equitable legacy. Our work with various community organizations covers issues as diverse as coastal protection, kindness for the seriously ill and their careers and community gardening. Our future plans will identify whether there is further scope to target our efforts towards marginalized local communities and those that are affected by our operational footprint. P R O G R E S S O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 2 0 39 C aring for our C ommunity Purpose | Snapshot | Strategy | People | | EEnnvvi ri roonnm C meennt t | | C m Cooom mmmuuunnni itittyyy | | GGoovveer rnnaannccee m Spotlight Examples of our community involvement include: 100 + collective team hours supporting the Black Lives Matter movement Caring for our Community 600+ hrs Giving Back We have a formal commitment of 20 30 + collective team hours for the Global paid volunteer hours offered to every Climate Strike team member per year. Individuals can choose how they use these hours in giving back time to their communities or on pursuing issues that resonate with them personally. 65 + collective team hours for kids sports coaching P R O G R E S S O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 2 0 40 Spotlight: Ripples Purpose | Snapshot | Strategy | People | Environment | Community | Governance Ripples Spotlight Using our business as a force for good includes encouraging others and looking for ripples of change beyond our business and circle of influence. While harder to measure, we see positive shifts in conversations, intentions and actions taken that spur us on in these endeavors. Here are a few ‘Partnership for the Goals’ ripples from this past year: Coaching Collaborations Investments Webinars & Panels We have been advising and Such as with Tourism Cares, Such as Kitro that Sharing consumer and market supporting companies in their USTOA and the Jordan helps restaurants insights data to inform audiences transition to B Corp as well as Tourism Board to help reduce measure and reduce around the world on topics around non profit board development. plastic water bottle use at the their food waste. Post-COVID consumer attitudes USTOA annual conference. and growing sustainable practices. P R O G R E S S O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 2 0 41 Supply Chain Partnerships Purpose | Snapshot | Strategy | People | Environment | C oom C mmmuu nniitt yy | Governance Supply Chain Partnerships 15 yrs Everyone involved in the creation of our products is of equal value to us and we are committed to ensuring the ethical treatment of all. average tenure with our top 8 Our rigorous onboarding practices for our supply chain partners include selfsupply chain partners. assessments, onsite visits and third party auditing. We also support the efforts of our partners on their journey of continuous improvement through ongoing, frequent and periodic audits and visitations. 100% We realize there is no perfect in an imperfect world, however our goal is to bring everyone along with us on our goal for sustainable best practices. of our strategic manufacturing supply partners commit and adhere to our Social Accountability Standards and Manufacturing Map Code of Conduct—based on the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labor Organization conventions (SA8000). 92.5% of our business has been placed directly with strategic supply partners who have committed to transparent, accredited 3rd party audits measuring social and/or environmental performance. P R O G R E S S O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 2 0 42 Our Progress Purpose | Snapshot | Strategy | People | Environment | Community | Governance 2019/20 PROGRESS What we pledged How we showed up Our SDG How can we for the last 12 months Score Alignment be better? Min of 5 significant suppliers reporting 100% of our top 10 (by spend) manufacturing partners have completed a We are looking to establish baselines on resource usage by 2020 for either self-assessment on their sustainability policy and are reporting on water, from our 2019 data so we can set energy or water consumption. energy and gas usage. reduction targets with our partners for the future. We will continue to improve this Increase a number of core metric to convert our 2 pillar suppliers To date, 4 of our top 10 suppliers have completed 4-Pillar Audit. Additional suppliers with SEDEX 4 pillar to the 4 pillar audits, which add the 3 have at least a 2 pillar SEDEX audit. certification to 5 by 2023. environmental and business ethics transparency and performance. We are looking at how we can Measure the diversity of We have developed a supplier tracking tool that is measuring the use this data to further diversify ownership among our suppliers. diversity in ownership of suppliers. our supply chain. Create incentive program for Currently we have not been able to implement the incentive program We are looking to develop a Tier 1 suppliers to promote however we are prioritizing our Tier 1 suppliers working on their impact stakeholder engagement program transparency of Tier 2 and reporting and we will be altering our SOP to include more transparency in that will incentivize our partners beyond suppliers. communication for our supply chain partners on trading. with their reporting on supply chain involvement and impact. Did Not Meet Expectations Met Expectations Exceeded Expectations P R O G R E S S O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 2 0 43 Supply Chain: Our Focus for the Future Purpose | Snapshot | Strategy | People | Environment | CCoom mm muunni ittyy | Governance Focus for the Future Our Pledge 95% Next 12 Months  Increase our spend to 95% of  To achieve this, we will our total business (currently at hold our trading partners 92.5%) awarded to strategic accountable and require suppliers based on social and/or audits and transparency environmental performance from their factory partners Next 2 Years 100% of our total business Develop local supply Increase a number of core awarded to strategic suppliers chain partnerships for suppliers with SEDEX 4 based on social and/or the US based projects pillar certification to 5 environmental performance P R O G R E S S O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 2 0 44 UN O e lr nCaonm cp u rGGl oobv a eact Purpose | Snapshot | Strategy | People | Environment | Community | Governance Our As a certified B Corp we have a legal commitment Governance to consider all the stakeholders affected by the decisions we make as a business, including our environment. Our Benefit Corporation structure is a legal obligation for us to pursue positive stakeholder impact alongside profit. Our stakeholders are those who directly influence and/or are influenced by our day-to-day operations. We also consider those who our business operations affect, such as the communities we work in and the industries impacted by our business. Our stakeholders include: Team Members Board Members Clients Supply Partners Industry Peers Our Local Communities Travel, Beauty, Retail and other Industry Associations in which we operate Our B Corp and Global Compact Communities Non-profits, Environmental and Social Enterprises P R O G R E S S O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 2 0 45 Feedback SPnuarppsohsoet | | S P nu h soet a rpps o | Strategy | People | | EEnnvvi ri roonnmmeennt t | | CCoommmmuunni ti tyy | | GGoovveer rnnaannccee Our pledge in the next 12 months: Feedback We use multiple strategies to collect feedback from our stakeholders. Encouraging honest feedback, whether appreciation, Create a Implement quarterly We Love It feedback system feedback surveys for coaching or evaluation helps us improve our reach and depth of understanding of what is important to all our stakeholders for external external stakeholders stakeholders Some current feedback mechanisms include: 360 Quarterly 360 reviews for all Glassdoor reviews Social Media: Exit interviews employee team members LinkedIn and happiness surveys Instagram Supply partner Peer reviews of our Company, Department MaCher’s Board Industry New hire annual feedback annual Progress on and Team Member round tables orientation reviews and visits Sustainability Report Meetings P R O G R E S S O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 2 0 46 Communication Channels Purpose | Snapshot | Strategy | People | Environment | Community | Governance How We Share Our Progress Sharing both our progress on our successes as well as the targets we continue to strive for, holds us accountable to our commitments. Our transition towards an inclusive economy makes this all the more important. Some of the many ways we share our progress on our sustainability goals include: Annual Progress on Sustainability Report Team Member Training Our Website, www.macher.com Directly with Our Clients Company, Department and Team Member Meetings Public Speaking and Facilitation Association and Not-For-Profit Involvement Industry Round Tables Supply Partner Visits Supply Chain Collaboration Social Media New Hire Orientation P R O G R E S S O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 2 0 47 MaCher Partners Purpose | Snapshot | Strategy | People | Environment | Community | GGoovveer rnnaannccee Derek In 1992, newly arrived in America, I met two people who would change my life: my future wife Deb, and my future business partner Martin. Martin and I started to build MaCher USA around simple core values and a shared vision that business can be both profitable and a force for good in the world. We’ve always thought of MaCher as a living organism, where we are honored to be custodians. As we accelerate our self-managed environment, my role is to protect our purpose and culture and to challenge myself and others to drive systemic change in the world to create a more shared and durable prosperity for all. In this COVID-19 era, we are all experiencing difficulties, however the deaths of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery and Breonna Taylor (among others) have led me to understand my own white privilege. I commit to our team and future team MaCher members, that MaCher will be an inclusive place to work. Partners Annette I joined MaCher in 2002. My tenure is officially an adult that can vote! Over this time my role has evolved from a project manager on a team of 3, all the way to COO (but not the regular kind). I spend my days looking at how we can consistently improve and develop our self management model from an operational perspective. My focus is creating an environment for our decisions to positively contribute to our CRAFT culture, deliver incredible results for our clients while aligning it all with our purpose and values. My motivation is our team. They are the most passionate, innovative, hardworking and fun group of people I’ve known. For this decade I plan to show up by taking meaningful steps to create a more inclusive and diverse workplace and by making a safe environment where all teammates feel welcome, heard and empowered. P R O G R E S S O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 2 0 48 MaCher Partners Purpose | Snapshot | Strategy | People | Environment | Community | Governance Patrick Before I joined MaCher in 2014, I’d never heard of a B Corporation or even comprehended the idea of using a business as a ‘force for good’. It seems unapproachable at first, almost contradictory. I was always taught that businesses were unfeeling profit machines, only shareholder value matters, nothing else. Fortunately, our business and many others like us are bucking this trend. We can have purpose and profit. We can facilitate change disproportionate to our size. The great joy of my role is that I get to use our design and manufacturing knowledge to make the world a better place. What a job description! We’ve got lots to improve on as a business and so do I as an individual. As an institution and as individuals within this institution we’re not afraid to talk about where we need to improve. A top priority right now is my education MaCher as an active anti-racist. Other topics to improve on are active listening and sharpening my persuasion skills. Feeling uncomfortable is typically an Partners indication of growth, I intend to have an uncomfortable decade! Martin 37 years ago our business started from a very humble beginning in Australia. Nine years later we opened our doors in the US with no concept that it would become the business it is today. The adventure for me over this time has been the opportunity to challenge people that they can do better, dig deeper and discover they have talents that give them and people around them more alternatives. It is an exhilarating feeling, shining a light on an area of growth that gets someone through to the next level of their own very personal journey. The speed of change we are experiencing today is accelerating at a blistering pace and is requiring nimbleness at a degree I have never seen before. More specifically with COVID-19, I see the importance of the MaCher tribe galvanizing not only as an economic unit but as a socially cohesive group to buffer these incredible headwinds. P R O G R E S S O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 2 0 49 Governance Purpose | Snapshot | Strategy | People | Environment | Community | GGoovveerrnnaannccee 26 Headquartered in Other locations: Our annual We have 26 Governance Los Angeles, USA Australia, New Zealand, UK & reporting period is July 1 June 30 team members in the USA China 1/3 Board of Directors Privately held C Corporation Travel & Tourism, USA: 80% F / 20% M is 1/3 female & CA State Benefit Beauty & Retail, Corporation. Certified B Direct Sales and Corp since 2014. Most Universities recent score 129 points P R O G R E S S O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 2 0 50 Appendix Purpose | Snapshot | Strategy | People | Environment | Community | Governance 01. The calculation of the number of single use plastic bottles eliminated by our reusable water bottle program is based A. “Despite Concerns, 60% of Adventure Travel Operators Still Use Single-Use Plastic Bottles.” on the assumption that the guests average two single Adventure Travel Trade Association, 2018. use plastic bottles per day on a 7 day average cruise. A B 02. The calculation of single use plastic bottles diverted from landfill from RPET products is based on the research that 1 B. “Cruise Industry Overview and Statistics.” Florida-Caribbean Cruise Association, 2010. Appendix. kg of RPET can keep 60 water bottles out of the environment. C 03. https://www.unwomen.org/-/media/headquarters/attachments/ sections/library/publications/2020/gender-equality-womensC. “Recycled Polyester vs Virgin Polyester.” Waste2Wear. rights-in-review-key-facts-and-figures-en.pdf?la=en&vs=935 04. https://www.unfpa.org/sites/default/files/resource-pdf/COVID19_A_Gender_Lens_Guidance_Note.pdf 05. After further analysis we broke our reusability into 2 further categories. Using this categorization 10% of our 92% of reusable products had low reusability. High reusability = product that has a lifespan of more than a year with normal use. Low reusability = product that can be reused multiple times but has a lifespan of less than a year with normal use. P R O G R E S S O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 2 0 51 Purpose | Snapshot | Strategy | People | Environment | Community | Governance Thanks We hope some of our progress has inspired you and created at least one actionable idea or two. We are happy to answer any questions about our progress and our work. We also freely help businesses review and develop their own sustainability journey. G L AW R E N C E @ M A C H E R . C O M INF O @MACHER.COM 310 581 5222 MACHER.COM P R O G R E S S O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 2 0
