Our Sustainability Journey 2019 ABOUT THE REPORT 4 EXECUTIVE STATEMENT 6 WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO 8 About Us 9 Our Corporate Governance Structure 12 Our Products 13 Our Locations 16 Our Suppliers 17 Audits, Certificates, & Compliance 18 Our Certificates 19 Engagement with Our Stakeholders 20 Our Awards 22 WHY WE DO IT 24 Our Vision, Mission & Purpose 24 Kemerburgaz Plant (HQ) Ethics and Integrity 26 Organik Kimya San. ve Tic. A.Ş. Sustainability at Organik Kimya 29 Mimarsinan Mah. Cendere Yolu No: 146 Kemerburgaz 34075 Our Material Sustainability Topics 30 Eyüp Istanbul / Turkiye Phone: +90 (212) 331 00 00 HOW WE DO IT 32 Our Value Management Approach 32 Tuzla Plant Orgachem Kimya San. ve Tic. A.Ş. We Create Economic Value 34 Istanbul Industry and Trade Free Zone Atatürk Bulvarı 6.Sokak No:117/3 34957 Aydınlı / Economic Performance 34 Tuzla / Istanbul Science of Value: Innovation, Research and Development 36 Phone: +90 (216) 394 25 29 Digitalization 39 Rotterdam Plant Data Security 40 Organik Kimya Netherlands B.V. Value Creation for Our Customers 41 Chemieweg 7, 3197 KC Rotterdam Botlek Netherlands We Create Environmental Value 42 Phone: +31 (10) 295 48 20 Environmental Value Management Approach 42 Balerna Plant Our Environmental Progress in 2019 45 ATR Chemicals SA Via Delle Fornaci, 4TI-6828 Balerna / SWITEnergy Management 48 ZERLAND Water Use and Wastewater Management 50 Phone: +41 (91) 682 17 74 Emissions 52 We Create Social Value 54 Business Ethics 54 Reporting Consultant Mentoro Platform Workplace Health and Safety 56 https://www.mentoroplatform.com/ Employment 56 Respect, Justice, and Equality of Opportunity 57 Gender Equality 58 Anti-discrimination mechanisms 59 Performance & Career Management 60 Training 60 The Next Generation of Innovation Academy: INNOLAND 62 Talent Management 63 Wage and Benefit Management Policy 64 Our Community Involvement and Impact 64 Occupational Health and Safety 67 Product Safety Information and Communications 72 This document has been prepared by ORGANIK KIMYA A.Ş. All rights of the Emergency Preparedness 73 document and its content are reserved. The document may not be, under any circumstances and in any manner whatsoever, reproduced, copied, even GRI CONTENT INDEX 74 in part and with reference to the source, or used by any organization other than ORGANIK KIMYA A.Ş. ORGANIK KIMYA A.Ş. has the full responsibility for accuracy and completeness of the information contained in the document. ORGANIK KIMYA A.Ş. cannot be held responsible for any damages that may incur as a result of any information contained in the document. 2 Our Sustainability Journey Our Sustainability Journey 3 About The Report As Organik Kimya Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş., we are proud to have completed our second sustainability report. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core Option, covering our performance, progress, and strategy of being a purpose-driven company in the areas of environment, social, governance and economy, published annually and without a change in reporting methodology. Covering the period between January 1st-December 31st of 2019, and being the second one, this report includes Organik Kimya Sanayi ve Ticaret AŞ Headquarters and production facilities of Kemerburgaz and Tuzla in Turkey, Rotterdam production facilities in the Netherlands as well as production facilities in Balerna Switzerland where mentioned. This report was not externally audited and is written in English. We believe reporting is more important than it has ever been and it will even be more critical to understand how the climate crises and the Covid-19 may impact sustainability over the long-term. Our sustainability report is produced and published to enable our stakeholders to make informed judgments about how Organik Kimya impacts the world and understand how the changing world impacts the sustainability performance of Organik Kimya. In defining report content and the material topic boundaries, we have taken into account reasonably estimable economic, environmental and social impacts identified through surveys by the management team, stakeholders, and people with recognized expertise and credentials. All opinions of our stakeholders are of great importance to us and we would very much appreciate suggestions and questions regarding our second sustainability report at sustainability@organikkimya.com We believe reporting is more important than (GRI 102-1, GRI 102-45, GRI 102-46, GRI 102-49, GRI 102-50, GRI 102-51, it has ever been and it will GRI 102-52, GRI 102-53, GRI 102-54, GRI 102-56) even be more critical to understand how the climate crises and the Covid-19 may impact sustainability over the long-term. 4 Our Sustainability Journey Our Sustainability Journey 5 Executive Statement Dear Stakeholders, We are happy to share our second sustainability • Our focus on responsible production, reduction report for the year 2019, during which our focus of our environmental footprint via innovation and was on creating shared value; economically, improvements in our operations. enviromentally and socially. • Our pledge of an important mission to develop 2019 was a very challenging year due to the volatility innovative and sustainable products. of market conditions, and, while writing this report, 2020 has set a new standard to economic adversity • Our way of working in collaboration and that we with the outbreak of the “Covid-19” global pandemic. have our greatest impact when we partner with This reminded us that our utmost responsibility our stakeholders. is to protect our planet against climate crises and responsible use of our limited natural resources. • Our contribution from one generation to Today, more than ever, the power of our purposeanother, focusing closely on how we can do our driven company has become apparent. best today while being inspired by long-term opportunities. The importance of sustainability reporting has become critical now than it has ever been for At Organik Kimya we have set our targets based stakeholders to make informed judgments. on our principles of sustainable growth and shared Our 2019 sustainability report underlines; value creation. During this reporting period, we have reduced our electricity consumption by 10%, natural • Our persistence to attain our vision to create gas consumption by 26% and water usage by 23%. tomorrow’s bonding solutions for our customers and stakeholders -globallyby employing Our company’s DNA composed of curiosity and 2019 was a very challenging year due to the volatility of market conditions, and, our integrated business and sustainability lateral thinking have enabled us to achieve these strategies. results. Our people are our most valuable asset, • Our purpose which defines our reason for being; hence it is our priority to create safe and happy working environment for them. We are honoured while writing this report, 2020 has set “We never give up to explore, challenge and use our chemistry to deliver winning solutions.”, that our efforts in this field have been rewarded internationally. a new standard to economic adversity and embeds our exploration, action, discussion, reflection into the heart of our business. As we are proceeding towards another period, we 10% with the outbreak of the “Covid-19” • Our integrated thought; which is a holistic way to would like to thank all our stakeholders, especially our Organik Kimya colleagues for their support on global pandemic. This reminded us that think of Organik Kimya and how it creates value this wonderful journey. 26% our utmost responsibility is to protect considering the intersection between tangible and intangible assets as it operates. Simone Kaslowski & Stefano Kaslowski our planet against climate crises and 23% responsible use of our limited natural resources. Today, more than ever, the power of our purpose-driven company has become apparent. 6 Our Sustainability Journey Our Sustainability Journey 7 About Us Starting our Who are we? journey in 1924... ...as a chemical trader, and manufacturing in 1965, Leveraging our expertise in liquid polymer dispersions, today, with over 90 years of experience in the chemical Organik Redispersible Powders, ORP®, was industry, we have been providing solutions to a established in 2011 with a diverse range of products in variety of markets and applications utilizing different powder form to address the needs of the construction technologies. Our manufacturing and service locations chemical industry. Our redispersible powder polymer enable us to serve our customers all around the world. plant with 20,000 metric tons of production capacity was built in Tuzla, Istanbul to fulfill this mission. We have been employing the power of science and customer intimacy since our humble beginnings and Our Tuzla plant investment also includes hotmelt we started our polymer dispersions production in 1965 production with a capacity of 12,000 metric tons to with this notion. serve the industrial adhesives market. Besides our Istanbul polymer dispersions plant With our focus on customer collaboration and service, with 150,000 tpa production capacity, we invested in dedication to innovation and technology while caring a new plant with an 80,000 tpa production capacity for the environment, we relentlessly work to add value What we do? in Rotterdam in 2007. With our perpetual ambition to our customers. to grow our business, we increased our production capacity over 30 times in the past 30 years to reach What we have accomplished so far is only a glimpse of 200,000 tpa. Serving more than 2,000 customers in over what we will accomplish in the future. 100 countries, ORGAL® is the brand that customers know and trust when it comes to polymer dispersions. (GRI 102-3, GRI 102-4, GRI 102-5, GRI 102-7) Serving more than 2,000 customers in over 100 countries, ORGAL® is the brand that customers know and trust when it comes to polymer dispersions. ...over 90 years of experience in the chemical industry 8 Our Sustainability Journey Our Sustainability Journey 9 Milestones 1965 2004 2007 ORGANİK KİMYA ATR CHEMICALS INVESTMENT Production ACQUISITION IN EUROPE factory founded in Balerna, Switzerland ORGANİK Production of Solvent KİMYA Borne Acrylics Netherland B.V. 1924 2005 2009 2011 2018 ELKASAN Distribution and 1999 Shift to APEO FREE R&D CENTER 1ST PATENT GRANTED VILLA CHEMICALS Acreditation for Hollow Sphere Acquisition Representation NICCA Products & Expansion Polymer Process Business CHEMICAL JAPAN Licence Agreement 2017 TODAY Textile Auxiliaries ASC 2017 Numerous 2006 2011 INNOVATION AWARD patents Innofix HM PSA, registered in JOINT VENTURE ORGACHEM Packaging Technology more than with National INVESTMENT 40 countries Starch for Redispersible Powders Industrial & Hot Melt Production Adhesives Tuzla, İstanbul Our people, our technology and our science make us the global solution provider of choice to our partners in targeted applications. 10 Our Sustainability Journey Our Sustainability Journey 11 Our Corporate Governance Structure Our Products (GRI 102-16, GRI 102-18) Corporate governance refers to the framework of We provide robust employee training for regulatory laws, processes, and practices by which decisions compliance, as well as the critical issue of how are made, controlled, and directed in a company. As a regulations and other responsibilities should be management model, corporate governance enables an applied in daily working life. As part of our continuing organization to operate in a coordinated and effective manner. Our primary body for strategic decisionefforts to ensure full compliance in our business activities, we have regular audits and work with We work relentlessly making is the Board of Directors, which leads and executes the governance function. external consultants when required. to provide more and The Board of Directors meets on a quarterly basis Our corporate governance differentiated value to our to decide on the company’s strategic and financial structure ensures compliance customers. We achieve priorities. It also oversees the executive team. The with regulations and standards by Board of Directors consists of Aldo Kaslowski, Simone closely focusing on the following this through our focus on Kaslowski and Stefano Kaslowski. In addition to the four activities: members of the board, the company’s Chief Financial customer collaboration Officer and other senior executives participate in board Legal compliance: Check and review of meetings. company policies, activities, contracts for and customer service, compliance with applicable laws and good The Corporate Governance Committee is held at the practices. dedication to innovation board level and oversees the system setups as well as the policies of corporate governance. Internal audit: Audit and review of and technology, and a keen environmental company activities; to ensure compliance The executive team, consisting of the company’s with internal company rules, policies, and consciousness. Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, good practices. Chief Operating Officer, Commercial Vice President, Research & Development Director, Human Resources External audit: Audit and review of Director, and Chief Compliance Officer, meets once company activities; to ensure compliance We are proud to produce and distribute our value every month. The executive team is responsible for with internal company rules, policies, under our own corporate brands, Organik Kimya and all economic and executive decisions, and it reports and good practices with external audit Orgachem, with our own product brands, ORGAL®, directly to the Board of Directors. companies. ORP®, and Orgawhite, and with our own technology patent, Innofix®. The SHE Steering Committee –a committee Enterprise Risk Management: Review of responsible for all safety, health, and environmental external and internal risks to company, Our ORGAL® polymer dispersions and ORP® powder issues, as well as HR policies– meets on a quarterly by maintenance of a risk registry and risk polymers for cementitious and non-cementitious basis. It consists of the company’s Chief Executive charter. applications offer a vast array of solutions. Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Compliance Orgawhite is our coating solutions brand, distributed Officer, Research & Development Director, Human under ORGAL®. Innofix® Technology is one of a Resources Director, Safety, Health, Environment, and kind packaging system for nonwoven and pressure Quality (SHE-Q) Manager, Production Manager, and sensitive adhesives (PSA) applications that no longer on-site doctor. requires film packaging. As Organik Kimya, we aim to outperform the Over 2,000 customers in 100 countries enjoy valuable competition fairly, and in line with regulations. Since solutions provided by Organik Kimya for a variety of we operate in different locations and distribute our applications. products globally, we closely follow relevant regulations and work with local authorities. Strict regulations on production processes in the chemical sector, as well as changing environmental incentives have created pressure for continuous improvement, and we remain responsive to this. 12 Our Sustainability Journey Our Sustainability Journey 13 Our Products Business Units & Technologies Construction Solutions PSA & Paper Solutions Coating Solutions PSA & Paper Solutions Emulsions: Acrylic Polymers, Acrylic Copolymers, Styrene Acrylic Copolymers Emulsions: Acrylic Copolymers, Styrene Acrylic Copolymers, Vinyl Acrylic Copolymers, Acrylic Compounds We continually innovate in our coating solutions Our product portfolio in the Pressure Sensitive Redispersible Powders: VAM/VV, VAM/VV/AC, VAM/AC brands, ORGAL® and Orgawhite. Our expert team Adhesives (PSA) & Paper business unit includes Life Sciences & Material develops new technologies that improve core aspects more than 150 types of PSA emulsions, ranging Solutions Coating Solutions Different technologies for variety of of our industry and its operations. Organik Kimya’s from standard to custom-made products, as well as Emulsions: Acrylic Polymers, applications Acrylic Copolymers, Styrene Acrylic coating solutions product portfolio encompasses innovative solutions that add value in labels, tapes, Copolymers, Vinyl Acrylic Copolymers acrylics, styrene acrylics, and vinyl copolymers for protective films, lamination, specialty papers, and Textile & Leather the “do-it-yourself” (DIY) and industrial markets. other applications. Our pilot coater enables us to Industrial Adhesives Performance Solutions Solutions Emulsions: Acrylic Copolymers, Styrene Solutions for architectural, wood, and metal coatings simulate customer processes, thereby increasing Hotmelt Adhesives Acrylic Copolymers, Vinyl Acrylics incorporate a wide range of end-use applications, quality and productivity. Waterborne Adhesives Copolymer, Acrylic Compounds including but not limited to interior/exterior paints, primers, elastomeric wall paints, dispersants and Industrial Adhesives Solutions thickeners, and specialty coatings and polishes. We Our Industrial Adhesives product range provides offer environmentally-friendly solutions and cuttingsolutions for personal care, nonwovens, tissues, edge technology that optimizes the performance of towels, furniture & woodworking, book-binding & your products and processes. graphic arts, packaging & converting, tapes & labels, and tobacco markets in hotmelt and waterborne Construction Solutions technologies. Organik Kimya’s Innofix® Technology ORGAL® is Organik Kimya’s well-known and trusted is the first breakthrough innovation in 20 years in brand for polymer dispersions. Organik Redispersible hotmelt packaging systems. Powders (ORP®) was founded in 2011 by leveraging our expertise in liquid polymer dispersions. The Life Sciences & Material Solutions brand offers a range of powdered products to meet Organik Kimya’s Life Sciences & Material Solutions demand in the construction chemicals industry. business unit represents several of the world’s The Construction Solutions business unit satisfies most innovative suppliers and partners with local the ever-changing and demanding requirements customers in Turkey to add value to their businesses. of the evolving construction market. Polymer The solutions provided encompass products for dispersions, redispersible powder polymers, and cosmetics, detergents, plastics, rubber, silicones, specialty chemicals for cementitious and nonpolyurethane, and metallurgy applications. cementitious applications offer solutions in tiling, heat insulation, waterproofing, flooring, sealants, cement modifiers, curing membranes, and primers. Organik Kimya’s Construction Solutions business unit delivers consistently with your expectations. Textile & Leather Performance Solutions Products offered by Organik Kimya’s Textile & Leather Performance Solutions business unit are used in finishing, coating, flocking, nonwoven, printing, pre-treatment, dyeing, and wet-end applications in textiles and leather. Our solutions are optimized according to specific requirements and are Over developed in line with the latest regulations. 2,000 customers in 100 countries 14 Our Sustainability Journey Our Sustainability Journey 15 Our Locations (GRI 102-3, GRI 102-4) (GRI 102-9, GRI 102-10) Our Suppliers We operate in Kemerburgaz, Turkey: Our Kemerburgaz location produces polymer dispersions, hosts our corporate We have 348 materials we collaborate with global companies with offices in Istanbul. various locations in headquarters, and our R&D Center. and logistics supply As a player in the chemical industry, we must and do Europe. The company Tuzla, Turkey: Our Tuzla plant is Turkey’s first and only redispersible powder polymer production plant in chain partners; to comply with regulations regarding liquid transportation and handling. Logistics supplier selection is a headquarters and largest Turkey, which serves the construction industry. It also hosts hotmelt production, which is mainly used in the whom we enhance the meticulous process at Organik Kimya. Suppliers must have the competences required to provide equipment manufacturing complex adhesives market. sustainability of their and carry out operations in the bid details defined for transportation or other logistics services. We require are in Istanbul, Turkey. Rotterdam, Netherlands: Our Rotterdam plant businesses. the candidate suppliers to have the infrastructure to manufactures polymer dispersions in the Botlek track the process, operational performance, and to Our integrated business Chemical Complex to serve our customers in the We issued “Supplier Code of Business Ethics” in prove their reporting competencies. Quality Certificates Western hemisphere. 2019. Our standards ensure that we cooperate with (ISO 9001-ISO 27001, YYS certificate is preferred), network is managed from professional suppliers that fulfil market needs in an along with Transport and Logistics Certificates, are Balerna, Switzerland: Our ATR plant produces solvent examined. Istanbul. ethical and sustainable way. acrylics to serve the adhesives and textiles markets. Also in 2019, we implemented a new supplier We ensure the suppliers we work with take the evaluation system that collects information about necessary actions to protect the environment and our suppliers’ financial, environmental, social, and reduce their carbon footprint. We obtain references sustainability performance. Certificates, audits, in similar sectors, and information regarding their environmental permits, emission levels, energy financial suitability, service capabilities in global arena, Kemerburgaz HQ, İstanbul and the availability of offices in overseas locations. usages, trainings, and forward-looking sustainability • Centralized R&D Center plans are some information we seek to obtain from our • 200+ different polymers suppliers. • APEO-free Botlek, Rotterdam, Netherlands • Hygenic GMPCompliant Production Materials Suppliers • AEO (Authorised Economic Operator) Certificate We have a total of 331 material suppliers in four • Located within Europe’s categories: raw materials, packaging products, largest chemical terminal Polymer Emulsions Production • 50+ polymers stationery and office products, and services (canteen, • APEO-free car rentals, security, etc.). Our suppliers are located throughout Europe, the Americas, and Asia. Our direct Tuzla, İstanbul suppliers supply semi-finished goods and trading 100% Green Energy products, whereas our indirect suppliers supply • The only RDP packaging products and spare parts. manufacturing plant in Turkey • RDP – VA/AC, VA/VV Logistics Suppliers • HM-EVA,PO, SBC • Free Zone Our logistics suppliers include customs brokers, shipping companies, logistics and warehousing PDP & Hotmelt Production companies, surveillance companies, and consulting companies. We work with 17 contracted companies to provide logistics services. In 2019, we carried a total volume of 69,670 KT. 32,886 KT of this amount was transported by ships and 33,597 KT by RO-RO Balerna, Switzerland Intermodal, 1,300 KT by train, 1,887 KT by land. We ensure the suppliers we • Solvent borne acrylics We receive information about spot services, like work with take the copolymers • Textile printing auxiliaries transportation and storage, from 7 firms, 3 of which necessary actions • Niche market PSA are based in Istanbul and the remaining companies to protect the adhesives in Europe. For research and consultancy services, environment and reduce their Solvent Borne Production carbon footprint. 16 Our Sustainability Journey Our Sustainability Journey 17 Audits, Certificates, & Compliance Our Certificates Our activities, including our sustainability processes in the supply chain, workplace safety, product quality, As Organik Kimya, we believe in demonstrating and environmental impact, are regularly audited and Quality is approved by external independent parties. our commitment to continuous improvement by In all activities undertaken in 2019, we fully complied Our Standard, implementing integrated quality management Not Our with regulations and requirements. As known, periodic renewal of certifications is sometimes necessary to ensure the sustainability of the compliance process. systems. Our operations and processes are certified In 2019, we were audited by 3 external independent companies, and the renewed 3 certifications, and Specialty in line with business requirements where required. sustained 8 compliance processes. Organik Kimya’s compliance track record for 2019 is as follows: ISO 9001 Quality Management System ISO 14001 Environmental Management System • All our activities are periodically audited by • The 3-year industrial waste management plan OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and SGS, an international consultancy firm offering permit for the Kemerburgaz facility was obtained. Safety Management System independent services to reduce operational risks and to streamline processes, within the scope of • Within the scope of Reach Audit and Certification, OHSAS 18001 Certificate. product-based studies continued to ensure compliance at our Istanbul and EU facilities. • Our facilities in Kemerburgaz and Tuzla locations successfully completed a total of 6 document • Within the scope of The European Agreement audits on Safety, Health, Environment, and Quality (ADR) concerning the International Carriage of ISO 50001 Energy Management System (SHE-Q). Dangerous Goods by Road, hazardous substance activity permits were obtained. • The independent auditing and assessment joint initiative, Together for Sustainability (TfS), audited • Our soil pollution process, which has been the sustainability of our operations. We scored operational for around 18 months, was positively 94% compliance with sustainable operations confirmed. Although it was initially classified standards. as a “Suspicious Area”, it was declared a “NonTracking Field” by the governorate commission ISO 27001 Information Security System • We were assessed by EcoVadis, an international based on the results presented in a consultant consultancy firm supporting its clients to integrate firm’s report. the principles of sustainability/corporate social responsibility into their business and management • All rights within the scope of the right to establish systems, and awarded a Gold Corporate Social a union, which is protected under the 51st article Responsibility (CSR) rating. of the Republic of Turkey Constitution, was Certificate Code Certificate Name Site compiled. • In addition to the ISO 9001 Quality Management ISO 14001 Environmental Management System Kemerburgaz System certificate at Tuzla facility, ISO 14001 Environmental Management System and Kemerburgaz Code of Conduct Program 2019 ISO 9001 Quality Management System Rotterdam ISO 45001 Occupational Health and Safety Management System were certified. establishes the basis of Organik Tuzla Kimya Compliance Program: ISO 50001 Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series Kemerburgaz 500+ 300+ • Environmental Impact Assessment (ÇED) permit for salt powder polymer capacity increase was ISO 27001 Information security standard Kemerburgaz renewed. Tuzla EMPLOYEeS BUSINESS PARTNER 3 AUDITS + 3 CERTIFICATION + 8 COMPLIANCE PROCESS 18 Our Sustainability Journey Our Sustainability Journey 19 Engagement with Our Stakeholders Our Memberships One way of engaging with our • ABACS (Adhesives, Bonding Agents and Closure Systems) (GRI 102-12, GRI 102-13, GRI 102-40, GRI 102-42, 102,43) community and contributing • AFERA (European Association for the Self-Adhesive Tape Industry) to the advancement of • BOSAD (Paint Industrialists’ Association) • CEFIC (The European Chemical Industry Council) sustainability efforts is through • CEPE (an indirect member through BOSAD) our memberships in various • Chemport Europe associations, shown right • EDANA (European Disposables and Nonwovens Association) • EFCC (European Federation of Construction Chemicals) By supporting, empowering and collaborating with We utilize versatile communication methods, including face-to-face meetings, online surveys, • • EPCA (European Petrochemicals Association) EPDLA (European Polymer Dispersion and Latex Association) all of our partners across the value chain, we are and workshops to engage with our stakeholders. To inform our stakeholders about our initiatives • • FEICA (Association of European adhesives and sealants industry). FINAT (Féderation Internationale des fabricants et transformateurs able to create and share greater long-term value and activities, we mainly use magazines, flyers, and brochures. In 2019, we published 4 scientific studies: • d’Adhésifs et Thermocollants sur papiers et autres supports) GİYAD (Young Investors and Businessmen Association) for all. Together, we work every day towards 2 scientific papers and 2 scientific conference reports. Our collaboration with universities are through • • IKSV (Foundation for İstanbul Culture and Art) INDA (Association of the Nonwoven Fabrics Industry) creating a more sustainable future. internship programs, joint projects, and career days. We also regularly contribute to scientific conferences. • • Italian Chamber of Commerce OCCA (Oil and Colour Chemists Association) • TKSD (Turkish Chemical Manufacturers Association Our close collaboration with universities helps the • TREUHANDSTELLE Chemie und Pharmaverbände Therefore, identifying our stakeholders, categorizing Investors and Shareholders: Regular engagement via development of science, sustainability, and innovation. Industrieverband Klebstoffe e.V. them, and defining our method of dialogue has board meetings and performance reports. • Turkey Label Industrialists Association been essential in forming and implementing our The nature of civil society is evolving and becoming • Turkey Materials Marketplace sustainability strategy. Suppliers & Dealers: Regular/periodic engagement via more powerful to influence the actions of businesses • Turkey Packaging Manufacturers Association e-mail, telephone, face-to-face interviews, and trade as well as the policymakers. We believe in taking • Turkish Chemical Manufacturers Association regarding Responsible When collaborating and engaging with our fairs. active roles in NGOs. We hold senior positions in Care stakeholders, whether directly or indirectly, we use our many, like presidency, board memberships, and we • TURMEPA (Turkish Marine Environment Protection Association) corporate values and business ethics policy as a guide. Public Institutions and Organizations: Regular participate in working groups. We also cooperate with • TÜSİAD (Turkish Industry and Business Association) These values and policies have also informed our and frequent engagement via sectoral meetings, more than 25 national and international associations. • Environment & Climate Change Working Group identification of key stakeholder groups. At present, our congresses, conferences and seminars, and • UNGC (UN Global Compact) In 2 of these, we hold senior management positions. stakeholders include the following groups: membership relations. Our method of communication with our 331 suppliers University Collaborations NGOs & Membership Associations: Regular vary. We conduct self-evaluation surveys regularly Employees: Continuous and frequent engagement and frequent engagement via sectoral meetings, to see how they progress in terms of sustainability via social activities, trainings, internal communication congresses, conferences and seminars, and parameters. In addition to our surveys, e-mails, magazine, internal communication materials, membership relations. calls, face-to-face interviews, and trade fairs are electronic communications, and townhall meetings fundamental tools we utilize to engage with our (open relationship meetings). Media: Regular engagement via press releases, e-mail, suppliers. phone, and social media. Customers: Continuous and frequent engagement via We communicate with our 520 employees via social face-to-face interviews, telephone, e-mail, customer Universities: Regular engagement via internships, activities, training sessions, an internal magazine, satisfaction surveys, trade fairs, conferences, social joint projects, career days, conferences, and panels. electronic communications, and townhall meetings. media, website, catalogs, professional journals. We carry out multichannel communication studies with more than 2,000 customers every year. We also leverage face-to-face interviews, telephone calls, 6 520 e-mails, customer satisfaction surveys, trade fairs, 26 5 11 COLLAboratıon wıth COLLAboratıon wıth DIFFERENT COMMUNICATION conferences, social media platforms, our official CHANNELS WITH website, catalogs, and professional journals to SPONSORSHIP engage with our customers. ASSocıatıons UNIVERSITIES EMPLOYEES We regularly organize meetings with our stakeholders. The primary methods we utilize are 10 6 SELFnewsletters, e-mail notifications, and social media 4 DIFFERENT ASSESSMENT channels. In 2019, we contributed to the advancement COMMUNICATION STUDY WITH CHANNELS WITH of our industry by participating in 6 industry fairs and 348 scIentIfIc 2000 CUSTOMERS publIcatIons TRADE FAIRS SUPPLIERS sponsoring 5 industry conferences. 20 Our Sustainability Journey Our Sustainability Journey 21 2019 Our Awards Since the last reporting period in 2018, we have received additional awards, crowning our various achievements. Great Place to Work (GPTW) Turkey’s Top Employers 250-500 employee category 4th place Top Employers The Top Employers Turkey certification PERYÖN (People Management Association) Value to Human EcoVadis ‘Gold medal’ as a recognition of our CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Rating kariyer.net Respect for the Human Being Award Linkedin Best Talent Acquisition Team Award Istanbul Chamber of Industry Energy Efficiency Award British Safety International Safety Award British Coatings Federation Highly Commended Project in CSR Awards Uludag Textile Exporters’ Association TechXtile Start-up Challenge Award 22 Our Sustainability Journey Our Sustainability Journey 23 Our Vision, Mission & Purpose Why we do it? Vision A family company creating tomorrow’s bonding solutions for our customers globally. Mission Our people, our technology and our science make us the global solution provider of choice to our partners in Our vision is to create tomorrow’s bonding solutions for our customers globally. We relentlessly work to attain our targeted applications. vision by employing our integrated business, innovation, and sustainability strategies. We stated our mission as; Our people and our science make us the global solution provider of choice to our partners in targeted applications. More than ever, people are looking for purpose-driven companies that take a stance; companies that share their passions and beliefs. In addition to our vision and mission, we embrace our purpose. Our purpose defines our reason for being: We never give up to explore, challenge and use our chemistry to deliver winning solutions. This statement informs our existence, shapes our goals, values, and strategy, and is embedded in our culture and practices. 24 Our Sustainability Journey Our Sustainability Journey 25 Ethics and Integrity Code of Conduct (GRI 102-16) Our Code of Conduct Director and Risk and Compliance Director, and all complaints are followed directly by the Board of Transparent corporate sets out basic aspects Directors. governance ensures of business conduct Rule of Law As Organik Kimya, we have a commitment to respect the sustainability of the that must be adhered and do business in accordance with the local legal systems of each country in which we operate, as well system by serving its to in all activities and as the global conventions that are binding in such legal integrity. Our corporate systems during the conduct of its operations. corporate management governance approach, practices, as well as by all Honesty and Responsibility We conduct our relations and business processes on which focuses on employees and suppliers the basis of integrity. We are never misleading in our attitudes or statements regarding the products we creating value, aims to at the organization. have developed, the services we are rendering, or the knowledge and experience we possess. We fully increase the trust of The Code of Conduct was established in order to create assume responsibility for our products and services, and we are accountable for compliance with our all stakeholders, and a harmonious, inclusive, and egalitarian working environment. The Code of Conduct, which is a groupbusiness processes based on legal and ethical rules. to share the value the wide compliance program, consists of understandings and criteria that must underpin our activities. It Respect, Justice, and Equal Opportunity We apply the principles of respect, justice, and equal organization produces also sets out corporate management processes for employees and suppliers who are responsible for opportunity in all business processes. All persons and legal entities involved in our operations are to conduct with them. considering these principles. The program covers the company’s legal regulations and internal guidelines. their business relations on the basis of mutual respect, and they must be committed to universal fundamental rights and liberties, including social justice and gender The Code of Conduct forbids individuals and Our Values equality. organizations from discriminating against their employees on the grounds of race, color, religion, or Our values show our principles and standards of Value-Added Mindset Notion of Personal Responsibility gender. Actions described as racial, sexual, or religious behavior, and our judgment of what is important while We provide novel solutions to add value to our work, As professionals, all Organik Kimya employees harassment in the workplace should not be permitted, conducting our work. As Organik Kimya, we carry colleagues, and customers. We ideate new products, are considered as corporate representatives. Our and all personal information about employees should out all our business activities in accordance with services, approaches, and ways of doing business employees are required to behave consistently with be kept confidential. Our Code of Conduct preserves our values. Our business strategy is in line with our that add value to our business, as well as those of our the Organik Kimya’s Code of Conduct, as well as these rights. values, which ensures that governance is executed customers. the principle of social responsibility. All employees based on a consideration of ethical issues. We are a acknowledge that their behavior influences the All new employees are expected to become familiar human-oriented organization and one that is pivotally Winning is Fun corporate reputation and business partners, and act with and understand the Code of Conduct, and then concerned with comprehensiveness. We take pride in our hard work and accomplishments, accordingly. Our employees are aware of the fact that to commit to comply. The implementation of the Code which drives us to achieve more. We ensure that the company’s reputation, as well as its physical and of Conduct is directly the responsibility of the top Our values are trust, inquisitiveness, having a we recognize and celebrate success throughout our goodwill assets, are shared values to be protected. management. The Code of Conduct is accessible to all value-added mindset, “winning is fun”, and having a organization. employees on our various communication channels pioneering attitude. Notion of Competition (e.g., via the Intranet, corporate web page, in-house Pioneering Attitude We adopt and support the principle of fair competition televisions). Trust Our DNA embodies courage, determination, and in all operations and all relationships with business Our business conduct is built upon trust. We trust leadership. It allows us to make a difference in our partners. Our employees avoid all practices that Our Code of Conduct and standards are the ourselves, each other, and our business partners, and industry. With our entrepreneurial spirit, our pioneering may hinder the functioning of competitive market fundamental components of our operations. We act in accordance. attitude demonstrates itself with new investments, institutions and rules in their field of operation, and have an Ethical Committee contact line, as well as technologies, and innovative solutions. in all business areas where they render or receive a separate e-mail address, which has been created Inquisitiveness services and take measures as required. as a grievance mechanism for ethical matters. The We curiously search for new solutions and approaches. complaints received are sent to the Human Resources “Why?” and “Why not?” are the two key questions that fuel our inquisitiveness and help us to solve critical challenges. 26 Our Sustainability Journey Our Sustainability Journey 27 Sustainability at Organik Kimya Work-Life and Recruitment Corporate Citizenship We do not allow, within our own organization or in Organik Kimya, as a legal entity, and its employees, our suppliers, the application or development of as individuals, are natural corporate citizens of the (GRI 103-1) practices that expose employees to forced or abusive country in which they operate. As a corporate citizen of labor conditions. We do not allow child labor in our the host country, we define our corporate targets and At Organik Kimya, The global population is rapidly increasing and the Earth’s resources are being consumed faster than they own organization nor in our business partners’ or policies with a view to support the economic, social, suppliers’. and environmental development of the community, we focus on are renewed. In the face of global warming and climate change, companies are becoming increasingly aware and we encourage efforts in this direction. As part of We abstain from all kinds of discrimination in our notion of social responsibility, we encourage our creating shared that they must rethink their business practices and pursue sustainable development. We understand that recruitment, placement, and employment processes. employees to participate as volunteers in internal or No discrimination is allowed on the basis of gender, external social projects depending on their skills and value in a manner financial profitability must go hand-in-hand with social equity and environmental integrity. A positive future race, religion, language, or physical or mental competences. characteristics. No practices and behavior tending that is socially and for our planet and our people depends on cooperative production and the sharing of mutual benefits. to cause discrimination, not even at the level of mere Relations with Business Partners allusion, will be tolerated. We adopt the principles of equity, honesty, and environmentally Sustainability, along with innovation, is an integral part responsible, and transparency in our relations with all partners that of our strategy. We have continued our journey since Safety, Health, and Environment are directly or indirectly involved in our business the day of our foundation, firm in the belief that a deep We are committed in our production and operations to the principles of human health, safety and operations, including our suppliers. We are committed to avoiding relationships and practices that may that meets the understanding of chemistry is essential for humanity to move harmoniously with the environment. For this environmental compliance, and environmental protection. privilege some suppliers against others or cause conflicts of interest, thereby hindering the operation of needs of our reason, the foundation of our sustainability approach consists of the preservation of core chemical, human, No business decisions are to be taken that compromise competitive market institutions and rules. All requests that can be construed as bribery, privileging, abuse company, our planetary, and environmental elements that sustain our ecosystems and communities. human health, safety, or the environment. In the workplace, all necessary safety measures are taken to of power, discrimination, or conflicts of interest will be rejected and reported. Such practices are subject shareholders, and our communities Our sustainability journey began with our company’s ensure that employees and business partners live in to sanctions, including dismissal, without exception. foundation. Our products depend on natural resources, a safe and healthy environment at the corporate and Our employees are not allowed to accept gifts from individual levels. business partners, neither to present gifts to business partners. of interest. including crude oil derivates and other raw materials. Therefore, we understand that we must play an active role in preserving, renewing, and sustaining the Protection of Information and Confidentiality resources we consume. All data available in business tools and systems, Relations with Customers personal employee data, production system We conduct our relations with the legal entities or real For us, doing “good business” is also “good for information, production formulas, R&D information persons that use our products and services on the business”. Adopting sustainability principles helps and inventions, pricing, marketing, and commercial basis of the principles of justice, lawfulness, honesty, us increase our operational efficiency by reducing information, and strategies are confidential. All and transparency. We and our employees avoid all costs and waste, reach new customers and increase employees are obligated to protect our confidential practices that can be construed as discrimination by our competitive advantage, protect and strengthen information. Such confidential information will not be customers. The fundamental idea that regulates our our brand and reputation, build long-term business shared, not even partially, whatever the purpose or relations with customers is to protect and improve viability and success, and respond to regulatory medium. their or their environment’s health and safety, and to constraints and opportunities. inform them about health or safety threats. If any employee is asked to disclose corporate secret We achieved successful results throughout 2019. We or confidential information, in whole or in part, during a Relations with Public Institutions received a gold corporate social responsibility (CSR) corporate or individual representation, the request will As Organik Kimya, we adopt the principle of conducting rating from an independent rating company, EcoVadis, not be acceded to without consulting relevant internal a constructive and facilitating relationship with the which assesses performance in CSR and sustainable authorities. central government and local authorities in all host procurement. This places Organik Kimya in the top 4% countries. It takes due consideration of the legal of global companies which are dedicated operators of Notification of Non-Compliance framework and the public sector ethical rules that ethical and sustainable supply chain adding value at All employees are entitled to report on practices determine the operational framework of public every stage of the journey. that they believe do not comply with the Code of institutions. All requests that can be construed as Conduct, relevant law, or best practice. In the event bribery, privileging, abuse of power, discrimination, or of notification of non-compliance with the Code of conflicts of interest will be rejected and reported. Such Conduct, the identity of the informant will be kept practices are subject to sanctions, including dismissal, secret and all his or her rights will be protected and without exception. guaranteed. 28 Our Sustainability Journey Our Sustainability Journey 29 Our Material Sustainability Topics (GRI 102-44, GRI 102-47, GRI 102-48, GRI 102-49, GRI 103-1) A “material topic” is one that reflects our company’s During the “prioritize” phase, we conducted onemeaningful economic, environmental, and social on-one interviews with stakeholders in order to impact, and one that could substantively influence understand the current state of sustainability within the assessments or decisions of our stakeholders. Organik Kimya, as well as our sustainability outlook. Materiality assessment helps us align financial and Specifically, we conducted interviews with 129 internal sustainability materiality and embed sustainability and external stakeholders and used inputs such issues into our core business strategy. By focusing as industry reports, survey results, and internal on our material issues, we identify how these workshops to identify the most significant risks and issues impact our business, dedicate resources to opportunities facing our business and our communities establishing goals and metrics, and fully embed these of interest in the past year. issues into our business. Our sustainability strategy and targets are defined We choose the content for our annual sustainability in line with our material sustainability topics during report after conducting a detailed materiality the “confirm” phase. We updated our methodology assessment. This process allows us to identify and and applied it to identify material issues during the evaluate the topics that matter most to our business reporting period. We prioritized 11 sustainability topics, and our communities of interest, during both the which are explained below. previous year and the near-term future. Decisions about the materiality of a given topic are made in The following topics from the last report remain as accordance with guidance from the Global Reporting important initiatives: (i) Workplace Health & Safety, Initiative. (ii) Business Ethics, (iii) Innovation, (iv) Research & Development, and (v) Water Use and Waste Energy Management: Energy consumption Product Safety Information and Communications: Management. Our annual process management and improvement in value chain and resource management activities. Neutralizing product toxicity, ensuring products go through appropriate risk assessment processes, and Consistent with stakeholder opinions gleaned from for identifying material interview results, customer satisfaction, which had Workplace Health and Safety: Creating a culture of ensuring appropriate communications are done with all stakeholders. topics is a 3-step cycle: been among our priorities in the previous report, health and safety that supports practicing the highest was transformed to Value Creation for Customers. In health and safety workplace standards and processes, Innovation, Research and R&D: Solving customer, discover, prioritize, and addition, Data Security and Digitalization are added as new topics in our priorities. including accident prevention, preparedness and response, and maintenance and safety of production community, and environmental challenges and investing in innovation and technologies that advance sustainable confirm. sites and plants. Ensuring physical and mental health products and practices. of workforce through technology, training, corporate The first step, “discover”, involves intensive culture, regulatory compliance. Emergency Preparedness: Preventing and preparing to consultation and research. This allows us to create a respond to emergencies across all activities; includes list of topics, which is then analyzed by internal experts Business Ethics: Maintaining governance structures creating and practicing specific emergency response and external stakeholders. Subsequently, the list is and practices that encourage transparency and plans and preparing for the physical impacts of climate validated by our senior management team. Due to prevent unethical behavior, including anti-competitive change. the long-term nature of our operations, topics in the behaviors, bribery, corruption, and non-compliance with industry are typically consistent year over year. As such, regulatory and voluntary codes; ensuring board-level Water Use and Wastewater Management: the second and third steps, namely “prioritize” and accountability for sustainability. Management of wastewater, reducing the amount of “confirm”, build on the results from the first step. waste and using water efficiently. Data Security: Managing the risks related to collection, During the “discover” phase, we conducted research retention and use of sensitive, confidential and/or Value Creation for Customers: Creating tangible value on industry trends and evaluated internal strategy proprietary stakeholder data (including customer, for customers in order to make their products and documents, including the 5-year plans for all employees, suppliers, etc.). Protecting physical and value chain activities more sustainable through Organik business units. We also used information from our information assets. Kimya’s products and services. 2017 comprehensive assessment, which mapped our impacts and the boundary of our material topics Digitalization: Leveraging digital technologies to create Economic Performance: Generating and distributing across the value chain. In this phase, we identified 25 tangible value for all Organik Kimya’s stakeholders. economic value (EVG&D). potentially material topics. 30 Our Sustainability Journey Our Sustainability Journey 31 Our Value Management Approach (GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3) How we do it? Since 1924, we have been passionately working to create value for all our stakeholders in our ecosystem, including our customers, our suppliers, our business partners, nonmarket players, and our shareholders. Our value creation approach is based on the principle of creating “shared value”; pursuing financial success in a way that also yields societal benefits. This approach presents itself through 3 main pillars we adopt: creating We highly appreciate economic value, creating environmental value, and Organik Kimya’s innovative creating social value. We design all our value chain and approach, new ideas, resource management activities with this lens. We also working environment, make sure that our efforts are aligned with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). and respect they show for their employees. We create economic value through our innovation and R&D activities, our differentiated value proposition for our GSC Group SpA customers, and our digitalization efforts to reduce our unit costs and provide more value to our customers, which are all reflected in our economic performance. We create environmental value through continuous development in our value chain activities’ environmental impacts, specifically focusing on energy management, water use and wastewater management. We create social value by ensuring wellbeing, safety, and development of our employees and members of the communities we live and work in. Our Sustainability Approach Value Creation We create We create We create economic value environmental Value social value • Economic Performance • Water Use and Waste Water • Business Ethics • Value Creation for Management • Product Safety Information Customers • Energy Management and Communications • Innovation, and R&D • Emergency Preparedness • Digitalization • Workplace Health and • Data Security Safety Sustainability Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) 32 Our Sustainability Journey Our Sustainability Journey 33 Economic Performance (GRI 201-1) We create Our Investments Our Sales Performance in 2019 Over the years, we have grown organically with We sell our products to more than 100 year we are thriving to develop new green-field investments like our Rotterdam and countries. In 2019, 56% of our sales ideas and products that add value to our Tuzla facilities. These investments resulted in a were in Europe, 24% in Turkey, 9% in customers and propel our growth. substantial increase in our production capacity. Middle East, 5% in Africa, 3% in Asia New investments are planned for these facilities Pacific, and 3% in the Americas regions. Our efficiency and productivity grew in the future, as we are approaching full capacity Our largest European markets are Italy, significantly between 2018 and 2019. in certain operations. Economic Value Spain, Germany, and the UK. Focusing on innovation and sustainability enables us to create more value-added We are at almost-full capacity in powder polymers Roughly 17% of our sales are generated products for our customers and make us (ORP) and a new investment that is set to double existing the capacity is on the way. Since powder Commercial from products that are developed by more financially resilient company. investment and sales will require additional liquid Performance of our R&D labs in the last 3 years. Every polymer production, we will also need to make a New Products capacity increase in our Kemerburgaz plan. We also intend to increase our Rotterdam facility’s capacity. Development processes are Our priority will be to invest in capacity expansions. risky and need considerable planning, However, we also plan to benefit from inorganic growth as today’s market requirements increase complexity opportunities through acquisitions in order to achieve a in terms of regulations, trends, expectations, and higher growth rate. scarce resources. To further improve our profitability, we began utilizing Our product life cycle approach from ideation to market 56% a peer pricing tool that helps the sales team calculate placement phases is carefully managed by senior the impact of proposed prices on margins. It also helps teams, and performance is constantly observed with corrective actions when required. So, our results show EUROPE 3% AP us compare the calculated margin with previous years’ margins and improve them year-over-year. that our success in the new product development 3% process is the growth engine of our company. AMERICAS 24% TURKEY 9% MIDDLE Last but not least, we are constantly assessing our performance in terms of creating new products, As mentioned above, vitality index (VI) is the ratio of entering new geographies, and acquiring new total profit to the profit derived from products launched EAST customers. We use multiple metrics to measure our in the last 3 years. Every year, so-called “vitality success and we implement new ones when necessary. products” change as new products are created and old One example of such measure, which has been products (i.e., those over 3 years) lose “vitality” status. implemented since five years is the vitality index (VI), where we calculate the ratio of profit derived from new The aim of VI is to calculate the profit generation 5% AFRICA products and/or new customers to total profits. We are capability of newer products in the total product mix. The higher the ratio, the more sustainable is the future also working on integrating this new metric into our compensation systems and budget evaluation process. profitability of the company. Our 2019 target for vitality Commercial Performance of New Products index was 15% and we completed the year with 15.3%, which is a good indicator of healthy business. As Organik Kimya, we are committed to creating value for our customers and we know that the first and most important step starts with new products and services offered to the market. Investing in the development of new products and services is crucial for sustainable business in terms of growth and profitability. 34 Our Sustainability Journey Our Sustainability Journey 35 Science of Value: Innovation, R&D (GRI 201-1, GRI 203-1, GRI 203-2) FC FULL COMMERCIALIZATION Since the establishment of Organik Kimya, R&D has against a set of targets. We use four key performance always been an area for investment and R&D activities indicators (KPIs) to carry our strategic intent forward C COMMERCIALIZATION and results have always been monitored and evaluated and to measure throughput as well as output and by senior management. In 2009, R&D Department, outcome. B PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT Innovation which was directly connected to the General Directorate of Organik Kimya, was re-positioned as Ideation Index focuses on our ability to generate ideas an R&D Center with a change in its management by measuring the percentage of non-incremental A ASSESMENT Funnel approach. With this new way of working, scientific projects amongst projects commercialized in the approaches were integrated into R&D practices in line last three years. Vitality Index shows our innovation IdeatIon with customer and market requirements. R&D Center effectiveness by highlighting percentage of profit is financed with around 3% of our annual revenue and it contribution generated from products commercialized focuses on product development, process optimization in the last three years. Quality Index tracks the and quality control mechanisms. profitability of the products commercialized in the last Ideation Index Vitality Index Quality Index ROI2 Index 3 years. ROI2 is another indicator efficiency of our Our confidence in our R&D capabilities has enabled investments by calculating payback periods. us to place innovation into the core of our strategy. We give upmost We adopt a holistic approach to innovation: from R&D “Creating continuous and innovative value” for our Having an R&D Center not only helps us create to manufacturing and business process operations, customers is one of our corporate targets set for and unique innovative projects but also enables we work to ensure that innovative ideas are cultivated and implemented. We evaluate ideas at our quarterly embraced by all employees. Additionally, our innovation strategy is supported by regular Innovation Boards, us to collaborate with leading companies in Europe and overseas. The incentives we receive importance to product Innovation and Business Process Management (BPM) Board Meetings. Future Board, Innoland, Innovation Awards, and Ideation Team within the company. for our R&D activities within the scope of Law No. 5746 helps us reduce the cost of our R&D innovation. As a result We employ a systematic yet flexible stage-gate process Innovation Boards are a cross-functional team activities and contribute to enhance our R&D Investments and further improvement of our of our efforts, we from ideation to commercialization of a product, called Innovation Funnel. Technological infrastructure meetings led by business units aiming at prioritizing our projects with business mindset. The Innoland competitive advantage. have obtained 3 new activities for the adoption of the stage-gate approach were completed in 2010 in order to carry out and is a form of training, provided by both internal and external speakers, which focuses on creative thinking, After the establishment of our R&D Center, patents in 2019. we took critical steps to further develop monitor the innovation activities more systematically. innovation and sharing of knowledge. Innovation intellectual and industrial property rights. Our R&D Center keeps track of project details (e.g., Awards have a long history in our company. Each Managing patent processes is an important project systematics, budget, human resources, and employee regardless of position, qualification or part of our R&D activities, as it provides access expenditures) in order to ensure achieving initial project department can enter an innovative idea for a new to technical and technological information and goals and to contribute to our intellectual capital by product, process, service or improvement of current protects the value created as a result of our reinforcing the knowledge and experience gained processes into our internal ideas system. The most R&D investments. To manage these processes, throughout the project. innovative ideas are rewarded with a symbolic we have a “Patent and Intellectual Rights” innovation award. The Ideation Team meets regularly unit within our body. We are working towards In addition, the sustainability of our innovation is crucial and is encouraged to think outside of the box about our obtaining more patents in the upcoming years. and we, therefore, monitor all our innovation projects products, services and processes. Innovation Center Innovation Boards Innovation Awards Innovation: Innovation The Core of Academy Our Strategy Innoland 36 Our Sustainability Journey Our Sustainability Journey 37 Digitalization R&D Projects Turned into New Investments (GRI 203-1, GRI 203-2) Powder Polymer As a result of this investment, Turkey’s powder Beginning in 2010, our R&D Center led the project polymer imports fell by 26% on average. Our “Synthesis of Water-Based Polymers of Cement entrance to the market as a new supplier has also Modifying Materials Pulverized by Spray Drying lead to increased service level to Turkish market. Digital transformation is the process of embedding The third step is the execution phase where we Technique”, supported by TÜBİTAK – TEYDEB. As Development of Low-Temperature Applicable digital technologies and innovation to operations to implement our solutions. We continuously evaluate a result of this project, powder polymers for the Hotmelt Glues increase competitive advantage. Digital technologies new digital and automation tools that will be critical for construction industry were developed. To further Another project that we have focused on is the and innovation continue to provide opportunities for us the production and the digital workplace of tomorrow, invest in this product, we established a new development of low temperature applicable hotmelt to create better, more differentiated customer value including Internet of Things (IoT), mobility, Robotic production facility in Tuzla in November 2011. As glues. This project was carried out with support and decrease our unit costs. In 2019, we continued Process Automation (RPA), artificial intelligence (AI), a result, our product range grew and we began to from Scientific and Technological Research Council our journey of enabling smarter operations and and virtual reality (VR) tools. address the construction industry’s needs. of Turkey (TÜBİTAK). Similar to the powder polymer implementing more agile and efficient processes project, we have contributed to the reduction of across our facilities. Our IoT projects in our operations deliver significant Through Organik Kimya’s Turkey’s imports for low temperature applicable energy savings, and thus contribute to our Our approach to digitalization is human-centric and environmental efforts. Robee, our RPA tool, helps us powder products manufactured hotmelt glues, thereby providing local customers based on agile processes. We believe that digital by taking over the manual and repetitive tasks. Digital with access to more affordable products. A new in Orgachem plant, Turkey’s production facility was established at Tuzla to transformation cannot be achieved only through having office platforms supported with virtual reality tools produce hotmelt adhesives. We expanded our the right technologies. Technological infrastructure allow our employees to run our operations without powder polymer imports fell product range and kickstarted the production of and tools should be supported with transformation of time and location restrictions. The use of big data, by 26% hotmelt adhesive applications for the hygiene sector. people. accumulated through our sensor network in production facilities, improves our operational effectiveness and We are seizing the opportunities by establishing a efficiency. company-wide platform consisting of different business We continually research and develop units for technology use and adoption. To support this As a result of our digitalization efforts; we believe that approach, we built a digital transformation team and our productivity and creativity will increase further as Value-Generating products that perform better in customer R&D Activities called each team member a “Transformer”. our employees will re-gain the time which was spent applications and satisfy customer demand. on operational tasks, and focus on exploring new ideas. Our R&D Center has a critical role for increasing our competitiveness in “Transformers” identify Customer the chemical sector. This stems from the unique and innovative products it provides to the sector, particularly compared to our national and processes that are Applications international competitors. Our strategic approach focuses on three main topics, which are environmentally friendly production, added value for candidates for digitization, customers, and cost-effectiveness. prioritize improvement We are committed to the Chemical Industry’s Voluntary Action Plan for opportunities, and digitize Responsible Care (Responsible Care), which is overseen and managed by our activities with the the European Chemical Industry Council (CEFIC) and the Turkish Society of Chemical Industry. In line with this commitment, and based on the aim of Process Classification facilitating continuous improvements in health, safety, and environmental Framework developed by Environment performance, we follow innovations and develop our products in this direction, thereby ensuring that our products respect nature and the the American Productivity environment. It is therefore that our product innovations focus on improving people’s heath (low-VOC, formaldehyde-free, and metal-free products), & Quality Center (APQC). fighting climate change (reduce carbon footprint, improve resource efficiency), and contributing to circular economy (using biobased raw As of November 2019, Transformers identified all materials, improving recyclability and compostability of our products) company-wide processes and created our Process Digitalne! Inventory by using APQC’s reference model. Our We aim to create value for our customers by reducing their production primary focus is to optimize our operations and Huma costs by developing superior products and technologies as a result of our eliminate bottlenecks. Effectiveness R&D activities. Our whole organization is committed to researching and developing products to ensure that customers can efficiently process their The second step, prioritization, is carried out by and applications using minimum amount of energy and can produce their assessing the processes in terms of impact, maturity products and services effectively. Pilot studies to measure the contribution level, and digitalization opportunities. Efficiency of our products and technologies to our customers’ performance are always conducted at our R&D Center. 38 Our Sustainability Journey Our Sustainability Journey 39 Data Security Value Creation for Our Customers (GRI 418-1) (GRI 203-2) Organizational information used by companies during their activities and information systems where such Within the scope of compliance with ISMS standards, our information security needs are determined Our customers are at the consistency, but also because of our on-time delivery performance, proactive approach to solving problems, information is stored and made available are critical for businesses. For this reason, they must be properly by considering our business strategy and targets. Additionally, with ISMS risk assessment, potential center of our strategy and strong customer service and technical support, and general experience of working together. We measure protected. We are aware of this responsibility and take proactive action to operate our Information Security threats and their effects are identified. operations. our customers’ perception and satisfaction of our performance through “Voice of customer” online and Management System in accordance with the ISO 27001 Commercial partnerships are supported legally, field research we undertake. Creating tangible value for our customers, so that standard. regulatorily, and contractually. ISMS targets are they can create and/or increase their sustainable measured and supported through improvement, review, We are also working on integrating a sustainability competitive advantage is what we strive for. Therefore, With the risk-based approach we implement within and monitoring methods. This process is managed perspective to how we view our customers. In the we selected “creating value for our customers with the scope of ISO / IEC 27001, we ensure a high level within the scope of Information Security Management upcoming months, all our customers will have a respect to sustainability” as a material topic within our of security with appropriate levels of attention paid System Procedure. We consider having minimal sustainability score that indicates their sustainability sustainability strategy. towards human resources, procedures, and information and low-risk improvement areas during our 5-year orientation. This will enable us to determine customers technology infrastructures for the protection of inspections as an important achievement. who place more importance to sustainability and We rigorously follow trends and market dynamics, and information and information assets. provide additional values to them. listen to our stakeholders to analyze our operating We regularly carry out measurements and evaluations environment. We are working proactively to improve Our Information Security Policy (ISP) was prepared to manage and safeguard information security. We pay immense importance to communicating our our product portfolio to add new, more innovative and in order to ensure the proper protection of our Such measurements include Awareness Training sustainability related efforts to our customers, so sustainable products that meet today and tomorrow’s organization’s and our customers’ information assets. and Measurement, ISMS Violation Incident (virus that we can find new ways to collaborate and add needs. The value we provide to our customers is ISP covers all employees, third-party users, and attacks, DDOS attacks, and similar external attacks), value. We are working to strengthen our external through our products, operations, and services. Our service providers that access our information assets. and Official Certification Compliance. We rate our communications strategy and methods to better convey customers not only work with us because of our strong Regardless of their role and position, all our employees performance every year on data security based on our sustainability driven activities and messages. product portfolio and our products’ quality and and suppliers are obliged to comply with the safety determined KPIs and penetration tests. principles specified in the relevant legal regulations, policies, procedures, regulations, and contracts to limit To date, there has been no incidents involving violations risks and work within accepted best practices. of customer privacy at Organik Kimya. Effective use of firewalls, WSA and ESA hardware and software, and Each department manager is primarily responsible for system protections in the most effective way against taking necessary precautions to ensure compliance internal and threats has been central to this success. with ISP and related policies within his/her department. The use of MDM (Mobile Device Management) software We aim to protect the information and information that supports this hardware, along with VLAN and assets of the institution and our stakeholders with the Router Protections between systems, has perfected the Information Security Management System (ISMS). We protection of our operational systems. Furthermore, use the necessary resources to establish, implement, periodic evaluation of Access Barriers and Penetration operate, and continuously improve the ISMS to Tests allows us to maintain customer privacy and data achieve this goal. Incompatibility of Organik Kimya security. stakeholders, employees, and suppliers with the ISP and other regulatory documents referenced in this policy is considered a policy violation. 40 Our Sustainability Journey Our Sustainability Journey 41 Environmental Value Management Approach Our Passion for the Environment (GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3) We create We follow an ethical framework towards project intends to prevent production safe chemicals management and downtimes, to prolong equipment performance excellence by being a part of life, and to collect necessary data for a voluntary initiative, Responsible Care®, equipment optimization. It consolidates defined by The European Chemical all utility alarms on a single screen and Industry Council and the Turkish Chemical helps respond to potential problems Manufacturers Association. In line immediately. Additionally, the system with our membership commitment, we can be reached and monitored from continuously improve our environmental outside the factory, allowing long-distance sustainability performance. To achieve interventions. This helps us avoid potential this goal, we leverage state-of-the-art energy losses and improve energy technology and innovation to produce efficiency. products and technologies that promote environmentally friendly and sustainable Organizational Life Cycle Assessment operations. (O-LCA) methodology, defined by the ISO Environment Value 14072 standard with a guidance prepared Our environmental value management by The United Nations Environment approach is built on the cyclic interaction Programme (UNEP), Society of between various departments and Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry consists of three main pillars: (SETAC) and Life Cycle Initiative, is a Programmable Logic Controllers (PLCs), compilation and evaluation of the inputs, Organizational Life Cycle (O-LCA) outputs and potential environmental methodology, and Golden Environmental impacts of the activities associated with Rules. the organization adopting a life cycle perspective. PLCs, providing infrastructure excellence, control energy efficiency and prevent O-LCA supports the identification and energy waste. The value saved by PLCs quantification of environmental aspects combines with the value created by within and beyond the gates of the products under Organizational Life organization. It takes all the suppliers Several of our material topics, water use and Cycle (O-LCA) methodology. Golden and other partners in the value chain wastewater management, energy management, Environmental Rules ensure that associated with the provision of the and waste management, are evaluated in terms of the value generated and the savings organization’s product portfolio into circular value approach by Organizational Life Cycle accumulated by O-LCA and PLCs serve account. O-LCA is an environmental Assessment (O-LCA). to the organization’s environmental multi-impact approach, meaning that sustainability goals as well. a comprehensive set of environmental Environmental Golden Rules establish the issues relevant for the specific system are cornerstone of our activities to prevent leaks and The PLC project, which started in considered, and together they represent spills, to reduce resource consumption, to manage the last quarter of 2017, is a holistic the potential environmental impact profile waste and environmental impact and to reduce energy management project. The for the organization’s activities. energy consumption. The effectiveness of our environmental value management approach is audited and certified with ISO 14001 Environmental Management System and ISO 50001 Energy Management System in order to ensure that we consistently provide products that meet customers’ environmental expectations and regulatory requirements. 42 Our Sustainability Journey Our Sustainability Journey 43 Our Environmental Progress in 2019 Environmental Value Management Hierarchy We design our business model and our operations in compliance with all regulations where we operate in business’ model, and thereby, it will radically change traditional recycling models, waste management and considering our environmental responsibilities. systems and even the ‘waste’ concept. As a result of Therefore, the standards we voluntarily undertake are this initiative we have achieved a 45% improvement higher than what is required and our results confirm over the years in wastewater management. Environmental Golden Rules our commitment to an environmentally conscious Principles • Preventing leaks and spills operational approach. We are continuously working on reducing the use of Environmental • Reducing Resource Consumption resources by increasing our efficiency and effectiveness Golden Rules • Managing Wastes and Environmental Impacts In 2019, we updated our ISO 14001 environmental in our operations. • Reducing Energy Consuption management system and ISO 50001 energy management system certificates. In 2018, Materials Marketplace (MM), which is a digital platform created to We have achieved provide that the raw materials, by-products, surpluses Outputs (emissions, waste, etc) and unused materials which are left over after a significant companywide results on electric, company’s production processes constitute the inputs Assessment Indirect Indirect of Executions Direct of the production of another company. The project Upstream Downstream Activities O-LCA Activities Activities is implemented in Turkey through the cooperation between BCSD Turkey and the United States Business natural gas, and water Inputs (energy, water, raw materials, services etc.) Council for Sustainable Development (the US BCSD), and it is funded for its first two years by the European consumption over Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD). years by applying our The EBRD included the MM project within the scope of “Near Zero Waste” program, which supports waste environmental value Infrastructure reduction projects. The project has the characteristics of a digital initiative by its structure, and it will make management approach in Excellence PLC a significant contribution to circular economy. Turkey Materials Marketplace creates a new ‘business-toour value chain activities. Natural Gas Electrical Water Consumption Consumption Consumption -26.40% -10.62% -23.58% 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Electrical Consumption (kWh/ton) 113 116 110 105 101 Natural Gas Consumption (m3/ton) 25 25,6 25,3 20,8 18,4 Water Consumption (ton/ton) 2,46 2,33 2,09 1,95 1,88 44 Our Sustainability Journey Our Sustainability Journey 45 We have been cooperating with ÇEVKO since 2011 to Urbanization within the framework of the “Regulation fulfill our responsibilities in recycling packaging waste. on the Control of Packaging and Packaging Waste” ÇEVKO is a non-profit foundation established in Turkey published in 2005 during the harmonization process to contribute to a sustainable recycling system to of Turkey to the European Union. ÇEVKO Foundation, enable the healthy and clean recycling of glass, metal, having taken over the recovery responsibilities of the plastic, composite and paper/cardboard type packing industry, carries out its activities on a contractual basis wastes. with many operators. ÇEVKO manages the packaging waste recycling processes on our behalf. ÇEVKO adopts the “Integrated Waste Management” principles and it is an Authorized Organization by Our contribution in cooperation with ÇEVKO in 2019 the Turkish Republic Ministry of Environment and can be summarized below: Paper Cardboard, Aluminum, Steel-Tin, Paper Cardboard, Weight of Paper Paper Cardboard, Composite Paper Materials Cardboard weight Glass, Composite All materials Plastic Paper-Cardboard of Composite Paper, Paper-Cardboard Weighted Wood Weighted, Plastic. We have been Total 240 trees have 5,971,394 kw/h electricity 3,768 m³ storage 211,312 litter 238,455 m³ water cooperating with environmental been saved saved area have been saved fossil fuel have been saved have been saved ÇEVKO since 2011 contribution we have made so to fulfill our far with ÇEVKO responsibilities in Annual Annual water recycling packaging 5,000 electricity consumption of 1 4,696 consumption of 1 family waste. m2 forest Equal to parking lot 2163 families one football field 46 Our Sustainability Journey Our Sustainability Journey 47 Energy Management (GRI 302-1, GRI 302-2, GRI 302-3, GRI 302-4) Energy consumption is one of the most significant cost • “The Utilities Monitoring System “helps us to items in our production processes. We meticulously prevent production downtimes, prolong equipment As a result of our efforts in reducing manage our energy usage via our Energy Management life and collect necessary data for the equipment System and we are focused on continually improving optimizations. Thus, energy losses are avoided, energy efficiency across our facilities. We are aware and further opportunities for energy efficiency is inefficiencies and 50% of the fact that sustainable energy management is created. a key issue for companies today. Therefore, we are proactively making more sustainable energy choices • We improved our production equipment by adjusting our energy and using our energy more efficiently. switching to more efficient motors in cooling system compressors. We were able to reduce our usage to dynamic We strongly promote electricity consumption by two-digits. Chillers’ requirements; we Natural gas temperature logic was renewed by adding an reduction between initiatives to reduce automation system instead of a manual touch, outperformed our 2016 and 2020 in which led to a two-digits reduction in our Kemerburgaz energy consumption in electricity consumption. targets for 2019, which the production process. • We improved our waste heat processes by detailing were set in our energy heat recovery points and installing new equipment. This involves conducting audits, identifying potential Old and inefficient compressors were replaced management initiative by technological and environmentally friendly areas for improvement, and taking actions for improving energy efficiency and reducing total ones, providing energy savings with oil waste heat in 2017: recoveries. consumption. Our successful results are built on various initiatives, some of which are listed below: After 12% savings in electricity consumption in 2017, Similar to electricity consumption, all our facilities we set our target to 16% electricity consumption exceeded their natural gas reduction targets and • We have ISO 50001 Energy Management System reduction in Kemerburgaz by 2019. We surpassed achieved impressive results. Our Kemerburgaz certification for our Kemerburgaz facility. our goal by achieving 17% reduction at the end of facility realized 50% reduction between 2016 and the period. We also achieved more savings in our 2020. Our Tuzla facility saved 16%, while the target • We have been supplying our energy from 100% Tuzla and Rotterdam facilities than we had targeted. was 10%. Additionally, our Rotterdam facility reached renewable sources in our Rotterdam Plant since Our Tuzla plant saved 11% and our Rotterdam plant its 5% reduction target in 2019. 2017. saved 9% in energy consumption during the same time period. Our targets for Kemerburgaz, Tuzla, and • “Flash Steam Recovery Project”, which was Rotterdam were 16%, 10%, and 8%, respectively. implemented in 2017, plays a major role in achieving targets by improving energy efficiency, 100% promoting deionized water efficiency, removing steam from the boiler room, removing CO2 and O2 in the boiler feedwater (which contributes to corrosion), reducing boiler operating costs, and complying with environmental regulations. renewable energy in Rotterdam 17% electricity consumption reduction in Kemerburgaz 48 Our Sustainability Journey Our Sustainability Journey 49 Water Use and Wastewater Management Waste Management (GRI 303-1, GRI 303-2, GRI 303-3, GRI 303-4, GRI 303-5, GRI 306-1, GRI 306-2) Water is one of the most important resources on our planet that guarantees the life of all living beings. Yet With the Materials Marketplace project, we reduced the rate of slurry in our production by 45%. We also We manage our waste the increasing water pollution puts a severe damage on ecosystems. The root causes of water pollution reduced the direct emissions from waste transport by 46% by decreasing the high solid ratio in our in compliance with are multiple and range from industrial waste and the negative impact of rising temperatures to the wastewater treatment sludge. With the wastewater treatment and sludge dewatering facilities, we were Responsible Care® consequences of deforestation and pesticide use in agriculture. By focusing on our water efficiency able to make a 45% improvement in water use in terms of kg/ton of production. Production process and recycling efforts, we aim to contribute to the preservation of these insufficient resources and In addition, our wastewater treatment and sludge improvement initiatives, counter the negative impact on freshwater. One dewatering facilities played an important role to reduce many of which focus on TOTAL WASTE of our production team’s main targets is reducing the amount of sludge in our Kemerburgaz location. We water consumption. Monthly and annual total water achieved 36.3% decrease from 3,357,170 tons/year to reducing the amount 12000 consumption is reported to senior management. Raw 2,139,350 in 3 years. 10000 & processed water is analyzed in terms of conductivity of waste generated in 8000 and pH levels, and consumption is measured daily. We After a 9.5% savings in water consumption in 2018, we increased water reuse in our wastewater treatment determined our target as 18% for 2019, which would our current production 6000 4000 plant in 2019 and we conserved water from energy bring us to 1.90 kWh per ton of product. At the end of initiatives. We found alternative solutions with the 2019, we achieved 19% savings, which brought us to system. 2000 maintenance team to reach minimum levels of water 1.88 kWh per ton of product. 0 usage in the Kemerburgaz plant. These initiatives, led by R&D, focus on products 2017 2018 2019 with a high amount of production tonnage with We use water for our decentralized wastewater system With the wastewater the aim to minimize the waste rate from the and cleaning of blender, reactor, and filling production reaction of the product and the amount of gel processes. Water is also used for sanitary purposes. treatment and sludge formed during production. In previous years, we Waste Quantities had designed and implemented improvement dewatering facilities, Sanitary water is discharged to the city’s regular sewer. Scraps from the products are treated in a wastewater processes with the support of the Technology 2017 2018 2019 we were able to make treatment plant. Water, which comes out of this process Development Foundation of Turkey (TTGV) and Total Waste (ton/year) 9.464 10.531 9.199 is reused in production or sent to the chemical sewer. the Innovation Support Programs Directorate The Standard of Istanbul Municipality Wastewater Sewage Discharge Control Regulation and Water a 45% improvement in (TEYDEB). Energy savings were also achieved by reducing waste and gel amounts. Pollution Control Regulation are used for all calculations and evaluations in Turkey. Similarly, the water use in terms of All suitable waste is used for recycling or municipality regulations are complied with for the Rotterdam operation. kg/ton of production energy recovery. All other waste is disposed via decomposition, burning, recycling or energy Our target for 2020 is to recovery, done by licensed firms. In addition, we 45% Waste transportation have plastic waste and paper collecting baskets for emissions reduced by reduce domestic water individual recycling in Kemerburgaz Social Facility. 46% As a result of our continuous efforts in waste improvement in sludge dewatering consumption by 40% management we have significant improvements in waste disposal: 17% decrease in hazardous waste and wastewater volume and %12 decrease nonhazardous waste in 2019 36,3% 20% decrease in water used is by 5% via wastewater compared to 2018. wastewater recovered recycling projects. 19% water savings 50 Our Sustainability Journey Our Sustainability Journey 51 Emissions (GRI 305-1, GRI 305-2, GRI 305-3, GRI 305-4) Climate change represents a scientifically proven available has resulted in such reduction. As such, Resource use, mineral and metals reality and a challenge that affects not only our reliability of our results has improved with the increase Resource use, energy carriers productive activities, but the entire planet. As one of in data quality. Ecotoxicity freshwater the important players in the chemical industry, we Eutrophication terrestrial are committed to doing our part to control climate Following the guidance of O-LCA and our sectorEutrophication marine change by reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions specific guidance by the Chemicals Division of World Eutrophication freshwater across our value chain. Therefore, we are committed Business Council for Sustainable Development, we Acidification terrestrial and freshwater to improving our own carbon footprint, investing in are going beyond Global Warming Potential (GWP), Cancer human health effects innovation that reduce the environmental impact of our measuring our impacts on acidification, eutrophication, Non-cancer human health effects products and supporting initiatives to develop solutions photochemical oxidation, ozone and resource depletion Photochemical ozone formation, HH for a sustainable future. potentials. Detailed statistics and a brief explanation of Ozone depletion these impacts are as follows: 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% We collect all direct emissions, odors and volatile Tuzla Rotterdam Kemerburgaz Balerna organic compounds (VOC) and burn them in compliance The Global Warming Potential (GWP) by Facilities with the legislation in the regenerative thermal oxidizer (RTO) unit. We measure the carbon footprint of our Balerna Tuzla activities and continually work to minimize the negative 0,48% 0,48% impact on the environment by making improvements in our processes and developing new projects. Rotterdam We measure our emissions biannually. According to the results of the carbon measurement we conducted 29,78% in 2019, there is no considerable changes in GHGs in EF-Climate Change: Represents Global Warming Potential 100 years. Unit: kg CO2 eq. Kemerburgaz Scope 1 and 2. Around 14% reduction in Scope 3 is attributable to raw materials used in our production. 64,27% EF-Ozone depletion: Ozone Depletion Potential (ODP) represents the destructive effects on the stratospheric ozone layer over a time horizon of 100 years. Unit: kg CFC11 eq. These data calculated with Life Cycle Assessment EF-Photochemical ozone formation human health (POCP): Expression of the potential contribution to photochemical ozone standard and recent improvements in databases formation. Unit: kg NMVOC eq. EF-Non-cancer human health effects: Comparative Toxic Unit for human (CTUh) expressing the estimated increase in morbidity in the total human population per unit mass of a chemical emitted (cases per kilogramme). Unit: CTUh EF-Cancer human health effects: Comparative Toxic Unit for human (CTUh) expressing the estimated increase in morbidity in the total human population per unit mass of a chemical emitted (cases per kilogramme). Unit: CTUh IMPACT CATEGORY UNIT TOTAL EF-Acidification terrestrial and freshwater: Accumulated Exceedance (AE) characterizing the change in critical load exceedance Ozone depletion kg CFC11 eq 377,50 of the sensitive area in terrestrial and main freshwater ecosystems, to which acidifying substances deposit. Unit: mol H+ eq. Photochemical ozone formation, HH kg NMVOC eq 1.772.256,32 EF-Eutrophication freshwater: Expression of the degree to which the emitted nutrients reaches the freshwater end Non-cancer human health effects CTUh 28,27 compartment (phosphorus considered as limiting factor in freshwater). Unit: kg P eq Cancer human health effects CTUh 4,00 EF-Eutrophication marine: Expression of the degree to which the emitted nutrients reaches the marine end compartment Acidification terrestrial and freshwater mol H+ eq 2.311.022,39 (nitrogen considered as limiting factor in marine water). Unit: kg N eq Eutrophication freshwater kg P eq 83.172,05 EF-Eutrophication terrestrial: Accumulated Exceedance (AE) characterizing the change in critical load exceedance of the Eutrophication marine kg N eq 495.543,46 sensitive area, to which eutrophying substances deposit. Unit: mol N eq Eutrophication terrestrial mol N eq 4.457.059,58 Ecotoxicity freshwater CTUe 244.149.430,74 EF-Ecotoxicity freshwater: Comparative Toxic Unit for ecosystems (CTUe) expressing an estimate of the potentially affected fraction of species (PAF) integrated over time and volume per unit mass of a chemical emitted (PAF m3 year/kg). Unit: CTUe Resource use, energy carriers MJ 7.591.999.372,96 EF-Resource use, energy carriers: Abiotic resource depletion fossil fuels (ADP-fossil); based on lower heating value. Unit: MJ EF-Resource use, mineral and metals: Abiotic resource depletion (ADP ultimate reserve). Unit: kg Sb eq 52 Our Sustainability Journey Our Sustainability Journey 53 Business Ethics (GRI 419) As Organik Kimya, we are committed to local and international. We continuously We create managing our business in an ethical and analyze risks within our businesses and sensitive manner and being a role model take the necessary actions. for our industry. All actions should be in compliance with laws and regulations in the social, Business ethics is environmental and economic areas. We hereby provide our statement that we a key sustainability do not have any non-compliance issues topic for us and our with laws and/or regulations in the recent reporting period. Code of Conduct We continuously promote and improve our Social Value culture of ethical business conduct. sets the standards Our senior management is committed to for our decisionleading by example, allocating necessary resources to ensure that we comply with making process. laws and regulations, and promoting our ethical culture throughout the organization. Our Code of Conduct anchors our business ethics and compliance program. Our employees and business partners must comply with our policies that apply to their duties, in addition to complying with applicable laws and regulations, both 54 Our Sustainability Journey Our Sustainability Journey 55 Workplace Health and Safety (GRI 401-1) Outstanding working environment Since 2014, we have been participating in Great Place Respect, Justice, and Equality of to Work Institute’s independent research to assess Opportunity Employment and improve our performance in providing outstanding (GRI 405-1) working environment to our employees, as this is a We believe that achieving outstanding corporate central part of our HR strategy. “The Great Place To 16 21 At Organik Kimya, our processes are designed to performance is highly dependent on our people. Work” research model is based on five dimensions: support equality and to promote work-life integration. Therefore, we focus on creating a business Reliability, Equity, Respect, Pride, and Team Spirit. Our principles are as follows: environment where our employees can be happy Different Languages Through this research’s results, we’ve been able to Nationalities Spoken and thrive at what they do. analyze our employees’ satisfaction and loyalty. Equality in Hiring No gender-related language is used. All evaluations We have key operations in Switzerland, the Managers The Top Employers Certification is another process are made in a non-biased way based on the principle of Netherlands, and Turkey (Kemerburgaz & Tuzla). Our employees come from 16 countries, and 21 languages are spoken within the company. 31% of 39% 30% where all areas such as talent strategy, working environment, pricing and vested benefits and professional development are handled with a holistic equality. Qualifications and competencies are the key considerations when recruiting talent at Organik Kimya. our employees are blue-collar and 69% are whitecollar. 61% of our employees are male and 39% are female. 70% of our managers are male and 30% 61% 70% approach and it is one of the most respected employer surveys in the world. All companies which are subject to this assessment should have the qualifications Equality in Training Our employees have equal access to training schemes for their professional development regardless of are female. that meet the highest standards after went through a their gender. We trace yearly training hours to ensure detailed research process. equality in training. Blue/White Collar We care about constructing a local labor force to add value to the regions we operate in. The total and voluntary turnover rates are 7% and 5,6% in the Netherlands and 9,6% and 4,8% in Turkey. 31% 419 Total Number We were among an elite group of certified Equality in Career Management Promotions within the company are based on KPI and 360 Competency Evaluations. In 2019 61 new employees joined our team and 41 left the company. The average age of our new colleagues is 27. 69% of Family Members companies in “Great Equality in Compensations and Benefits We use the widely-accepted HAY methodology for The Organik Family Place to Work” and “Top determining compensation and benefits. Same-level salary differences occur only due to performanceEmployer” in 2019. related and/or competency-related differences. We adopt the principles 27 of respect, justice, and equality of opportunity. It is essential that any real and legal persons included in the activities of Organik Kimya adopt the universal The average fundamental rights and freedoms, including social age of our new gender equality, and are in business relationships colleagues characterized by mutual respect. Organik Kimya employees should, when they exhibit any act contrary to law, our values, or rules, report the same without any hesitation. Such reporting is examined confidentially and solemnly. Organik Kimya does not tolerate any behavior of threat, discrimination, violence, annoyance, and disturbance in the workplace. 56 Our Sustainability Journey Our Sustainability Journey 57 Anti-discrimination mechanisms Gender Equality Non-discrimination and equality are core human 2. In the event that an employee is subjected to (GRI 401-3, GRI 405-1) rights principles and we are committed to violence, we create a special line that can be eliminating all discrimination on the grounds of accessed 24/7 and provide the opportunity to As Organik Kimya, we believe that equality is in Private Health Insurance ethnicity, race, sex, language, religion, political or apply to the Human Resources Department in every area of life. In line with this belief, we pay Organik Kimya covers Private Health Insurance for other opinion, national or social origin, property and a confidential manner in order to help him/her. close attention to the fact that women can work all employees and their dependents. birth or other status. Considering the fact that violence can also be under equal conditions in business life and have identified by colleagues, we also explained the equal opportunity. Based on our code of conduct, Day Nursery Allowance At Organik Kimya, non-discrimination and providing basic signs of violence that may be perceived. we constantly improve our HR policies to ensure In order to support our female employees who are equal opportunity are rooted in the principle that all In this way we aimed at evaluating a potential equal opportunity in remuneration, rights, and new-mothers, we provide day nursery allowance decisions made at the workplace are based on the problem by our employees and address it by employment. We are aware that it is important to within the scope of the Organik Kimya Fringe competencies and performance of the individual, Human Resources department. show our female employees that we support them in Benefits Policy program. rather than characteristics that are unrelated to the every aspect of their lives. inherent requirements of the work. Great Place to Work Institute’s survey -which we In the reporting period, we also launched a new participate every yearincludes questions that On March 8th (Women’s Day), and between program to support mothers and their newborns: We We believe that businesses need to be ethical and evaluate the equality and impartiality of practices November 25th (International Day for the Elimination send a nurse to each new mother’s home to assist invest in anti-discrimination mechanisms in order conducted within the company on the basis of of Violence against Women) to December 10th her with the baby for the first couple of weeks. The to achieve sustainable practices. Therefore; we nationality and ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation. every year, we organize events and workshops to nurse provides key information about taking care of incorporate this issue further into our corporate The results of this survey are discussed, the needs raise awareness about violence against women, the baby and helps the mother get on board. culture, HR policies and work environment, setting are determined through the workshops with the discriminatory language, and the importance of forth a system of corporate governance which takes participation of our employees, and we make gender equality. Baby/Child Shopping Check into account these concerns. improvements by developing new policies each year. Within the scope of Organik Kimya Fringe Benefits The results for the last five years below show that In 2019, the total number of employees entitled to Policy program, we provide a shopping check to the At Organik Kimya, we have 2 different mechanisms, our management and focus on anti-discrimination parental leave was 21, of which 15 were male and 6 families in order to support their child’s potential which our employees can use in case they face mechanisms at Organik Kimya significantly were female. All employees returned to work after needs. problems related to gender inequality, and improved our effectiveness on the topic. parental leave. psychological or sexual harassment. Marriage Present • The percentage of employees, who believe Female employees at Organik Kimya enjoy all basic We give a “wedding gift check” to all employees when 1. In the case of violations of the working that they are treated fairly, regardless of their and flexible benefits equally. Furthermore, special they get married. conditions stipulated in the Code of Conduct, nationality and ethnic origin, rose from 84% to opportunities are provided for our employees who we have an available reporting line. The 98%. have children and newborns. In addition, seminars Birth Present written notifications made via this line are • The percentage of employees, who believe are offered to raise awareness about gender equality, We give gold coins as a birth present to all employees received directly and simultaneously by the that they are treated fairly, regardless of their inclusion, and work-life integration. who become new parents. Ethics Committee, which consists of the CEO, gender, rose from 77% to 94%. Risk Management and Compliance Director and the Human Resources Director. The • The percentage of employees, who believe that notifications are responded by this committee they are treated fairly, regardless of their sexual after evaluating their priority; subsequently orientation, rose from 81% to 97%. necessary precautions are taken promptly. 100% 95% we believe that 90% equality is 85% in every area 80% of life. 75% 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Employees are treated fairly, regardless of their nationality and ethnic origin. Employees are treated fairly, regardless of their gender. Employees are treated fairly, regardless of their sexual orientation. 58 Our Sustainability Journey Our Sustainability Journey 59 Training and development requests can be shaped with entrepreneurs, experienced speakers, and Performance & Career Management directly by managers or individual contributors. inventors, and we examine the latest trends in Employees can ask for trainings to address their innovation, design, creativity, R&D, and new product With our training and development programs development areas or to help them reach their career development. As part of the Innovation Academy, we and processes, we aim to increase the efficiency goals, and managers can request trainings for their have workshops, field visits, and executive programs and motivation of our employees, and thus teams based on their observations and expectations. focused on developing strategies and procedures that organizational performance. At Organik Kimya, boost innovation, creativity, and growth. We believe we see our employees as the key to our success. We currently have 9 training categories under our that, through INNOLAND, it is possible to develop Identifying people with high performance and training module. As a result of our digitalization efforts, innovative solutions that leave profound and indelible potential, and planning their professional all employees will have online access to training marks on our lives, especially by changing our habits development and career path is an important part of our strategic human resources management Training opportunities in the upcoming months. and increasing our awareness. We aim to accelerate (GRI 404-1, GRI 404-2, GRI 404-3) new ideas and to develop the leaders needed to processes. Our goal is to place our employees in An overview of our training categories is below. implement them. the right positions where they can deliver and go beyond their potential. We aim to ensure that the At Organik Kimya, we focus on identifying, 5. Technical Academy: With the Technical Academy, we planning and executing trainings to develop core 1. Work-life Integration: Our work-life integration “right employees” are doing the “right jobs”, today offer various types of technical trainings addressing competencies of our employees (both via up-skilling program aims to help our team in areas such as and in the future. organizational needs. Our aim in these training and re-skilling) and increase their performance. time and stress management, leading a healthy life, sessions is to enable employees to analyze the In line with our sustainable development principles; and maintaining work-life integration. We organize We are aware that reaching our targets depends problems they encounter in the industrial structure orientation and on-the-job trainings are planned to seminars and workshops to promote these topics. on our employees’ contribution. This contribution of the company, and to produce company-specific is evaluated through a fair, systematic and increase the productivity levels of our employees 2. Personal Growth and Development: Training solutions to solve them. measurable performance evaluation method. We to highest levels in the shortest period of time. programs to develop non-technical skills are value and measure not only the outcomes, but Personal, social, and professional trainings are 6. Sales Academy: We strive to be the most in-demand gathered under our Personal Development Catalog. also the processes in which these outcomes are offered with Behavioral and Technical Trainings. We company with our team, technology, and scientific These trainings focus on techniques for personal obtained. Therefore; an explanation of how the manage our training and organizational development infrastructure. For this purpose, we established a development. goals are reached and whether our actions are in programs under the motto of “You Have the Formula Sales Academy to train expert staff who know how line with our corporate values are also considered for Success “. 3. Leadership Training: We designed and implemented to adapt to evolving and changing market conditions. a new executive-level training program, called Our Sales Academy also develops entrepreneurial, during performance reviews. We also established the Organik Kimya Mentoring nuForm (the “New Form” of leadership). nuForm dynamic, and analytical thinking skills, and it Performance evaluation is carried out regularly for Program to support the development of employees serves as a Management Team Leadership Program, helps talented individuals to master the sales and all of our employees. Performance management and to share knowledge and experience within the promoting leadership development and readiness. marketing business processes at Organik Kimya. The tools and career plans are designed based on the organization. Mentors and mentees come together to The program is constructed upon analyzing the Sales Academy equips employees with new sales results of the 360 Competency and Performance share their development journeys and experiences. results of Great Place to Work Research and targets and marketing tools, as well as reports that may be Evaluation, the company’s strategic plans, and These meetings, in which feedback opportunities are managers at different functions who have diverse relevant to Organik Kimya. It also provides information employees’ personal development plans. created, contribute to continuous development of our needs.At Organik Kimya, we believe that learning about how to utilize each tool properly, how to prepare employees. and development is a life long journey. We know reports, and how commercial teams can implement that our leaders have an important role for our them in their daily activities. Performance evaluation system is based on key After identifying training and development needs, vision, mission, and strategic goals. We designed performance indicators (KPIs), which are defined 7. HES-Q Academy: We support and raise awareness we support our employees with various programs. our Leadership Academy with this perspective. It in line with the roles and responsibilities of the among employees to keep our workplace healthy In preparation of the training plans, we take the consists of several programs, as well as multiple position, and are used to measure and define the and safe with HES-Q (Health, Environment, Safety company’s strategic goals and new projects into rich and unique modules, such as Leadership success and Quality) Academy Trainings. In this module, consideration. Program for Team Leaders, Leadership Program for of our employees and teams. In addition, a trainings several topics such as working at heights, Department Managers, and Leadership Program for 360-competency assessment system is used to risk management, fire safety, working in tight spaces, Top Management. assess the compliance of our employees with and using hands are provided. These sessions also principles of corporate behavior. A managerial 4. Innovation Academy: We transformed our “Innovation improve emergency management and accident committee, with the leadership of Human Academy” to a new organization called INNOLAND investigation skills. Resources Department, evaluates the employees -a new generation Innovation Academyin order to 8. Orientation Program: Our Orientation Program and development plans are laid out for each take our activities beyond seminar rooms, lecture includes e-learning, face-to-face interviews, employee accordingly. halls, or R&D department activities, and instill the classroom trainings, and on-site tours. The content innovation culture throughout the organization. We and duration of the orientation program vary Performance evaluation outcomes provide hold Innovation Academy meetings on a monthly depending on the new employee’s job description and valuable input for designing training, career, talent basis. In these meetings, we discuss issues position. management, and reward processes. 60 Our Sustainability Journey Our Sustainability Journey 61 The Next Generation of Innovation Academy: INNOLAND Talent Management Innovation is at the heart of our sustainability Our Intranet section “We Are Here To Share!” is the We believe that every candidate we touch is a potential We use multiple resources to place the “right talent” approach at Organik Kimya. Many of our customers main platform to communicate with Innolanders, team member at Organik Kimya. in the “right position”. These resources include the have committed to ambitious goals to reduce who are the source of innovation, and to collect ideas following: their impact on the environment, to increase their for new products, services, and processes. Each For this reason, we designed a perfect candidate performance and to contribute to society; and our employee regardless of position, qualification or experience throughout the talent acquisition process, Internal applications products are helping them meet those commitments. department can enter an innovative idea for a new which starts from the moment the candidate comes We evaluate applications from within the company for Innovation is discovering new ways of creating value product, process, service or improvement of current into contact with Organik Kimya and covers the whole open positions. If there is a suitable application, we give for our stakeholders. In a successful organization, processes into our internal ideas system. The most journey through with the organization. We use various priority to internal applications. innovation is sustainable and on-going, rather than innovative ideas are rewarded with a symbolic tools, such as General Ability Test, English Test, and a process characterized by succession of “boom and innovation award. The Ideation Team meets regularly Personality Inventory, to conduct a comprehensive and Recruitment with reference bust” events. For us, innovation serves us as the and is encouraged to think outside of the box about objective interview and evaluation process and find the Employees can recommend people – excluding lifeblood and we think that our survival and growth our products, services and processes. best candidates. their relatives who they think are suitable for open depend on developing new technologies, products positions. If the candidate they recommend is hired and and services. Our initial results in 2019 following the establishment We built every stage of the orientation process under the 6-month trial period is completed successfully, the of INNOLAND proves significant improvement in the motto of Organik Kimya’s employer brand, “You employee who provided reference is rewarded. As mentioned in previous sections, we transformed our innovation processes which directly impacts our have the Formula for the Future”. We support the our efforts under “Innovation Academy” to a new economic performance positively: 17% increase careers and development journeys of every candidate External Applications organization called “INNOLAND”. Our approach with in the number of ideas company-wide, 64% and all new employees. We use different career portals and social media INNOLAND is built on three main objectives: improvement in time spent on assessment of ideas accounts to publish our job postings. We attract and 46% increase in the number of employees We offer a working environment that is dynamic, suitable candidates to apply to Organik Kimya through • «Academy» will be more than inspirational submitting ideas. innovative, high-quality, and has challenging goals. advertisements in these portals. speeches We invest and care about development. We believe in • «Academy» will be the center of innovation and innovation. We support our employees in difficult times, Talent Pool cultural transformation and we give confidence to our employees. We attend job fairs, career days, and university • Innovation is not only related to a specific team seminars and lectures every year to meet with students or department. It will be everybody’s business. We have designed a career planning process on and/or alumni to nurture our talent pool. “Intro” is our the basis of being a family company. We define the Internships program at Organik Kimya where students expected personality and behavior characteristics of are placed at the heart of major projects, working Our approach emphasizes three core elements in the employees and describe these characteristics with with teams of passionate people to create the next order to foster innovation efforts: the competency model to Organik Kimya employees. innovative formulas. “Curiosity”: Curiosity is a tool for development and progress. Innovation stands for innovative “You have and rational new ideas that emerge everywhere, in every moment of life, “Here”: Innovation takes place not only beyond the products developed in our in certain departments or regions but also in every aspect of work and life. laboratories or the trainings that we have. the Formula for the Future” Starting with the excitement of renewal and discovery, we are inspired by our “Renew”: Innovation is critical everywhere diversities and each other. What makes at any time. us successful, that’s what keeps us innovative. We are together to find solutions to leave our mark to life. We’re here. To explore! 62 Our Sustainability Journey Our Sustainability Journey 63 Wage and Benefit Management Policy (GRI 401-2) The wage management process at Organik Kimya is from the pre-defined benefits pool as they prefer We aim to create value for the community we live and fundamentally grounded in fair payment. The wages according to their needs. By means of this package, work in. We raise awareness and support activities of people who are working in the same position and employees can receive check-up and/or wellness to expand our reach to underprivileged groups and to doing similar work are determined based on their services outside the company. The employees may fight environmental problems. “Organik Volunteers”, performance and competencies. also use this package for holiday, training, fuel “Say No to Single-Use Plastics”, and vocational support, childcare support, or shopping cards. high school programs are some of the projects we We use HAY Group’s, a global HR consultancy firm, undertake as Organik Kimya. methodology in our wage management processes. Our employees and their families are eligible to Evaluation of a position is based on the knowledge, receive medical treatment from private hospitals Organik Volunteers skills, problem-solving, and responsibility via private health insurance we provide for our Organik Volunteers is a program that lets anyone be dimensions required for the relevant position. We employees. a leader of his or her own project. If someone has an also analyze and compare wages of similar positions idea that they are passionate about, they share their in the market. Individual wage adjustments are Employees must undergo medical screening at idea and volunteers come together to discuss how it determined by the results of the position evaluation least once each year in the workplace. In addition, can be tackled. process and personal performance. every Wednesday, a private laboratory representative comes to our offices to perform blood, urine, and Projects we led to date include educational support, Our benefits program has two components: Basic lung tests. audiobook recordings for the visually impaired, Benefits and Flexible Benefits. food and shelter for animals, and donations to To promote health and employee well-being, we underserved communities. Basic Benefits include food, personal car (depending established a fitness hall in the workplace. Fitness, on position) or transportation services, health yoga, and Pilates instructors visit the workplace Say No to Single-Use Plastics insurance, personal accident insurance, and mobile twice a week and organize classes. Employees who We started a study to raise awareness of the use phone. wish to exercise can come to the hall before or after of plastic waste. This study also contributes to our working hours, attend sessions, and receive a shuttle zero-waste agenda, which is one of our 2020 targets. Flexible Benefits package is named as the OH home. To fight against single-use plastics, we published an Package (ORGANIK Rights ORGANIK Haklar) and article to create awareness in our internal magazine, the content of the package is determined according In accordance with Article 51 Paragraph C of the Bi’Mola. The article detailed statistics around the to the results of the “Benefits Survey” held in April Constitution, we provide all employees with the right severity of the problem, as well as tips on individual every year. Every employee at Organik Kimya can see to establish trade unions and there is full compliance actions to be taken to remedy the crisis. In the same their wages and benefits budget via the OH Package with related laws and regulations in Organik Kimya. edition of the magazine, we distributed handmade portal. Employees can choose their benefits net bags to our employees and encouraged their use over single-use plastic bags. These net bags were made by local women who in turn supported their families with the proceeds. After the sustainability edition, the use of plastic Our Community Involvement and Impact bottles and plastic cups is not allowed throughout our organization. We distributed water flasks and glass bottles to encourage the use of reusable We carry out all our social, and economic materials. activities with an sustainability approach awareness of our to all our human responsibilities to resources processes, our stakeholders and including our community the community. We involvement and impact adopt environmental, activities. 64 Our Sustainability Journey Our Sustainability Journey 65 (GRI 403-1, GRI 403-2, GRI 403-3, GRI 403-4, GRI 403-5, GRI 403-6, GRI 403-7, GRI 403-8, GRI 403-9, GRI 403-10) Vocational High School Programs We have always valued and supported education in all forms. Therefore, we cooperate closely with various universities on research projects and Organik Kimya’s Community internship programs. Occupational Health and Safety It is important for our employees to spend time Our goal was to raise the interest level of students together outside of the working environment to We established the “Behavior Based Healthy Teams” Our organization seeks to be a pioneer and positions in chemistry at an earlier age and encourage strengthen their bonds with each other and with (DOST) Program in order to build an autonomic itself as an exemplary player in promoting safety and them to build a career in the chemical industry. their communities. We organize social events mechanism to ensure safety in our facilities in 2017. environmental culture in the chemicals sector. In line To support this goal, we became a part of the on New Year’s and other national holidays. In The program empowers employees to observe each with this vision, we establish the necessary systems Vocational High School Coaches program, addition to these events, we have a Family Day other’s safety behaviors and evaluate unsafe behaviors. for our stakeholders to work in a healthy and safe conducted under the leadership of Corporate once every year. All employees are covered under DOST; they are environment during their activities in our workplace. Volunteer Association (OSGD) in Turkey. required to complete a training and are assigned a • New Year’s Dinner: We celebrate not only coach in order to improve our safety culture. Companies that participate in the program choose the coming of a new year, but also our togetherness, our achievements, and Our priority is to create the schools they would like to support. The aim “Health, Safety and Environment” (HSE) steering of the program is to contribute to the personal other notable events that have occurred a culture of health and meetings are held every 2 months with company CEO’s throughout the year. safety that supports development of the students attending vocational and other senior managers’ participation. The HSE high schools and enable them to realize their steering meetings focus on the incidents that have • Children and Sovereignty Day: We invite potential and self-confidence. We are cooperating with vocational high schools focused on electrical, our employees’ children to our facilities practicing the highest taken place over the past 2 months, compliance issues, root-cause analyses of injuries, investments made in and let them see their parents’ working mechanical, and renewable energy. environment and join educational workplace standards and occupational safety, and new investment needs. workshops focused on the fundamentals of Volunteers from our company who want to participate in this program complete a 2-day science, coding, and chemistry. processes and ensure “Walk the Talk” is another mechanism that we utilize, which requires senior managers to participate on a site coaching training session organized by OSGD. They then implement the program with a group of 10• Family Day: We value togetherness. We value family. Every year, we come together physical and mental tour 3 times a year and to make observations regarding occupational safety. 12 students within the scope of the “Pre-Defined Coaching Model” for a 2-year period. Since 2012, with all our employees and their families health of our workforce at an on-site event.numerous training and the total number of coaches at Organik Kimya has reached 37. The program focuses on personal workshops covered by our coaches. through the use of technology, trainings, 3,488 3.85 development in the first year and preparation for professional life in the second year. and regulatory safety behavior in safety We contribute to the personal development of these students. by organizing field trips to our R&D labs compliance activities. observations culture scan 0% and our production sites, enabling them to hear 175% from our experts, and providing various training and Health and Safety is one of our strategic topics and it workshops from our coaches. is reflected in our balanced scorecards. We run various projects to prevent dangerous working conditions, to increase in Since 2012, we have reached a total of 420 ensure appropriate safety measures and to create a safety behavior vocational school students. Most of these (74%) positive safety culture in the workplace within Health, observation Lost Time Injury (LTI) were from chemical technologies vocational high Safety, Environment and Quality (HSE-Q) System. school, but we have also coached students working in machining, electrical engineering, and other disciplines. The students benefitted from our R&D lab excursions, production site excursion, Our leadership cultivates the foundation of the safety culture, motivates our employees to ensure they contribute to this culture, and reinforces behaviors that 54% improvement in 3,750 feedback sessions on interesting speeches from our experts, and Recordable Injury occupational health ensure the success of our HSE-Q System. Our leaders Frequency (RIF) and security with numerous training and workshops covered by at all levels are role models to reduce risky behaviors employees our coaches. and to increase safety behaviors. 66 Our Sustainability Journey Our Sustainability Journey 67 Our maturity level is among the best across various industries worldwide. We pay great attention to how our employees feel We are tirelessly working for our employees’ The Bradley Curve is a proven, proprietary system, Our initial results in 2017 showed that our activities about improving our health and safety measures. health and safety in our work environment. We which helps companies comprehend and benchmark to create the safety culture had been quite successful We have occupational health and safety dialog examine safety data sheets for all chemicals used the effectiveness of their activities to create a and we were placed at the independent stage with the boxes in our facilities. We share relevant news on by the health and safety unit and prepare exposure successful safety culture. Research confirms that the score of 3,35. In 2019, we took our maturity level to the the Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) visual maps to monitor risks by making environmental Bradley Curve shows a direct correlation between an next interdependent stage with the score of 3,85 and communication boards. We hold townhall meetings measurements. organization’s cultural strength and an organization’s the performance brought the certification of “Excellent twice a year, to which all employees, including the safety culture, including injury frequency rate and Safety Culture Performer” to our Istanbul and Tuzla sustainable safety performance. Data collected in facilities. employees of sub-contractors, are encouraged to the surveys show that a successful safety culture attend. Occupational Health and Safety is always empowers people, while improving quality, productivity, It should be noted that our maturity level is among the a prioritized topic in these townhall meetings. In and profits. best across various industries worldwide. Any score addition, we carry out interactive training sessions above 3,5 is considered highly satisfactory and the to ensure continuous learning and development of The Bradley phases can be explained in four stages: most important thing at the interdependent stage is employees on these issues. 1. Reactive Stage: People don’t take responsibility maintaining the effort and making the safety culture and believe accidents will happen. sustainable. We manage our risk in accordance with the ISO 2. Dependent Stage: People view safety as following 31000 corporate risk management standard, which rules. Accident rates decrease. Bradley Model Outcome conforms to international norms. Our precautions 3. Independent Stage: People take responsibility and Outcome 2019 3,85 apply to every individual entering our facilities, as the believe they can make a difference with actions. Rules Procedures 2017 3,35 Number of accidents occupational health and safety system covers our Accidents reduce further. Checklists Supervision employees, subcontractors, contractors, and visitors 4. Interdependent Stage: Teams feel ownership and Inspections Workshops within the boundaries of our facilities. responsibility for safety culture. They believe zero Development Terms of references Participation injuries is an attainable goal. Individual empowerment Frame Correct each other Principals Total empowerment The Bradley Curve shows the evolution of an organization’s safety culture, from a REACTIVE or Reactive Dependent Independent Interdependent instinctive stage (action is taken after the accident 0 HSE-Q Progress has happened), towards an INTERDEPENDENT THEY ME WE stage (collective and anticipatory). In the latter stage, As mentioned, we participate in Great Place to Work We measure our performance periodically and take necessary actions in order to ensure that our HSE-Q In 2019, our LTI employees take responsibility for safety, do not accept low standards on the issue and strive to achieve a zero Institute’s survey every year and the results show that our activities to promote safety culture have positively System functions properly. In 2019, we had 9 DOST training programs and reached the highest safety score was below zero injuries goal. contributed to the level of trust that employees experience in Organik Kimya. behavior observation level with 3,488 cases, which is a 175% increase compared to the previous year. company-wide and Our consultant company ChemConsult conducted two separate Safety Culture Scans for the years 2017 • The percentage of employees who believe that our we achieved 54% and 2019 in order to measure the safety climate and investigate the growth and development of the maturity workplace is a physically safe place rose from 63% to 94% between 2015 and 2019 In addition, our supervisors had 3,750 feedback sessions on occupational health and safety with improvement in RIF. with regard to the safety culture within Organik Kimya Istanbul on the Bradley Curve. Employees were • The percentage of employees who believe that our building and offices contribute to a good working employees to reinforce the program. Recordable interviewed by using a questionnaire on the most environment rose from 54% to 89% between 2015 Injury Frequency (RIF) and Lost Time Injury (LTI) Both results indicate that our actions reflect to our critical elements of a good safety culture: policy, and 2019 are two key performance indicators that we use to safety culture positively. framework and strategy, health, leadership, rules and • The percentage of employees who believe that manage the program. procedures, training, safety in the organization, safety there are practices and measures that support observation tours, systems, performance reviews, employee health in the workplace rose from 70% incident reporting and investigation, behavior. to 96% between 2015 and 2019 GPTW Survey Results 100% 90% 80% TYPE 2017 2018 2019 70% RIF 4 2 1.3 60% LTI 5 2 1 50% 40% This workplace is a Our building and offices there are practices and measures physically safe place contribute to a good that support employee health in working environment. the workplace 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 68 Our Sustainability Journey Our Sustainability Journey 69 10 Safety Golden Rules 37 In 2017, we launched process or material are performed after the risk analysis. Management of Change operation is our 10 golden rules with executed with MOC Module on QDMS Documentation System that is web-based. the motto “You Have the 3. Risk Assessment Formula for Safe Work” In our facilities, the risks identified by employees are prioritized and preventive and corrective covering environmental actions are taken. For instance, working with hazardous chemicals, working in dusty environment, and occupational health working with electrical equipment, working in hot 7. LOTO (Lockout-Tagout) environment, working in confined spaces, working LOTO is used to control dangerous energy and safety rules with our at height, working with hot water and steam lines, and bring it into a zero-energy state before filter changes in filling areas, were prioritized and stakeholders. The rules starting to work on a machine, equipment or action taken. DOST (Behavior Based Safety Teams) pipeline. Electrical maintenance, mechanical HSE-Q Awards 4 8 regularly detect and evaluate new risks. ensure that appropriate maintenance and operation personnel use different colored locks dedicated to their work As a result of our continuous efforts to create a safety culture at Organik Kimya, 4. Getting a Permit to Work safety measures are All maintenance and repair activities that are not areas. our achievements were recognized with two 5 awards in 2019. defined in the operations instructions of our facilities taken and a positive but are performed outside the maintenance plans 8. Lifting Heavy Loads Safely In our facilities, the necessary measures are ‘’The International Safety Awards’’ from safety culture is created are subject to permit to work. taken within the scope of safe load lifting. the British Safety Council are among the 9 most prestigious health and safety award in our workplace. 5. Working with Contractors and Subcontractors 9. Providing Traffic Safety schemes. It recognizes organizations that 6 10 It is mandatory to fulfill our HSE requirements before In order to ensure traffic safety, we have set demonstrate commitment to occupational starting the maintenance and repair work in our rules for work machines, company cars, tanker ORGANIK KIMYA Golden Rules of Occupational health, safety, and wellbeing, regardless of facilities. Contractor employees must be informed drivers, personnel shuttles and pedestrians in Safety, consisting of 10 different categories are the their size or the sector they operate in. We about the specific risks at our facilities. Therefore, our facilities. Speed limit violations of company key element of our working attitude. They were won the International Safety Awards for our their safety and health documents are checked cars, work machines and personnel shuttles developed with the aim of protecting against possible achievements in protecting workers from before entering the facility. are monitored and reported via GPS. The speed dangers and risks that may occur while working. the risk of injury and ill health during the limit for motor vehicles is 10km/hour within the 2019 calendar year. Occupational health and safety rules determined for 6. Working at Height facility. the relevant category are listed in the “The Formula In places, where railings, stationary platforms, and 1 of Working Safely”: PERYÖN-People Management Associationpermanent precautions are not available, any work 10. Preparation for Emergency is a reputable organization in Turkey that over 1.5 meters height must not be done without Emergency events are defined as unplanned 1. Use of Personal Protective Equipment provides leadership in developing human safety harness. The person who is supposed to work events that threaten the lives of employees The standard essential personal protective resources practices and popularizing people at height; cannot have fear of height, high blood or interrupt the workflow in the long run at equipment that mitigates dangers defined in our management concepts. Our activities were pressure, dizziness, epilepsy, balance deflects or our facilities. Some examples are; floods, fire, facility are; safety helmet, safety glasses, safety also awarded by PERYÖN in 2019 under similar and it is required to obtain a health report 2 earthquake, large chemical spills, abnormal “Value Adding Practices” in health and shoes, and work clothes with reflective stripes. stating suitability for such work. Employees who are reactions, sabotage, mass food poisoning, fatal safety category. Additional equipment may be required depending on working at height are specially trained about the accidents. the nature of the work. risks. 2. Management of Employee, Process, Material Changing Employee, Process or Material changes are evaluated with the management of change procedure in our facilities. Changing plans about an employee, 70 Our Sustainability Journey Our Sustainability Journey 71 Product Safety Information and Communications Emergency Preparedness (GRI 417-1, GRI 417-2, GRI 417-3) (G4-DMA) At Organik Kimya, we ensure that every product adhesives that come into contact with food according We classify an emergency as an incident that Department-specific business continuity placed on the market meets safety conditions in to their application areas; and also for products may result in substantial harm to stakeholders or management plans were established, and terms of human health, life and property safety, that are in contact with drinking water in the damage to property. A crisis stems from an incident departmental representatives and leaders were animal and plant life and health, and environmental building sector according to the application areas. that may have strategic or organization-wide empowered to voice their thoughts and opinions. and consumer protection. We prepare conformity Our products’ Material Safety Data Sheets (SDSs) impacts. For all incidents that may interrupt Organik The plans sought to specify issues such as the certificates and declarations that define these are prepared and translated into 24 languages in Kimya’s production processes for any length of time, actions taken by department employees on the conditions for our customers. accordance with legislations in Turkey, Europe, a Business Continuity Management Plan (BCMP) was first day after the crisis, along with other issues Canada, the USA, and China. established with Marsh Consultancy in 2018. relating to the emergency situation. These plans We closely follow and implement the laws and We are aware of the potential of threats that were subsequently printed on cards and distributed regulations that concern company operations. All raw materials that enter our facilities are could disrupt our ability to meet our obligations to relevant departments. Additionally, in 2018, drills Regarding product safety, the REACH Regulation registered by the Global Harmonization System to customers, our team members, the community were created for all departments, each relating to on the Registration, Evaluation Permit, and (GHS) in order to evaluate their hazard-healthand our investors. We believe that a robust departmental business continuity. Restriction of Chemicals in the European Union environmental dimensions prior to purchase. and agile business continuity program is key in countries entered into force on 1 June 2007. Technical Forms and Safety Information Forms, ensuring our customer first commitment, providing An incident investigation system was installed on The REACH Regulation is applied to substances as well as REACH registration documents, are reliable products and services, and supporting our Organik Kimya’s intranet using EBA (Elektronik imported or produced (alone, in the mixture, or completed within the scope of registration. If communities. Bilgi Akış Electronic Information Flow). In case in articles) of 1 ton or more per year. If an item necessary, FDA compliance declarations are of incidents like injuries, near misses, traffic is covered by the REACH Regulation, it may also requested and examined in line with specific Our BCMP aims to promote consistency and minimal accidents, compliance violations, fires or instances of impose communication-related obligations in the requirements of individual markets. This process is damage in business processes during potential crisis nonconformity are recorded in this system. supply chain, such as the use of the substances, applied for all raw materials. periods. It has the following key program elements: Organik Kimya’s 10 Golden Rules film, which restrictions, permissions, and requirements in foregrounds the topic of occupational safety, the safety form. We control the information about Our products are GHS-labeled. The chemical • Emergency and Risk Management Policy was designed to be watched by all stakeholders, our chemicals used in all our facilities using the structure of our products, first aid measures, • Emergency Organization and Responsibilities employees, subcontractors, customers, and registered substance database of the European storage conditions, fire precautions, and all similar • Emergency Response Plan and Procedures suppliers visiting our sites or facilities. One of the Chemicals Agency (ECHA), where more than 15,000 environmental and health conditions are clearly • Monitoring and Reviewing the Plan golden rules is “Preparation for Emergencies”, and substances are registered. stated in the Safety Data Sheets of our products. our film shares information about what emergencies We do not have any non-compliant cases are, what one should do in an emergency, and other We also work on our processes in order to comply regarding labeling. critical issues. At the end of the film, efficiency is with REACH Regulation in Turkey, which was measured by means of a short test. published in the Official Gazette with the recording of 30105 No. Chemical, Evaluation, Authorization, and We monitor and audit our BCMP and its Restriction about the Regulation. implementation within the organization on a regular basis to keep it accurate and up to date. The plan We also closely follow the directives and regulations is reviewed annually and required changes are related to biocidal products, as well as the legislation reflected accordingly. Following any such reviews related to the plastic, paint, construction, cosmetic, and amendments to the plan, relevant employees are leather, and adhesive sectors in EU countries. provided with training and relevant stakeholders are We carry out technical and academic studies in informed of relevant amendments. compliance with legislative requirements with universities and accredited testing institutions when necessary. For example, we test and certify our products from authorized accredited institutions such as CARSO, especially for products that are in contact with drinking water; by ISEGA for our hotmelt 72 Our Sustainability Journey Our Sustainability Journey 73 GRI Standards Topics Answers & Page Numbers GRI 101: Foundation GRI 102: General Disclosure GRI Content Index Organizational Profile GRI 102-1 Name of the organization About the Report 4 GRI 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Our Products 13-15 GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters About Us, Our Locations 9-10, 16 GRI 102-4 Location of operations About Us, Our Locations 9-10, 16 GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form About Us 9-10 GRI 102-6 Markets served Economic Performance 34-35 GRI 102-7 Scale of the organization About Us 9-10 GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Employment 62-63 GRI 102-9 Supply chain Our Suppliers 17 GRI 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain Our Suppliers 17 GRI 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Our Corporate Governance Structure 12 GRI 102-12 External initiatives Engagement with Our Stakeholders 20-21 GRI 102-13 Membership of associations Engagement with Our Stakeholders 20-21 Strategy GRI 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Executive Statement 6-7 Ethics and Integrity GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Our Corporate Governance Structure, 12, 26-28 Ethics and Integrity Governance GRI 102-18 Governance structure Our Corporate Governance Structure 12 Stakeholder Engagement GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Engagement with Our Stakeholders 20-21 GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Employement 56-57 GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Engagement with Our Stakeholders 20-21 GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Engagement with Our Stakeholders 20-21 GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Our Material Sustainability Topics 30-31 Reporting Practice GRI 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements About the Report 4 GRI 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries About the Report 4 GRI 102-47 List of material topics Our Material Sustainability Topics 30-31 GRI 102-48 Restatements of information Our Material Sustainability Topics 30-31 GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting Our Material Sustainability Topics 30-31 GRI 102-50 Reporting period About the Report 4 GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report About the Report 4 GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle About the Report 4 GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report About the Report 4 GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards About the Report 4 GRI 102-55 GRI content index GRI content index 74-77 GRI 102-56 External assurance About the Report 4 GRI 103: Management Approach GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Sustainability at Organik Kimya ,Our 29, 30-31 Material Sustainability Topics GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components Our Value Management Approach, 32, 42-44 Environmental Value Management Approach GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our Value Management Approach, 32, 42-44 Environmental Value Management Approach 74 Our Sustainability Journey Our Sustainability Journey 75 GRI Standards Topics Answers & GRI Standards Topics Answers & Page Numbers Page Numbers Material Topics GRI 400 Social Standards Series GRI 200 Economic Standard Series Employment Economic Performance GRI 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Workplace Health and Safety 56-60 GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Economic Performance, Science 37-38, 39-42 GRI 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not Workplace Health and Safety 67 of Value: Innovation, Research and provided to temporary or part-time employees Development GRI 401-3 Parental leave Workplace Health and Safety 68 Indirect Economic Impacts Occupational Health and Safety GRI 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Science of Value: Innovation, 39-42, 43 GRI 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system Workplace Health and Safety 67-72 Research and Development, Digitalization GRI 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident Workplace Health and Safety 67-72 investigation GRI 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Science of Value: Innovation, 39-42, 43, 45 Research and Development, GRI 403-3 Occupational health services Workplace Health and Safety 67-72 Digitalization, Value Creation for GRI 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on Workplace Health and Safety 67-72 Customers occupational health and safety GRI 300 Environmental Standards Series GRI 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety Workplace Health and Safety 67-72 Energy GRI 403-6 Promotion of worker health Workplace Health and Safety 67-72 GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Energy Management 52-53 GRI 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and Workplace Health and Safety 67-72 GRI 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization Energy Management 52-53 safety impacts directly linked by business relationships GRI 302-3 Energy intensity Energy Management 52-53 GRI 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety Workplace Health and Safety 67-72 management system GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Energy Management 52-53 GRI 403-9 Work-related injuries Workplace Health and Safety 67-72 Water GRI 403-10 Work-related ill health Workplace Health and Safety 67-72 GRI 303-1 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials Water Use and Waste Water 54-56 Management GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Emissions 52-53 GRI 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts Water Use and Waste Water 54-56 Traning and Education Management GRI 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition Workplace Health and Safety 56-64 GRI 303-3 Water withdrawal Water Use and Waste Water 54-56 assistance programs Management GRI 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance Workplace Health and Safety 56-64 GRI 303-4 Water discharge Water Use and Waste Water 54-56 and career development reviews Management Diversity and Equal Opportunity GRI 303-5 Water consumption Water Use and Waste Water 54-56 GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Workplace Health and Safety 68-69 Management Marketing and Labeling Emissions GRI 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and Product Safety Information and 72 GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Emissions 57-59 labeling Communications GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Emissions 57-59 GRI 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and Product Safety Information and 72 GRI 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Emissions 57-59 service information and labeling Communications GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Emissions 57-59 GRI 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing Product Safety Information and 72 communications Communications Effluents and Waste Customer Privacy GRI 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Water Use and Waste Water 54-56 Management GRI 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of Data Security 40 customer GRI 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Water Use and Waste Water 54-56 privacy and losses of customer data Management Socioeconomic Compliance GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components Our Value Management Approach, 35, 47-49 Environmental Value Management GRI 419 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social Business Ethics 61 Approach and economic area GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our Value Management Approach, 35, 47-49 G4 Sector Disclosures Environmental Value Management G4-DMA Emergency Preparedness Emergency Preparedness 73 Approach 76 Our Sustainability Journey Our Sustainability Journey 77 Our Sustainability Journey 2019 For more information: sustainability@organikkimya.com 78 Our Sustainability Journey Our Sustainability Journey 79 Kemerburgaz Plant (HQ) Organik Kimya San. ve Tic. A.Ş. Mimarsinan Mah. Cendere Yolu No: 146 Kemerburgaz 34075 Eyüp Istanbul / Turkiye Phone: +90 (212) 331 00 00 Tuzla Plant Orgachem Kimya San. ve Tic. A.Ş. Istanbul Industry and Trade Free Zone Atatürk Bulvarı 6.Sokak No:117/3 34957 Aydınlı / Tuzla / Istanbul Phone: +90 (216) 394 25 29 Rotterdam Plant Organik Kimya Netherlands B.V. Chemieweg 7, 3197 KC Rotterdam Botlek Netherlands Phone: +31 (10) 295 48 20 Balerna Plant ATR Chemicals SA Via Delle Fornaci, 4TI-6828 Balerna / SWITZERLAND Phone: +41 (91) 682 17 74 www.organikkimya.com
