ANNUAL REPORT CONTENTS 01 TO OUR STOCKHOLDERS 55 LANXESS ON THE CAPITAL MARKET KEY 01 LANXESS at a Glance 02 Global Presence 59 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ✓ Audited disclosures of 03 Key Data 60 Corporate Governance Report the LANXESS Group that NFR are i­ncluded in the 2019 04 Letter from the CEO 68 Report of the Supervisory Board ­non-financial Group report 05 STRATEGY 72 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 72 Combined Management Report References to pages 10 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 134 Consolidated Financial Statements within the report 11 Actively Shaping Sustainability 218 Responsibility Statement 13 Active Stakeholder Dialog 219 Independent Auditor’s Report 14 Systematic Prioritization of Sustainability Topics References to websites 19 Good Corporate Governance 225 FURTHER INFORMATION 24 Employees 226 About This Report 39 Resilient Sourcing 229 Non-financial Group Report: 40 Safe and Sustainable Sites Independent Assurance Report 46 Climate Action and Energy Efficiency 231 Environmental and Safety Performance Data: Independent Assurance Report 51 Sustainable Product Portfolio 233 GRI Content Index 53 Business-Driven Innovation 239 Sustainability Initiatives and Indices 54 Valuing Customer Relationships 240 Financial Calendar/Contacts Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information LANXESS AT A GLANCE Group Structure Segments Advanced Intermediates Specialty Additives Performance Chemicals Engineering Materials Advanced Industrial Polymer Additives Inorganic Pigments High Performance Intermediates Materials Lubricant Additives Business Material Protection Business units Saltigo Products Urethane Systems Rhein Chemie Liquid Purification Technologies ›› Agrochemicals ›› Phosphorous-based or ›› Color pigments ›› Automotive ›› Automotive brominated flame retardants ›› Disinfection, Preservation and ›› Electrical/electronics ›› Construction ›› Lubricants Material Protection Products ›› Construction ›› Aromas and flavors ›› Colorants, polymer additives ›› Products for water treatment ›› Medical equipment Applications ›› Pharmaceuticals ›› Mining ›› Rubber chemicals ›› Tires and wheels ›› Semiconductors and photovoltaics ›› Oil and gas ›› Industrial and mechanical products Market Europe no. 1–2 Top 3 position No. 1–4 in niches Leading position positions 1 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information GLOBAL PRESENCE 57% 53% 23% 21% 14% 18% 23% 15% 6% North America Germany Asia-Pacific 31% 13% 14% 5% 5% 2% EMEA w/o Latin America Germany Employees Sales Capital expenditures Note: All figures reported are from continuing operations. 2 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information KEY DATA 2019 LANXESS Konzern Q4/2018 Q4/2019 Change % 2018 2019 Change % € million Q4/2018 Q4/2019 Change % 2018 2019 Change % Employees (December 31) 15,441 15,4799) 0.2 Personnel expenses (€ million) 1,258 1,333 6.0 Sales 1,674 1,636 (2.3) 6,824 6,802 (0.3) Work-related injuries resulting in at Gross profit 365 383 4.9 1,738 1,759 1.2 least 1 day’s absence Gross profit margin 21.8% 23.4% 25.5% 25.9% (per million hours worked) 1.5 1.6 6.7 EBITDA pre exceptionals1) 175 197 12.6 986 1,019 3.3 Proportion of apprentices hired in EBITDA margin pre exceptionals1) 10.5% 12.0 % 14.4% 15.0% Germany 84.0% 88.0% EBITDA1) 162 160 (1.2) 906 910 0.4 Turnover resulting from voluntary EBIT pre exceptionals1) 67 75 11.9 581 557 (4.1) resignations 3.1% 3.0% EBIT1) 44 0 (100.0) 491 407 (17.1 ) Specific energy consumption EBIT margin1) 2.6% 0.0 % 7.2% 6.0% (in gigajoules per metric ton of Net income (loss) 99 (48) < (100) 431 205 (52.4) product) 4.99 5.08 1.8 from continuing operations 33 (22) < (100) 282 240 (14.9) Specific CO2e Scope 1 emissions from discontinued operations 66 (26) > 100) 149 (35) < (100) (in CO2 equivalents, metric tons per metric ton of product) 0.28 0.28 0.0 Weighted average number of shares 91,522,936 87,447,852 (4.5) 91,522,936 88,334,641 (3.5) Specific CO2e Scope 2 emissions Earnings per share (€) 1.08 (0.55) < (100) 4.71 2.32 (50.7) (in CO2 equivalents, metric tons per from continuing operations 0.36 (0.25) < (100) 3.08 2.72 (11.7) metric ton of product) 0.30 0.29 (3.3) from discontinued operations 0.72 (0.30) > 100 1.63 (0.40) < (100) Emissions of volatile organic comEarnings per share from continuing pounds (in thousand metric tons) 0.7 0.7 0.0 operations adjusted for exceptional items and amortization of intangible 1) E  BIT: earnings before interest and taxes. 3) ROCE: EBIT pre exceptionals in relation to capital employed (total assets (€)2) 0.77 0.64 (16.9) 4.48 4.73 5.6 EBIT pre exceptionals: EBIT disregarding exceptional assets less deferred tax assets and interest-free liabilities). ROCE charges and income. for 2018 as published including the Leather business unit. Capital Dividend per share (€) 0.90 0.958) 5.6 EBIT margin: EBIT in relation to sales. employed as of December 31, 2019, adjusted. See “Value ManageROCE3) 11.4% 10.0% EBITDA: EBIT before depreciation of property, plant and ment and Control System” in the combined management report Cash flow from operating activities – equipment and amortization of intangible assets, less for details of capital employed. continuing operations 172 267 55.2 441 634 43.8 reversals of impairment charges on property, plant, equip4) Equity ratio: equity in relation to total assets. ment and intangible assets. 5) N et financial liabilities: Sum of current and non-current financial Depreciation and amortization 118 160 35.6 4157) 5037) 21.2 EBITDA pre exceptionals: EBITDA disregarding exceptionliabilities (adjusted for liabilities for accrued interest) less cash, cash Cash outflows for capital al charges and income. equivalents and near-cash assets. See “Value Management and ­expenditures 235 213 (9.4) 482 508 5.4 EBITDA margin pre exceptionals: EBITDA pre exceptionals Control System” in the combined management report for details. Total assets 695 1 8,687 8,695 0.1 in relation to sales. 6) S ee “Value Management and Control System” in the combined See “Value Management and Control System” in the management report for details of the financial assets deducted. Equity (including non-controlling combined management report for details. 7) N et of reversals of write-downs of €1 million. interests) 2,773 2,647 (4.5) 2) Earnings per share from continuing operations pre excep8) Dividend proposal to the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on Equity ratio4) 31.9% 30.4% tionals and amortization of intangible assets: earnings per May 13, 2020. share from continuing operations disregarding exceptional 9) T here were 14,304 employees in continuing operations as of the Provisions for pensions 1,083 1,178 8.8 charges and income, amortization of intangible assets and reporting date. Net financial liabilities5) 1,923 2,522 31.1 attributable tax effects as well as non-recurring earnings Net financial liabilities after deduction effects of the U.S. tax reform in the previous year. See of short-term money market invest“Business Performance of the LANXESS Group” in the ments and securities6) 1,381 1,742 26.1 combined management report for details. 3 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Letter from the CEO We can look back on 2019 as an eventful and challenging year in which we achieved products founded by us but operating independently, is now Europe’s market leader. The our targets. LANXESS is in a good position both operationally and financially and is digital transformation in the chemicals industry is coming – and we are leading the way. steering a successful course in a difficult economic environment. In particular, our “Climate Neutral 2040” initiative last year was a good demonstration of how to comAs you can see, we are taking a strategic approach to our future. However, it is only bine sound business and sustainability. possible to achieve permanent business success if we take responsibility for the environment and society at the same time. We have therefore integrated all dimensions of The past restructuring of our company paid off again in this challenging year. Our sustainability into our corporate strategy. Accordingly, it was only natural for us to renew focus on more stable and simultaneously more profitable specialty chemicals gives our commitment to the principles of the U.N. Global Compact in 2019. us a strong foundation that sustains us when times get tougher. Our continued inclusion in two Dow Jones Sustainability Indices shows that we are We were listed in We have steadily evolved on this basis. For example, we have placed greater emphasis on the right track. We were listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) World the Dow Jones Sustainability Index on the issue of consumer protection and, at the end of the year, announced the purchase for the ninth time in a row and in DJSI Europe for the third time in a row – as the best (DJSI) World of the Brazilian biocide manufacturer IPEL. This acquisition enhances our position as company in our sector. for the one of the leading manufacturers of biocidal active ingredients and formulations and 9th time in a row. expands our production network. Everything that we achieved in 2019 was the result of impressive teamwork. On behalf of my colleagues on the Board of Management, I thank all employees for their dedicated Another crucial step was the decision to divest our chrome chemicals business and and hard work in the last few months. thus sharpen our strategic focus on specialty chemicals. We will go even further by selling our shares in the chemical park operator Currenta in a process that we started We will continue to pool all our strengths in order to drive LANXESS forward. I would last year. The proceeds that we receive for our interest will significantly broaden our be delighted if you, our stockholders, would continue to trust us as we proceed on this scope for growth. journey together. We did a lot of self-improvement work in 2019. For example, we made considerable progress with the Group’s digital transformation along our entire value chain. In product development, we are increasingly using artificial intelligence to speed up development cycles and improve products in a sustainable manner. Moreover, we have now equipped most of our facilities with digital data analysis systems, so that they can Matthias Zachert become even more profitable. And CheMondis, the online marketplace for chemical Chairman of the Board of Management 4 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS STRATEGY CONTENTS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Stable in Turbulent Times The successes of our transformation process became clearly visible in fiscal year 2019: As a well-balanced specialty chemicals company, we generate stable results even in a gloomy economic environment. We will continue to hone LANXESS’s profile in the years to come – with a clear strategy and ambitious goals. WORLD IN TURMOIL, plastics and vehicles and charging infrastructure are conWe successfully build on integrated value chains, susCHEMISTRY IN FLUX tributing to the successful transition to electric mobility. tainable, competitive products and sites, and on our Additives are helping many products achieve optimum strengths in mid-sized markets with generally above-avThe protectionist trends seen in major economies in performance over long periods of time. Ion exchangers erage growth rates. Here, we offer our customers an previous years became even more pronounced in the are enabling millions of people to supply themselves with attractive combination of the professionalism of a global reporting year. Disputes over protective tariffs, trade clean water and thus to protect their health. Biocides chemicals group and the agility and proximity to customsanctions, and the uncertain parameters of the Brexit and disinfectants are fighting germs and bacteria, which ers of a specialized niche provider. Our strategic guidequestion are restricting global trade and investment. Ecoare multiplying and spreading all the faster with rising lines provide a framework not only for evaluating our own nomic activity is dominated by uncertainty. At the same global temperatures. portfolio, but also for acquisitions and investments. We time, there is both a growing global need and growing are aware that any strategy is only as good as the people willingness for ecologically and socially adapted value We are ready to support and drive the transformation working to implement it. LANXESS aims to be a comcreation in order to tackle the crucial c­ hallenges of our for the benefit of humanity with our products and our pany where a wide v­ ariety of talented individuals work time – such as climate protection, scarcity of drinking innovation, and in this way to sustainably create added together in a safe, productive, and inspiring environment water, and feeding a growing global population. The value for all stakeholders. as a highly productive team. Each and every employee United Nations’ S ­ ustainable Development Goals provide at LANXESS is called upon to think entrepreneurially, a framework here. Strategy papers such as the EU’s to act in a solution-oriented way, and to be open to the ­“Circular Economy Concept” convey an impression of SUCCESS WITH A CLEAR change that we are experiencing in our markets, but also visions for future value creation. There are long-term risks STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK in our own structures and processes. We therefore see and challenges due in particular to the transformation the LANXESS culture as a very significant success factor with different regional regulation strategies and the varyValue-based, responsible and reliable action, combined that we cultivate and actively develop (see page 24). ing speeds of implementation. However, big challenges with clear strategic guidelines, serves as the compass are typically associated with big opportunities. Chemistry with which we will maintain a steady course even in is playing a key role here: Modern high-performance ­turbulent times. 6 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Our Strategic Guidelines Raw materials Sites Costs Value chains Sales markets Growth & balance Our value chains originate We manufacture sustainable Our costs are competitive We strengthen eﬃcient and We focus on specialty We are leveraging long-term from globally liquid raw products at competitive, across the value chain. integrated value chains. chemicals markets with growth potential in Asia material markets. sustainable, and climatehigher proﬁtability. and the U.S. and balancing neutral networked sites our regional sales split. Portfolio Management Promotes Stability, The acquisition of the leading Brazilian biocide manu€100 million. Brother Enterprises will take over the ­Profitability and Growth facturer Itibanyl Produtos Especiais Ltda. (IPEL), agreed plant in Newcastle with around 220 employees. We Our portfolio adjustments follow a clear strategic d ­ irection, at the end of 2019 and completed in February 2020, will c­ ontinue the production of chrome tanning salts with the successful reduction of the formerly very high is squarely in line with this strategy. IPEL generates the in ­M erebank in contract manufacturing for Brother automotive portion in favor of consumer applications and majority of its sales from biocides in the paint and varnish Enterprises, probably until 2024. As a logical consethe expansion of our presence in medium-sized, p ­ artially industry. With this acquisition, our Material Protection quence of this transaction, we have also agreed to sell regulated, and thus protected markets for specialty busiProducts business unit is reinforcing its global presence our 74% share in the chrome ore mine in ­Rustenburg, nesses. This balanced structure of our customer markets and is now in a position to serve its South American South A ­ frica, to Clover Alloys, a South African p ­ rovider is intended to provide us with stability, especially in phases customers from a local production facility. IPEL also of chrome sands and concentrates. We expect this transof economic downturn. The strengthening of our business has a strong customer network that will soon be able to action to be completed by the end of 2020. A ­ nother, with regard to consumer protection – such as with the benefit from our combined product portfolio and regusmaller divestment related to our business with tin2016 acquisition and subsequent enhancement of the latory expertise. based organometallics, which was acquired by the U.S. chemical group Chemours’ “Clean and Disinfect” U.S. PMC Group. Until at least the end of 2021, we will business and the expansion of the flame-retardant addiOur strategy also entails separating from businesses ­continue to produce at the site in Bergkamen, Germany, tives business – drives profitability and growth. for which we no longer see long-term development albeit on a contract manufacturing basis for the future prospects at LANXESS. In 2019, we agreed to sell our owner. In addition, we disposed of our business with chrome chemicals business to Brother Enterprises, a gallium-based organometallics at the site in Pyeongtaek, Chinese manufacturer of leather chemicals. The sale of South Korea. the business was completed on January 10, 2020. With its two South African sites in Newcastle and M ­ erebank, this business most recently generated sales of around 7 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information We also initiated the separation from our 40% investment We see targeted investments in our research and develSights Set Firmly on 2021 Financial in the chemical park operator Currenta in the reporting opment activities as another driver of long-term growth. Targets year. After approval from the responsible authorities, Our innovation strategy is based on three pillars: product Despite challenging conditions, we are also on course this is expected to be sold to investment funds managed research closely aligned to the market and customer to achieve our financial targets for 2021. They envisage by Macquarie Infrastructure and Real Assets (MIRA) at requirements, centrally managed process research foan average operating earnings margin – measured in the end of April 2020. Currenta manages and operates cusing on energy and raw material efficiency, and agile terms of EBITDA pre exceptionals – of between 14% the German chemical parks in Leverkusen, Dormagen digitalization projects. and 18% over the course of a business cycle. We already and Krefeld-Uerdingen, in which a significant portion of reached the lower end of this corridor in 2018 and imour global production facilities are based. With MIRA as The biotech startup IMD Natural Solutions, which we proved the margin further in 2019 despite the difficult a partner and a long-term contract package, we have acquired in 2017, performed particularly well in the remarket environment. Moreover, the margin should move secured reliable infrastructure at competitive conditions porting year. Its core product, Nagardo – a glycolipid around the average level by no more than two to three into the future and gained further financial flexibility for compound extracted from mushrooms that is effective percentage points in the future. We are stable within the the development of the LANXESS portfolio. against bacteria, fungi, and yeasts in food and drinks – target corridor here, too. was licensed for distribution in the U.S. Preparations We Invest in Organic Growth for licensing in other markets are currently under way. Financial Targets for 2021 Reﬂect Improved Position We invest in our businesses in order to promote organic With Nagardo, we can offer our customers a bio-based growth. Our focus is on expanding capacity and makaddition to our material protection portfolio, which can ing improvements to existing facilities and plants. The be up to 50 times more efficient than its synthetic equivEBITDA margin pre expected return on capital employed (ROCE) of these alents depending on the application. Our partner Stanexceptionals 14–18% projects averages 20%. The investments in our aromatics dard Lithium Ltd.’s research project on the extraction (average margin over a business cycle) network, with which we are responding to the growing of ­lithium suitable for use in batteries from brine at our global demand for menthol while also further balancing U.S. site in El Dorado, Arkansas, where the pilot facility our product portfolio, are a good example. is now complete, is also making progress. Further details Cash conversion > 60% about this project and information on how we are using artificial intelligence in our development processes can Margin volatility LOW be found under “Business-Driven Innovation” on page 53 of this Annual Report. 2–3% pts 8 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Adjusted for growth investments, cash conversion in LANXESS TO BE CLIMATE NEUTRAL compared to 2004, the year it was founded. In 2040, the reporting year amounted to around 65% and was BY 2040 we ultimately wish to be climate n ­ eutral. We ­describe therefore higher than the targeted minimum of 60%. We the specific path to achieving this goal in ­detail under are keeping this target in our sights, but do not see it as The world is changing, and this change is urgently “Climate Action and Energy Efficiency” from page 46. dogma. We will continue to invest in attractive projects necessary. We have clearly formulated our ambition: with a high return on investment when we are convinced LANXESS intends to drive the change and thus be part Our wholehearted engagement for sustainable developthat we can thus create added value for our shareholders of the solution as a sustainable chemicals company with ment is also demonstrated by the fact that ESG (“environand the company. In contrast, we make no compromises long-term success. We clearly expressed this ambition in mental, social and governance”) criteria are accounted when it comes to our sound investment-grade rating – our new climate protection targets, which we set in 2019. for in our chief credit facility for the first time. The interthis will continue to constitute a strict goal of our conBy 2030, we want to reduce greenhouse gas ­emissions est rate terms of the syndicated credit facility signed servative financial policy. from our production and emissions from the energy in December 2019 of €1 billion depend in part on the ­generation required for our production by another 50%, successful reduction of our greenhouse gas emissions so that LANXESS will have reduced its emissions by 75% and the increase in the proportion of women at the top three levels of management. We see the top placements that we achieved in the Dow Our Journey to Climate Neutrality Jones sustainability indices in 2019 as confirmation that in thousands of metric tons of CO2e we are on the right path: LANXESS was listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) World for the ninth time in a row. We took fourth place in our relevant category, (50)% “Chemicals.” Moreover, LANXESS was included in DJSI (50)% 6,500* Europe for the third time in a row – as the best company in its sector. We take all this as an incentive to pursue our sustain­­ability 3,200* 2,400* targets even more vigorously in the years to come and to 1,600* keep setting ourselves new, ambitious goals r­ egarding significant issues. Detailed information on these goals Neutral** and the organizational structures, management tools, and measures that we use to address sustainability at 2004 2018 2025 2030 2040 LANXESS can be found in the following section of this * Emissions from CO2 equivalents in 1,000 tons in terms of emissions from company-owned plants and processes as well as externally acquired, such as electricity, steam or long-distance heating. Annual Report. ** Less than 300,000 tons of CO2 equivalents: These will be reduced through compensation measures. 9 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTENTS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Actively Shaping Sustainability We aim to cooperate actively on the transformation of industry and global value chains and thus to foster the transition to a more sustainable world. We are therefore continuously enhancing our organizational structures and management tools – always with the objective of making the best possible use of human, natural, and financial resources in the interests of sustainable development. We thus create a measurable benefit for our company and for society. Thinking and acting sustainably and in an integrated Several internationally recognized standards and frame›› The term Responsible Care® stands for the ­manner supports our business goals in a variety of works give us valuable guidance in this thought and c­ hemical industry’s goal of achieving progress with ­different ways – from higher resource efficiency to good action: safety and environmental protection, regardless of relationships with our stakeholders, increased risk awarethe legal specifications. We have documented our ness, and permanently advantageous cost structures. ›› With the “2030 Agenda for Sustainable Develop­ commitment to the visions and ethical concerns How­ever, the quality of our company is not expressed ment,” the United Nations has established the basis of this initiative from the International Council merely in business success. It is also demonstrated by for global economic progress in harmony with of Chemical Associations (ICCA) by signing the the social impact of our entrepreneurial activities. Our social justice and within the earth’s ecological limits. Responsible Care® Global Charter. With our internal ­facilities, locations, and products must have a measurThe specific goals of the Agenda are set out in the guidelines, we integrate the principles of the Charter able, sustainable benefit for the community. This principle Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). into our guiding principles and corporate strategy. is the starting point for our thought and action. ›› The U.N. Global Compact is the world’s biggest ›› Among the internationally recognized principles of and most important initiative for responsible business activity to which we are committed are the corporate governance. Based on ten universal employment standards of the International Labor principles, it pursues the vision of an inclusive and Organization, an agency of the United Nations. ­sustainable global economy for the benefit of all These are aimed at upholding globally recognized Our facilities, locations, people, ­communities, and markets. As a signatory, social standards and thereby improving working and products must have a we recognize these principles as inalienable rights. and living conditions for all people. measurable, sustainable We renewed our commitment to the U.N. Global ­benefit for the community. Compact again for 2019. 11 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information The Ten Principles of the U.N. Global Compact Area Human rights Labor Environment Anti-corruption 1 Businesses should 3 Businesses should 7 Businesses should 10 Businesses should support and respect uphold the freedom of support a precautionary work against corruption the protection of association and the approach to environin all its forms, including internationally proclaimed eﬀective recognition of mental challenges. extortion and bribery. human rights. the right to collective 8 Businesses should bargaining. 2 Businesses should undertake initiatives to make sure they are not 4 Businesses should uphold promote greater environcomplicit in human the elimination of all forms mental responsibility. Principle rights abuses. of forced and compulsory 9 Businesses should labor. encourage the develop5 Businesses should uphold ment and diﬀusion of the eﬀective abolition of environmentally child labor. friendly technologies. 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. The Sustainable Development Goals in particular are We therefore pressed ahead with the development of increasingly being taken into account throughout the corresponding analytical processes and tools intensively Detailed information on our impact asGroup in order to translate the social “2030 Agenda” again in the reporting year. Besides contributions to the sessment concept into appropriate structures, processes and goals for us achievement of the SDGs, we specifically examined for can be found in the Responsibility/ as a company. To do so, we must understand precisely the first time what impact we are currently having on the Societal Added Value section of the how our priorities – formulated in the material topics – aspects underlying the SDGs. LANXESS website. relate to the priorities of the international community. 12 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information The results show that we are creating societal value and Sustainable Development Goals – Contributions and Impact have a positive impact on many SDGs. However, the Salaries, social security contributions and taxes contribute to the reduction of poverty. challenges are made equally clear – for example in the fields of climate protection and occupational safety. We are tackling these challenges in a consistent and transparent manner, as we have importantly demonstrated Health and wellbeing are of central importance in the production and use of LANXESS products. with our ambitious target of climate neutrality by 2040. In doing so, we are pursuing active dialog involving both internal and external stakeholders – for we are firmly convinced that a dialog-oriented approach encourages LANXESS supports the continuous qualiﬁcation and training of its employees and provides education initiatives at its sites around the world. integrated thinking and improves the quality of our ­business decisions. Contribution to water stress at some sites due to the use of water in production. Water stress analyses and production-related risk assessments. ACTIVE STAKEHOLDER DIALOG Development of products and technologies for water puriﬁcation. Relevant stakeholders for LANXESS are groups, instituWhen performing their tasks, some of our employees are exposed to the risk of work-related injuries. tions, or individuals with whom we maintain a direct or Our global safety initiative Xact aims to reduce the LTIFR by > 50% by 2025 (base year: 2016). indirect relationship through our business activities and LANXESS’s activities create value, growth and employment. who therefore have an interest in our actions. Our main stakeholder groups are customers, capital market repreSocial security contributions and taxes help reduce inequality through transfer payments and fund sentatives, suppliers, the media, and representatives from government structures. politics, public authorities, and non-government organizations (NGOs). We engage in intensive dialog with all of these groups. Firstly, to promote mutual understanding LANXESS’s business activities cause emissions in the air and water. and build trust with an open and constructive exchange LANXESS supports development toward resourceand energy-eﬃcient production and sustainable products. of views. And secondly, to continuously identify topics that are important in view of our environment and our Detailed information corporate responsibility. can be found in LANXESS’s business activities cause greenhouse gas emissions from its own operations or from purchased energy. the Responsibility/ LANXESS takes climate action seriously. Our company is to be climate neutral by 2040. Societal Added Value section of the LANXESS website. We see our engagement for ethical business activity and the performance of tax obligations as our contribution to a well-functioning society. Current negative impacts Contribution to the achievement of the SDG Current positive impacts 13 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information ✓ Audited The World Business Council for Sustainable Develop✓ SYSTEMATIC PRIORITIZATION OF ✓ We performed our last materiality analysis in fiscal year ­disclosures of the NFR ­LANXESS Group ment (WBCSD), which we joined on January 1, 2020, NFR SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS NFR 2017. This was based on four principles: sustainability that are included is an important new dialog forum for LANXESS. The context, materiality, completeness, and inclusion of stakein the 2019 non-financial WBCSD is a global, CEO-led organization ­committed Identifying the main effects of our actions and incorholders. As a result, we defined seven material sustainGroup report. to accelerating the pace of change toward a more porating our stakeholders’ concerns into our strategy ability topics that were again confirmed by the Board of sustainable world. At the core of the network are six forms the basis of our sustainability management. Our Management and the Corporate Responsibility Commitwork ­programs, in which economic concepts and busimateriality analysis in line with the requirements of the tee in 2019 and thus formed the relevant management ness models are developed to conserve the world’s Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a key tool for systemframework. The topic of good corporate governance ­resources while feeding a growing population and atically prioritizing the wide range of action areas and forms the basis for all of our business activities. A detailed ensuring f­uture-proof mobility and livable cities. The using resources as effectively as possible. The results description of our process for determining material topics WBCSD’s approximately 200 member companies also influence the structure of our external reporting on can be found in the Corporate Responsibility/Material represent 19 million employees and USD 8.5 trillion the topic of corporate responsibility. Topics section of the LANXESS website. in sales. Thanks to our membership, we will cooperate ­actively on the transformation of industry and global value chains and can thus align our business strategies Material Topics at an early stage. Co rporate Govern An overview of the main topics and dialog forums for od an c Go e each relevant stakeholder group and other specific activities in the reporting year is provided in the Responsibility Valuing Resilient Customer Sourcing section of the LANXESS website. Relations BusinessSafe and Driven Sustainable Innovation Material Sites Topics Sustainable Climate Product Action and Energy Portfolio Energized Eﬃciency Employees and Performing Teams 14 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information ✓ In addition to our materiality analysis, we came up with a ✓ We have formulated specific goals for all key topics. NFR definition of materiality for the non-financial Group report – NFR These are based on the goal of using our operating the contents of which are integrated into this section of activities to achieve an increase in value for our compathe Annual Report – in accordance with Section 289c, ny, our stakeholders, and society. Some of the variable Paragraph 3, Sentence 1 of the German Commercial compensation of the first and second management level Code (HGB). The relevant disclosures in this context below the Board of Management therefore depends are those that are necessary in order to understand the on the extent to which certain targets are achieved. In Further infomation business performance, the business results, the posia working group, internal sustainability experts again can be found in tion of the Group, and the effects of our activities on systematically examined the existing goals and indicators, section “About this Report” on non-financial aspects. For us, this means environmental fleshed these out where necessary, and also defined page 226. issues, employee and social issues, human rights, and new goals in the reporting year. This relates in particular anti-corruption. to our ambitions relating to “climate action and energy efficiency,” which we have raised to a new level with our As part of our management of opportunities and risks, aim to be climate neutral in 2040. we have implemented a wide range of risk-mitigating measures. With regard to the non-financial aspects The table below provides an overview of all corporate of the CSR Directive Implementation Act defined as responsibility goals in the LANXESS Group. Further inforrelevant for the non-financial Group report, a net risk mation on the individual goals and associated measures analysis shows no material risks in connection with our can be found in the following pages. own business activities or with business relationships, products, and s­ ervices that are very likely to have serious negative ­effects. Detailed information on our ­opportunity and risk management system can be found in the combined management report of the LANXESS Group and LANXESS AG, starting on page 120 of this Annual Report. 15 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information ✓ LANXESS Corporate Responsibility Goals NFR Topic Goal Indicator Deadline Status Quo 2019 SDG Page Resilient Sourcing 1, 8 Our value chains start from a diverse, sustainable raw material portfolio. We engage with our suppliers and relevant stakeholders to improve the working and environmental conditions in the global supply chains. Establishment of a systematic Status inquiry to identify relevant suppliers with Share of suppliers 2020 The methodology behind the analysis was validated again after receiving the data from 39 sustainability risk analysis to high risk level evaluated Ecovadis. For this reason, we will now carry out the status inquiry originally scheduled evaluate all suppliers for 2019 in 2020. Identification and reduction of Differentiation of risk score by goods group/country Sustainability risk score 2020 39 sustainability risks in the supply (levels 1–6) chain Safe and Sustainable Sites 3, 4, 6, 8, We manufacture sustainable products at competitive and sustainable chemical sites. Continuous process improvements and investments are fundamental for our sustained success. 9, 12, 13 We care about the communities of which our sites are a part. Uniform standards and processIntegration of all sites into the global matrix Degree of coverage in Ongoing As of December 31, 2019, our matrix certificate covered 38 certifiable companies with 20–21 es worldwide certificate (ISO 9001 and ISO 14001) relation to sites until the end of 74 sites in 21 countries. In relation to the number of employees, this equates to 87% 2025 coverage of our matrix certificate. Due to the changes in our site portfolio in recent years, we still have some site certificates and a region certificate; these will also be transferred to our matrix certificate. As of the reporting date, a total of 98% of our sites had ISO 14001 certification. Global process safety Continuous reduction in incidents relating to facility Number of reportable Ongoing 15 relevant incidents, of which seven in facilities acquired in the last years. 40–41 and process safety incidents relating to facility and process safety Continuous reduction in environmental incidents Number of reportable Ongoing Three relevant reportable environmental incidents at LANXESS. 40–41 environmental incidents Continuous reduction in transportation incidents Number of reportable Ongoing One reportable transportation incident occurred at LANXESS in the reporting year. 40–41 transportation incidents Further information on the SDGs can be found on page 13 and in the Responsibility/ Societal Added Value/ SDGs section of the LANXESS website. 16 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information ✓ LANXESS Corporate Responsibility Goals NFR Topic Goal Indicator Deadline Status Quo 2019 SDG Page Climate Action and Energy Efficiency 3, 7, 8, 12, For LANXESS, climate action based on efficient energy use is the right thing to do for society and also a key to delivering financial performance in the long term. 13 Emissions Reduction of CO2e emissions by 65% versus 2004 Absolute CO2e emissions End of 2025 Absolute CO2e emissions were reduced by nearly 5% compared with the previous year. 48 (establishment of LANXESS; (Scope 1 and 2) The decline versus 2004, when the company was founded, is 53%. 6.5 million metric tons of CO2e) Including update of 2025 targets from 2015: Specific Scope 1 emissions were maintained at the previous year’s level of 0.28 metric 48 ›› Reduction of specific Scope 1 tons of CO2e per metric ton of product. emissions to < 0.19 (CO2 equivalents, Specific Scope 2 emissions were reduced to 0.29 metric tons of CO2e per metric ton metric tons per metric ton of product) of product. ›› Reduction of specific Scope 2 emissions to < 0.24 (CO2 equivalents, metric tons per metric ton of product) Reduction of CO2e emissions by 75% versus 2004 Absolute CO2e emissions End of 2030 46–47 (establishment of LANXESS; (Scope 1 and 2) 6.5 million metric tons of CO2e) Climate neutrality for the entire Group Absolute CO2e emissions End of 2040 (Scope 1 and 2) Energy efficiency Increase in energy efficiency of 40% to < 1.24 Energy efficiency End of 2025 Energy efficiency deteriorated slightly. Specific energy consumption amounted to 49–50 (MWh/t) compared to base year 2015 1.41 MWh/t at the end of fiscal year. Energized Employees and Performing Teams 3, 4, 5, 8 We create a motivating, energetic and health-preserving working environment for all employees, striving for high engagement and impact. We nurture and promote a value-based, performance-orientated culture. We aim to be an attractive employer and to develop peoples’ full potential throughout their professional life. Employee retention High employee retention: Turnover rate on the basis Ongoing The turnover rate on the basis of resignations was 3.0%. 29 Voluntary turnover rate below 3.5% of resignations until the end of 2023 Employee development At least 80% of apprentices hired after completing Proportion of apprentices Ongoing 88% (previous year: 84%) of apprentices were hired. 26 their training hired in Germany until the end of 2023 Occupational safety Continuous decrease in the LTIFR by > 50% LTIFR End of 2025 The LTIFR was 1.6. 37 (­reference LTIFR of 2.0 in 2016) Employee welfare/work-life 95% of countries in which we operate have derived Proportion of countries1) End of 2022 At the end of 2019, the proportion was 74%. 34 balance and implemented specific guidelines and/or corthat have derived and imresponding models for flexible working conditions plemented specific guidefrom our global “Xwork” principles. lines and/or corresponding models for flexible working conditions from our global “Xwork” principles 1) Countries in which LANXESS operates. 17 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information LANXESS Corporate Responsibility Goals Topic Goal Indicator Deadline Status Quo 2019 SDG Page Diversity & inclusion Increase proportion of women in middle and upper Proportion of women in End of 2020 The proportion of women was 19.8% (previous year: 19.2%). 31–32 management to 20% middle and upper management At least one female Board of Management member Proportion of women on Mid-2022 By resolution of the LANXESS Supervisory Board of December 11, 2019, 31–32 the Board of Management ­Stephanie Coßmann was appointed as a member of the Board of Management and as Labor Relations Director with effect as of January 1, 2020. Increase the proportion of women in the first level Proportion of women in the Mid-2022 The proportion of women was 20.9%. 31–32 below the Board of Management to 15% first level below the Board of Management Increase the proportion of women in the second Proportion of women in Mid-2022 The proportion of women was 25.1%. 31–32 level below the Board of Management to 25% the second level below the Board of Management ✓ At least 30% female and 40% non-German particiProportion of female and Ongoing With a total of 65 participants in 2019, the proportions amounted to 31% female and 27 pants in LANXESS corporate talent programs non-German participants until the end of 49% non-German participants. NFR in LANXESS corporate 2022 talent programs Sustainable Product Portfolio 3, 12, 13 Our products are manufactured and marketed so that they do not pose a risk to humans or the environment. We systematically evaluate the sustainability of our entire portfolio. Sustainability criteria are also applied in the development of products and applications. Active portfolio management Optimization of the sustainability performance of Proportion of strategic Mid-2023 At the end of 2019, the proportion was 70%. 51–52 from a sustainability perspective the product portfolio products with a sustainability risk in the total sales of products with a sustainability risk Inspection and, if necessary, optimization of the Proportion of inspected/ 2026 The project started in mid-2019. The proportion of inspected/updated dossiers is 5%. 51–52 quality of all registration dossiers that were preupdated dossiers pared in accordance with the REACH Regulation under the guidance of LANXESS 18 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information LANXESS Corporate Responsibility Goals Topic Goal Indicator Deadline Status Quo 2019 SDG Page Business-Driven Innovation 1, 8, 9, 12 We drive process-, product-, applicationand business model-oriented innovation for and together with our customers and suppliers. We help our customers to make their business sustainable. Long-term, continuous developDeveloping innovative products based on the Number of product-related Ongoing until 114 projects in the reporting year were aimed at developing new/improving existing 53, 81 ment of products, applications, needs and expectations of our customers projects 2025 products and applications. and processes Continuous further development of our production Number of process-related Ongoing until 68 projects in the reporting year concerned process technology issues with a view to 53, 81 processes in order to maintain competitiveness and projects 2025 reducing costs, improving efficiency or increasing capacity. achieve our climate and energy efficiency targets Valuing Customers Relationships We value long-term customer relationships, built on trust and knowing, understanding and solving the customers’ challenges. Long-term customer relationship Improvement in customer satisfaction and mainteCustomer loyalty index 2019 In the 2019/2020 survey, the customer loyalty index score was 77. 54 nance of customer loyalty: customer loyalty index > 75 score ✓ GOOD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ✓ success factor. At LANXESS, good corporate gover✓ Compliance Organization NFR NFR nance is embodied by a values-based and safety-conNFR The global compliance organization is the central point of LANXESS’s identity is based on five central values: scious corporate culture, effective management systems contact for all employees on compliance-related issues. ­respect, ownership, trust, professionalism and i­ntegrity. and a commitment to internationally recognized princiIt also works with the organizational units to develop These values apply always and everywhere – and to ples of responsible management, such as the principles measures intended to counter illegal or unethical conduct all employees. We seek to foster a corporate culture in of the U.N. Global Compact. by LANXESS employees at an early stage and to prevent which responsible and morally irreproachable actions improprieties. Our compliance management system is and striving for performance do not contradict but comCompliance Organization and described in the opportunity and risk report starting on plement each other. Committees page 120 of this Annual Report. To ensure that our values as well as our rules and stanOur central values, supplemented by operational guidedards are observed and continuously developed, we have lines and organizational structures – summed up as established the compliance organization and several good corporate governance – enable our employees to specialized committees below the level of the Board of act responsibly in their day-to-day work and thus turn Management. a ­relatively abstract concept into a specific corporate 19 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information ✓ ✓ HSEQ Committee Sustainability Committees and Board of Management Responsibilities in Fiscal Year 2019 NFR NFR The HSEQ Committee ensures worldwide compliance Supervisory Board with uniformly high quality management, safety, environmental, energy and climate protection standards. It has report to responsibility for initiating and monitoring the global implementation of all necessary HSEQ guidelines, strategies Matthias Zachert Michael Pontzen Rainier van Roessel Hubert Fink and programs as well as for defining our HSEQ objectives CEO CFO Board member Board member and monitoring their achievement. It also defines the global strategy for our integrated quality and environmental Compliance Organization Corporate Risk Committee CR1) Committee HSEQ2) Committee management system and our energy management system. Group Compliance Oﬃcers and Senior executives Representatives from business Senior executives local Compliance Oﬃcers units and Group functions Integrated Management System A centrally organized management system at LANXESS › Administering the CMS3) › Reviewing and monitoring › Interdisciplinary competence › Deﬁning the global provides for the necessary global management structures › Supporting the organization overall risk proﬁle center, advising the Board HSEQ2) guidelines, regarding compliance › Analyzing material risks of Management on matters strategies and programs in all business processes in order to ensure responsible › Developing preventive and opportunities relating to sustainability › Setting and monitoring the business activities. Globally, we base our actions on the activities incl. sustainability topics HSEQ2) goals international standards ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 for quality and environmental management and ISO 50001 Continuous development of the sustainability strategy as part of the corporate strategy for energy management. 1) Responsibility for the compliance organization was transferred from Matthias Zachert to Dr. Stephanie Coßmann effective January 1, 2020. 2) D r. Rainier van Roessel retired at the end of fiscal year 2019. His CR-related responsibilities were transferred to Dr. Stephanie Coßmann effective January 1, 2020. Confirmation of compliance with the standards ISO 9001 3) Corporate Responsibility. and ISO 14001 is provided in a global matrix certificate. 4) Health, Safety, Environment and Quality. 5) Compliance Management System. This brings a whole range of benefits: Corporate Risk Committee ✓ Corporate Responsibility (CR) Committee ›› a high degree of standardization of processes The Corporate Risk Committee examines and monitors NFR The members of this committee represent all LANXESS ›› uniform in-house guidelines and instructions the Group’s risk profile and in this context also regularly business units and ensure that all LANXESS’s CR activ›› transparent, efficient, and effective processes analyzes the key opportunities, risks, and corresponding ities within the Group are in line with our strategy. As and controls preventive measures in relation to sustainability. Our an interdisciplinary competence center, the committee ›› considerably reduced external expense for the opportunity and risk management system is described advises both the Board of Management and the business maintenance and optimization of the management in detail in the combined management report starting units on all matters relating to sustainability. It is also system, for the integration of additional manageon page 120 of this Annual Report. responsible for collecting and maintaining reliable data ment systems (e. g. ISO 50001, sustainability that comply with current market standards for use in our standards), and for the integration of new sites or external CR communications. business units. 20 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information ✓ We ensure that progress in integrating new sites into our ✓ we are continuing to pursue our strategy of regional ✓ Internal Guidelines and Regulations NFR management system and its performance are regularly NFR and local certifications. In Great Britain, energy audits NFR The principles of responsible business operations and reviewed worldwide by independent external experts. in accordance with ESOS (Energy Savings Opportunity sustainable development are expressed in our Corporate In 2019, we successfully passed the surveillance audit Scheme) are required for all sites. After the audit rePolicy, which defines our general corporate philosophy in accordance with the standards ISO 9001:2015 and quirement was determined in 2018, these audits were and the conduct expected of every single employee in 14001:2015 and the recertification audit in accordance conducted in the reporting year. relation to our stakeholders in a total of eleven guidelines. with ISO 50001:2011. In the reporting year, the sites in Joo Koon, Singapore; Memphis, USA; Ningbo, China; In addition, individual LANXESS Group companies and The LANXESS Code of Conduct, which is applicable and Sudbury, Great Britain, were added to the matrix cersites have other specific management systems and certhroughout the Group, requires all our employees – tificate. In addition, Bergkamen was the first site acquired tifications such as EMAS, RC14001 (RC = Responsible across all organizational units, regions and hierarchy from Chemtura to be integrated into our matrix certificate. Care®), OHSAS 18001, and IATF 16949. The status of our levels – to behave lawfully and with integrity. Through The LANXESS Code of Conduct With just a few exceptions, the other sites taken on with certifications can be viewed at any time in the Corporate correct and proper conduct, each employee is responsican be found in the acquisition of Chemtura have already been certified Responsibility/References/Certifications section of the ble for helping to prevent harm to LANXESS and increase the Responsibility/ Good Corporate in accordance with ISO 9001 and most of them have LANXESS website. the company’s value over the long term. The code covers Governance section of the also been certified in accordance with ISO 14001. We LANXESS website. are planning to gradually integrate these sites into our matrix certificate. Clear Rules Provide Guidance As of December 31, 2019, our matrix certificate covered CorPrinciples of responsible business operations 38 certifiable companies (companies with staff and in porate and sustainable development which LANXESS has a stake of over 50%) with a total Policy of 74 sites in 21 countries. In relation to the number of employees, this equates to 87% coverage. Code of conduct applicable throughout the Compliance Code Group requiring compliance with valid laws and international principles In addition, we have had LANXESS AG and all Group companies certified in accordance with ISO 50001 for Detailed Group-wide regulations energy management in Germany and Belgium. The only Group directives concerning speciﬁc areas of exceptions are the newly acquired IMD Natural Solutions compliance GmbH and the newly founded CheMondis GmbH. As of December 31, 2019, the energy management system had reached 100% coverage in these two countries Regulations deﬁned at Standard operating procedures, process instructions operational level in relation to the number of employees. The former ­Chemtura site in Bergkamen was integrated into the matrix certificate in 2019. IAB Ionenaustauscher GmbH has its own certificate. Outside Germany and Belgium, 21 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information ✓ issues such as human rights, cartel and antitrust law, ✓ Human Rights ✓ departments at national level. The assessments confirm NFR anti-corruption, data protection, occupational, product NFR In line with our values and operational guidelines, we are NFR that there is a high level of awareness of the subject and and plant safety, and environmental protection. committed in all our markets and supply chains to prothat functioning mechanisms have been established to moting respect for human rights at all times and systemprevent violations of human rights. Other Group directives, such as the HSE directives and atically preventing child and forced labor, for example. the guideline on incentives, define the specific applicaAt LANXESS, human rights and ethical principles apply We review our activities for the protection of human tion of regulations in the individual areas of compliance without restriction, even if they are not stipulated in the rights in a regular process, taking account of external covered by the code and are binding on all employees legislation of individual countries. Our target is formurequirements such as those formulated in the German throughout the Group. On the basis of these LANXESS lated with corresponding clarity: in all areas over which National Action Plan on Business and Human Rights directives, more detailed regulations that also take LANXESS has control, there should be no breaches of (NAP). Our subject experts cooperate across depart­account of local requirements are defined at the operahuman rights. We have included all relevant information ments to identify potential for improvement and derive tional level in standard operating procedures and process on our commitment and on the measures established in suitable measures. instructions, etc. The applicable directives, standard the Group to protect human rights in the “LANXESS Posioperating procedures and guidelines are accessible to tion on Human Rights.” This document can be viewed at Furthermore, all organizational units at LANXESS and all employees. Employees are also regularly informed of any time in the Corporate Responsibility/Good Corporate their business activities are subject to regular internal new and updated regulations relevant to them. Governance section of the LANXESS website. and external audits. It goes without saying that these activities also include monitoring respect for human We also expect our suppliers to commit to values Direct responsibility for ensuring that human rights are rights and – if necessary – the introduction of suitable and rules, especially the principles of the U.N. Global respected at all times lies with the respective managemeasures to guarantee this. ­Compact and the ILO Labor Standards, and to establish ment at our sites, supported by our global compliance adequate systems for ensuring legally compliant and organization and local Compliance Officers. At Group Our Code of Conduct includes unambiguous instructions responsible behavior. The LANXESS Supplier Code of level, human rights are subject to regular evaluation regarding the respect of human rights. The code, which Conduct is part of our communication with suppliers. as part of our risk management system. For example, every new employee receives with their employment conWhen we select new suppliers, it is essential for us that we conduct specific risk assessments in all national tract, is also an aspect of general training measures. In they acknowledge the principles contained in this code companies with regard to the potential risk of human addition, we hold training sessions geared toward specific The LANXESS or have established their own comparable regulations rights violations. The general risk potential across the selected human rights issues such as occupational safety. Supplier Code of Conduct can and management systems in line with the U.N. Global Group is determined annually, and national companies If there are suspected human rights violations, the Integrity be found in the Compact. In addition, we promote responsible action with elevated risk potential are subjected to an addiLine and Compliance Helpdesk offer our employees and Company/Conditions of purchase in the supply chain with our involvement in the Together tional, comprehensive risk assessment at least every external third parties various ways to notify the compliance and sale section of the LANXESS for Sustainability initiative, which we operate jointly with three years. The risk assessments are coordinated by organization – also anonymously if they wish. website. 24 other international chemical companies (see page 39). Group headquarters and carried out by the responsible 22 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information ✓ We have no reports or knowledge of any systematic dis✓ Anti-Corruption ✓ LANXESS may not grant advantages of any kind to public NFR crimination against LANXESS employees. This includes NFR By signing the U.N. Global Compact, we have underNFR servants or other officials in Germany or abroad. When discrimination on the basis of skin color, age, gender, taken to actively counter all forms of corruption. Here commissioning service providers who have contact with sexual orientation, origin, religion, physical and mental too, our target is no incidents. Prevention of corruption officials on behalf of LANXESS, employees must likewise abilities, trade union membership or political opinion. In is part of our general compliance management system. ensure compliance with the prohibition on corruption. individual cases, misconduct by employees in respect of Organizational measures and regulations for setting up As a basic principle, we do not provide financial support colleagues or third parties was reported. We will not tolthe compliance management system as well as responsito political groupings or parties. LANXESS is involved erate verified misconduct and it will result in ­appropriate bilities for implementation, support and continuous monin large industrial associations, which we regard as disciplinary measures up to and including dismissal. itoring of the system are defined in a guideline applicable fundamental to representing our interests. We disclose throughout the Group. The respective site management, contributions and spending on political activities transAll acquisitions of companies, interests in companies, or supported here too by our global compliance organizaparently; details can be found on the LANXESS website businesses are subject to a careful due diligence protion and local country compliance officers, is responsible under Corporate Responsibility/Approach/Stakeholder cess to ensure that human rights are also respected by for preventing instances of corruption at all times. Dialog at any time. the target company. Significant suppliers of goods and services are regularly the subject of supplier assessA Group-wide directive provides our employees with All donations require approval from a member of the ments in the context of TfS audits that include aspects clear guidance regarding incentives. Our employees Board of Management after prior consultation with the such as compliance with our Supplier Code of Conduct. are prohibited, either directly or in connection with their compliance organization. The audits also cover compliance with human rights, professional duties, from offering personal advantages to including with regard to child labor and forced labor. the employees of other companies – in particular when To enhance our employees’ awareness of these rules of In the reporting year, we received no reports or other initiating, awarding or handling an order or assignment. conduct, the issue of corruption is regularly covered by indications of human rights violations by our suppliers. Our employees are likewise prohibited from accepting compliance training. In addition, we hold specific corrupThe same applies to child labor and forced labor. such advantages or requesting them for themselves. tion training aimed at exposed professional groups and Exceptions may be made for customary occasional or countries. In the reporting year, we carried out compliWe have also established the necessary sales-related promotional gifts that are symbolic in nature and of low ance training sessions with a total of over 3,500 partici­ processes to fulfill our responsibilities. This particularly value. If an employee is offered such gifts, they must pants worldwide. If there are indications of compliance includes our processes for central product monitoring immediately notify their supervisor or the compliance violations, our employees and external third parties can and for trade compliance, especially with regard to regorganization. contact the compliance organization via the established ulations for preventing dual use. We also systematically reporting channels – also anonymously if they wish. evaluate the impact of our products on people as part of our portfolio analysis. 23 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information ✓ The Corporate Audit function examines and monitors EMPLOYEES ›› Developing people NFR implementation of our measures to prevent corruption. We pursue continuous talent management and a It applies various analytical approaches and scopes here: The central task of the Human Resources Group function comprehensive training and learning concept with 15,479 is to provide the best possible support for the growth of the aim of promoting cross-functional and cross-­ LANXESS ›› Assessment of the risk of exposure to corruption as LANXESS’s operating businesses. At the same time, globdivisional career development, developing young employees worldwide part of annual audit planning, and general monitoral HR trends such as demographic change, globalization, talent from within our own ranks and strengthening ing of the internal control system: all business units the drive for agility and digitalization, and cultural and expertise for the LANXESS organization of the ›› Transaction monitoring to ensure compliance value-based transformation mean that, in many places, future. with company regulations with an influence on we have to break the mold. This is just what we have ›› Enhancing and strengthening the HR function the ­prevention of corruption in the standard done – by successfully completing an extensive HR transWe promote efficient and standardized HR ­processes, SAP ­system: at least 90% of all transactions formation project. In the past two years, we have not only act as a global team with transparent structures and implemented a “People Strategy” but also restructured establish modern, digital HR systems and tools. We In fiscal year 2019, we received no reports or other inour entire HR organization. The new organizational strucoperate as a strategic partner for the businesses. dications of cases of active corruption by LANXESS ture puts the focus on our business, brings our expertise ›› Intensifying dialog employees. Verified cases of LANXESS employees being into the regions with globally networked teams and offers We strengthen exchange within and outside the bribed lead to appropriate disciplinary actions up to and effective services as well as global standards in a shared HR department in order to create greater transincluding dismissal as well as consideration of further system landscape. In the reporting year, the transformation parency regarding HR products and services, to legal steps. In the reporting year, we recorded a low project won the renowned “HR Excellence Award” in the enhance the role of HR as a strategic partner and to single-digit number of such cases, but these did not have “Corporations: International HR Management” category. address the needs of the various Group functions any further significant effects for LANXESS. and business units in an even more targeted way. Our “People Strategy” is based on four pillars and eight strategic action fields that clearly guide our HR work: In the reporting year, we initiated or continued a great many projects and measures across these four pillars. ›› Enabling growth With increasingly long-term and strategic workforce planning as well as a globally managed recruiting strategy, we are supporting the sustainable growth of our business in line with our corporate strategy. 24 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information For example, we optimized, digitalized and harmonized Other priorities in 2019 were the further development Targeted Recruitment of Talents significant HR processes throughout the Group with and harmonization of our Group-wide talent programs Against a backdrop of strong competition for talent in the successful global installation of a digital solution for (see page 27 et seq.), the strategic realignment of the our core markets and the demographic challenges (see HR services. The aim is to make these processes more topic of Diversity & Inclusion (see page 30) and the global page 32), we see recruitment as a strategic issue and transparent and user-friendly while also markedly less implementation of our Xwork program, which promotes are investing in a distinctive employer brand in order to complex. The modern system solution covers central more flexible forms of work (see page 34 et seq.). highlight the advantages of LANXESS as a global and HR processes such as recruitment and onboarding, socially responsible employer. Our employer branding performance management, document management centers on authenticity and diversity. We are making and employee self-service functions in a single system. ever greater use of social media, where we share a mix We expect to implement another two modules in 2020. of company, product and employee information in order to spark enthusiasm for our company among talented people from a wide range of functions. Number of Employees Headcount Full-Time Equivalents As part of our HR transformation, we have ­strengthened our global recruiter organization. In particular, the new 19,029 18,786.4 19,271 19,016.3 software platform for recruitment and onboarding out16,721 16,495.1 16,225 16,007.9 15,479 15,258.0 lined above helps to make processes in connection with approaching and acquiring new employees more standardized, transparent and customer-focused. In order to approach interesting candidates in both an active and a targeted manner, we have also started ­building up a pool of active sourcing specialists, who will g ­ radually replace external HR service providers. A total of 868 new ­employees joined the Group in the reporting year. The focus was on technical positions. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 The ﬁgures presented here for 2019 diﬀer from those in the ﬁnancial report, because the ﬁgures reported there are for continuing operations (see page 72 et seq.). These and all subsequent assessments relate – if not explicitly stated otherwise – to the core workforce (see page 33 for explanation). Figures from 2016–2018 including ARLANXEO. 25 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information ✓ Training will remain a key pillar of our HR policy in the New Employees by Age Group, Gender and Region NFR years ahead. It is our stated aim to retain at least 80% EMEA Germany North America Latin America Asia-Pacific Total (excluding Germany) of our apprentices after successful completion of their training. We reached this target again in the reporting year with a retention ratio of 88% (previous year: 84%). Age group f m f m f m f m f m Outside of Germany, we have also started to offer ap< 30 14 56 22 78 12 54 9 19 10 50 324 30-49 29 50 40 131 19 72 1 12 18 67 439 prenticeship programs on a smaller scale in countries ≥ 50 6 14 0 30 10 38 1 2 3 1 105 such as Belgium, Spain, Great Britain, India and South Total 49 120 62 239 41 164 11 33 31 118 868 Africa. These have met with a positive response so far Region total 169 301 205 44 149 and are helping us meet our demand for young talent in % the countries in question. Age group f m f m f m f m f m < 30 27.5 31.5 11.6 10.6 20.9 30.0 28.8 27.3 13.7 24.1 18.3 Each year, with our XOnce program, we give school-­leavers 30-49 8.3 4.9 6.4 5.2 12.0 11.4 0.8 3.2 4.5 4.7 5.7 who still do not meet academic or personal ­requirements for ≥ 50 4.7 1.7 0.0 1.0 4.4 4.8 5.4 1.4 5.9 0.3 1.7 Total 9.3 6.0 4.6 3.8 9.2 10.2 6.2 5.6 6.0 6.1 5.6 starting an apprenticeship program immediately the opporRegion total 6.7 3.9 10.0 5.7 6.1 tunity to qualify for a technical or scientific ­apprenticeship program – regardless of whether this is then done externally or at LANXESS itself. Ten young people took part in Our international graduate trainee program is a funda✓ 215 apprentices on eight technical, scientific and comthe XOnce program in 2019. On average, approximately mental tool for securing talent in Germany. ExceptionNFR mercial career paths and six dual-study programs started 50% of participants become apprentices at LANXESS after ally well-qualified Master’s graduates are prepared for their apprenticeships at LANXESS Deutschland GmbH participating in the XOnce program. challenging specialist and managerial tasks and gather on September 1, 2019. The proportion of female career valuable experience abroad. In addition to an engineering starters was around 10% in the reporting year (previous ✓ orientation, LANXESS also offers attractive opportuniyear: 8%). NFR ties for economists. In 2019, 23 new graduate trainees (9 women, 14 men) started their career at LANXESS. Taking the new intake into account, there are currently 8.1% 682 apprentices at LANXESS Deutschland GmbH (as of Apprentice Ratio1) ✓ Developing Specialist Staff from within December 31, 2019). The proportion of female apprenNFR Our Own Ranks tices across all years is around 11%. We invested around Training young people has always been hugely important €23 million (previous year: €20 million) in the vocational to us, both in order to safeguard the company’s future and training of young talent in 2019. as part of our social responsibility. Vocational training is the basis of our strategy of developing specialist staff for 1) T  his figure is the ratio of apprentices at LANXESS Deutschland GmbH. the German sites from within our own ranks. The number of LANXESS Deutschland GmbH employees undertaking an apprenticeship is expressed as a percentage of the core workforce of LANXESS Deutschland GmbH (employees with a permanent, fullor part-time employment contract, see page 32) plus the apprentices of LANXESS Deutschland GmbH. 26 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information ✓ Apprentices by Career Path1) Promoting Development Worldwide ✓ and personal development plans. The “navigator” program NFR % Only by constantly investing in training our employees NFR is aimed at top-level managers with the potential to lead Scientiﬁc (chemical 10 and imparting clear, globally binding values and standards a business unit or Group function. technicians, laboratory technicians, tanners can we as a company keep on using the opportunities including 3 students on of changing markets successfully. Wide-ranging leaderOur commitment to increasing diversity at LANXESS (see combined vocational 19 training and study courses) ship and HR development tools enable and motivate our page 30 et seq.) is reflected in a specific target for the Technical (e.g. industrial 71 employees to act on the basis of values, rethink issues, composition of the three talent programs. Every year, the mechanics, electricians) implement them quickly and devise solutions in a team. programs’ participants should be at least 30% female Commercial (management assistants, and 40% non-German. With a total of 65 participants business IT specialists etc., ✓ Our activities in the reporting year centered on the further in 2019, the proportions amounted to 31% female and including 25 students on combined vocational NFR development of global, cross-divisional and cross-hier49% non-German participants, which means we achieved training and study courses) archical talent programs, with which we want to retain our target for the reporting year. Because the programs 1) LANXESS in Germany particularly high-performing employees within our comcan last for up to 18 months, double counting cannot pany and identify suitable successors for key positions be ruled out. Hire Rate of Apprentices and Students on Combined Work and Bachelor’s Degree courses at LANXESS1) at an early stage. In the previous year, we successfully % established the new “eXplorer” program, which is aimed We offer global leadership training in order to embed at employees who have the potential to develop toward our leadership principles more deeply worldwide and 100 88 major leadership roles at LANXESS in the next few years. to strengthen our leadership culture. Depending on 81 84 80 80 80 Key “eXplorer” topics include dealing with complexity, new the experience of the participants, basic leadership forms of collaboration and digital and agile leadership techniques are conveyed, refreshed and translated into 60 principles. We are now rounding off our range of Group­individual measures. Since management practice differs 40 wide talent programs with “compass” and “navigator.” ­depending on the country and cultural environment, our training programs also take cultural differences into 20 “compass” is aimed at employees at the start of their account and increasingly deal with the requirements of ­career. The program offers guidance for their future career digital manage­ment. A total of 1,423 managers have been 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 path and encourages practical development measures. trained since 2016, including 419 in the reporting year. 1) LANXESS in Germany The core elements of the program are a Development Center with exercises tailored specially for the target group 27 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information ✓ Leadership at the LANXESS production plants is also Global Talent Programs Promote High-performing Employees NFR important to us. Alongside the basic training, we have therefore developed a second module for new plant managers in order to familiarize the employees with selected Senior operational issues in a more targeted manner. navigator Leader Talents International deployments are another key component of our systematic HR development. At the end of 2019, 59 Advanced employees – i. e. around 1.5% of our specialist and manaeXplorer Leader Talents gerial staff – were working outside their contractual country as expatriates. Along with targeted global exchange of expertise through deployment of experts and managers, it is our ongoing aim to build up local management with Emerging compass specialist knowledge and expertise and assign challenging Leader Talents tasks to suitable employees at our international sites. At sites outside Germany, 86% of our leadership positions Corporate Talents are currently held by local employees. The performance dialog is a key tool for developing our To keep on expanding the learning options for our ✓ Employee Commitment as a employees. We use it to help our managers and their ­employees and make them flexible, digital learning forNFR Key ­Success Factor employees to compare mutual expectations regarding mats are a core part of our training portfolio. We offered Committed employees are the key to strong company tasks, targets and responsibilities more effectively and to our employees 8,941 digital learning formats in 2019. performance, successful change and ultimately long-term continuously give each other feedback, thus improving We are also taking more account of the need for digital, corporate success. Accordingly, we pay close attention collaboration. The performance dialog was available to all virtual management in our leadership training programs. to encouraging the commitment of our employees. Good managers in the reporting year and was very well received. For example, we have integrated virtual exercises that train management helps here, as do personal development digital leadership skills. Our mentoring and coaching offerprospects, a high degree of flexibility in job design and Promoting life-long learning of our employees was also ings are also easily accessible via a digital platform. With company values with which our employees can identify. a high priority for our HR development in 2019. In the a broad range that goes beyond traditional training, our All these factors, among others, shape the LANXESS corEMEA region (excluding Germany), for example, 98% dLX Group function is also promoting the digital ­culture porate culture, which we actively cultivate and develop with of our employees received training, including both shift at LANXESS. regard to the constant new challenges in our markets. An ­basic and safety training, as well as further education important forum for this is the annual Performance Culture to ­further their careers and skills in the reporting year. On Day, which in 2019 was devoted to our “Think New – Act ­average, each employee received 57 hours of training. Fast” principle. We also want to lend greater weight to the This ­targeted HR development enabled us to fill one fifth of all vacancies in the EMEA region (excluding Germany) with qualified internal applicants. 28 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Turnover Resulting from Voluntary Resignations by Age Group, Gender and Region Development of Turnover Over Time % % Total turnover EMEA Germany North America Latin America Asia-Pacific Total Turnover resulting from voluntary resignations (excluding 10.8 ­G ermany) 11.0 % Abs. 10.0 Age group f m f m f m f m f m <30 15.7 2.8 3.7 3.1 12.2 8.3 0.0 1.4 9.6 11.1 5.4 96 9.0 30–49 3.4 3.4 2.1 1.5 7.6 8.7 1.6 1.6 6.3 4.7 3.5 266 8.0 7.0 6.5 ≥ 50 2.4 1.5 0.7 0.3 4.8 6.2 0.0 0.0 3.9 1.7 1.6 96 7.0 6.1 5.9 Total 4.4 2.6 1.8 1.1 6.7 7.4 1.1 1.2 6.5 5.0 3.0 458 6.0 Region total 3.0 1.2 7.3 1.2 5.3 5.0 Region total 3.1 3.0 4.0 2.9 (absolute) 75 95 149 9 130 2.5 2.3 3.0 Early turnover: percentage of employees who left our company of their own accord within three years of being hired 2.0 ✓ 1.0 aspect of “cultural fit” when it comes to acquisitions – so a ✓ of employees who left our company of their own accord NFR corresponding analysis will become a fixed element of the NFR within three years of being hired stood at an average of 2015 2016 2017 2018 20191) due diligence process in the future. 1.2% worldwide in the reporting year. 1) The turnover rate is the sum of departures (from the Group) in the last twelve months divided by the average of the headcounts at the end of the last four Regular and structured feedback is another important We rate our performance in relevant rankings and compequarters. It therefore includes employerand employee-initiated departures as well as retirement. Since ﬁscal year 2019, temporary absences, e.g. due to element of our corporate culture. To this end, we use a titions as a further sign of our employees’ satisfaction and parental leave or lengthy illness, are no longer counted as departures. wide range of survey formats to allow feedback relating to the attraction of LANXESS as an employer. LANXESS was the satisfaction and commitment of the various employee named as a top employer or as an employer of choice in groups. In 2019, countries where local surveys were carried various countries, e. g. Brazil and China, in the reporting year. 17 out included Brazil, France, the UK, India and Spain. ✓ We regard the turnover rate based on voluntary resignations NFR as a key indicator for the commitment of our employees. Our goal is to continuously keep this ratio below 3.5% until the end of 2023. In the reporting year, the global voluntary years turnover rate was 3.0%, meaning that we reached our target average length for this year. In Germany, the rate was 1.2%. The percentage of service 29 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Early Turnover Resulting from Voluntary Resignations by Age Group, Gender and Region Diversity as a Success Factor % We regard diversity as a strategic advantage. Therefore, EMEA Germany North America Latin America Asia-Pacific Total we aim to enhance diversity at LANXESS and use its (excluding ­G ermany) positive effects for our company and employees. An % Abs. appreciative organizational culture that is open to all Age group f m f m f m f m f m people – regardless of age, gender, nationality, disabil<30 11.8 2.3 0.0 0.8 10.4 6.1 0.0 1.4 6.8 7.2 3.1 54 ity or ideology – helps us to become more innovative 30–49 2.0 1.3 1.0 0.6 3.8 4.3 0.0 0.5 1.8 1.7 1.4 107 and efficient and to attract and retain promising talents. ≥ 50 0.8 0.4 0.2 0.0 2.6 2.2 0.0 0.0 2.0 0.0 0.5 30 Total 2.7 1.0 0.5 0.3 4.0 3.4 0.0 0.5 2.5 2.1 1.2 191 ­Recognizing and appreciating diversity is therefore Region total 1.3 0.4 3.6 0.4 2.2 ­ingrained in our values, our guiding principles as well Region total as our leadership principles. (absolute) 34 28 73 3 53 i Diversity Work Wins Multiple Awards Our work to create an organizational culture in which Total Turnover by Age Group, Gender and Region diversity is a matter of course won various awards EMEA Germany North America Latin America Asia-Pacific Total again in 2019: Among others, the Rhine-Ruhr (excluding ­G ermany) ­Diversity Network, in which we engage in an intensive dialog on diversity issues with 14 other large compaAge group f m f m f m f m f m nies from the region, received the Best Practice Award <30 8 11 8 27 7 24 3 9 7 32 136 from the “Diversity Charter” initiative. 30–49 15 53 18 55 17 74 16 33 31 142 454 ≥ 50 5 52 20 130 23 76 2 29 6 72 415 Total 28 116 46 212 47 174 21 71 44 246 1,005 % Ratio of Disabled Employees at German Companies Age group w m w m w m w m w m 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 <30 15.7 6.2 4.2 3.7 12.2 13.3 9.6 12.9 9.6 15.4 7.7 Ratio in % 5.5 5.6 5.9 5.7 5.9 30–49 4.3 5.2 2.9 2.2 10.8 11.7 12.5 8.7 7.8 9.9 5.9 ≥ 50 3.9 6.5 3.7 4.3 10.0 9.6 10.8 20.2 11.8 25.0 6.9 Total 5.3 5.8 3.4 3.4 10.6 10.9 11.8 12.0 8.5 12.7 6.5 Region total 5.7 3.4 10.8 12.0 11.8 30 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information 76 In the reporting year, we revised our strategic “Diversity Proportion of Women & Inclusion” (D&I) concept for promoting diversity at % LANXESS. In the interests of an integrative approach, we want to better incorporate D&I into all HR processes. Total workforce 19.6 In the future, we will follow a more holistic D&I approach and particularly address the aspects of age, gender, Non-managerial 18.8 nationality, disability and sexual orientation. nationalities Gender diversity remains one of our global priorities, with the clear target of increasing the proportion of women Management positions 22.6 at LANXESS in the company. Our measures begin in recruitment, with messages and event formats tailored specially to women. Their professional and personal development is Proportion of Women on the Board of Management and at the Top Management Levels supported by mentoring, coaching and mandatory D&I Proportion of women 2015 2016 20171) 2018 2019 Goal Target date criteria for the composition of our global talent programs First level below the (see page 27). In addition, we are constantly working to Board of Management 9.8% 9.8% 11.6% 13.8% 20.9 % 15% June 30, 2022 expand and improve our offerings for work-life ­balance Second level below the Board of Management 20.5% 25.1% 23.9% 19.2% 25.1 % 25% June 30, 2022 (see page 34 et seq.). Regional and local D&I activities Board of Management accompany our global measures. They have all helped (number of women) 0 0 0 0 0 1 woman June 30, 2022 us to achieve two of our three gender diversity targets 1) Y ear when target was set. ahead of schedule. T he proportion of women at the second management level below the Board of Management has been fluctuating since 2015 due to M&A activities. In 2018, the proportion of women also fell due to a change in the reporting structure below the Board of Management associated with the introduction of an additional reporting level at the regional level. The significant increase in the proportion of women at the first two management levels below the Board of Management in the reporting year is partly due to a change in the functional reporting structure to our Chief Financial Officer, Michael Pontzen. In addition, the German Act on Equal Participation of implementation deadline of June 30, 2022: The proporWomen and Men in Executive Positions in the Private and tion of women is to be 15% for the first level below the the Public Sector commits us to set targets in Germany Board of Management and 25% for the second level. for aspects such as the proportion of women at the two At the end of 2019, the proportion of women at the first management levels below the Board of Management management level below the Board of Management was and to determine the target date for attainment of the 20.9%. At the second management level, it was 25.1%. proportion of women. In 2017, the Board of Management Both ratios therefore exceeded the target. and the Supervisory Board approved the targets with an 31 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information We achieved another significant target in the context of average age of our employees. Accordingly, competition Rewarding Performance Appropriately gender diversity at the beginning of fiscal year 2020: At for qualified young talent is intensifying. In the medium In the context of the digitalization of our working least one woman was to be included on the LANXESS term, illness and retirement – both regular and early – will world, longer working lives and shifting social trends, Board of Management by mid-2022. By resolution of the mean that many vacancies require filling, especially in ­employees’ expectations of their employer are also LANXESS Supervisory Board of December 11, 2019, career paths such as chemical production technician, ­constantly changing. This means that existing offerings Stephanie Coßmann, previously Head of the Human mechanic/fitter and engineer. Against this backdrop, to employees must be regularly reviewed and, if neces­Resources Group function, was appointed as a member of another 30 additional “demographic jobs” were approved sary, adapted to different needs. the Board of Management and as Labor Relations Director in the reporting year. This means that we have so far as of January 1, 2020. She succeeds Rainier van Roessel, created around 110 demographic jobs. In addition to fair monetary remuneration, flexible workwho retired at the end of the year. ing conditions and benefits are becoming increasingAfter two successful pilots, we also adopted our newly ly important. As components of total remuneration at We are now voluntarily committed to increasing the proporestablished, global strategic HR planning process in LANXESS, they make a material contribution to the welltion of women in middle and upper management around the day-to-day business in the reporting year. The aim is to being and productivity of our workforce. It is important world to 20% by the end of 2020. This figure was already simulate the long-term staffing supply – taking into acto us that the benefits granted support our corporate tar19.8% as of the 2019 reporting date. count retirements, natural turnover, etc. – and compare gets, values and culture and address the relevant needs it against our long-term staffing requirements, taking of our employees. Some benefits are equally essential Overcoming Demographic Challenges into account the corporate strategy and technological for all employees, such as: Two regions of commercial significance for LANXESS – changes. This enables us to identify staff shortages at Europe, especially Germany and Belgium, and the U.S. – an early stage and instigate appropriate HR measures. ›› Company pension plans and insurance benefits for are hit particularly hard by the problem of the increasing financial security ›› Flexible working conditions and other offerings that support our employees’ work-life balance Employees by Age Group, Gender and Region ›› Programs for prevention and long-term preservation EMEA Germany North America Latin America Asia-Pacific Total of our employees’ health (excluding Germany) ›› Education and training Age group f m f m f m f m f m < 30 49 182 191 739 55 174 31 71 59 196 1,747 When designing these benefits, we often go further 30–49 353 1,003 617 2,530 165 622 124 376 394 1,413 7,597 than the respective statutory framework. In addition, ≥ 50 134 814 565 3,099 226 795 21 150 52 280 6,136 we a­ lways aim to account for individual needs and every Total 536 1,999 1,373 6,368 446 1,591 176 597 505 1,889 15,479 life situation in the best possible manner. Region total 2,535 7,740 2,037 773 2,394 32 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information All services relating to career and family, health and Furthermore, through the Individual Performance PayAs of the reporting date, our employees and directors pensions apply to our core workforce. Even so, some ment (IPP), managers can also reward outstanding perheld around 1% of the LANXESS shares in total in the individual services in the regions may have differing formance of an employee during the year promptly and context of participation programs. structures and be locally adapted to the needs of our with no red tape. Around €12 million was assigned for employees. Our core workforce includes all employees outstanding individual performance alone in fiscal year Another core element of our offering is the company with a permanent full-time or part-time employment con2019 (including around €8.5 million in Germany). At pension plan for plugging potential gaps in provision in tract. As of December 31, 2019, this was 93% of our present, around 79% of our employees worldwide are old age. The design of the company pension plan differs total workforce worldwide. entitled to receive the IPP. In relation to this, they also from country to country depending on the state pension receive a prompt assessment of their performance and system. However, LANXESS’s pension commitments Fair Remuneration and Comprehensive Benefits their career prospects. often go beyond what is required by law. They are funded LANXESS pays its employees worldwide transparent by employer and/or employee contributions. Employees remuneration in line with market conditions that also In addition, we offer a long-term incentive program in Germany can voluntarily increase their pension and includes a bonus system geared toward the ­company’s for our managers in Germany. There are similar proreceive additional contributions from LANXESS. 76% long-term success. In total, 88% of our employees worldgrams in the U.S., India and China. The Long-Term of employees participate in the supplementary compowide receive variable remuneration. Stock Performance Plan (LTSP) 2018–2021 consists nent of the current pension plan. In turn, other offerings of four tranches commenced each year and tracks the enable a smooth transition into retirement, such as the Above the pay scale, and, in most countries, within performance of the LANXESS share compared with long-term account for pay-scale employees in Germany. the pay scale, we also provide a performance-related the MSCI World Chemicals Index, over a period of four The participation rate here remained at a high level of ­remuneration component on top of fixed pay. This is years in each case. The four-year term and the potential around 92.4%. the Annual Performance Payment (APP), which goes to growth in value make this program an attractive long­employees in countries that participate in this program. term incentive and retention tool. In addition, there is a This bonus payment is linked to the Group’s attainment new Share Ownership Guideline (SOG) for the Board of of a defined EBITDA target. Further individual targets Management and our top-level managers. This guideline in areas such as safety and sustainability additionally ­emphasizes trust in the strategy and long-term success apply to top manage­ment. In 2019, we shared around of LANXESS. 99.9% of those eligible participated in the €96 million of our profits for 2018 with our employees current program in 2019. worldwide. 33 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Optimally Balance Work and Life Options for Flexible Working Hours and Mobile Working Worldwide % 100 LANXESS Employee Structure by Employment Type, Gender and Region (also including employees on fixed-term contracts)1) Flexible working hours and models 69 EMEA Germany North America Latin America Asia-Pacific Total (excluding Germany) Working from home arrangements 78 Contract f m f m f m f m f m Permanent Both coverage ratios decreased in the reporting year due to change in the contract 536 1,999 1,373 6,368 446 1,591 176 597 505 1,889 15,479 calculation method. As part of our Xwork program and the associated new Full-time 483 1,845 993 6,164 438 1,590 175 597 498 1,889 14,671 target (see left column), we have applied stricter assessment criteria and Part-time 53 154 380 204 8 1 1 0 7 0 808 called not only for a country-speciﬁc program, but also, for example, for compliance with the Xwork principles, coverage of the majority of Temporary employees in the country and appropriate communication in connection contract 26 39 147 789 3 11 28 30 27 62 1,162 with the new Xwork program. Full-time 25 39 127 772 2 11 28 30 25 62 1,121 Part-time 1 0 20 17 1 0 0 0 2 0 41 Total 562 2,038 1,520 7,156 449 1,602 204 627 532 1,951 16,641 Work/life balance matters to an ever-growing number of 1) In fiscal year 2019, we employed a total of 83 temporary staff members (16 women and 67 men) at our German companies. employees. A total of 7% of our employees in Germany aged between 20 and 40 were on parental leave for a time. ✓ In line with our employees’ desire for more flexible The “flexitime” model introduced in Germany in 2017 aims Of this figure, 58% were fathers. 97% of the employees NFR working and working-time models as well as greater to enable employees in senior management to work partwho ended a parental leave period in 2019 returned to a transparency regarding existing options, we introduced time in an intelligent way. In the Flexi-95 model, the level job at LANXESS, 99% of which still worked in the company and communicated global flexibility principles in 2018 of employment is reduced to 95% with a corresponding at the end of 2019. under the heading “Xwork – Flexible Work.” On this basis, adjustment to remuneration, meaning that a full-time worker we developed specific guidelines on flexible working is entitled to 13 extra days off per year. All non-pay-scale The statutory maternity rights in Germany and similar conditions and introduced corresponding models in a employees have been able to participate in the program models in the European Union are by no means standard number of countries in the reporting year, for example since 2019. At the end of fiscal year 2019, we already worldwide. Therefore, at our sites outside Europe, we are a pilot project for flexible working hours at several U.S. counted around 130 participants, of which 45 in senior assessing whether we can introduce or expand country-­ sites. All measures count toward our new goal of 95% management. specific models for our employees. For our employees in of all countries in which we operate having derived and the U.S., for example, we approved a new paid parental implemented specific guidelines ­and/or corresponding leave model in the reporting year, which allows mothers and models for flexible working conditions from our global fathers to take parental leave of eight weeks on the birth or “Xwork” principles by the end of 2022. At the end of adoption of a child – while continuing to receive a full salary. 2019, the coverage ratio was already 74%. The model will be implemented in 2020. 34 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Against a backdrop of demographic change, care is a major Occupational Health and Safety Enjoy Top Priority Health Options Worldwide issue in Germany. The centerpiece of the LANXESS care Our occupational health management is based on rais% 100 model is caregiver leave, which allows our employees to ing all employees’ awareness of their own health and Stress management information 90 reduce their working hours by more than their pay during motivating them to act on their own initiative and adopt the care period and to work off the hours commensurate healthy behaviors in their professional and private lives. Stress management training 84 with the pay they received after their return. Caregiver leave Fitness facilities or contributions to 89 and time off have been used by 109 employees in Germany In the context of our occupational health management, external ﬁtness programs since the LANXESS care model was introduced. we again offered our employees at various German sites Health/nutrition provision 99 a medical check-up in 2019 – this time with a focus Options for Childcare, Maternity/Paternity Leave on catching poor posture early and preventing back Coverage is shown in percent for each initiative with and Care Models Worldwide complaints. Around 1,031 people took up this offer. As regard to the countries and the total number of employees. % 100 it proved so successful we will be offering a medical check-up again in 2020. In addition, our employees in ✓ We address the topic of occupational safety with our Childcare 70 Germany again received €200 credit for booking a wide NFR global safety initiative Xact. Xact pursues the goal of Paid maternity leave1) 76 range of health-related options on the digital platform gradually lifting the safety culture of LANXESS to a highPaid paternity leave1) 76 “machtfit.” LANXESS pays 80% of the costs for each er level. Starting with top management, all employees Support for care-dependent 59 course booking until the budget is used up. Around 50% are expected to work together to improve safety in the relatives/care models of German LANXESS employees are now registered. Up Group. We are doing this because we firmly believe that to the reporting date, a total of around 20,000 health all industrial accidents are avoidable. As a specific target 1) Beyond legal requirements units had been booked, with massage, fitness and yoga for occupational safety, we aim to reduce the lost time Coverage is shown in percent for each initiative with regard to the countries and the total number of employees. options proving most popular. injury frequency rate (LTIFR, known as MAQ in Germany) by more than half by the end of 2025 compared to the We also offer our employees wide-ranging measures to reference year of 2016 (LTIFR of 2.0). promote health and wellbeing at our international sites, e. g. medical check-ups, training on stress management and fitness, wellness or dietary options. 35 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information ✓ Six Xact safety rules, the core principles of safe ­working ✓ As ever, the work of the Xact team is focused on ­fostering ✓ The six-stage process is centered on a full-day, focus-group NFR at LANXESS, address the key points with which all NFR a positive culture of safety and greater alignment toward NFR workshop led by the Xact team. In this workshop, represen­employees – from the factory to the office, regardless of behavior-based safety. To this end, we therefore develtatives of all levels of the respective department’s hierarhierarchy and position – can make an active contribution oped and piloted a systematic process called the Safety chy – from plant managers to shift workers – engage in an to their own safety and that of their colleagues. They are Culture Development Process in 2018. A gradual, global in-depth discussion the safety culture in their own plant. derived from the Xact “guidelines and principles,” the rollout – starting with Germany and the USMCA region – In this way, we can identify the individual strengths and worldwide framework for the orientation of our safety has been underway since 2019. weaknesses of each plant and initiate targeted improveculture. ments. To boost sustainability, a follow-up workshop a few months later discusses the implementation of the measures Our Safety Culture Development Process with the focus group. The Xact team collates the workshop results centrally in order to determine global, regional or department-specific trends. By the end of 2019, more than 20 of the planned ManageShift Focus-group Feedback 150 ­focus-group workshops had been carried out in ment workshop Implement Follow-up meetings to the shifts actions workshop Germany, the U.S. and China. A first interim evaluation Kick Oﬀ shows that our employees appreciate the fact that they can contribute personally, receive direct feedback from their colleagues and supervisors and actively help to shape the safety culture in their own area of activity. Internal communication, an effective occupational safety organization and mindfulness emerged as particularly important topics for discussion. We will continue this process and extend it to all regions in 2020. 6–8 weeks 4–6 weeks 2–3 weeks Immediately 3–6 months Active, ongoing communication is a top priority for us when it comes to matters relating to safety. The pulse-check survey that we conduct every year among all LANXESS employees is an important tool here. It gives them the opportunity to express their personal experience of key aspects 36 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information ✓ of safety at LANXESS. One aim of the anonymous survey ✓ all employees who work for us. Regardless of this, we pro✓ Work-Related Injuries to LANXESS Employees NFR is to determine whether the individual employee receives NFR vide personal safety briefings for employees of our partner NFR Resulting in Absence from Work (LTIFR) positive feedback for safe work – as intended – or whether companies. supervisors set an example when it comes to safety. 2.5 2.2 Indicators for the assessment of occupational safety at 2.0 Once again, more than 60% of our employees took part in LANXESS are the recordable incident rate (RIR: number 2.0 1.7 1.6 the survey in 2019. For the first time, those surveyed were of incidents per 200,000 working hours that have to be 1.5 1.5 also asked how well they understand the Xact “guidelines reported according to the Occupational Safety and Health and principles” and to what extent they are put into practice Administration) and the lost time injury frequency rate 1.0 in their working area. Over 90% of respondents answered ­(LTIFR: accidents per million hours worked) for accidents 0.5 the question with “mostly put into practice” or at least “parwith days lost. The LTIFR in 2019 was 1.6 and thus slightly tially put into practice.” The high level of awareness and higher than in the previous year. As in previous years, no 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 comprehension of the Xact “guidelines and principles” fatal accidents occurred in the reporting period. The RIR, suggest that communication during the rollout has been which also includes accidents with no days lost in accorsuccessful. However, the results differed substantially in dance with OSHA rules, was 0.8 in 2019, and thus likewise terms of individual regions, organizational units and hierslightly below the previous year’s level. Companies have Work-Related Injuries to LANXESS Employees That are archy levels. For instance, responses to the question on been taking occupational safety increasingly seriously in Reportable in Accordance with OSHA Regulations (RIR) positive feedback from supervisors in the event of safe recent years. This increased focus at all hierarchy levels has work were far less affirmative than the global average in helped to continuously reduce reports of serious accidents 1.5 countries such as Germany. The survey results and the on a lasting basis. more than 600 free-form comments therefore give us valuable ideas for the further development of the safety All accidents as well as significant near-misses are system1.0 0.9 0.8 0.8 culture at LANXESS. atically analyzed with regard to their cause and possible 0.7 0.6 preventive measures. The results of these investigations 0.5 We also want to reach an improved shared understanding are, for instance, incorporated into safety updates that are of occupational safety with service providers who perform made available to the entire organization. We regard the technical services for us, as well as including them in our sharp fall in the LTIFR in recent years as evidence that this safety culture. For instance, our partners must demonstrate structured transfer of knowledge and the many measures 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 that they maintain their own safety-management system to improve occupational safety at LANXESS are having a and have carried out all safety training that is required of positive effect. 37 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information i First CEO Safety Award Recognizing, Promoting and Using Fair dealings with employee representatives and trade For us as a chemicals company, the safety of our Good Ideas unions are also a top priority for us outside Europe. In plants and processes is the utmost priority. With With our ideas management system, we syste­matically South Africa, for instance, we comply with International the CEO Safety Award, bestowed for the first time promote the development and implementation of Labour Organization (ILO) standards with respect to our in March 2019, we want to anchor occupational ­s uggestions for improvement in order to keep on employees’ freedom of association. This includes regular ­safety even deeper in the minds of all employees. ­generating impetus for improving economic ­efficiency, exchange between local management and trade-union The inter­national award recognizes particularly sucoccupational safety and environmental protection. Many representatives as well as binding, collectively agreed-upcessful initiatives and contributions to occupational good ideas were again implemented in 2019. 485 conon regulations on remuneration and working conditions. safety at LANXESS. The focus is on avoiding accitributed to increased occupational safety, 398 to imdents and incidents as well as the sustainable impleproved environ­mental performance. Proportion of Employees Covered by Collective mentation of safety processes. The first recipients of Bargaining Agreements % the award were a plant team from Belgium with their Ideas Management 100 “contractor safety in the event of downtime” project. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 In this project, excellent preparation for a facility’s Proportion of employees worldwide 65 No. of new ideas 2,027 2,442 2,262 1,633 1,538 maintenance downtime of three weeks and targeted Employees entitled training for contractors increased the safety of all parto participate 7,390 7,908 7,655 7,206 7,475 Proportion of employees in Germany 92 ticipants. In total, around 600 contractor employees TMQ1) 274 318 295 267 206 Savings (€ million) 2.56 2.26 1.58 0.92 0.42 and 75 LANXESS employees cooperated closely. Bonuses (€ million) 0.95 0.8 0.65 0.34 0.27 Teams from Ningbo, China, and Fords, U.S., were 1) TMQ: rate per thousand employees. also recognized for their safety initiatives as finalists. Partnership-based Discussion Dialog with chemicals social partners – trade unions and employer associations alike – as a principle of consultation in action is the global practice at LANXESS. As part of this, we also respect the freedom of association of our employees in accordance with the International Labour Organization (ILO) and the Global Compact and comply with collective bargaining agreements. We regularly seek dialog with employee representative committees in Germany, Europe and worldwide, provide information on our corporate objectives and involve employee representatives in organizational changes at an early stage. 38 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information RESILIENT SOURCING ✓ In the interests of safe processing at our production fa✓ sustainability-related activities have been assessed in NFR cilities, there is a particular focus on the procurement of NFR TfS audits represent 55% (previous year: 70%) of our ✓ At LANXESS, raw materials, other materials, equipment raw materials. It is thus essential for suppliers to present relevant procurement volume. The relevant procurement NFR and services are subject to globally standardized requirean up-to-date safety data sheet for the procurement of volume comprises all suppliers from which we procure ments with regard to safety and environmental proteceach raw material. In the case of raw material deliveries more than €20,000 of goods or services per year. The tion. Their procurement is the responsibility of the Global from non-European suppliers, our purchasing department year-on-year decline in the ratio is attributable to the much Procurement & Logistics (GPL) Group function, the head clarifies which obligations have to be fulfilled under the lower number of TfS audit reports that were valid – i.e. of which reports directly to the Board of Management REACH Regulation. Since the acquisition of Chemtura, no older than three years – as of the end of 2019. The member Dr. Hubert Fink. In close coordination with our we have also being using the raw material tin, which is TfS sustainability assessment is also incorporated into internal stakeholders, GPL organizes Group-wide proclassified as a conflict mineral. We purchase tin only from our strategy process, which must be applied to every curement, establishes corresponding guidelines, and certified dealers who can prove that their goods come contract negotiation or renewal with a purchasing volume initiates measures to promote purchasing synergies and from a conflict-free source. of more than €5 million. sustainable behavior by our suppliers. As a founding member of the “Together for Sustain­ability” It is also encouraging to see that our suppliers’ average In the year under review, procurement transactions with (TfS) initiative, our goal is to promote sustainability, Ecovadis sustainability assessment of 46 points is above over 15,000 suppliers were processed. A global pro­increase transparency throughout our supply chain, and the Ecovadis benchmark of 43 points. With regard to our curement guideline for the entire Group defines our emthereby further minimize procurement risks. The initiative, suppliers’ weak points, no trend could be discerned in ployees’ conduct when dealing with suppliers and their which is currently supported by 25 international chemicals 2019 again. We had no reason in the year under review employees. We have specified standardized workflows companies with an accumulated purchasing volume of to end our collaboration with suppliers due to sustainin the context of procurement in more detail in a process more than €281 billion (estimate), is aimed at assessing ability aspects. description. In our training program for strategic purchasand continuously improving sustainability activities in the ers (ProTrain), we also pay due attention to the topic of chemicals industry supply chain. The focus here is on Data from Ecovadis also form the basis for a systematic sustainability. Based on the principles of the U.N. Global human rights, prevention of child labor, labor standards, sustainability risk analysis that we developed in 2019. Compact, the International Labour Organization (ILO), occupational safety, environmental protection, and busiTaking account of risks in relation to specific goods groups Responsible Care® and other CSR codes, we expect our ness ethics. TfS has established itself in the chemicals and countries, we will use this tool to identify suppliers suppliers to comply with national and other applicable industry as the clear standard for a sustainable supply with an increased sustainability risk. Our goal is to cover laws and regulations for environmental protection, health chain. all suppliers by the end of 2020 and thus calculate a and safety at work and with regard to labor and recruitsustainability risk score for LANXESS for the first time. In ment practices. Acceptance of the requirements of our Because the assessment results and audit reports are parallel with the analysis, we also intend to initiate targeted “Supplier Code of Conduct” is an essential prerequisite shared within the initiative, we had more than 9,400 measures in 2020 to improve our suppliers’ sustainability for any supplier wishing to work with us. sustainability assessments and over 500 audit reports and thereby gradually lower our sustainability risk score. available to us as of the end of 2019. Suppliers whose 39 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information SAFE AND SUSTAINABLE SITES ✓ Uniform Standards in Production ✓ We use an electronic reporting system (Incident Reporting NFR LANXESS operates a total of 61 production sites and NFR System – IRS) to record accidents and events worldwide in ✓ More than ever, acting sustainably in the chemicals has a presence in 19 countries (investments ≥ 50%, as line with uniform regulations. Injuries, transportation acciNFR ­industry means taking responsibility for products and of December 31, 2019). Our wide range of products dents, near-accidents, environmental incidents, ­instances manufacturing processes. All over the world, we are seerequires the use of many different chemical and technical of damage and security-relevant incidents such as theft are ing a high level of convergence of environmental and processes. Uniform standards for planning, building and documented. Each event is carefully analyzed in ­order to production standards. What used to be positive distinoperating plants ensure a high level of process, plant and draw conclusions as to how we can avoid similar incidents guishing ­features in the area of sustainability are now occupational safety. in the future. increasingly essential worldwide to the mere ability to produce and sell chemical products. Yet we would be Handling chemical substances and working with techAll measures count toward our goal of continuously failing in our commitment to quality if we simply restricted nical equipment involves health and safety risks. We reducing the number of events. A few major incidents ourselves to meeting standards – even if they are more identify these risks and potential threats systematically ­occurred in the 2019 reporting year. Further information exacting than in the past. Instead, our commitment is worldwide – for new and existing plants – and minimize can be found in the GRI Content Index on page 233 of to make our production safe and sustainable in every them by implementing defined preventive and protective this report. respect, thus ensuring our long-term competitiveness. measures. Experts examine implementation of LANXESS guidelines and local regulations for safe operation of our ✓ Global Hazardous-Goods and Our Production, Technology, Safety & Environment plants on-site via targeted spot checks in audits whose NFR Transport-Safety Management System (PTSE) Group function, the head of which reports directly frequency is geared toward the respective risk profile. With a global hazardous-goods and transport-safety to the Board of Management member Dr. Hubert Fink, Compliance with safety standards must be regularly verimanagement system, we ensure that we minimize or enis responsible for this. PTSE develops and maintains fied worldwide for every plant via audit opinions. In 2019, tirely avoid hazards. We coordinate, monitor and review company-wide standards that ensure responsible use of a total of 38 production facilities (previous year: 34) implementation of relevant hazardous-goods and transchemicals at LANXESS. They define requirements and were examined in the context of HSE compliance checks port-safety regulations as well as in-house regulations govern responsibilities for health protection, environ­ (health, safety and environment), including 16 (previous centrally in a department that is specifically responsible mental protection, handling of chemicals, plant safety and year: 15) in Germany. Furthermore, we completed our for this. safety precautions in the workplace. Continuous training gap analyses for the plants acquired from Chemtura. of our employees and regular audit-based reviews of our The gap analyses mainly highlighted the ­differences health, safety and environmental management systems in the management-system approaches and are now are aimed to ensure that the requirements are incorpohelping to roll out LANXESS management rules and rated into our processes systematically and sustainably. standards at the sites. 40 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information ✓ Central classification of our products in line with interna✓ Storage Management ✓ We are aware that our responsibility regarding the most NFR tional, regional and local hazardous-goods regulations NFR We have around 540 warehouses worldwide, operation NFR precious of resources does not end at our factory gates. ensures that the respective requirements are interpreted of which is split roughly 50:50 between us and external Water availability and quality are global challenges that uniformly while taking regional and local aspects into acservice providers. We select warehouses – both our we can face up to locally as a company. In addition to count. Classification determines such things as the type own and those operated by external service providers – the efficient use of water, wastewater management is of containment (packaging and tanks), marking and label­according to logistics, safety and security, environmental especially important here. SDG 6 sets out specific ­action ing, the permitted modes of transport and transportation protection and cost-effectiveness aspects. We apply a areas that we gear our operations toward: Access to routes as well as measures that operational staff must globally standardized warehouse concept that takes into water, water quality and quantity, water management take if a transportation event occurs. The corresponding account the substances stored and meets fire protection and governance as well as protection of ecosystems. classification data is stored in the safety-data system and occupational health and safety requirements. for chemicals at LANXESS. In recent years, we have To enable us to derive context-based measures for gradually connected an increasing number of countries Environmental Responsibility LANXESS, we have performed a water-stress analysis for and Group companies to the system. The previously unWe regard preservation of natural resources – for all our sites. First, we used the Water Risk Map of the World connected sites in Argentina, Uruguay and Russia were ­example by using raw materials and energy as e ­ fficiently Wide Fund for Nature (WWF). The water stress indicator added as planned in 2019. In 2020, we will integrate the as possible – and identification of further potential for compares the amount of water withdrawn in a region to the former Chemtura sites in North America. reducing emissions and waste as an ongoing task in the renewal of water reserves, thus allowing an assessment of context of our environmental responsibility and expertise. availability. The assessment, which ­initially took only the To counter the deficiencies in load securing of ­general We equip all new production sites in line with the state geographical location of the sites into a­ ccount, showed cargo, the PTSE Group function and the business units of the art, including in terms of environmental standards, that 15 of our sites are in water-stress areas. At these sites, have worked closely together to establish a load-­securing taking local requirements into account. we are therefore paying special attention to the respon­ standard for LANXESS. This standard was tested in sible use of water. To further assess and prioritize the sites, ­numerous field tests and was initially used s­ uccessfully at Sparing Use of Water we also consider risks and costs r­ elating to water supply our locations in Brunsbüttel and Leverkusen, G ­ ermany. In As a chemicals company, we rely on water for our producand disposal beyond the volume and ­intensity of water the reporting year, we carried out load-securing ­training tion. We use it mainly for cooling, as an input material in withdrawal. This e ­ nables us to identify supply bottlenecks sessions for external service providers in A ­ ntwerp, chemical processes or in the form of steam. In addition, on the basis of ­various future ­scenarios and to include this ­B elgium, and Bitterfeld, Duisburg and Mannheim, rivers are an important transportation tool, particularly information in the e ­ nhancement of our plant portfolio. In ­Germany, and established the new load-securing stanfor our networked sites in Germany. Through access addition, the ­analyses allow us to derive specific measures dard there. The standard was also implemented at all to drinking water at our sites, we are also meeting our at individual sites. Indian sites. responsibility to our employees. 41 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information ✓ For example, after the low water levels on the Rhine in ✓ ✓ The comparison of water withdrawal and water consumpWater Withdrawal & Consumption in cubic meters per NFR 2018, which was a particular challenge with regard to NFR in million cubic meters metric ton of product NFR tion shows that, while we do withdraw large volumes of cooling water and transport, we joined other companies Water withdrawal (absolute) Water consumption (absolute) water (e. g. in the form of once-through cooling water), in the chemicals, steel and petroleum industry in signing In relation to volume sold (total water consumption) this water is later returned to the water cycle in the same the “Low Water Action Plan.” A total of eight measures 800 4.0 quality. LANXESS’s water is calculated by substracting to counter the problems on the Rhine caused by climate 3.33 3.28 the volume of once-through cooling water, wastewater 2.86 2.83 2.84 change were defined in the four action areas of “informa600 3.0 and the volume of sold steam from the water withdrawal. tion provision,” “transport and logistics,” “infrastructure” Water consumption was lowered slightly while water 400 288.7 2.0 and “long-term solutions.” 275.1 278.5 withdrawal remained almost constant. Specific water 222.4 223.2 200 1.0 consumption was on the same level as in the previous year. We are also making major contributions to the water-­ 21.6 19.4 23.5 15.7 15.2 related SDGs with the products of our Liquid P­ urification After a significant reduction in wastewater volume 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Technologies business unit. Lewatit® ion exchange r­ esins in the previous year as a consequence of the sale of and Lewabrane® reverse osmosis membrane e ­ lements ­ARLANXEO, it was reduced further in 2019. Compared are two complementary technologies that have a p ­ articular to the previous year, the specific figure remained a­ lmost Water Discharge use in the processing and reuse of process water. While in million cubic meters in cubic meters per unchanged. reverse osmosis can remove virtually all substances from metric ton of product Absolute In relation to volume sold water, ion exchangers are used to remove individual undeSustainable Waste Management sired substances from process water in a targeted manner. Rigorous material-flow management from use of raw 80 8.0 6.3 6.1 6.3 materials to product finishing is aimed at ensuring that 60 5.0 6.0 we use resources as efficiently as possible and mini45.2 4.9 40.6 41.7 mize our waste volumes. Where waste is unavoidable, 40 4.0 we try to use or sell it as a secondary raw material or 27.1 26.8 energy source. To keep the amount of waste that has to 20 2.0 be disposed of to an absolute minimum, we take a wide range of measures to continuously improve recovery in 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 our production processes. 42 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information ✓ To ensure continuous optimization of our material-flow ✓ ✓ Compared with the previous year, the total amount of Total Waste NFR management, we have committed ourselves to ­achieving NFR in thousand metric tons in kilograms of waste per NFR waste generated decreased. At the former ­Chemtura the targets defined in the international program O ­ peration metric ton of product sites (acquired in 2017) in particular, efficiency measures Absolute Absolut In relation to volume sold Clean Sweep (OCS) of the “Society of the Plastics helped drive the waste figures in a positive ­direction. This ­Industry.” OCS aims to prevent plastic particles and pellets 6,400 360 effect is also reflected in an improvement in the specific from entering the maritime environment and having an 323.61) 320.8 waste volume. The biggest share of our waste volumes 5,600 315 undesired impact. By joining in 2016, we made a commitcomprises slightly polluted wastewater at our El Dorado ment to train relevant employees, to implement measures 4,800 270 site in the U.S., which is declared as waste. to prevent the release of pellets at our facilities and to require our business partners to also take active steps to 4,000 225 Systematic Recording of Key Data prevent pellet emissions. In the reporting year, our Liquid 181.6 To record key data on safety and environmental ­protection 3,200 180 Purification Technologies business unit made significant systematically worldwide, we use an electronic data-­entry progress toward reducing the level of polymers in produc2,400 135 system. This enables us to calculate a wide range of tion wastewater, i.e. directly at the source. This success 1,795.11) 1,718.2 HSE performance data for each business unit and site was based on improvements in the process technology 1,600 1,301.2 90 worldwide, which is used as a valid data pool for strategic used. In the future, we will continue to invest in solutions 45.0 44.1 decisions as well as internal and external reporting. In 800 45 that sustainably reduce the entry of plastic particles into 292.4 299.0 addition, it maps the progress that we make with our the wastewater cycle. global sustainability targets (see the table on pages 16 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 et seq.). Data is gathered only at production sites where 1) Figure restated we have investment of over 50%. PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH WirtschaftsprüfungsWaste for Disposal gesellschaft has been auditing our HSE key data and the % requisite data-gathering processes with limited assurance 8.6 3.9 since 2012. The current independent assurance report 1.7 can be viewed on page 231 of this report. 3.5 Landﬁlled waste Incinerated waste with energy recovery Incinerated waste without energy recovery Material recovery 82.3 Other forms of disposal 43 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information ✓ ✓ Environmental and Safety Performance Data* Waste in thousand metric tons NFR NFR Total weight of waste (GRI 306-2) 1,301.2 1,795.1a) 1,718.2 2017 2018 2019 Incineration with energy recovery 78.3 65.0a) 67.5 Safety Incineration without energy recovery 28.3 25.0 29.3 Occupational injuries to LANXESS employees resulting in at Landfilling 130.4 141.7a) 147.5 least one day’s absence (per million hours worked) (LTIFR1)) 1.7 1.5 1.6 Material recovery 60.7 65.0a) 60.3 Volume sold2) in thousand metric tons/year 7,167 5,547 5,356 Other forms of disposal 1,003.5 1,498.4a) 1,413.5 Energy consumption in petajoules (1015 joules) 3) 52.0 a) 27.7 a) 27.2 Type of waste Direct energy sources (GRI 302-1) Hazardous 578.6 718.7a) 687.8 Non-renewable 14.6 11.6a) 11.2 Non-hazardous 722.6 1,076.4a) 1,030.4 Renewable (biomass) 2.0 2.2 1.7 Indirect energy sources (GRI 302-1)4) Explanations concerning our environmental and safety performance data Electricity consumption 10.5 6.2 6.45 * 2017: The aggregate data refer to all LANXESS production sites in which the company holds an interest of more than 50%. As an equity investment of exactly 50%, ARLANXEO was included in the LANXESS consolidated financial statements in 2017 and Heat and steam consumption 23.95 7.0 7.2 fully consolidated in fiscal year 2017. Therefore, the environmental data pertaining to the ARLANXEO sites also continue to be Energy consumption for cooling 0.75 0.55 0.5 included in our key data for this period. Other 0.2 0.15 0.15 2018: As discontinued operations, ARLANXEO was shown separately from continuing operations in reporting year 2018. For the reporting in 2019, only continuing operations are shown for 2018. All charts on environmental and safety performance data Water and wastewater in million cubic meters present the figures for continuing operations for reporting year 2018. Total water withdrawal (GRI 303-3) 278.5 222.4 223.2 2017/2018/2019: Some of the data are based on estimates and projections. Surface water 83.4 49.5a) 52.7 1) LTIFR: accident rate per million hours worked resulting in one workday or more lost following the day of the accident, calculated for all employees (including temporary workers) at all sites. Groundwater 8.8 5.3 5.2 2) Volume sold of goods manufactured by LANXESS and sold internally to another LANXESS company or externally (excluding Third-party wastewater 1.1 1.2 1.1 commercial products). Third-party water 185.2 166.4 164.1 3) The energy volumes given were calculated on the basis of simplified assumptions and typical substance values. They do not include Total water withdrawal in water-stress areas other forms of imported energy (e. g. the energy contained in raw materials). 4) Indirect energy sources are shown in the form of a balance sheet. The volume of energy sold is subtracted from the volume of (GRI 303-3) – – 5.9 energy purchased. Volume of once-through cooling water (GRI 303-4) 208.6 178.5 180.1 5) Chemical oxygen demand (COD) is calculated as follows: [COD] = [TOC] * 3. For 2019, the COD is 3.6 kt. Total wastewater discharge (GRI 303-4) 45.2 27.1 26.8 6) Heavy metals (arsenic, cadmium, chromium, copper, mercury, nickel, lead, tin, zinc). 7) According to GRI 303-5, total water consumption is calculated by substracting the volume of once-through cooling water, Emissions in wastewater (after treatment) wastewater and the volume of sold steam from the water withdrawal. in thousand metric tons 8) The emission factors used for fossil fuels are based on calculations by the U.S. EPA (AP-42 from 1998) and on the IPCC Guidelines Total nitrogen 0.55 0.5 0.4 for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories (2006). In accordance with the GHG Protocol (2004), the factors for calculating CO2e are Total organic carbon (TOC)5) 1.8 1.2a) 1.2 based on the global warming potential (time horizon: 100 years) defined in the IPCC Second Assessment Report (SAR 1995). All Scope 1 greenhouse gases are calculated as CO2e. In accordance with the GHG Protocol, the CO2 emissions from the comHeavy metals6) 0.0054 0.0027 0.0022 bustion of biomass are shown separately and are not included in the Scope 1 emissions. The following emissions were produced Total water consumption (GRI 303-5)7) 23.5 15.7 15.2 during the reporting period: 2015: 236 kt CO2, 2016: 212 kt CO2, 2017: 215 kt CO2, 2018: 230 kt CO2, 2019: 184 kt CO2. Emissions to air in thousand metric tons 9) All Scope 2 greenhouse gases are calculated as CO2e. In 2019, the conversion factors used were provided by the energy producers. Where these were not available, factors from the IEA (International Energy Agency) from 2017 were used for fiscal year 2019, Total greenhouse gas emissions CO2e factors from 2016 were used for fiscal year 2018 and factors from 2015 were used for fiscal year 2017. The Scope 2 CO2e (GRI 305-1, GRI 305-2) 5,081a) 3,210a) 3,058 emissions are calculated using the market-based method in accordance with the GHG Protocol. Using the location-based method, Direct (Scope 1)8) 1,784a) 1,540a) 1,504 Scope 2 CO2e emissions for 2019 amounted to 1,989 kt. Indirect (Scope 2)9) 3,297a) 1,670a) 1,554 10) Nitrogen oxide (NOX) calculated as NO2 (excluding N2O – nitrous oxide). 11) Sulfur dioxide (SO2) + SO3 calculated as SO2. Ozone-depleting substances (GRI 305-6) 0.00989 0.00785 0.00716 12) Total VOC (volatile organic compounds) excluding methane and acetone. NOX, SOX and other emissions (GRI 305-7) a) Values restated due to supplementary notifications or change in calculation method. NOX10) 2.7 2.8a) 2.6 SO²11) 1.0 1.0 0.9 CO 2.2 2.2a) 1.7 NH3 0.08a) 0.025a) 0.045 NMVOC12) 5.0 0.7a) 0.7 44 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information ✓ Corporate Citizenship ✓ We initially assess our projects according to whether ✓ Social Activities by Type of Investment1) NFR Our understanding of sustainable sites also includes NFR they pursue purely charitable ends (“charitable gift”), NFR % being a strong and reliable partner for the people locally whether we are investing in the social environment and in the respective region and taking responsibility of our sites (“community investment”) or whether we 19 for development of the social environment. Our social are i­nvesting in corporate objectives such as image, commitment is based on our corporate expertise and sales and ­income while also generating social value objectives and focused on education, climate protec(“­commercial initiative”). 6 75 tion, water and culture. Our goals in all these areas are Charitable gift identical: In total, around 300,000 (previous year: nearly 100,000) Commercial initiative people benefited from our projects. We use a system of ›› Mobilizing resources and people for social performance indicators to measure the social impact of Community investment commitment our activities above and beyond the number of people ›› Achieving positive impacts on the company, the who benefit. For nearly all of our projects in 2019, we 1) Number of projects: 186 environment and society performed an impact assessment, taking into account positive effects in the area around the site and positive As a company, we aim to play a positive part in improving environmental effects and impacts on our business. Impact Dimensions of Evaluated Activities and Projects living conditions, education, training and equal opporSpecific feedback from people who benefit from our % 1001) tunities as well as health and safety. In addition, we are projects is a key factor in this context. We regard these Impact on the community 100 working to attract talented persons, engage in extensive indicators as important benchmarks for impact-oriented e.g. quality of life, well-being or skills dialog with our stakeholders, have a positive influence management of our measures. on employee motivation and constantly improve our Impact on the environment Social Activities by Topic1) Direct environmental eﬀects or impact 81 reputation. on attitude toward the environment % Impact on our business As in the previous year, we provided around €1.7 mile.g. attractiveness as an employer, 19 66 improved stakeholder relations and lion globally for our projects in 2019. The regional focal perception points of our activities in the reporting year were the Education 1) Number of projects: 170 2 EMEA and USMCA regions. Culture 4 Climate Protection 6 Water 69 Commitment to Education, Climate Other ­Protection, Water and Culture 2019 again yielded numerous examples of how we put our social commitment into practice. 1) Number of projects: 186 45 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information ✓ We have been working under the umbrella of the ✓ their rhetorical and intercultural skills. In many places, CLIMATE ACTION AND NFR LANXESS education initiative for over ten years and NFR we are also working to protect the climate in entirely ENERGY EFFICIENCY have initiated more than 500 education projects at our ­practical ways. At our Indian sites in Nagda and Thane, sites worldwide in order to get young people i­nterested for e ­ xample, we support projects to bring greenery ✓ With the Paris Climate Agreement, the international in the natural sciences at an early age. In Germany, to urban space. In various villages around Nagda and NFR community committed to limiting global warming to the LANXESS laboratory days again met with a great Jhagadia, we have also installed solar-powered – and less than two degrees Celsius above the pre-industrial ­response, with children from secondary schools s­ pending thus climate-neutral – street lighting. level. Accordingly, all signatory nations have set ambia day in modern laboratories conducting e ­ xperiments tious reduction targets. For instance, in Germany, the under expert guidance. In total, 17 of these events took For the fifth consecutive year, we held a research compe“Climate Protection Plan 2050” sets out the interim goal place at our sites in Leverkusen, Dormagen and Krefeld in tition in China, entitled “Clean Water for a Better Life.” In of cutting greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55% the reporting year. In addition, we provided schools with addition to fostering young academic talent, we also aim to compared with the base year of 1990 by 2030. Indusproject funding of around €147,000. The schools used raise public awareness of water problems. In the reporting try is expected to contribute to this with a reduction of the donations to purchase STEM teaching m ­ aterials. year, the competition was centered on the Sustainable between 49% and 51%. We are also particularly interested in supporting disadDevelopment Goals. Another priority of our water-related vantaged children with qualified science ­teaching. For engagement was the installation of drinking water storage Since it was founded, LANXESS has made substantial example, we continued our partnership with “Save the in several villages near our Indian site in Nagda. progress in its goal of becoming more environ­mentally Children Japan” in the reporting year and held workfriendly. Between 2004 and 2018, we halved our greenshops in several Japanese cities that are still suffering As part of our cultural commitment, we have been house gas emissions from around 6.5 million tons of the aftereffects of the tsunami in 2011. Children in ­Korea ­sponsoring lit.Cologne as a lead partner since 2010 and CO2e to about 3.2 million tons. Moreover, we have from low-income or otherwise disadvantaged backthe Kölner Philharmonie for several years. The Ozawa ­already achieved our most recent targets – ­improving grounds also benefited from various educational events. ­International Chamber Music Academy in Japan, which energy efficiency and reducing the associated CO2 we also support, gives talented young musicians from all ­emissions and emissions of volatile organic compounds We have also underscored our commitment to a more over Asia the opportunity of first-class musical training. by 25% compared to 2015 – much earlier than originally environmentally friendly future by sponsoring a U.N. planned. climate change conference simulation. 180 students Further information on our corporate citizenship activities from 30 nations simulated U.N. climate change talks can be found in the “Safe and Sustainable Sites” section i Our Journey to Climate Neutrality at the University of Cologne. All the roles – including of the LANXESS website. 1. W  e drastically reduce emissions from representatives of government, multinational companies internal sources. and NGOs – were played by students. They thus not 2. W  e reduce our specific energy requirement. only gained an understanding of different perspectives 3. We purchase very low-emission or on the subject to climate change, but also strengthened ­climate-neutral energy. 46 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information ✓ In light of this, it was time to set new, ambitious targets ✓ In addition, we are also switching the entire energy ✓ 3. Strengthen process and technological NFR and thus fulfill our responsibility as a global specialty NFR supply at our Indian site to renewable energy sources, NFR ­innovations chemicals company: LANXESS is to be climate neutral specifically biomass and solar power. This will cut We are revising many of our existing production proby 2040. By 2030, we aim to halve our greenhouse gas our CO2e emissions by a further 150,000 tons from cesses in order to go climate neutral by 2040. For emissions again to around 1.6 million tons of CO2e. We 2024. Under these projects and other measures, we example, we will continue to improve our composwill thus have achieved a 75% reduction compared to want to decrease our CO2e emissions by a total of ite structures, e. g. when it comes to heat exchange the emissions when LANXESS was founded. To measure 800,000 tons by 2025. We will invest up to €100 milbetween plants and air purification. However, other our emissions, we look at the emissions of greenhouse lion in order to achieve this. procedures must first be developed on a large ingases defined in the Kyoto Protocol and calculate their dustrial scale. We will therefore focus our research greenhouse effect in comparison to carbon dioxide 2. Break the link between emissions and growth activities more closely on climate-neutral process (CO2e). We include emissions from our own production LANXESS is growing. But despite increasing producand technological innovation. (Scope 1) and from external energy sources (Scope 2) tion, emissions of greenhouse gases in our individual in the calculation. business units are set to shrink. In addition to technoBy implementing the above measures, we want logical efficiency, changes to governance instruments to ­d ecrease our annual emissions to less than Clear Strategy to Lower Emissions also play a significant role, with the impact on the 300,000 tons by 2040. We will neutralize the We are taking a three-pronged approach to achieve our company’s carbon footprint becoming an investment ­remaining emissions via appropriate offsetting meatarget: criterion for organic growth and acquisitions. This sures. In this way, we will not only make a significant gives business units that achieve better than avercontribution to climate protection in the years to come, 1. L aunch climate protection projects age reductions in greenhouse gas emissions a direct but will also become an even more sustainable partner Over the next few years, several special projects will ­financial advantage. Moreover, lowering CO2e is to be for our customers. significantly lower greenhouse gases. For example, introduced as an assessment criterion in the bonus we are currently building a facility for the decomposystem for managers and the Board of Management. sition of nitrous oxide at the site in Lillo, Belgium. The new facility will begin operations in 2020 and reduce our annual emissions of this particularly harmful greenhouse gas by around 150,000 tons of CO2e. After a second expansion in 2023, CO2e emissions will fall by another 300,000 tons. 47 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information i LANXESS is IN4climate ✓ emissions of the environmentally harmful gas CO2 ✓ Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1) We have been involved since 2018 as an active NFR cost-effectively. Because all of our plants covered by NFR in thousand metric tons of CO ² equivalents in CO² equivalents, partner in the IN4climate.NRW initiative, a new emissions trading are state-of-the-art and compete at the Absolute metric tons per metric working platform for industry, science and the international level, we plan to receive enough certificates In relation to volume sold ton of product North Rhine-Westphalian government, the only from free allocation to cover the expected CO2 emissions 6,000 0.42 one of its kind in Germany to date. The aim of the by the end of the third trading period in 2020. 5,000 0.35 initiative is to devise strategies for how industry in 0.28 0.281) North Rhine-Westphalia can become highly comHowever, we cannot precisely estimate the effects of the 4,000 0.25 0.26 0.25 0.28 petitive, generate additional growth and play its planned national Emissions Trading System (n-ETS), 3,000 0.21 part in attaining the Paris climate-change targets. as the regulations specifying the important details and 1,6421) 1,7351) 1,7841) 2,000 1,5401) 1,504 0.14 Specifically, the partners work together in innovaprocedures are not yet available. In particular, the rules for tion teams to address how production processes avoiding double counting at plants subject to emissions 1,000 0.07 and value chains can be made climate neutral on trading, the carbon-leakage protection for plants in the 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 a long-term basis, or what role industry might play n-ETS, and the future treatment of hazardous waste have in the development of climate-friendly products. not yet been specified, but may have relevant effects for 1) Figure restated For example, one working group is looking at the LANXESS. infrastructure required for the use of hydrogen as Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 2) i in thousand metric tons of CO ² equivalents a reducing agent and heating medium. Meanwhile, CDP Gives LANXESS Top Score in CO² equivalents, the “Circular Economy” working group wants to For more than a decade, we have been participating Absolute metric tons per In relation to volume sold metric ton of product gain access to raw materials for chemistry through in the international climate protection initiative CDP thermolysis of plastics. Set up for an initial four (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project), each year 8,000 0.56 years, the project is receiving €16 million in funding sharing data and information on climate protection 7,000 0.46 0.49 0.46 0.45 from the regional government. and the reduction of emissions. We received the 6,000 0.42 best possible score of “A” in the assessment for 2019, which puts LANXESS among the top 2% 5,000 0.30 0.35 0.29 ✓ Uncertainty over National Emissions Trading of more than 8,000 companies examined by the 4,000 0.28 3,2971) 2,9951) 3,0741) NFR In Europe, 13 of our plants and sites are subject to initiative in 2019. These gratifying results gave us 3,000 0.21 ­European emissions trading. Trading with CO2 ­emissions encouragement to continue systematically pursuing 2,000 1,670 1) 1,554 0.14 rights, known as certificates, is intended to reduce our climate protection strategy. 1,000 0.07 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 1) Figure restated 48 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 3) ✓ Other Atmospheric Emissions ✓ With our Leverkusen, Krefeld-Uerdingen and Dormagen in thousand metric tons of CO² equivalents NFR NFR sites in Germany, since the end of 2017, we have been VOC Emissions Scope 3 (absolute) in metric tons in VOC, kilograms part of the Energy Efficiency Networks Initiative, estabper metric ton of product lished by the German federal government and leading Absolute 40,000 In relation to volume sold industry associations. An Energy Efficiency Network 12.0 1.2 consists of 8 to 15 companies. At the n ­ ational level, 30,000 27,054 26,618 26,582 22,862 the networks are expected to help save 75 ­petajoules 19,087 10.0 1.0 20,000 0.83 of primary energy and reduce greenhouse gas emis8.0 0.69 0.70 0.8 sions by 5 million metric tons. With its partners, the 10,000 5.4 5.0 network@CHEMPARK, in which several of our sites 6.0 4.7 0.6 are involved, has set a target of making a contribu2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 4.0 0.4 tion of 100 gigawatt hours. Further projects were 2.0 0.131) 0.13 0.2 0.71) 0.7 successfully implemented in the reporting year. The ✓ In 2019, we further reduced our absolute Scope 1 network initiative is also supported in other regions with 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 NFR emissions. This development was driven primarily by our Mannheim site’s participation in the ChePap net1) Figure restated reduced nitrous oxide emissions in Belgium. The use of work and the ­Bitterfeld site’s participation in the new coal was also reduced further – we even stopped using Since the sale of ARLANXEO, LANXESS has been ­Bitterfeld-Wolfen 2.0 network. coal entirely in China. Specific Scope 1 emissions were ­operating with a much lower level of VOC emissions on on a par with the previous year. the whole. In the reporting year, we maintained this level Energy Consumption (Balance Sheet) in both absolute and specific terms. in petajoules in gigajoules per Absolute Scope 2 emissions decreased again compared metric ton of product Absolute with the previous year. This effect is chiefly attributable Systematic Energy Management In relation to volume sold to the increased use of natural gas instead of coal by our A high level of energy efficiency improves not just our 90 9.0 site operators in the Lower Rhine region. The emission emissions footprint, but also our cost position, thus ulti7.44 7.261) 75 7.14 7.5 factors have been adjusted accordingly. This also had mately making LANXESS more competitive. Our global a positive effect on our specific emissions. energy management promotes projects to ­increase 60 52.01) 6.0 48.3 48.4 4.991) 5.08 energy efficiency in our plants. In each business 45 4.5 The level of Scope 3 emissions remained roughly stable unit, energy officers ensure communication and the 27.71) 27.2 30 3.0 compared with the previous year. ­ongoing improvement of energy-related ­performance. 15 1.5 Technical experts from the central departments help the local teams to identify and implement effective 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 projects to increase efficiency. 1) Figure restated 49 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information ✓ ✓ Sustainable Logistics Direct and Indirect Energy Consumption by Region NFR NFR We select our transportation solutions individually worldin petajoules/% 19.3% wide in line with the principles of safety, punctuality and 100% cost-efficiency. In doing so, we also take into account the CO2 emissions resulting from ­transportation. In ­particular, we are eager to step up our use of ships. In this 80.7% context, we are currently making targeted investments in digital solutions that tell us the status of ship transports North America Germany 57.5% early on so that we can plan the subsequent land trans3.5 PJ 5.1% 13.8 PJ port with means of transport with the lowest possible 8.7% 42.5% 18.5% emissions in a forward-looking manner. Furthermore, 63.5% we are increasingly using comparatively low-emission combined-transport options, where most of the distance 86.2% 18.0% EMEA Asia-Paciﬁc involved is covered by train, barge or sea vessel, thus Latin America (excluding Germany) 1.3 PJ 3.0 PJ keeping initial and final journeys by road to an absolute 5.6 PJ minimum. Europe in particular has a strong infrastructure for these types of transportation. However, increased use of rail means that combined transport is even an option for long-distance connections to China. To transport our rail freight in Germany, we continue to Direct energy sources use the TÜV SÜD-tested Eco-Plus service of the logistics Direct energy sources (biomass) Indirect energy sources company DB Cargo. The power required for transportation is obtained from regenerative energy sources. As a result, we can reduce our CO2 emissions in national rail We reduced our absolute energy consumption further transportation by approximately 80% compared with in 2019. This is partly attributable to changes in our conventional options. asset portfolio and lower use of fuels. In specific terms, however, there was a minor deterioration due to the slight decline in our production volumes. 50 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information SUSTAINABLE PRODUCT development ideas already have to be examined sysadapt our electronic safety data system to take account ­PORTFOLIO tematically with regard to their potential economic, enof new features in the GHS (Globally Harmonized System vironmental and social impact. In this way, we ensure of Classification and Labeling of Chemicals) in the differIn signing the Responsible Care ® Global Charter, that unsustainable products, processes or applications ent countries. The GHS is a system under the auspices LANXESS committed itself to comprehensive product no longer occur in our development process. of the United Nations that aims to globally harmonize responsibility. This initiative launched by the International ­existing classification and labeling systems from different Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA) made a signifiParticularly in the case of consumer applications – for sectors such as transportation, consumer protection, cant contribution to the development of the “Global Prodexample, use as an additive in food or animal feed, in employee protection, and environmental protection. We uct Strategy” (GPS). It aims to provide basic information contact with drinking water or food, or in cosmetic, take account of regional aspects in the implementation and risk assessments of materials in order to minimize pharmaceutical, or medical products – it is extremely of the GHS, such as the CLP Regulation (Regulation on harmful effects of chemicals on human health and the important to us that our products meet high national Classification, Labeling and Packaging of Substances environment and to manufacture and distribute products and international standards, certificates, and quality and Mixtures) in Europe. in a way that avoids harm to people and the environment. seals. We thereby actively support our customers with In line with the above obligations, our product responsi­ the authorization of materials to be used in contact with We explicitly support the goal of the EU chemicals bility covers the safe handling of chemical materials and drinking water, for example, or with further processing regulation REACH: to ensure a high level of protection products throughout their lifecycle – from research and of our products into certified goods for end consumers. for human health and the environment. We have so far development, procurement and production, storage and By intensively exchanging information with our customregistered all relevant materials for LANXESS that we transportation through to marketing, further processing ers and suppliers, we achieve greater transparency and produce in or import to Europe in quantities of more and disposal. safety throughout the whole product lifecycle. than one metric ton per year on schedule in line with the REACH process. In the last ten years, ­approximately The “Guideline on Product Safety Management at Management of Chemicals Control 1,000 registration dossiers have been submitted to LANXESS” stipulates how product responsibility is to ­Regulations the central European Chemicals Agency (ECHA). We be exercised throughout the Group and ensures collabComplying with global chemicals control regulations ­systematically evaluate all necessary information on our oration between all of the parties involved. This particuis an essential prerequisite for the saleability and safe materials and their uses for the registration. In doing so, larly applies to substances in our product portfolio that handling of our chemicals and products across the whole we consider the whole product lifecycle and determine are classified as hazardous. With the “Central Product value chain. safe conditions for use. ­Monitoring” guideline, we systematically manage the global monitoring of our products and their application LANXESS ensures the implementation of binding and However, the registration of all phase-in materials is only with regard to possible health and environmental effects. voluntary requirements using an electronic safety data part of REACH, because REACH means the registration, Our product developers and product safety experts insystem. Safety data sheets in more than 40 languages evaluation, and authorization of chemicals. In the future, corporate the experience gathered into their assessprovide our customers worldwide with data on the matenew materials must be registered before they are proments. Our guideline “Development of New or Changed rials and inform them of the protective measures required duced or imported. This already applies for quantities Products, Processes and Applications” stipulates that when handling the respective chemicals. We regularly of more than one metric ton per year and per LANXESS 51 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information company. Existing dossiers must also be updated conComprehensive Analysis of our Product Evaluation Processes stantly, as the content requirements will change over Portfolio from a Sustainability Perspective Further information on sustainability time. In this context, we support the voluntary Action Plan In order to take effective sustainable action, we need to List of criteria performance of of the European Chemical Industry Council (Cefic) and know the effects of our business activities – both positive our products can be found in the have signed an associated declaration of intent. We are and negative – as precisely as possible. With a specially Responsibility/ thus committed to re-evaluating all our existing REACH developed assessment system, we have ­established a Evaluation of product portfolio Societal Added Value/Product registration dossiers and to updating them according to strategic management tool that enables us to systemPortfolio Assessment section of the the latest requirements by 2026 at the latest. atically assess and improve the sustainability perforReview by expert committee LANXESS website. mance of our product portfolio with regard to economic, Similar chemicals control regulations to those in the EU environ­mental and social aspects. The system analyzes Products which satisfy Products which do not now also exist in many other countries, and the ­number the effects and benefits of our products based on ­criteria or exceed our sustainability fully satisfy our sustainability of them is still increasing. Before manufacturing or that we consider relevant for our company and for society requirements requirements ­exporting our products, we therefore check their saleaas a whole. bility under the applicable chemicals laws in the countries concerned. We register our materials and products in Criteria for Our Product Portfolio Analysis Benchmarking and Stakeholder dialog, speciﬁc best-practice analyses action plans or termination accordance with local requirements. We support the Impact on society Support for development goals of production responsible authorities’ material assessment programs Societal acceptance by supplying all available information and determining Safety in end use Ecological impact Raw material efficiency in production new data where necessary. Here we benefit from our Energy efficiency in production Throughout the LANXESS Group, we work intensively experience from the REACH process. We are currently Emissions and waste balance sheet with the results of this assessment in order to further dealing with increasing requirements particularly in the in production ­improve the sustainability performance of our product Water risks Republic of Korea, Taiwan, Turkey, the U.S., Russia, and Impact on the environment during use portfolio. The increased understanding of our p ­ roducts’ the Eurasian Economic Union. Economic impact Registration, evaluation and approval capabilities can also provide important ­impetus for Profitability ­innovation. In addition, it also makes it clear which Demand trend areas still show a need for action – which can lead to ­specific improvement processes, but can also be aimed Based on this list of criteria, we carry out an annual at ­creating acceptance for a certain topic in stakeholder assessment of our entire product portfolio – followed dialog. by a review by an internal panel of experts – as part of our strategy process. This process has revealed which of our products satisfy the sustainability requirements we have defined and can help us to deliver solutions for key sustainability challenges. 52 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information BUSINESS-DRIVEN INNOVATION times for the necessary formulations by more than half. The measure is to make an important contribution on Our customers would therefore receive even better, taiour journey to climate neutrality in 2040. With process-, product-, applicationand business lor-made products within shorter time frames. model-­oriented innovation, we not only make LANXESS In 2017, we gained promising access to the German Further information on innovations can more competitive but also help our customers run their Another AI project with Citrine Informatics is devotstart-up scene with a financial investment in the “Highbe found in the ­businesses successfully and sustainably. We put the ed to expanding the range of prepolymer products. Tech Gründerfonds (HTGF) III.” This fund pursues the Responsibility/ Material Topics/ needs and expectations of our customers at the center LANXESS data specialists and process experts have goal of supporting promising start-ups in the technology Business Driven of ­product and application development and frequently used the ­Citrine platform to expand the existing formusector in order to bring inventions to the stage where they Innovation section of the LANXESS pursue projects together with the customer concerned lation ­database. This involved an algorithm designed for are ready for the market. The fund covers a wide variety website. or other high-powered partners. chemicals accessing existing empirical measurement of topics: robotics, the Internet of Things (IoT), energy, data, linking them to the knowledge of the process exmedical and biotechnology, chemistry and software. This For us, innovation also means developing new uses for perts and calculating additional figures. This meant that investment helps us gain access to new technologies and existing products. Our partner Standard Lithium Ltd. only a few real-life measurements were required to verify identify partners for cooperations. has now completed a pilot facility for the extraction and the figures already determined with AI. The next step is processing of lithium salt at our site in El Dorado. Lithium for our data and process experts to check how reliably Together with the Berlin-based chemicals start-up salt is required on a large scale for lithium-ion batteries optimum formulations can be predicted with the aid of ­DexLeChem, for example, we support the “Data ­Analytics and is therefore a crucial raw material for the desired AI so that customer-specific requirements for product for Chemical Engineers and Chemists” course, which expansion of electric mobility. LANXESS ­operates three characteristics can be met. is being offered by the Institute for Chemistry and the plants manu­facturing bromine products in El Dorado. Chemical Invention Factory at TU Berlin for the first time in The bromine is obtained from the brine extracted at the We pay particular attention to the development of prodthe 2019/2020 winter semester. We are thus promoting site, which also contains lithium. Our partner ­Standard ucts that have a tangible benefit for sustainability. For the education of skilled professionals who can provide Lithium provides the technology for extracting the lithium. example, our Inorganic Pigments business unit has both the chemical and the digital expertise required to ­developed a black pigment that reflects 20% more of exploit all the possibilities of digitalization. Meanwhile, we are breaking new ground when it comes the sun’s near-infrared radiation (NIR) than conventional to the development of customer-specific high-perforproducts. Plastic roofs and facade elements colored with Further information on the topic of research and developmance plastics. By deploying artificial intelligence (AI), Bayferrox 303 T heat up much less due to solar radiation, ment can be found in the combined management report we are looking to drastically cut the amount of time it meaning that the building’s inside temperature can be starting on page 81 of this Annual Report. takes to develop new materials. To this end, we are colreduced. This not only improves the indoor climate but laborating with Citrine Informatics, a U.S. AI company also reduces energy consumption for air conditioning. specializing in the software-supported development of chemical products. In a pilot project, we are exploring At our Belgian site in Lillo, we are developing a new type the options for using AI to optimize glass fibers and thus of catalytic waste gas purification for the reduction of further enhance the properties of our high-performance nitrogen oxides and nitrous oxide in the exhaust air genplastics. It is anticipated that AI will cut development erated in connection with the production of c­ aprolactam. 53 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information VALUING CUSTOMER example, some customers of our Inorganic Pigments and changes that Order Management, for example, has ­RELATIONSHIPS business unit complained about agglutination in red pigmade to the orders – such as postponements of delivery ments delivered in sacks. This problem was successfully dates or quantity changes. Our customer service is thereCustomer satisfaction and customer loyalty are among solved by introducing variable compaction pressures to fore able to inform customers immediately and promptly our most important measures of success. Via a central the standard compaction of the pigments as part of the tackle any problems arising from the changes. We have inquiry management system, customers can obtain inforstorage process. already been able to measure the positive effect of such mation on our products, their applications and potential technology in our Polymer Additives business unit: Here, risks, and product certificates. Feedback from customers Our Lubricant Additives Business business unit introthe OTIF (on-time-in-full) ratio, which measures the pergives us valuable information on how we can further duced another innovative packaging concept together centage of orders that are shipped on time in full and improve our products and processes. with a Canadian customer: Instead of conventional steel is thus an important indicator of customer satisfaction, containers, lubricants are now delivered in fluid bags. The improved by seven percentage points within a year. Based on a central CRM system and a uniform comlatter not only weigh much less, but can also be emptied plaint management platform, each of our business units by the customer practically without residue. Moreover, Regular customer surveys conducted by an external has its own marketand customer-oriented complaint the material for the fluid bags is recyclable. ­service provider bring us important findings about our management and optimization processes. Shared elcustomers’ loyalty, their expectations, and their perements of these processes include clear targets, for In our digitalization offensive, we use software to imception of our services in comparison to competitors. example in relation to processing times for customer prove the speed and efficiency of the communication LANXESS conducts an anonymous online survey of complaints, a corresponding statistical analysis of the between our customer service teams and their respecall relevant customers with and in all business units feedback received, and structured monthly reporting to tive ­customers. In light of the large number of simultaonce every two years. In the 2019/2020 survey, the the management of the respective business unit. Various neous orders, it is a major challenge for our customer ­customer retention index (CRI) score was 77 and thus bodies and dialog forums, such as the Marketing & Sales service employees to keep track of changes across the slightly higher than in the previous year (75). Based on Community that meets quarterly, also guarantee the entire order acceptance, production and delivery prothese encouraging results of the customer satisfaction regular exchange of experiences between our business cess. Here, we are assisted by software solutions that analysis, we will continue to implement targeted meaunits and Group functions. continuously search our ERP systems for changes in sures in the business units in order to at least maintain order data records, factor in external information and this very good level of customer satisfaction and keep In the case of justified complaints, we always aim to compare it against dynamic specifications. The responsuccessfully retaining our customers in the long term. find a sustainable solution to the problem that occurred sible customer service advisor thus obtains constantly ­together with everyone involved. In 2018 and 2019, for updated information about the key influencing factors 54 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS LANXESS ON THE CAPITAL MARKET CONTENTS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information LANXESS on the Capital Market In 2019, the company’s positive performance was also reflected in the performance of the LANXESS share: With a gain of 48.8%, it significantly exceeded all benchmark indices. The buyback of own shares announced at the start of the year was completed in the first six months. The German stock market had a successful year in The resolution passed by the LANXESS Board of Manage­ €49.0787. This equates to 4.453% of the company’s capital 2019: After a weak price level to begin with, the ­leading ment on January 10, 2019, to buy back own shares worth stock. The planned buyback volume was thus almost comindices recovered significantly as the year went on. The up to €200 million was implemented from January 14. Up pletely exhausted. The repurchased shares were withdrawn DAX u ­ ltimately ended the year up 25.5% at 13,249 to June 12, a total of 4,075,084 shares were purchased on July 12, 2019. points, ­exceeded by the MDAX, which grew by 31.2% to on the stock exchange at a weighted average price of 28,312 points. The international, sector-specific benchmark index for LANXESS, the MSCI World Chemicals Index, also LANXESS Stock at a Glance put in a good performance with growth of around 21%. 2016 2017 2018 2019 Our share made a weak start to the stock market year and €/no. of Capital stock/no. of shares1) shares 91,522,936 91,522,936 91,522,936 87,447,852 already posted its annual low of €39.47 on January 2. Market capitalization € billion 5.71 6.07 3.68 5.23 Supported by stable business figures and successful meaHigh/low1) € 63.53/32.90 70.67/59.89 74.78/39.61 64.58/39.47 sures for further portfolio optimization, however, it quickly Closing price € 62.35 66.29 40.20 59.82 pivoted to an upward trend that continued to an annual high Earnings per share adjusted for exceptional items and amortization of intangible assets2) € 2.69 3.84 4.483) 4.733) of €64.58 on November 18, 2019. The LANXESS share Dividend per share € 0.70 0.80 0.90 0.954) closed the last trading day of the year at €59.82. Compared to the previous year, its value therefore rose by 48.8%. 1) As of end of year (intraday): December 31, 2016; December 31, 2017; December 31, 2018; December 31, 2019. 2) E  arnings per share adjusted for exceptional items and amortization of intangible assets: earnings per share disregarding exceptional charges and income, amortization of intangible assets and attributable tax effects. 3) Continuing operations only. 4) Dividend proposal to the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May 13, 2020. 56 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Capital Market Information STOCKHOLDER STRUCTURE BONDS Class No-par shares ISIN DE0005470405 LANXESS’s stockholder structure predominantly Securing the Group’s liquidity and creditworthiness is WKN (German 547040 ­consists of institutional investors pursuing a growthan important aim of LANXESS’s financial management. securities identior ­value-oriented investment strategy. As of the end of With standardized documentation, our debt issuance fication number) 2019, the percentage of such investors in the stockholder program offers the opportunity to issue bonds quickly Selective indices MDAX, Dow Jones STOXX 600 Chemicals SM, MSCI Germany Standard, structure had risen slightly to around 93% (previous year: and flexibly. However, we did not use this opportunity MSCI Germany Mid Cap, Dow Jones 92%). The remaining roughly 7% of LANXESS stocks in fiscal year 2019. Sustainability Index World and Europe, FTSE4Good are held by private investors. Investment grade Standard & Poor’s: BBB (stable) Therefore, there are still four LANXESS bonds and one ratings Moody’s: Baa2 (stable) As in the past, the regional focus of our institutional hybrid bond on the market at present. Scope: BBB+ (stable) ­investors in 2019 was in the U.S., Germany and Great Britain. The percentage of U.S. stockholders decreased Overview of LANXESS’s Main Bonds  to around 35% (previous year: 41%). As of the reporting ISIN/WKN Volume Duration Coupon DIVIDEND POLICY date, an increased percentage of around 25% (previous XS1501363425 €500 October 7, 2016 – 0.250% year: 22%) of LANXESS stocks were held in Germany, million October 7, 2021 LANXESS has been pursuing a consistent dividend policy just like in Great Britain, where the holdings of instituXS0855167523 €500 November 21, 2.625% million 2012 – for years. Our goal remains to increase the dividend each tional investors increased to around 14% (previous year: November 21, 2022 year or at least to keep it at a stable level. At the Annual 12%). XS1820748538 €500 May 16, 2018 – 1.125% Stockholders’ Meeting in Cologne on May 13, 2020, the million May 16, 2025 Board of Management and the Supervisory Board will The share of institutional investors from elsewhere in XS1501367921 €500 October 7, 2016 – 1.000% million October 7, 2026 propose a dividend of €0.95 per share. Europe grew year-on-year to around 15% (previous year: 13%). By contrast, the share of institutional investors from other regions was down slightly at around 11% LANXESS Hybrid Bond (Subordinated)1) (previous year: 12%). An overview of the institutional investors that are required to report a holding of at least ISIN/WKN Volume Duration 3% of the outstanding LANXESS stocks to us can be XS1405763019 €500 December 6, 2016 – million December 6, 2076 found in the Investor Relations section of our website. Coupon Redemption options 4.500% until the first reFirst option on June 6, 2023, demption option; subsequent and thereafter annually; additionadjustment of interest rate as al redemption rights in defined described in prospectus special circumstances 1) S  implified description; see prospectus for full conditions of the bond and the associated risks. 57 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information In addition to the absolute price performance, another 2019 was characterized by recovery on the international markets and the associated reduction in cyclicality. The important parameter for corporate bonds is the relative capital markets. Risk premiums on LANXESS bonds also announced sale of shares in the chemical park operator measurement of the company-specific credit risk in comprofited from this. In the first half of the year, the credit Currenta served as additional confirmation of the rating parison to a reference interest rate. This credit risk spreads for LANXESS bonds decreased significantly and agencies’ assessment of LANXESS’s improved risk profile. ­premium is reflected in the credit spread. highlight our very competitive access to capital market Standard & Poor’s gives LANXESS a “BBB” rating with finance. a stable outlook, Moody’s a “Baa2” rating with a stable LANXESS Eurobond Spreads vs. outlook, and Scope Ratings a “BBB+” rating likewise Corporates Index in the BBB Range1) Basis points All existing LANXESS Eurobonds are listed on the with a ­stable outlook. An overview of the development of ­Luxembourg Stock Exchange. Their respective terms LANXESS’s ratings and their outlooks since 2015 can be 120 and conditions can be viewed in the Investor Relations found in the management report on page 99. 100 section of our website. 80 Detailed information, downloadable publications, and 60 40 ­contacts are always available in the Investor Relations 20 RATINGS ­section of the LANXESS website. 0 Our strategic corporate goal is to maintain an investJan. 1, 2019 Dec. 31,2019 ment-grade rating. LANXESS’s creditworthiness has been LANXESS Eurobond 2026 BBB Corporates, 5 years assessed by the rating agencies Standard & Poor’s and LANXESS Eurobond 2021 LANXESS Eurobond 2025 Moody’s Investors Service for many years already, and by LANXESS Eurobond 2022 Scope Ratings since 2018. 1) The LANXESS hybrid bond that matures in 2076 is not included in the overview In the year under review, all three rating agencies confirmed their assessment of LANXESS’s creditworthiness. The agencies take a positive view of our continuous transformation into a specialty chemicals company with a focus on stable businesses in small and medium-sized niche 58 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTENTS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Corporate Governance Report The Board of Management and Supervisory Board of LANXESS are committed to the principles of transparent and responsible corporate governance and control. They place high value on the standards of good corporate governance, with a view to strengthening the trust of investors, customers, employees and the public in LANXESS. Because of the new version of the German Corporate IMPLEMENTATION OF THE GERMAN CORPORATE CONSTITUTION Governance Code of December 16, 2019, which had CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE not yet taken effect when this Corporate Governance LANXESS AG is a stock corporation established under Report was prepared, the Board of Management As LANXESS is a stock corporation listed on the German the laws of Germany. One of the fundamental principles and ­S upervisory Board are reporting on corporate stock exchange, corporate governance at the company of German stock corporation law is the two-tier manage­governance at LANXESS in accordance with Paragraph is aligned with Germany’s securities and capital market ment system with the governing bodies of management 3.10 of the German Corporate Governance Code in the legislation, regulations pertaining to codetermination board and supervisory board. This system is characterversion of February 7, 2017, for the last time. ­Further and the German Corporate Governance Code. The ized by a clear separation between the management information about corporate governance can be found latter makes recommendations and suggestions conboard as the body that manages a company and the in the Board of Management’s declaration on c­ orporate cerning corporate governance. There is no obligation to supervisory board as the body that advises and oversees ­governance pursuant to Sections 289f and 315d of comply with this code. Pursuant to Section 161 of the management. The management board and the superthe German Commercial Code. This is published in ­German Stock Corporation Act, the Board of Manage­ visory board work closely together in a relationship of conjunction with the Corporate Governance Report ment and Supervisory Board of LANXESS make an mutual trust for the benefit of the company. on the LANXESS website under Investors/Corporate ­annual d­ eclaration of compliance, in the past and going Governance. ­forward, with the recommendations and suggestions of Board of Management the G ­ erman Corporate Governance Code. The declaThe Board of Management of LANXESS AG has five The Board of Management and Supervisory Board of ration of compliance of March 10, 2020, updated with members. Information about the members of the Board LANXESS are committed to the principles of ­transparent regard to the last regular declaration of compliance of of Management is available on the LANXESS website and responsible corporate governance and control. They December 11, 2019, and the other previous declarations under Company/Management. place high value on the standards of good corporate are published on the LANXESS website under Investors/ ­governance, with a view to strengthening the trust Corporate Governance. LANXESS AG complied with all The Board of Management is appointed to manage and of investors, customers, employees and the public in recommendations of the German Corporate Governance represent the company. It is responsible for ­conducting LANXESS. Code valid when the current declaration of compliance business in the company’s interests with the goal of was issued. In addition, two suggestions were not fully ­creating sustainable value. The principal tasks of the Board implemented. of Management include defining the company’s goals and strategic alignment, managing and o ­ verseeing the 60 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information operating units, setting human resources policy, arranging Accordingly, at least one woman was to be appointed to different majority is stipulated by law. In the event of the company’s financing, and establishing an effective risk the Board of Management by June 30, 2022. The coma tie, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board has two management system. The Board of Management has a pany achieved this target ahead of time by appointing votes in a second ballot on the resolution, even if this duty to ensure compliance with legislation, regulatory Dr. Stephanie Coßmann as a member of the Board of also results in a tie. The ­German Codetermination Act ­requirements and the company’s internal directives. It Management and Labor Relations Director with effect as contains special requirements ­concerning resolutions. is also responsible for preparing the quarterly and halfof January 1, 2020. The Chairman of the ­Supervisory Board coordinates year financial statements, the financial statements of the work in the Supervisory Board, chairs its meetings LANXESS AG, the consolidated financial statements of Supervisory Board and ­represents the concerns of the body externally. the LANXESS Group and the management report for The Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG is composed Supervisory Board ­resolutions are u ­ sually adopted at LANXESS AG and the LANXESS Group. of twelve members, with equal numbers of stockholder regularly held ­meetings. An overview of the attendance representatives and employee representatives, in accorof Supervisory Board members at meetings of the SuThe Chairman coordinates the work of the Board of Manage­ dance with the provisions of the German Codeterminapervisory Board and its committees in fiscal year 2019 ment. As a rule, Board of Management decisions are adopttion Act of 1976. The stockholder representatives are can be found on the LANXESS website under Investors/ ed with a simple majority. In the event of a tie, the Chairman elected by the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting, whereas Corporate Governance/Work of the Supervisory Board. has the casting vote. Resolutions of the Board of Managethe employee representatives are elected in accordance ment are generally passed at regularly held ­meetings. The with the provisions of the Codetermination Act and its The Supervisory Board has issued its own rules of rules of procedure for the Board of Manage­ment that are electoral regulations. Supervisory Board members procedure, which, in addition to defining the tasks enacted by the Supervisory Board contain further regula­normally serve for a five-year term. and r­ esponsibilities of the Supervisory Board and the tions concerning the form of ­cooperation within the Board ­personal qualifications of its members, establish the proof Management, the allocation of duties and the matters Information about the members of the Supervisory Board cesses for convening, preparing and chairing ­meetings requiring resolution by the full Board of Management. The is available on the LANXESS website under Investors/ as well as the procedures for voting. Board of Management has not formed any committees. In Corporate Governance/Supervisory Board. deciding the composition of the Board of Management, The Report of the Supervisory Board details the Superthe Supervisory Board gives consideration to professional The Supervisory Board’s role is to advise the Board of visory Board’s work. suitability, leadership qualities and ­diversity in line with its Management in its management of the company and to regulations. Diversity applies equally to gender. The commonitor its conduct of the business. The Supervisory Goals for Composition and Skills Profile pany’s Board of Management has had a female member, Board discusses the company’s business performance of the Supervisory Board namely Dr. Stephanie Coßmann, since ­January 1, 2020. and the Board of Management’s planning and strategy According to Paragraph 5.4.1 of the German Corporate The Supervisory Board has ­defined an age limit of 70 years at regular intervals. Its responsibilities also include apGovernance Code, the Supervisory Board should state for members of the Board of Management. pointing the members of the Board of Management as specific goals for its composition and devise a skills profile well as reviewing the financial statements of LANXESS for the entire body. The state of achievement of the goals In order to implement the law on the equal represenAG and the consolidated financial statements of the and completion of the skills profile should be published tation of women and men in management positions in LANXESS Group. Moreover, it resolves on the Board in the Corporate Governance Report. At the same time, the private and public sectors, which came into force on of Management’s proposal for the appropriation of the the Corporate Governance Report should provide inforMay 1, 2015, the Supervisory Board set a new a target for distributable profit and reports to the Annual Stockmation about what the Supervisory Board regards as the the proportion of women on the Board of Management of holders’ Meeting. The Supervisory Board r­ eaches its appropriate number of independent Supervisory Board LANXESS AG for the period starting after June 30, 2017. decisions with a majority of the votes cast unless a members representing stockholders. 61 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Goals for Composition, Skills Profile Independence Age Limit and Length of Membership The members of the Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG The Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG should ensure The Supervisory Board has defined an age limit for its are expected to possess the necessary expertise, skills the provision of impartial advice and supervision to the members, which is contained in the rules of procedure for and professional experience to perform their d ­ uties. They Board of Management. All current Supervisory Board the Supervisory Board. Supervisory Board members may ­autonomously undertake training and are ­supported members are independent in the sense of Paragraph not currently continue to serve after the end of the Annual in their efforts by the company. In addition to the 5.4.2 of the German Corporate Governance Code. In its Stockholders’ Meeting following their 80th birthday. ­requirements applicable to each individual member of assessment of employee representatives, the ­Supervisory The Supervisory Board will lower the regular age limit the S­ upervisory Board such as integrity, professionalism Board also assumes that their ability to act independently to 75 years. This also takes into account the maximum and independence, the entire Supervisory Board should is not affected by their status as employees of the comlength of membership of the Supervisory Board of genbe composed in such a way to ensure that the Board of pany or members of labor unions. No member of the erally not more than three full terms of office (15 years) Manage­ment receives qualified supervision and advice. Supervisory Board has a personal or business relationthat has been specified by the Supervisory Board. In The Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG has devised ship with the company, its executive bodies, a controlling line with the recommendation of the German Corporate a skills profile which stipulates that in-depth specialist shareholder or any enterprise affiliated with a controlling Governance Code in the version of December 16, 2019, knowledge and experience are represented in the Supershareholder that may cause a material and not merely which has not yet taken effect, the company will limit the visory Board from fields such as the chemical industry, temporary conflict of interest. To further substantiate this length of Supervisory Board membership to twelve years. management of major international companies, producindependence, the Supervisory Board goes further than tion, marketing and sale of chemical products, corpothe recommendations of the German Corporate GoverDiversity rate governance/compliance, M&A, corporate financing, nance Code and states that, for example, that no former In general, the Supervisory Board should be guided by ­accounting, and digitalization. In its current composition, members of the Board of Management of LANXESS AG the principles of diversity in its composition. LANXESS the entire Supervisory Board fulfills these goals and comare members of the Supervisory Board. Moreover, no is a global company with a correspondingly wide range pletes the skills profile. The Supervisory Board members Supervisory Board members have a family relationship of customers and suppliers. LANXESS employees come are all familiar with the sector in which LANXESS operates with anyone who performs or has performed a Board from many different countries. This is why membership and possess the knowledge, skills and experience that of Management or executive function at the company of the LANXESS Supervisory Board must also be interare crucial to the company. In its proposals to the Annual or a Group entity. No Supervisory Board members are national. By international, we do not mean merely in the Stockholders’ Meeting for filling vacant positions on the in a contractual service relationship with the company sense of a specific nationality. A different cultural backSupervisory Board, the Supervisory Board will continue or its management personnel. In addition, no Superviground (ethnicity) also plays a role here. Cross-cultural to take account of the targets for the composition of the sory Board members are partners or employees of the characteristics and experiences, which can also be acSupervisory Board and, at the same time, endeavor to audit company working for LANXESS. Furthermore, quired through education or professional activity, are crucomplete the skills profile for the entire body. the Supervisory Board sees no conflicts of interest on cial. The global reach of LANXESS AG and the different the part of any of its members that could cast doubt on cultural characteristics of Supervisory Board members their independence. The Supervisory Board also aims have been reflected in the composition of the Supervifor all future members to be independent and free of sory Board thus far and will remain a factor in selecting conflicts of interest. candidates to be proposed to the Annual Stockholders’ 62 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Meeting for election to the Super­visory Board. The compursuant to Section 32 of the German Codetermination The Committee pursuant to Section 27, Paragraph 3 pany’s Supervisory Board contains members from three Act and on transactions requiring approval that cannot of the German Codetermination Act performs the different countries (Germany, Netherlands, and the U.S.), be deferred instead of the Supervisory Board. It consults tasks described in Section 31, Paragraph 3 of the many of whom acquired their experience and skills while regularly about long-term succession planning for the German Codetermination Act. The Chairman is working abroad for long periods. Board of Management. Furthermore, the Committee Dr. ­Matthias L. ­Wolfgruber. The other Committee memalso prepares the personnel decisions to be made by the bers are Dr. Heike Hanagarth, Werner Czaplik and Diversity applies equally to gender. LANXESS AG’s Supervisory Board. The Presidial Committee is chaired Ralf Sikorski. twelve-member Supervisory Board currently has four by Dr. Matthias L. Wolfgruber. The other members are female members: Birgit Bierther, Dr. Heike Hanagarth, Birgit Bierther, Manuela Strauch, Dr. Friedrich Janssen, The Nominations Committee comprises solely stockPamela Knapp and Manuela Strauch. This is a ratio of Ralf Sikorski and Theo H. Walthie. holder representatives and proposes candidates for over 30%. The company therefore complies with the the Supervisory Board to nominate for election as new legal requirements for gender diversity and will also take The Audit Committee supports the Supervisory Board members of the Supervisory Board by the Annual Stockthese into account when filling positions on the Superin overseeing the conduct of the business and deals holders’ Meeting. The members of the Nominations visory Board in future. with matters relating to the supervision of accounting, Committee are Dr. Matthias L. Wolfgruber (Chairman), the accounting process, effectiveness of the internal Lawrence A. Rosen and Theo H. Walthie. Composition and Work of the control system, the risk management system and the Supervisory Board Committees internal auditing system, as well as auditing, including The respective committee chairmen report regularly to The Supervisory Board has a Presidial Committee, an the independence of the auditor and the work additionthe Supervisory Board on the work of the committees. Audit Committee, a Committee pursuant to Section 27, ally performed by the auditor, and compliance. It preParagraph 3 of the German Codetermination Act and a pares the Supervisory Board’s resolutions concerning Nominations Committee formed from among its memthe annual financial statements of LANXESS AG and STOCKHOLDERS AND bers. The composition of the Supervisory Board committhe consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS ­STOCKHOLDERS’ MEETINGS tees is shown on the LANXESS website under Investors/ Group and recommends an auditor who the SuperviCorporate Governance/Work of the Supervisory Board. sory Board then proposes to the Annual Stockholders’ The stockholders of LANXESS AG exercise their rights at ­Meeting for appointment. Dr. Janssen, the Chairman of the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting, where they can vote The Presidial Committee discusses key issues and prethe Audit Committee, is an independent financial expert on the resolutions submitted. The Annual Stockholders’ pares the meetings and resolutions of the Supervisory and has specialist knowledge and experience in the field Meeting resolves on all matters reserved for its decision Board. In addition, it makes decisions on transactions of a­ ccounting acquired through his professional activities. by law, with binding effect on the stockholders and the requiring approval that are already included in the The Audit Committee also comprises Pamela Knapp, company. Each share confers one vote. company’s annual planning. The Presidial Committee Werner Czaplik, Dr. Hans-Dieter Gerriets, Thomas Meiers may also resolve on the exercise of participation rights and Lawrence A. Rosen. 63 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information The items resolved on by the Annual Stockholders’ REPORTABLE SECURITIES ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING Meeting include appropriation of the distributable profit, ­TRANSACTIONS ratification of the actions taken by the members of the LANXESS AG prepares its consolidated financial stateBoard of Management and the Supervisory Board, apMembers of the Board of Management and Supervisory ments and interim financial statements in line with the pointment of the auditors and election of the stockholder Board and persons closely related to them are required International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as representatives to the Supervisory Board. The Annual to disclose transactions in shares or debt securities of applicable in the European Union. The annual financial Stockholders’ Meeting also resolves on amendments LANXESS AG or associated financial instruments if the statements of LANXESS AG are prepared in accordance to the articles of association, measures affecting the total volume of such transactions in any given calendar with the provisions of the German Commercial Code. After company’s capital and the approval of intercompany year equals or exceeds €20,000. Reportable securities being adopted and approved by the Supervisory Board, agreements. Each year there is an Annual Stockholders’ transactions are published on the LANXESS website. the annual financial statements and consolidated financial Meeting at which the Board of Management and Superstatements of LANXESS AG as well as the combined manvisory Board give an account of the last fiscal year. The The total number of shares of LANXESS AG held by agement report are published within 90 days after the end German Stock Corporation Act requires the convening members of the Board of Management and Supervisory of the fiscal year. The company’s accounting for fiscal year of an Extraordinary Stockholders’ Meeting in certain Board as of December 31, 2019, was less than 1% of all 2019 was audited by the auditor ­PricewaterhouseCoopers situations. shares issued by the company. GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft (“PwC”), elected by the 2019 Annual Stockholders’ Meeting. The conAll stockholders who register in time and prove their densed financial statements and interim management eligibility to attend the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting RISK MANAGEMENT AND report included in the 2019 half-year financial report were and exercise their voting rights shall be allowed to partic­COMPLIANCE also reviewed by PwC. PwC was appointed following ipate in the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting. Stockholders an external tender procedure, which last took place in may exercise their voting rights at the Annual Stock­ Key characteristics of the risk management system and 2016. Mr. Jörg Sechser has been the responsible auholders’ Meeting in person, through a proxy of their own internal control system as well as information on compliditor since 2017. The audits are conducted in line with ­choosing or through a company-nominated proxy who ance can be found in the combined management report German auditing regulations and in compliance with the acts a­ ccording to their instructions. for LANXESS AG and the LANXESS Group. German generally accepted standards for the audit of financial statements promulgated by the Institute of Public Auditors in Germany (IDW). The statutory requirements COMPENSATION REPORT and rotation obligations in Sections 319 and 319a of the German Commercial Code are fulfilled. The auditor has The compensation report, which describes the compenagreed to immediately inform the Supervisory Board of sation system and the amount of compensation paid to any possible reasons for disqualification or conflicts that the members of the Board of Management and Supermay arise, as well as any material findings or events in the visory Board for their service in fiscal year 2019, is part course of the audit. of the combined management report for LANXESS AG and the LANXESS Group. 64 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information OFFICES HELD BY BOARD OF M ­ ANAGEMENT MEMBERS Offices Held by Serving Board of Management Members (as of December 31, 2019) Member of the Offices Held by Serving Board of Management Members (as of December 31, 2019) Board of ManageDr. Rainier van ment External offices Offices within the LANXESS Group Roessel Matthias Zachert • Member of the Executive Board of LANXESS Deutschland GmbH Member of the Board • Member of the Chairman of the Board •M  ember of the • Chairman of the Executive Board of LANXESS Deutschland GmbH of Management Supervisory Board (until December 31, 2019) of Management Supervisory Board of and Labor Relations of CURRENTA • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS S.A. de C.V. Siemens AG, Berlin Director Geschäftsführungs(until July 15, 2019) and Munich (Left the Board of GmbH, Leverkusen • E xecutive member of the Board of Administration of LANXESS Dr. Anno Borkowsky Management as of N.V. (until December 31, 2019) Member of the Board •M  ember of the Executive Board of LANXESS Deutschland GmbH the end of Decem• Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Hong Kong Ltd. of Management (since •M  ember of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Additives Taiwan ber 31, 2019) (until December 31, 2019) June 1, 2019) Ltd. (until September 1, 2019) • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Pte. Ltd. •C  hairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Hong Kong Ltd. (until June 1, 2019) (since January 1, 2020) • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Corp. •C  hairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Corp. (until December 31, 2019) (since January 1, 2020) • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Chemical •C  hairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Chemical (China) Co. Ltd. (until December 31, 2019) (China) Co. Ltd. (since January 1, 2020) • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS India Private Ltd. •C  hairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS India Private Ltd. (until December 31, 2019) (since January 1, 2020) • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS K.K. •M  ember of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Solutions US Inc. (until July 16, 2019) (since January 1, 2020) • Member of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Thai Co., Ltd. (until May 28, 2019) Dr. Hubert Fink • Member of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Solutions US Inc. (until December 31, 2019) Member of the Board • Member of the Executive Board of LANXESS Deutschland GmbH •M ember of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Solutions Korea Inc. of Management • Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Saltigo GmbH (until June 27, 2019) •E  xecutive member of the Board of Administration of LANXESS •M ember of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Solutions Japan Ltd. N.V. (since January 1, 2020) (until July 16, 2019) Michael Pontzen Member of the Board • Member of the Executive Board of LANXESS Deutschland GmbH of Management and • Member of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Corp. Chief Financial Officer • Member of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Solutions Korea Inc. • Member of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Solutions US Inc. Dr. Stephanie Coßmann Member of the Board •M  ember of the Executive Board of LANXESS Deutschland GmbH of Management and (since January 1, 2020) Labor Relations •M  ember of the Board of Administration of LANXESS N.V. Director (since (since February 1, 2020) January 1, 2020) 65 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information SUPERVISORY BOARD OF LANXESS AG Serving Members Serving Members Dr. Friedrich Janssen Dr. Matthias L. Wolfgruber (Chairman) • Member of the Supervisory Boards of various commercial enterprises • Self-employed consultant • Former member of the Board of Management of E.ON Ruhrgas AG, Essen • Former Chairman of the Management Board of ALTANA AG Further offices: Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne1) • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne1) • Hoberg & Driesch GmbH, Düsseldorf (Chairman of the Advisory Committee) • ALTANA AG, Wesel1) • Grillo Werke AG, Duisburg1) Pamela Knapp • ARDEX GmbH, Witten (Chairman of the Advisory Board) • Member of the Boards of Management and Supervisory Boards of various European commercial enterprises • Cabot Corporation, Boston, Massachusetts, U.S. • Former CFO of GfK SE Birgit Bierther Further offices: • Chairwoman of the LANXESS Works Council at the Cologne site • NV Bekaert SA, Kortrijk, Belgium (Member of the Board of Directors) •P analpina World Transport (Holding) AG, Basel, Switzerland (Member of the Board of Directors) Further offices: (until August 8, 2019) • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne1) • Compagnie de Saint-Gobain S.A., Courbevoie, France (Member of the Board of Directors – Conseil d’Administration) • Peugeot S.A., Rueil-Malmaison, France (Member of the Supervisory Board – Conseil de Surveillance) • HKP Group AG, Zürich, Switzerland (Member of the Board of Directors) (until October 15, 2019) Werner Czaplik •C hairman of the LANXESS Central Works Council and of the LANXESS Group Works Council •M ember of the LANXESS Works Council at the Leverkusen site Thomas Meiers Further offices: •S ecretary to the Board of Directors, Board Division 3 “Digitalization/Labor/Members” of the German Mining, • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne1) Chemical and Energy Industrial Union (IG BCE), Hanover Dr. Hans-Dieter Gerriets Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne1) •C hairman of the LANXESS Group Managerial Employees’ Committee and Chairman of the LANXESS Managerial • INEOS Deutschland Holding GmbH, Cologne1) Employees’ Committee; manager of a production facility in the Advanced Industrial Intermediates business unit of • INEOS Köln GmbH, Cologne1) LANXESS Deutschland GmbH Further offices: Lawrence A. Rosen • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne1) • Member of the Supervisory Boards of various commercial enterprises • Former member of the Board of Management of Deutsche Post AG, Bonn Dr. Heike Hanagarth Further offices: • Self-employed management consultant • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne1) • Former member of the Board of Management of Deutsche Bahn AG, Berlin • Qiagen N.V., Venlo, Netherlands Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne1) • aichele GROUP GmbH & Co. KG, Bretten (Advisory Board) • Gilde Buy Out Partners BV, Utrecht, Netherlands • NXT Boardroom GmbH, Munich (Advisory Board) 66 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Serving Members Ralf Sikorski • Vice Chairman of the German Mining, Chemical and Energy Industrial Union, Hanover Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne1) (Vice Chairman) • Chemie Pensionsfonds AG, Munich1) (Chair) • RAG AG, Herne1) • RWE AG, Essen1) • RWE Power AG, Cologne and Essen1) (Vice Chairman) • RWE Generation SE, Essen1) • KSBG – Kommunale Verwaltungsgesellschaft GmbH, Essen1) (Vice Chairman) Manuela Strauch • Chairwoman of the LANXESS Works Council at the Uerdingen site • Member of the LANXESS Central Works Council • Vice Chairwoman of the LANXESS Group Works Council Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne1) Theo H. Walthie • Self-employed consultant • Former Global Business Group President for the Hydrocarbons & Energy Business of the Dow Chemical Company Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne1) • NBE Therapeutics AG, Basel, Switzerland (Chairman of the Board of Directors) 1) S tatutory supervisory boards. The information about offices held refers to memberships in other supervisory boards and comparable ­supervisory bodies of companies in Germany and abroad (as of ­December 31, 2019). 67 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Report of the Supervisory Board DEAR STOCKHOLDERS, In November, LANXESS was one of the first major risk management, strategic development, compliance, ­chemicals companies to publish its climate protection manage­ment development, the Group’s digitalization LANXESS developed successfully in 2019 despite the target. The Group intends to go climate neutral and elimiprojects and current issues. On the basis of these reports, still difficult economic environment. As in the previous nate its greenhouse gas emissions by 2040, thus fulfilling we discussed significant business transactions in detail. year, we significantly improved results in three of our its responsibility as a global specialty chemicals company We thoroughly examined the reports and the resolutions four segments. We are increasingly benefiting from our and long-term partner to our customers. proposed by the Board of Management and discussed more balanced portfolio. For example, a sharp volume them at length in meetings of the full Supervisory Board decline in automotive was compensated for in particular LANXESS still expects a difficult environment in 2020. and its committees. If the law, articles of association by earnings improvements in the flame retardant and At present, the potential impact of the spread of coronaor other provisions required the Supervisory Board to biocides businesses. EBITDA pre exceptionals increased virus is particularly hard to predict. However, LANXESS approve the actions of the Board of Management, we slightly to €1.019 billion. will continue to focus on strengthening and balancing discussed these actions in detail and adopted resolutions its product portfolio and investing in organic growth. on them. LANXESS’s transformation into a more stable and ­profitable company continues. Deals were reached for During the reporting year, the Supervisory Board duly The chairs of the Supervisory Board/Presidial C ­ ommittee six important corporate transactions in the second half of and fully performed the tasks and duties incumbent upon and Audit Committee and the Board of Management 2019 alone. For example, a decision was made to sell the it under the law, the articles of association and the rules were in regular contact outside of the Supervisory 40% interest in Currenta, the operator of the chemical of procedure for the Supervisory Board. It regularly Board’s meetings. We discussed the company’s current parks at the sites in the Lower Rhine region. At the same ­advised the Board of Management in its management situation and material transactions. time, Currenta’s site services were secured at attractive of the company and monitored its activity. In the process, terms for the next ten years. In addition, non-strategic we were satisfied at all times by the legality, usefulness parts of the organometallics business were sold, and the and propriety of the Board of Management’s work. The PRINCIPAL TOPICS DISCUSSED BY sale of the chrome chemicals business got under way. Supervisory Board spent a particularly significant amount THE SUPERVISORY BOARD of time dealing with the company’s strategic development in the reporting year. The Supervisory Board met a total of six times in the ­reporting year. Two Supervisory Board decisions were The Supervisory Board was directly involved in all made by written circular. We regularly discussed the sales ­decisions of fundamental importance for the ­company. and earnings performance of the Group and its segments, The Board of Management informed us regularly in as well as the financial position. Additionally, the Board ­written and oral reports about business performance, of Management kept us updated about the overall state the situation of the Group, including the risk situation and of the economy, the situation in the chemical industry, 68 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information the performance of LANXESS stock, investment and and plant safety, which was subsequently discussed by At its meeting on December 11, 2019, the Super­visory acquisition plans, the company’s stock repurchase, and the full Supervisory Board, the company’s Investor RelaBoard reviewed in full and approved the corporate sustainability issues. The Supervisory Board addressed tions department gave us a comprehensive update on the ­planning for 2020 proposed by the Board of Managethe following important issues: perception of LANXESS on the capital market. ment. We also had a detailed discussion about the company’s strategic alignment – including sustainability The focus of the Supervisory Board meeting held on The meeting immediately before the Annual Stockholders’ aspects – and capital expenditure policy. LANXESS has March 13, 2019, was the review of the annual financial Meeting on May 23, 2019, served to prepare the Meeting. set itself the ambitious target of becoming climate neutral statements and consolidated financial statements for fiscal by 2040. As in previous years, current developments in year 2018 and the proposal for use of the distributable At the meeting on August 1, 2019, we chiefly dealt with corporate governance were a topic on the agenda of the profit. We discussed and approved the non-financial Group a significant M&A project at the company. The outcome December meeting. After reviewing compliance with report 2018, which shows the sustainability ­aspects of the detailed discussions and extensive deliberations the recommendations and suggestions of the German ­pursued by the company. The Supervisory Board also diswas the Supervisory Board’s approval of the sale of Corporate Governance Code (GCGC), we resolved to cussed motions for resolution by the Annual Stock­holders’ LANXESS’s 40% capital share in Currenta to Macquarie issue a declaration of compliance. In addition, the Board Meeting. The Board of Management then ­presented the ­Infrastructure & Real Assets. In addition, the Board of of Management presented a potential M&A project to internal control, risk management and auditing systems, Management informed us about a Group-wide project us. Board of Management personnel decisions were and we satisfied ourselves of their efficacy. In addition, the as part of the digital transformation at LANXESS, which ­another focus at this meeting. We were presented with a Supervisory Board decided upon the variable compensaincludes the implementation of a standardized process report on the appropriateness of Board of Management tion for the Board of Management members for fiscal year and system landscape. Finally, the Supervisory Board compensation at LANXESS compiled by an international 2018 on the basis of the identified target attainment. We resolved to amend the wording of the articles of associaHR consulting firm, which we then discussed in detail. also made amendments to the existing Board of Manage­ tion with r­ egard to the Board of Management’s decision On the basis of this report, we reviewed the annual ment contracts. In particular, the LTPB compensation to reduce the company’s capital stock by withdrawing the base salary of Mr. Pontzen and Dr. Fink. To succeed component was changed to a multi-year assessment petreasury shares repurchased in 2019. Dr. ­Rainier van Roessel, who departed as a Board of riod, and a claw-back clause was added. As a result of the Management member in 2019, the Supervisory Board change to the variable LTPB compensation component, The meeting on November 12, 2019, focused on the appointed Dr. ­Stephanie Coßmann as member of the we also updated the declaration of compliance. ­review of the efficiency of the Supervisory Board perBoard of Management and Labor R ­ elations Director formed by an international HR consulting firm. We listened for a period of three years starting January 1, 2020. At the meeting on May 13, 2019, the Supervisory Board to an explanation of the results and discussed them at At the same time, the allocation of responsibilities withresolved to appoint Dr. Anno Borkowsky as an additional length. The review reaffirmed the excellent and construcin the Board of Management was changed. Lastly, the member of the Board of Management for the period from tive cooperation within the Supervisory Board and with ­Supervisory Board defined the conditions for the Board June 1, 2019, to May 31, 2022, and to conclude a Board the Board of Management. Suggestions for improvement of Management’s variable compensation components of Management service contract for Dr. Borkowsky. At were taken on board. The Board of Management also gave for fiscal year 2020. the same time, the allocation of responsibilities within us a report on LANXESS’s research and development the Board of Management was changed. In addition to a activities. full report on environmental protection and occupational 69 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information All members of the Supervisory Board and its committees The Audit Committee met four times during the year. It CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND performed their duties diligently and conscientiously. The dealt in particular with the annual financial statements of DECLARATION OF COMPLIANCE attendance at meetings of the Supervisory Board and LANXESS AG, the consolidated financial statements and its committees was nearly 94% overall. No member of the combined management report for fiscal year 2018, In the year under review, the Supervisory Board disthe Supervisory Board attended half or less than half of the quarterly statements issued during fiscal year 2019, cussed the GCGC. The joint declarations of compliance the meetings of the Supervisory Board and the commitand the condensed consolidated financial statements made by the Board of Management and Supervisory tees of which he or she is a member. An overview of the and interim management report included in the 2019 Board pursuant to Section 161 of the German Stock attendance of individual Supervisory Board members half-year financial report. It also reviewed the company’s Corporation Act can be viewed by stockholders at any at meetings of the Supervisory Board and its commitrisk management and internal control systems. The Audit time on the company’s website. As expressed in the tees can be found on the company’s website. The stock­ Committee also dealt with the concept for approving declarations, LANXESS AG currently complies in full holder representatives and employee representatives to non-audit services and the non-financial Group report with the GCGC’s recommendations. No conflicts of the Supervisory Board always worked together in a spirit 2018. Other topics discussed were the significant findinterest on the part of Supervisory Board members of trust. They regularly held separate meetings at which ings by the internal audit department, corporate planning, became known last year. Further information about they prepared the meetings of the full Supervisory Board. compliance, the perception of LANXESS on the capital corporate governance can be found in the Board of The members of the Board of Management attended the market, and the determination of the principal areas of Management’s declaration pursuant to Section 289f Supervisory Board meetings unless the Chairman of the focus for the audit of the 2019 financial statements. The of the German Commercial Code and in the Corporate Supervisory Board determined otherwise. Committee also found out about the company’s stock Governance Report. repurchase, strategies to hedge currency risks and the recent audit of OTC derivatives contracts pursuant to WORK OF THE COMMITTEES Section 32 of the German Securities Trading Act. The ANNUAL AND CONSOLIDATED external auditor reported on the auditing activities at two ­FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Supervisory Board has four committees: the ­Presidial of the four Audit Committee meetings. Committee, the Audit Committee, the N ­ ominations The annual financial statements prepared by the Board ­C ommittee and the Committee formed pursuant to The Nomination Committee met twice in fiscal year of Management of LANXESS AG in accordance with ­Section 27, Paragraph 3 of the German ­Codetermination 2019. It prepared the Supervisory Board’s nomination the rules of the German Commercial Code, the consolAct. The committees are tasked with preparing the topics of stockholder representatives for the upcoming Superidated financial statements prepared in accordance with and resolutions to be discussed at meetings of the full visory Board elections in 2020. The Committee formed the I­nternational Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Supervisory Board. They also, at times, exercise decision-­ pursuant to Section 27, Paragraph 3 of the German and the combined management report for fiscal year making powers conferred on them by the Supervisory ­Codetermination Act did not need to convene. 2019 were audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH Board. Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, Frankfurt am Main, the The chairmen of the committees each reported on the auditor appointed by the Annual Stock­holders’ M ­ eeting The Presidial Committee convened five times during the meetings and the work of the committees at the meetings on May 23, 2019, and engaged by the Supervisory reporting year to prepare the meetings of the Supervisory of the full Supervisory Board. Board. The auditor issued an unquali­fied opinion in each Board and the decisions to be reached by the full Supercase. The auditor carried out the audit in accordance with visory Board at its meetings concerning human resources Section 317 of the German ­Commercial Code and Regmeasures in the company’s Board of Management. ulation (EU) No 537/2014 of the European Parliament 70 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on specific requireannual financial statements of LANXESS AG and the conments regarding statutory audit of public-interest ­entities solidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group, and repealing ­Commission ­Decision 2005/909/EC which were prepared by the Board of Management. The according to a selection procedure implemented by Supervisory Board endorsed the Board of Manage­ment’s the company. The auditor responsible for the audit was proposal for use of the distributable profit after close Mr. Jörg Sechser. examination and extensive deliberations that ­carefully weighed the best interests of the company and the The Supervisory Board convinced itself of the indestockholders. pendence of the auditor and the persons acting on the auditor’s behalf. CHANGES IN THE The audit reports and the documents relating to the finanSUPERVISORY BOARD cial statements were discussed at length with the Board of Management and the auditor at the ­Audit C ­ ommittee Mr. Ifraim Tairi left the Supervisory Board as employee meeting held on March 9, 2020. They were also disrepresentative as of the end of December 31, 2018. cussed in detail on the basis of the required documents To replace him, Ms. Birgit Bierther was appointed and notes at the Supervisory Board’s financial stateto the S ­ upervisory Board of LANXESS AG as an ments meeting held on March 10, 2020. The r­ esponsible ­employee representative by Cologne District Court on ­auditor was present for the discussions concerning the January 25, 2019. financial statements of LANXESS AG and the consoli­ dated financial statements of the LANXESS Group. The Supervisory Board thanks the members of the Board He reported on the scope, focus areas and significant of Management, all of the Group’s employees around ­findings of the audits and went into particular detail on the world and the employee representatives for their the key audit matters. He was also available to the Audit commitment and work in fiscal year 2019. Committee and full Supervisory Board to provide additional information. Cologne, March 10, 2020 The Supervisory Board Based on the recommendation of the Audit Committee as well as on its own review and in-depth discussions about the financial statements of LANXESS AG, the consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group, the combined management report and the proposal for ­appropriation of the profit, the Supervisory Board endorsed the auditor’s conclusions and had no objecDr. Matthias L. Wolfgruber tions to raise. The Supervisory Board has approved the Chairman 71 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT 73 Fundamentals of the Group 89 Segment Information 73 Group Structure 93 Notes on EBIT and EBITDA 73 Business Activities (Pre Exceptionals) 76 Strategy 93 Statement of Financial Position and Financial Condition 77 Value Management and Control System 101 Management’s Summary of Business Development and the Fiscal Year 79 Business Processes and Employees 102 Key Business Data – Multi-Period Overview 102 Earnings, Asset and Financial Position 82 Economic Report of LANXESS AG 82 Legal Environment 82 Business Conditions 105 Compensation Report 83 Key Events Influencing 114 Report Pursuant to Sections 289a, the Company’s Business 315a of the German Commercial Code (HGB) 83 Comparison of Forecast and 117 Report Pursuant to Sections 289f and Actual Business 315d of the German Commercial Code (HGB) 84 Business Performance of 118 Report on Future Perspectives, Risks and Opportunities the LANXESS Group 88 Business Trends by Region CONTENTS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information GROUP STRUCTURE Management and control organization a chrome ore mine in Rustenburg, South Africa. This LANXESS AG has a two-tier management structure contransaction is expected to be completed by the end of Legal structure sisting of the Board of Management, which manages the 2020. Furthermore, we are at an advanced stage in the LANXESS AG is the parent company of the LANXESS company, and the Supervisory Board, which oversees offer and sale process for the third operation of the Leather Group and functions largely as a management holding the Board of Management with the support of an Audit business unit, the organic leather chemicals business, company. LANXESS Deutschland GmbH is a wholly Committee formed from among its members to advise and likewise expect this transaction to be completed by owned subsidiary of LANXESS AG and in turn controls on financial matters. The Board of Management shapes December 31, 2020. the other domestic and foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. Group strategy and manages resource allocation, infrastructure and organization. As the Group management In accordance with International Financial Reporting The following are the principal companies wholly owned company, LANXESS AG is responsible for financing and Standards (IFRS 5), the income statements of previous by LANXESS AG directly or indirectly: for communication with the company’s key stakeholders. periods were restated and earnings from discontinued operations shown in a separate line. The statements of Principal Direct or Indirect Subsidiaries of financial position were not restated for reporting dates LANXESS AG BUSINESS ACTIVITIES before December 31, 2019. The Leather business unit’s Company Name and Function Segments intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are Domicile Business organization and material not subject to any further amortization or depreciation Advanced Intermediates/ changes in the Group portfolio and are recognized at the lower of carrying amount and LANXESS ­Deutschland Specialty Additives/ GmbH, Cologne, Production Performance Chemicals/ As part of the strategic realignment of the LANXESS fair value less costs to sell. In the disclosures below, we Germany and sales Engineering Materials­ Group, we decided to sell all operations of the Leather generally do not point out that prior-year figures have been Advanced Intermediates/ business unit, comprising chrome chemicals, the chrome restated in this context. In places where this is not the case, LANXESS Solutions US Production Specialty Additives/ Inc., Middlebury, USA and sales Engineering Materials ore mine and organic leather chemicals. The disposal of this is indicated accordingly. Advanced Intermediates/ all operations of the Leather business unit, which was Specialty Additives/ previously part of the Performance Chemicals segment, LANXESS Corporation, Production Performance Chemicals/ ­Pittsburgh, USA and sales Engineering Materials is expected to be fully completed by the end of 2020, Saltigo GmbH, Production so these operations were recognized as discontinued Leverkusen, Germany and sales Advanced Intermediates operations as of December 31, 2019. LANXESS N.V., Production Advanced Intermediates/ Antwerp, Belgium and sales Engineering Materials LANXESS Sales NetherOn August 12, 2019, LANXESS agreed to sell its chrome lands B.V., Amsterdam, Sales chemicals business to Brother Enterprises, a Chinese manNetherlands organization Specialty Additives ufacturer of leather chemicals. The sale was completed on Advanced Intermediates/ LANXESS India Private Production Performance Chemicals/ January 10, 2020. On November 15, 2019, LANXESS Limited, Thane, India and sales Engineering Materials and Clover Alloys, a South African provider of chrome Great Lakes Chemical sands and concentrates, signed an agreement regarding ­Corporation, Wilmington, USA Production Specialty Additives the sale of our 74% share in LANXESS Chrome Mining (Pty) Ltd., Modderfontein, South Africa, which operates 73 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Further information on the accounting and the i­ncome In the LANXESS consolidated financial statements, the Dr. Coßmann, formerly head of the Human Resources statement of the discontinued operation and the main investment in Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG continues to Group function, succeeded Dr. Rainier van Roessel as items of its statement of financial position can be be recognized at a carrying amount of €0 and classified a member of the Board of Management effective Janufound in the “Discontinued operations” section of the as assets held for sale as of the reporting date. ary 1, 2020. Dr. van Roessel retired at the end of the year. notes to the consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2019. We completed the sale of our 50% interest in A ­ RLANXEO Dr. van Roessel’s departure also resulted in changes in the to the Saudi Aramco subsidiary Aramco Overseas Holdallocation of responsibilities within the Board of Manage­ On August 6, 2019, LANXESS signed an agreement ings Coöperatief U.A., The Hague, Netherlands, on ment. Alongside her role as member of the Board of to sell its 40% stake in Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, ­December 31, 2018. We had been reporting ARLANXEO Manage­ment and Labor Relations Director, Dr. Coßmann Leverkusen, Germany. Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG as a discontinued operation in accordance with IFRS 5 has also taken over responsibility for the Human Resources operates the chemical parks in Leverkusen, Dormagen since April 1, 2018. We received a payment of approxGroup function from Dr. van Roessel. In addition, she has and Krefeld-Uerdingen (all Germany). The buyers are imately €1.4 billion from Saudi Aramco for our share in assumed responsibility for the Legal and Compliance investment funds managed by Macquarie Infrastructure ARLANXEO. Pension assets were increased by €200 Group function, which previously lay with Chairman of the and Real Assets (MIRA). We expect the transaction to be million from these funds as of the end of the previous year Board of Management, Mr. Matthias Zachert. Mr. Zachert completed at the end of April 2020. and debt was reduced as a result. In the first half of 2019, has taken over responsibility for the Liquid Purification own shares were purchased on the stock exchange for Technologies and Material Protection Products business In connection with the sale, the 40% stake in C ­ urrenta another €200 million (not including incidental expenses), units from Dr. van Roessel. Responsibility for the Inorganic GmbH & Co. OHG held by LANXESS is valued at an which were canceled in July 2019. Pigments business unit has been transferred to Board of equity value (enterprise value less net debt and pension Management member Dr. Hubert Fink. Dr. Borkowsky liabilities) of approximately €780 million before income The Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG has appointed has taken over the coordination of LANXESS’s r­ egional taxes. In addition, LANXESS receives a profit share until Dr. Anno Borkowsky and Dr. Stephanie Coßmann as new and country organizations. There was no change in the completion of the sale. members of the Board of Management. ­responsibilities for Mr. Michael Pontzen, who had taken responsibility for the new Global Business Services Group We have also agreed service and supply contracts with Effective June 1, 2019, the appointment of Dr. ­Borkowsky function in fall 2019. MIRA for the three chemical parks in question, initially for expanded the Board of Management to five members. ten years. This long-term contract package secures us Dr. Borkowsky, formerly Head of the Additives business reliable infrastructure at competitive conditions into the unit, is taking over the management of the Specialty future, and the sale of the investment gives us additional ­Additives segment as part of his Board of Management financial flexibility. role. At the same time, the Additives business unit ­assigned to this segment has been split into the two business units Polymer Additives and Lubricant Additives Business. The Specialty Additives segment, which also includes the ­Rhein Chemie business unit, has therefore comprised three business units since June 1, 2019. 74 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information The segments in brief Our solutions based on specialty additive chemicals are We report our application-oriented process and The business activities that LANXESS combines in its combined in the Specialty Additives segment. ­functional chemicals operations in the Performance ­Advanced Intermediates segment make it one of the Chemicals segment. world’s leading suppliers of industrial chemical interSpecialty Additives mediates and a key player in the custom synthesis and Business units Polymer Additives Performance Chemicals ­manufacturing of chemical precursors and specialty Lubricant Additives Business Business units Inorganic Pigments ­active ingredients. Rhein Chemie Material Protection Products Sites Burzaco, Merlo, Argentina Liquid Purification Technologies Porto Feliz, Brazil Sites Sydney, Australia Advanced Intermediates Nantong, Qingdao, China Porto Feliz, Brazil Business units Advanced Industrial Intermediates Krefeld-Uerdingen, Leverkusen and Changzhou, Shanghai, Ningbo, China Saltigo ­Mannhein, Germany Bitterfeld, Dormagen, Krefeld-Uerdingen Sites Antwerpen, Belgium Epierre, France and Leverkusen, Germany Liyang, China Trafford Park, Great Britain Branston, Sudbury, Great Britain Bergkamen, Brunsbüttel, Dormagen, Jhagadia, India Jhagadia, India ­K refeld-Uerdingen, Leverkusen, Germany Latina, Italy Singapur Jhagadia, Nagda, India Toyohashi, Japan Vilassar de Mar, Spain Pyeongtaek, Republic of Korea1) Elmira, West Hill, Canada Burgettstown, Memphis, Pittsburgh, USA Baytown, Bushy Park, Mapleton, USA Altamira, Mexico Applications Color pigments Applications Agrochemicals Lipetsk, Russia Disinfection, Preservation and Automotive Kaohsiung, Taiwan Material Protection Products Construction Chardon, Charleston, East Hanover, Products for water treatment Aromas and flavors El Dorado, Fords, Greensboro, Pharmaceuticals Little Rock, USA) Rubber chemicals Applications Phosphorous-based or brominated flame retardants Semiconductors and photovoltaics Lubricants Colorants, polymer additives 1) S  ite disposed of as part of the sale of the business with gallium-based organometallics as of January 31, 2020. 75 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information We have combined our engineering plastics activities in Our portfolio adjustments followed a clear strategic move around the average level by no more than two to the Engineering Materials segment. ­direction, with the successful reduction of the f­ormerly three percentage points in the future. A sound investvery high automotive portion in favor of consumer ment-grade rating remains a strict goal of our conservative Engineering Materials ­applications and the expansion of our presence in financial policy. Business units High Performance Materials ­medium-sized, partially regulated, and thus protected Urethane Systems markets for specialty businesses. This balanced structure Clear commitment to sustainability Sites Antwerp, Belgium of our customer markets is intended to provide us with LANXESS intends to drive the change as a sustainable Porto Feliz, Brazil stability, especially in phases of economic downturn. chemicals company with long-term success. We clearly Nantong, Wuxi, China The strengthening of our business with disinfectants and expressed this ambition in our new climate protection Brilon, Hamm-Uentrop and Krefeld-Uerdingen, Germany preservatives is driving profitability and growth. However, targets, which we set in 2019. By 2030, we want to Baxenden, Great Britain our strategy also entails separating from businesses for reduce greenhouse gas emissions from our production Jhagadia, India which we no longer see long-term development prosand emissions from the energy generation required for Latina, Italy pects at LANXESS. our production by another 50%, so that LANXESS will Gastonia, Perth Amboy, U.S. have reduced its emissions by 75% compared to 2004, Applications Automotive Electrical/electronics We invest in our businesses in order to promote organic the year it was founded. In 2040, we ultimately plan Construction growth. Our focus is on expanding capacity and makto be climate neutral by neutralizing the emissions still Medical equipment ing additions to existing facilities and plants. We regard remaining at that date via appropriate offsetting meaMining targeted investments in our research and development sures. Our engagement for sustainable development is Tires and wheels activities as another driver of long-term growth. Our also demonstrated by the fact that ESG (“environmental, Oil and gas Industrial and mechanical goods innovation strategy is based on three pillars: product social and governance”) criteria are accounted for in research closely aligned to the market and customer our chief credit facility for the first time. The interest rate requirements, centrally managed process research terms of the syndicated credit facility signed in Decem­focusing on energy and raw material efficiency, and ­agile ber 2019 of €1 billion depend in part on the successful STRATEGY digitalization projects. reduction of our greenhouse gas emissions and the ­increase in the proportion of women at the top three Value-based, responsible and reliable action, combined Clear financial targets for 2021 levels of ­management. with clear strategic guidelines, serves as LANXESS’s The targets we have set for 2021 envisage an average strategic compass. We build on integrated value chains, operating earnings margin – measured in terms of EBITDA sustainable, competitive products and sites, and on our pre exceptionals – of between 14% and 18% over the strengths in mid-sized markets with generally above-­ course of a business cycle. Moreover, the margin should average growth rates. 76 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information VALUE MANAGEMENT AND and income from the reversal of provisions established ­CONTROL SYSTEM in this connection, and reductions in earnings resulting from portfolio adjustments or purchase price allocations. Value Management and Control System Grants and subsidies from third parties for the acquisition and construction of property, plant and equipment 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 are accounted for as deferred income using the gross EBITDA pre e ­ xceptionals1) € million 885 995 925 986 1,019 method. In this respect, no adjustments other than for EBITDA margin pre exceptionals1) % 11.2 12.9 14.2 14.4 15.0 Capital employed2) € million 5,043 7,479 7,463 5,204 5,588 gross depreciation and amortization are made when ROCE % 8.4 6.9 9.3 11.4 10.0 calculating EBITDA pre exceptionals. Days of sales in inventory (DSI) Days 67.2 67.2 64.7 68.6 65.7 Days of sales outstanding (DSO) Days 47.6 51.1 50.7 46.0 42.3 Every operational decision or achievement is judged Net financial liabilities Mio. € 1,211 2,394 2,252 1,923 2,522 in the short and long term by its sustainable impact on Net financial liabilities after deduction of short-term money market investments EBITDA pre exceptionals. As part of the annual budget and securities € million 1,211 269 2,252 1,381 1,742 and planning process, targets are set for this benchNet financial debt ratio 1.4x 0.3x 1.7x 1.4x 1.7x mark of our company’s success, which are then taken Investment ratio1) % 5.5 5.7 6.1 7.0 7.5 into account in determining employees’ variable income 1) Figures restated and as in reporting year 2018 not including ARLANXEO. components. 2) C apital employed as of December 31, 2018 and of December 31, 2019, adjusted. See “Profitability” for details. Simple revenue data such as net sales are not among To achieve our strategic goals, we need indicators that we Earning power the Group’s controlling parameters because they do can use to measure the outcomes of our activities. The The key indicator for steering the earning power of the not permit any direct conclusions about our profitability. most important indicator of our financial performance – LANXESS Group and the individual segments is EBITDA Volatile raw material prices are a hallmark of our indusand thus the company’s key controlling indicator – is pre exceptionals. It is calculated from EBIT by adding try and their fluctuation throughout the year impacts EBITDA (operating earnings before depreciation, amortiback depreciation and impairments of property, plant our selling prices. This influences sales but, other than zation, write-downs, and reversals) pre exceptionals. We and equipment as well as amortization and impairments through short-term alignment effects, generally has no view other financial performance ratios such as return of intangible assets, subtracting reversals of impairment impact on the absolute margins that are significant to our on capital employed (ROCE), days of sales in inventory charges on property, plant, equipment and intangible profitability. We therefore set sales targets for neither the (DSI), days of sales outstanding (DSO) and the net finanassets, and excluding exceptional items. The latter are short nor medium term. cial debt ratio as company-specific leading indicators or effects that, by nature or extent, have a significant imas a basis for monitoring. pact on the earnings position, but for which inclusion The earnings margins are calculated from the ratios of in the evaluation of business performance over severthe respective earnings indicators to sales. For example, Our success is largely reflected by our earning power, al reporting periods does not seem to be appropriate. the EBITDA margin (pre exceptionals) is calculated as the hence our control system is focused on steering this metric. ­E xceptional items may include write-downs, reversals of ratio of EBITDA (pre exceptionals) to sales and serves impairment charges or the proceeds from the disposal as an indicator of relative earning power at Group level of assets, certain expenses for strategic projects in the and for the individual segments. fields of IT and digitalization, restructuring expenses 77 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Company-specific leading indicators we draw on continuously updated growth forecasts for year was adjusted for an amount of around €985 million. Leading indicators support the timely identification our customer industries and the regions where we do This resulted from unused financial resources invested in of material changes in the company’s earnings, asset business in order to prepare and review sales and capital short-term securities and the assets not allocated to conand financial position and the initiation of appropriate expenditure decisions. tinuing operations in the statement of financial position. measures. The capital employed of fiscal year 2018 was adjusted Profitability for an amount of around €1.2 billion. This resulted from Our annual budget and planning process delivers key Return on capital employed (ROCE) has been ­implemented the financial resources received on December 31, 2018, values for the Group’s earning power and our ability to as a profitability ratio at Group level which indicates for the sale of the 50% interest in ARLANXEO less the finance operations from our own funds as the starting how efficiently we utilize our capital. This makes it an additional pension funding in Germany. point for steering the company. This information is used, ­important criterion in capital expenditure decisions, for for example, to make financing and capital expenditure example. Cost of capital decisions. To ensure a timely response to changes in Borrowing costs are calculated from risk-free interest, market conditions and the competitive environment, we i.e. in our case, from the return on a long-term German EBIT pre exceptionals prepare operational forecasts twice each fiscal year as ROCE = government bond plus a risk premium for industrial comCapital employed the basis for updating the full-year budget and the assopanies in the same risk category as LANXESS. The cost ciated key values used to control the Group. In a­ ddition, Capital employed = Total assets of equity reflects the return expected by investors from an regular forecasts of the key values for our earning power Less deferred tax assets investment in LANXESS shares. Equity investors demand are prepared. Less interest-free liabilities a risk premium because of the greater risk involved in acquiring shares rather than buying government bonds. Certain parameters used in budgets and forecasts are This is known as a market risk premium and is calculated defined centrally and applied uniformly as they have a Interest-free liabilities comprise provisions (except those using the long-term excess return generated by a stock major influence on the key values. Strategic raw ­materials for pensions and other post-employment benefits), investment over an investment in government bonds and have a crucial role in forecasting. The development of ­income tax liabilities, trade payables and items included adjusted by the beta factor denoting the relative risk of procurement prices is significant to the timely adjustment under “other non-financial liabilities.” In addition, we use an investment in LANXESS stock compared with that of of selling prices. Even regional differences in the availa simplified variant of ROCE, called “business ROCE,” to the market as a whole. ability of raw materials over a specific period of time may evaluate the contribution of our business units. become significant. Given the regional diversification of Capital employment our production sites and customer markets, ­exchange In the 2019 reporting year, ROCE was 10.0% and thus To optimize our working capital at the operational level, rate development also affects the earning power ­resulting above our weighted average cost of capital (WACC) we use two key performance indicators: DSO (days of from sales and cost trends, with corresponding reperafter adjustment for comparability. In the previous year, sales outstanding) and DSI (days of sales in inventory). cussions for pricing and hedging strategies. In addition, ROCE was 11.4%. The capital employed of the reporting These show receivables and inventories in relation to 78 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information sales for the previous quarter. In fiscal year 2019, DSI At Group level, we also consider provisions for pensions reduced by the receivables relating to pension obligations was at 65.7 days (previous year: 68.6 days) and DSO and other post-employment benefits to be components recognized under other non-current assets of €78 million at 42.3 days (previous year: 46.0 days). of debt. Compared with the end of 2018, they increased (previous year: €75 million), the total net debt ratio in by €95 million to €1,178 million. Including this additional relation to EBITDA pre exceptionals was 2.5, compared Expenditures for property, plant and equipment are subcomponent of debt, adjusted for related deferred tax with 2.1 at the previous year’s reporting date. ject to rigorous capital discipline and are systematically assets of €288 million (previous year: €279 million) and aligned with the product areas that show the greatest potential for success. We prioritize investment projects Net Financial Liabilities on the basis of financial indicators such as pay-back € million 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 ­period, net present value and ROCE. The investment rate Non-current financial ­liabilities 1,258 2,734 2,242 2,686 2,777 is an indicator that describes cash outflows for capital Current financial liabilities 443 78 633 59 66 expenditures divided by sales. Less: Liabilities for accrued interest (24) (23) (35) (25) (25) Cash and cash equivalents (366) (355) (538) (797) (296) Debt Near-cash assets (100) (40) (50) 0 0 Net financial liabilities are the total of current and non-curNet financial liabilities 1,211 2,394 2,252 1,923 2,522 rent financial liabilities less liabilities for accrued interafter deduction of short-term money market investments est, cash, cash equivalents and near-cash assets and and securities 0 (2,125) 0 (542) (780) Net financial liabilities after deduction of short-term amounted to €2,522 million. After the further deduction money market investments and securities 1,211 269 2,252 1,381 1,742 of short-term money market investments and securities, net financial liabilities as of December 31, 2019, amounted to €1,742 million, compared with €1,381 million at the end of the previous year. The increase was influenced by BUSINESS PROCESSES AND price advantages. We avoid delivery bottlenecks or relithe outflow of cash funds for the stock repurchase and ­EMPLOYEES ance on individual suppliers using strategies like multiple by the recognition of additional lease liabilities compared sourcing. As a result, there were no delivery shortfalls or with the previous year. Procurement bottlenecks in the reporting period that had a material LANXESS uses its centrally managed global procureeffect on our business development. The net financial debt ratio, which we use solely at ment organization – Global Procurement & Logistics – Group level, is defined as net financial liabilities divided to ensure a reliable supply of raw and other materials Procuring chemical raw materials is a high priority at by ­EBITDA pre exceptionals. On the basis of net financial and services. “Global Categories” closely coordinate LANXESS. Our aim is to secure our supplies on the basis liabilities after deduction of short-term money market with our business units to pool their requirements in of long-term contracts. The availability of raw m ­ aterials investments and securities, the net financial debt ratio the raw materials, technical goods, packaging materials, has always been a crucial factor in facility location decias of December 31, 2019, increased to 1.7 from 1.4 at energy, services and logistics segments. Our worldwide sions. We procure key raw materials and utilities in the the previous year’s reporting date. procurement network facilitates purchasing synergies, form of steam and biomass from the immediate vicinity so that we can move efficiently in the market and exploit at several of our production sites. In this way, we not 79 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information only minimize the costs and environmental impact of Antwerp, ­Belgium; Trafford Park, Great Britain; Latina, LANXESS serves the following industries in particuour transportation activities, but also reduce the risk Italy; ­Baytown, El Dorado and Perth Amboy, U.S.; Elmira, lar: chemicals, automotive, construction, electronics, of delivery shortfalls caused by transportation issues Canada; ­Jhagadia and Nagda, India; and Changzhou, agrochemicals, plastics, pharmaceuticals, food, water in particular. ­Nantong and Ningbo, China. For a detailed breakdown treatment and furniture. of our production sites by segment, please see “The segOur biggest suppliers of chemical raw materials in 2019 ments in brief” in this combined management report. Shares of Sales by Industry Sector included BASF, BP, Chevron, Covestro, ExxonMobil, % 2019 INEOS, OXEA, Sasol, Shell Chemicals and TOTAL. Sales organization Chemicals ~ 30 We sell our products globally, to several thousand cusAutomotive ~ 20 Among the most important strategic raw materials tomers in around 150 countries across all continents. Construction and electrical/electronics ~ 20 by far for our production operations in 2019 were LANXESS’s longstanding customer base includes leaders Agrochemicals ~ 10 Others (cumulative share) ~ 20 ­ammonia, benzene, chlorine, cyclohexane, cyclohexain each of its user industries. We have well-established none, sulfur and toluene. In all, strategic raw materials customer relationships in all sales regions. To meet our ­accounted for a procurement volume of approximately customers’ needs, we have set up flexible marketing and In fiscal year 2019, our top ten customers accounted for €1.5 b­ illion in ­fiscal year 2019 (previous year: approxisales structures. We manage our sales throughout the about 19% (previous year: 18%) of total sales. None of our mately €1.6 ­billion). This equates to around 53% of our world through 52 companies owned by LANXESS itself. customers accounted for more than 10% of Group sales. total procurement spend for raw materials and goods In countries where we do not yet have our own company, 44 (previous year: 41) customers accounted for annual in 2019, which amounted to approximately €2.8 b ­ illion we work with local sales partners. sales in excess of €20 million. The number of customers in (previous year: €3.0 billion). Our total procurement each segment varies widely. The comparatively low sales spend in 2019 was around €4.8 billion (previous year: To keep as close as possible to customers and ensure per customer in the Performance Chemicals segment, as around €4.9 billion). they receive individual support, each of our business units well as its broad customer base, reflect the way in which manages its own sales organization. Another competitive its business often involves custom-tailored solutions in Production advantage is derived from having 55 of our own producspecialty chemicals. By contrast, the substantially lower LANXESS is a global producer of specialty chemicals. tion sites in 18 countries. Wherever possible, customers numbers of customers in the Engineering Materials segOur production facilities make anywhere from very small are supplied from production sites in the same region, ment, which nonetheless generate relatively high sales, batches of custom-synthesized products to basic, specialty yielding advantages in terms of time and costs. are typical of the high-performance plastics business. and fine chemicals as well as polymers in quantities of No segment can be considered dependent on just a few several ten thousand metric tons. Sales markets customers. Because of our broad offering, we have business relationOur production facilities are organizationally assigned ships with a large number of customers all over the world. to individual business units. The most important proThese customers need an individualized, well-focused duction sites are located in Leverkusen, Dormagen, the approach, which we are able to provide because our Uerdingen district of Krefeld and Bergkamen, Germany; sales organizations are managed through business units. 80 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Research and development Cost trend and employees Fields of activity and patent strategy Research and development makes an important conResearch and development expenses in 2019 totaled We focus our research and development activities on tribution toward increasing our competitiveness and €114 million, or 1.7% of sales (previous year: €109 milmarket-driven projects with a shortto medium-term time expanding our product portfolio through the developlion or 1.6%). The High Performance Materials, Material horizon. The total number of projects in 2019 was 182 after ment of innovative products and processes as well as the Protection Products, Lubricant Additives Business and 186 in the previous year, 114 (previous year: 108) of which ongoing optimization of existing production processes. Polymer Additives business units together accounted for aimed to develop new products and applications or improve the largest share of these expenses. Material Protection existing ones. The remaining 68 projects (previous year: Organizational focus Products, Urethane Systems, Liquid Purification Tech78) concerned process technology issues with a view to Our research programs are aligned with the needs of nologies and Saltigo were the business units with the reducing costs, improving efficiency or increasing capacity. customers in the end markets. We have therefore consolhighest research intensity as measured by the ratio of idated our product innovation activities in the respective research and development expenses to sales. The results of our activities are protected by patents, business units. where this is possible and expedient. In the course of Research and Development Expenses 2019, we submitted 44 priority applications worldwide. The business units focus their activities on optimizing As of ­December 31, 2019, the full patent portfolio ­included 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 products and product quality, as well as on developing ­approximately 718 patent families covering around Research and new products. The Global Technology & Innovation development 5,220 property rights. ­department within our Production, Technology, Safety & expenses (€ million) 130 131 103 109 114 Environment Group function supports and complements % of sales 1.6 1.7 1.6 1.6 1.7 Employees the business units’ research and development activities, Figures from 2017 not including ARLANXEO and from 2018 not including the As of December 31, 2019, the LANXESS Group had a Leather business unit. with the focus on process innovation. The emphasis total of 15,479 employees, against 15,441 at the closing here is on planning new processes and integrating new date of the previous year. There were 14,304 employees in technologies into our existing production processes with At the end of 2019, we employed 516 people – against continuing operations as of the reporting date after 14,252 the aim of achieving cost and technology leadership. Our 496 in the previous year – in our research and developin the previous year. main research and development units are at the sites in ment laboratories worldwide. Leverkusen, Dormagen, the Uerdingen district of Krefeld As of December 31, 2019, the LANXESS Group had and Mannheim, Germany, and Naugatuck, U.S. We also Number of Employees in Research and Development 1,806 employees in continuing operations in the EMEA operate a center for engineering plastics in Hong Kong. region (excluding Germany), against 1,792 in the previous 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 At our research and development sites, we test materials year. In Germany, headcount rose from 7,352 to 7,558. Year end 585 589 521 496 516 such as innovative flame retardants and engineering plas% of Group The number of employees in the North America region tics for lightweight automotive engineering applications. employees 3.6 3.5 3.4 3.5 3.6 amounted to 2,031 after 2,044 as of December 31, 2018, Figures from 2017 not including ARLANXEO and from 2018 not including the while the workforce in Latin America amounted to 716 Leather business unit. after 704 in the previous year. At the reporting date, we employed 2,193 people in the Asia-Pacific region, which was 167 fewer than at the closing date of the previous year. 81 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Personnel expenses in fiscal year 2019 totaled €1,345 mil­ GDP and Chemical Production in 2019 The chemical industry lion (previous year: €1,258 million). Wages and salaries, at Global chemical production was up 2.0% in financial Gross €1,080 million (previous year: €1,009 million), ­accounted year 2019, driven by the Asia-Pacific region. In Germany, Change vs. prior year ­domes­tic Chemical for the greater part of this figure. Social security contribuin real terms (%) product production there was a decline of 3.5%. tions amounted to €162 million (previous year: €151 milUSMCA (formerly NAFTA) 2.0 (0.5) lion), while pension plan expenses were €90 million (preLatin America (2.0) (0.5) Evolution of major user industries vious year: €86 million) and social assistance benefits EMEA (incl. Germany) 1.0 0.0 Global automobile production was down 4.0% year-onGermany 0.5 (3.5) €13 million (previous year: €12 million). year in the reporting year. The development in Europe Asia-Pacific 4.5 3.5 World 2.5 2.0 was negative overall because of declining sales figures in Germany. A decline of 5.0% was seen in Asia-Pacific, Source for 2019 growth rates: IHS Markit LEGAL ENVIRONMENT which was chiefly attributable to the slump in demand in China in the second half of the year. Latin America grew There were no changes in the legal environment in One euro was worth US$1.12 at the end of 2019. slightly, but had little impact on the global trend as it is ­fiscal year 2019 that would have had a material ­impact The value of the U.S. currency thus grew by 2.6% on less significant than other regions. on the earnings, asset and financial position of the the ­closing price of US$1.15 at the end of 2018. The LANXESS Group or LANXESS AG. U.S. dollar was also stronger on average over the year Agrochemicals saw growth of 1.5%, driven in particular at US$1.12, against US$1.18 in the previous year. Due by growth in Latin America, but also by a positive trend to the regional positioning of our business, a stronger in EMEA and Asia-Pacific. The USMCA economic area BUSINESS CONDITIONS U.S. dollar generally has a positive effect on our ­earnings. posted a decline. Centralized hedging activities limit any impact that cannot The economic environment be neutralized by ensuring that production and sales take The global construction industry grew by 2.0%. This Fiscal year 2019 was characterized by a weakening ecoplace in the same currency area. ­development stemmed mainly from Asia-Pacific and nomic environment. Increasing populist or protectionist EMEA. tendencies and trade conflicts, especially between the Compared with the previous year, procurement prices U.S. and China, had detrimental effects in some areas. for raw materials largely declined, with this development generally being more distinct for aromatics. In a generally strained environment, the global economic growth of 2.5% was driven primarily by the Asia-Pacific region. 82 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Development in the customer industries fell short of COMPARISON OF FORECAST ­expectations, especially in the automotive sector. Thanks AND ACTUAL BUSINESS to the balanced portfolio, however, this had little influence on business as a whole. Comparison of Forecast and Actual Business 2019 Forecast for 2019 in Annual Report 2018 Actual 2019 Evolution of Major User Industries in 2019 Business Change vs. prior AutoAgro ­Con­ development: Group year in real terms motive chemicals struction EBITDA pre exceptionals • Around the previous year’s level (€1,016 million) • EBITDA pre exceptionals from continuing operations: (%) • Previous year’s figure and previous year’s forecast €1,019 million USMCA (formerly including the Leather business unit, now recognized as NAFTA) (2.0) (0.5) (1.0) discontinued operations • T his includes a positive low-double-digit million Latin America 0.5 7.5 (1.5) earnings effect in euros arising from the application EMEA (incl. Germany) (4.5) 1.5 2.0 of the new accounting standard for leases, IFRS 16, Germany (10.5) 0.5 3.0 effective from January 1, 2019 Asia-Pacific (5.0) 1.0 3.0 Business World (4.0) 1.5 2.0 development: segments Source for 2019 growth rates: IHS Markit Advanced Intermediates • Business development slightly above the previous year • EBITDA pre exceptionals well up on the previous year: • Slight improvement in demand for agrochemicals €389 million (previous year: €359 million) business over the course of 2019 • G ood project business in agrochemicals KEY EVENTS INFLUENCING THE Specialty Additives • Business development on a par with or slightly above the previous year • EBITDA pre exceptionals up slightly on the previous year: €353 million (previous year: €343 million) COMPANY’S BUSINESS • Ongoing realization of synergies from the integration • T he improvement in earnings was also due to the of the Chemtura businesses acquired in 2017 will realization of cost synergies from the integration of contribute to this development Chemtura The generally positive business performance was mainly Performance Chemicals • Business development on a par with the previous year • EBITDA pre exceptionals well up on the previous year: influenced by the operating strength of the Advanced €192 million (previous year: €156 million) Intermediates and Performance Chemicals segments, • Previous year’s forecast still included the Leather business unit, now recognized as discontinued which compensated for weak demand from the autooperations motive industry, especially in the Engineering Materials Engineering Materials • Slightly weaker development than in the previous year • EBITDA pre exceptionals well below the previous year: segment. The advantageous change in exchange rates, • Demand will drop, at least temporarily, in the automotive €238 million (previous year: €267 million) industry in particular • Weak demand from the automotive industry led to a especially of the U.S. dollar, had a positive influence in all decline in earnings driven by volumes segments. The generally lower procurement prices for Reconciliation • Considerable deterioration of earnings against • EBITDA pre exceptionals considerably deteriorated raw materials and energy were passed on to customers previous year against previous year: minus €153 million (previous • Reason: general inflation of the cost base and remnant year: minus €139 million) via lower selling prices. costs from the full sale of the synthetic rubber business • This change was due partly to results from hedging currency risks, costs remaining after the disposal of ARLANXEO, and a general cost increase Capital expenditures Cash outflows for capital • Around €500 million • €508 million expenditures 83 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information In the combined management report for fiscal year 2018, BUSINESS PERFORMANCE OF ›› Group sales on a par with the previous year at we predicted that EBITDA pre exceptionals would be THE LANXESS GROUP €6,802 million around the previous year’s level in 2019 (€1,016 mil›› Improvement of EBITDA pre exceptionals by 3.3% lion). We specified our expectation over the course of ›› Strong operating development of the Advanced to €1,019 million fiscal year 2019 to EBITDA pre exceptionals of between I­ntermediates and Performance Chemicals segments ›› Earnings per share from continuing operations pre €1,000 million and €1,050 million and thus stable earn›› Stable business performance of the Specialty exceptionals and amortization of intangible assets ings. The actual earnings from continuing operations Additives segment in a difficult market environment increased from €4.48 to €4.73 amounted to €1,019 million. ›› Positive currency effects largely compensate ›› The presentation of business performance was ­volume and price decline in sales adjusted for the discontinued operations of the We had expected LANXESS AG’s net income accordLeather business unit ing to German commercial law in the reporting year to be substantially lower than in the previous year, which Key Financial Data was influenced by the effects of the disposal of the 50% € million 2018 2019 Change % interest in ARLANXEO. Largely due to the disclosure Sales 6,824 6,802 (0.3) of hidden reserves in connection with the planned sale Gross profit 1,738 1,759 1.2 of the interest in Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG and the EBITDA pre exceptionals 986 1,019 3.3 resulting sharp rise in income from affiliated companies, EBITDA margin pre e ­ xceptionals 14.4% 15.0% – EBITDA 906 910 0.4 net income totaled €463 million after €85 million in the Operating result (EBIT) pre exceptionals 581 557 (4.1) prior-year period. Operating result (EBIT) 491 407 (17.1) EBIT margin 7.2% 6.0% – Financial result (110) (61) 44.5 Income before income taxes 381 346 (9.2) Net income from continuing operations 282 240 (14.9) Net income from discontinued operations 149 (35) < (100) Net income 431 205 (52.4) Earnings per share (€) 4.71 2.32 (50.7) Earnings per share from continuing operations adjusted for exceptional items and amortization of intangible assets (€) 4.48 4.73 5.6 84 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Sales and earnings utilization or volumes. The business is managed priSales of the LANXESS Group in the reporting period Eﬀects on Sales marily on the basis of regular Group-wide forecasts of amounted to €6,802 million, which was at the previous € million/% the Group’s operating result. For additional information, year’s level. In the previous year, the sales amounted to please see “Company-specific leading indicators” in this €6,824 million. The effect of lower sales volumes and 6,824 6,802 management report. (0.9 %) (1.8 %) 2.3 % 0.1 % reduced selling prices was nearly offset in particular by the beneficial development in exchange rates and the Any disclosure of the Group’s order book status at a contribution from the U.S. phosphorus additives busigiven reporting date therefore would not be indicative of ness acquired from the Belgian chemicals group Solvay the Group’s shortor medium-term earning power. For in February 2018. Adjusted for currency and portfolio this reason, no such disclosure is made in this report. effects, the LANXESS Group recorded a 2.7% decrease 2018 Price Volume Currency Portfolio 2019 in operational sales in fiscal year 2019. Gross profit The cost of sales decreased at a slightly faster rate than Group Sales Sales by Segment sales, falling by 0.8% to €5,043 million. The decline € million resulted primarily from lower sales volumes and reduced Pro­ procurement prices for raw materials and energy. By 10,000 portion Change of Group contrast, the movement in exchange rates, particularly of 7,902 7,699 8,000 € million 2018 2019 % sales % the U.S. dollar, led to higher costs. Capacity utilization of 6,530 6,824 6,802 Advanced Intermediates 2,207 2,249 1.9 33.0 78% was 4 percentage points below the previous year. 6,000 Specialty Additives 1,980 1,965 (0.8) 28.9 Performance Chemicals 976 1,052 7.8 15.5 4,000 Engineering Materials 1,576 1,450 (8.0) 21.3 Gross profit was €1,759 million, up by €21 million or Reconciliation 85 86 1.2 1.3 1.2% against the previous year. The positive effect from 2,000 6,824 6,802 (0.3) 100.0 the change in exchange rates was offset by lower sales volumes, lower capacity utilization and associated idle 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 costs. Lower procurement prices for raw materials and Figures from 2017 not including ARLANXEO and from 2018 not including the Leather business unit. Order book status energy were largely passed on to the market by adjusting Most of our business is not subject to long-term agreeselling prices. The gross profit margin was accordingly ments on fixed volumes or prices. Instead, our business higher at 25.9% compared to 25.5%. is characterized by long-standing relationships with customers and revolving master agreements. Our activities are focused on demand-driven orders with relatively short lead times which do not provide a basis for longterm forward-looking statements about our capacity 85 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information EBITDA pre exceptionals and Due to higher freight costs and exchange rate effects, site in Bergkamen, Germany, and to the sale of the busioperating result (EBIT) selling expenses rose by 7.0% to €812 million. Research ness with gallium-based organometallics in ­P yeongtaek, and development expenses amounted to €114 million afSouth Korea, in January 2020. Write-downs for the preter €109 million in the previous year. General administravious year amounted to €15 million, €10 million of which EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals tion expenses decreased by €21 million to €274 million were exceptional items, relating to the closure of pigment € million due partly to lower provisions for variable compensation production at the Jinshan site in Shanghai, China, in and lower costs of the former Chemtura businesses than fiscal year 2019. On the other hand, reversals of write1,250 12.9% 14.4% 15.0% 11.2% 14.2% 986 1,019 in the previous year as a result of synergies. The Group downs totaling €1 million (previous year: €1 million) 995 1,000 885 925 EBITDA margin pre exceptionals came in at 15.0%, were recognized. against 14.4% in the previous year. 750 Other operating result, which is the balance between 500 Please see the table below and “Segment Data” for other operating income and expenses, amounted to ­details on the individual segments. minus €152 million compared with minus €84 million 250 in the previous year. Adjusted for exceptional items, it EBITDA Pre Exceptionals by Segment came to minus €2 million, which was €8 million lower 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 than in the previous year. Figures from 2017 not including ARLANXEO and from 2018 not Change including the Leather business unit. € million 2018 2019 % Advanced Intermediates 359 389 8.4 There were net negative exceptional items of €150 milIn a challenging economic environment, the operating Specialty Additives 343 353 2.9 lion in the reporting year. They resulted from negative result before depreciation, amortization, write-downs Performance Chemicals 156 192 23.1 exceptional items of €158 million and positive exceptional Engineering Materials 267 238 (10.9) and reversals (EBITDA) pre exceptionals increased by items of €8 million, which impacted EBITDA. The negReconciliation (139) (153) (10.1) €33 million, or 3.3%, to €1,019 million in fiscal year 2019, 986 1,019 3.3 ative exceptional items, of which €117 million impacted after €986 million in the previous year. The positive overEBITDA and €41 million did not impact EBITDA, largely all earnings performance at Group level primarily resulted related to expenses in connection with the sale of the from the operating strength of the Advanced IntermeThe operating result (EBIT) of the Group totaled business and the intended end to production of tin-based diates and Performance Chemicals segments, which €407 million compared with €491 million in the previous organometallics at the site in Bergkamen, Germany, the compensated for weak demand from the automotive year. The decrease is primarily attributable to the considsale of the business with gallium-based organometallics industry, especially in the Engineering Materials segment. erable €60 million rise in exceptionals to €150 million in Pyeongtaek, South Korea, in January 2020, strategic The advantageous change in exchange rates, especially (previous year: €90 million). Depreciation, amortization IT projects, digitalization projects, measures to realize of the U.S. dollar, had a positive influence in all segments. and write-downs rose by €88 million to €504 million remaining synergies in connection with the integration In addition, the generally lower procurement prices for (previous year: €416 million), due in roughly equal parts of Chemtura and M&A activities. In the previous year, raw materials and energy were passed on to the market to the changed lease accounting and to write-downs, of net negative exceptional items of €90 million resulted by adjusting selling prices. In addition, the ­application of which €41 million constituted exceptional items. The from negative exceptional items of €106 million and posthe new accounting standard for leases, IFRS 16, resulted latter relate to the sale of the business and the ­intended itive exceptional items of €16 million. The exceptional in a positive earnings effect of €42 million. end to production of tin-based organometallics at the items primarily related to the strategic realignment of the 86 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information LANXESS Group, digitalization projects, and the closure This amounted to €21 million in the reporting year after business unit was recognized as a discontinued operaof pigment production at the Jinshan site in Shanghai, €9 million in the previous year. In addition, the adjusttion. Of the previous year’s net income from discontinued China, in fiscal year 2019. ment of the internal financing of subsidiaries and the operations of €149 million, €154 million was attributable associated currency hedging had a positive impact on to ARLANXEO and minus €5 million to the Leather busiPlease see “Notes on EBIT and EBITDA (Pre ­Exceptionals)” the financial result. ness unit. for details about exceptional items. Income before income taxes Reconciliation of EBIT to Net Income The reconciliation of EBITDA pre exceptionals to the Due to the development of the operating result, income Change operating result (EBIT) was as follows: before income taxes deteriorated by €35 million to € million 2018 2019 % €346 million. Operating result (EBIT) 491 407 (17.1) Reconciliation of EBITDA Pre Exceptionals Income from investments to Operating Result (EBIT) Income taxes ­accounted for using the equity method 0 0 – Change In fiscal year 2019, tax expense amounted to €105 milNet interest expense (69) (54) 21.7 € million 2018 2019 % lion, compared with €99 million the year before. Other financial income and expense (41) (7) 82.9 EBITDA pre exceptionals 986 1,019 3.3 The Group’s tax rate was 30.3%, after 26.0% in the Financial result (110) (61) 44.5 Depreciation and Income before income taxes 381 346 (9.2) amortization/reversals of previous year. Income taxes (99) (105) (6.1) impairment charges (415) (503) (21.2) Income after income taxes Exceptional items in EBITDA (80) (109) (36.3) Net income from continuing operations 282 2413) (14.5) Operating result (EBIT) 491 407 (17.1) Net income for the reporting year amounted to €205 milIncome after income taxes from discontinued operalion, of which €240 million was attributable to continuing tions1) 241 (50) < (100) operations. It was reduced by expenses relating to the Income after income taxes 523 191 (63.5) Financial result strategic realignment of the organometallics business. Income attributable to nonThe financial result came in at minus €61 million in fiscal In the previous year, €282 million of the net income of controlling interests 92 (14) < (100) Net income from year 2019, compared with minus €110 million for the €431 million was allocable to continuing operations. In continuing operations 282 240 (14.9) previous year. The net interest result improved year-onfiscal year 2019, net income included earnings attributable Net income from year by €15 million to minus €54 million due to interest to non-controlling interests of minus €14 million, comdiscontinued operations2) 149 (35) < (100) income from advance payments of income taxes and pared with plus €92 million in the previous year. While Net income 431 205 (52.4) the refinancing of a bond that matured in May 2018 on earnings attributable to non-controlling interests in the 1) In fiscal year 2019, the entire earnings contribution was attributable to the Leather business unit. In the previous year, €251 million was attributable to more favorable terms. As in the previous year, companies reporting year were mainly attributable to the non-conARLANXEO and minus €10 million to the Leather business unit. accounted for using the equity method did not genertrolling interests in our South African mine company, in 2) In fiscal year 2019, the entire earnings contribution was attributable to the Leather business unit. In the previous year, €154 million was attributable to ate an earnings contribution. The other financial result the previous year they resulted almost exclusively from ARLANXEO and minus €5 million to the Leather business unit. was minus €7 million, compared with minus €41 million Saudi Aramco’s interest in ARLANXEO. Net income from 3) Including income attributable to non-controlling interests of €1 million. in the previous year. The improvement in earnings pridiscontinued operations amounted to minus €35 million marily resulted from the payment of a higher dividend in the reporting year and resulted from the accounting in by Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany. accordance with IFRS 5, according to which the Leather 87 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Earnings per share/earnings per share We also calculate earnings per share from continuing for exceptional items, amortization of intangible assets and from continuing operations adjusted for ­operations pre exceptionals and amortization of intangiattributable tax effects. exceptional items and amortization of ble assets, which are not defined by International Financial intangible assets Reporting Standards. This value was calculated from the Earnings per share from continuing operations adjusted Earnings per share are calculated by dividing net income earnings per share from continuing operations adjusted for exceptional items and amortization of intangible assets by the weighted average number of LANXESS shares were €4.73 against €4.48 in the previous year. outstanding during the reporting period. Earnings per share were €2.32, well below the €4.71 recorded in the Reconciliation to Earnings per Share from Continuing ­Operations Adjusted for Exceptional Items and Amortization of Intangible Assets previous year. Earnings per share from continuing operations were €2.72 against €3.08 in the previous year. € million 2018 2019 Earnings per share from discontinued operations were Net income from continuing operations 282 240 minus €0.40 against €1.63 in the previous year. A total Exceptional items1) 90 150 Amortization of intangible assets/reversal of impairment charges1) 84 86 of 4,075,084 own shares were acquired as part of the Income taxes1) (46) (59) stock repurchase, which were canceled on July 9, 2019. Net income from continuing operations adjusted for exceptional items and The stock repurchase was taken into account pro rata temamortization of intangible assets 410 417 poris in the calculation of the average number of shares Weighted average number of shares outstanding 91,522,936 88,334,641 outstanding. This results in a weighted average number Earnings per share from continuing operations adjusted for exceptional items and amortization of intangible assets (€) 4.48 4.72 of shares outstanding of 88,334,641 after 91,522,936 1) Excluding items attributable to non-controlling interests in the previous year. Earnings per Share BUSINESS TRENDS BY REGION 2018 2019 Net income (€ million) 431 205 from continuing operations 282 240 Sales by Market Sales by Market from discontinued operations 149 (35) % 2018 2019 Change Weighted average number of shares 21.0 22.6 € million % € million % % EMEA (excluding Germany) outstanding 91,522,936 88,334,641 EMEA (excludGermany 5.1 4.9 Earnings per share (€) 4.71 2.32 ing Germany) 2,167 31.7 2,128 31.3 (1.8) North America 21.9 from continuing operations (€) 3.08 2.72 22.8 Germany 1,386 20.3 1,251 18.4 (9.7) Latin America from discontinued operations (€) 1.63 (0.40) North America 1,494 21.9 1,554 22.8 4.0 Asia-Paciﬁc 20.3 18.4 Latin America 346 5.1 331 4.9 (4.3) Asia-Pacific 1,431 21.0 1,538 22.6 7.5 31.7 31.3 6,824 100.0 6,802 100.0 (0.3) 2018 2019 88 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information In the reporting period, there were minor portfolio effects North America SEGMENT INFORMATION from the acquisition of the U.S. phosphorus chemicals Sales in this region came to €1,554 million, up by business from the Belgian chemicals group Solvay in €60 million, or 4.0%, on the previous year. After ›› Advanced Intermediates: Considerable earnings the previous year, which primarily affected the North ­adjustment for appreciable currency effects and minor improvement, thanks especially to Saltigo business America region. portfolio effects, sales were down by 1.4%. The ­declining unit’s strong project business business in the Specialty Additives and Engineering ›› Specialty Additives: Earnings improved; sales close EMEA (excluding Germany) ­Materials segments was only partly compensated for to previous year’s level Sales in the EMEA region (excluding Germany) fell by by the sales growth in the Advanced Intermediates and ›› Performance Chemicals: Considerable earnings and €39 million, or 1.8%, to €2,128 million. After adjustPerformance Chemicals segments. margin increase ment for currency effects, sales decreased by 2.1%. The ›› Engineering Materials: Sales and earnings fall short ­Engineering Materials segment’s sales declined by a low Latin America of the strong previous year due to weak demand from doubt-digit percentage, while the Specialty A ­ dditives segIn the Latin America region, sales fell by €15 million, or the automotive industry ment posted low single-digit losses. This was countered 4.3%, to €331 million. Adjusted for currency ­effects, by the business expansion in the Advanced Intermediates there was a decline of 8.1%. Business declined in all Sales by Segment and Performance Chemicals segments, whose growth segments. The Specialty Additives and Advanced % rates were both in the mid-single-figures. The decline in ­Intermediates segments in particular posted a low dou1.2 1.3 the region resulted primarily from the business perforble-digit percentage drop in sales. The situation in the Advanced Intermediates 23.1 21.3 mance in Belgium, Italy and Spain. region was mainly hampered by development in Mexico. Specialty Additives Performance Chemicals 14.3 15.5 Engineering Materials Germany Asia-Pacific Reconciliation 29.0 28.9 In Germany, the Group generated sales of €1,251 million Sales in the Asia-Pacific region increased by €107 million, in fiscal year 2019, down by €135 million, or 9.7%, on or 7.5%, to €1,538 million in fiscal year 2019. Adjusted for 32.3 33.0 the previous year. After adjustment for minor currency currency effects, there was growth of 3.6%. This business effects, sales declined by 10.0%. Business declined in performance was driven by the Performance Chemicals 2018 2019 all segments, but especially the Advanced Intermediates and Specialty Additives segments. The Engineering and Engineering Materials segments. ­Materials segment also contributed to the growth, while the Advanced Intermediates segment’s sales fell slightly short of the previous year’s figure. The main positive contributions in the region came from China. 89 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Advanced Intermediates effect on both business units and increased sales by 1.7% Specialty Additives in total. With the exception of Germany and Latin America, Overview of Key Data the segment reported higher sales than in the previous Overview of Key Data year across all regions. 2018 2019 2018 2019 € Margin € Margin Change € Margin € Margin Change million % million % % EBITDA pre exceptionals in the Advanced Intermediates million % million % % Sales 2,207 2,249 1.9 segment was €389 million, €30 million, or 8.4%, above Sales 1,980 1,965 (0.8) EBITDA pre EBITDA pre the prior-year level. Higher sales volumes in both business exceptionals 359 16.3 389 17.3 8.4 exceptionals 343 17.3 353 18.0 2.9 EBITDA 359 16.3 376 16.7 4.7 units of the segment as well as good project business EBITDA 340 17.2 337 17.2 (0.9) Operating and higher selling prices in the Saltigo business unit had Operating result (EBIT) pre a positive effect on earnings. In the Advanced Industrial result (EBIT) pre exceptionals 232 10.5 239 10.6 3.0 exceptionals 207 10.5 197 10.0 (4.8) Intermediates business unit, the positive effect of lower Operating result Operating result (EBIT) 232 10.5 191 8.5 (17.7) procurement prices for raw materials and energy was (EBIT) 204 10.3 179 9.1 (12.3) Cash outflows countered by lower selling prices. Earnings were improved Cash outflows for capital for capital by advantageous currency effects. The EBITDA margin expenditures 155 162 4.5 expenditures 141 120 (14.9) Depreciation pre exceptionals increased from 16.3% to 17.3%. Depreciation and amortization 127 185 45.7 and amortization 1361) 1581) 16.2 Employees In fiscal year 2019, net negative exceptional items Employees as of Dec. 31 3,687 3,708 0.6 as of Dec. 31 2,953 2,942 (0.4) ­amounted to €48 million, resulting from negative excep1) Net of reversals of write-downs of €1 million tional items of €49 million and positive exceptional items Our Advanced Intermediates segment recorded sales of of €1 million. The negative exceptional items related to the €2,249 million in fiscal year 2019, 1.9% or €42 million strategic realignment of the organometallics business and Our Specialty Additives segment posted sales of more than in the previous year. This was particularly attribthe associated sale of the business and the intended end €1,965 million in fiscal year 2019, close to the previous utable to the positive development in the Saltigo business to production of tin-based organometallics at the site in year’s figure of €1,980 million. The volume decline, which unit, which achieved both higher sales volumes and selling Bergkamen, Germany, as well as the sale of the business reduced sales in the segment by 5.2%, was largely offset prices due to particularly well developed project business with gallium-based organometallics in Pyeongtaek, South by the positive development of exchange rates, higher in agrochemicals. Selling prices in the Advanced Industrial Korea, in January 2020, and constituted exceptional items selling prices, and the U.S. phosphorus additives busiIntermediates business unit were below the previous year’s of which €14 million impacted EBITDA and €35 million ness acquired from the Belgian chemicals group Solvay level because lower raw material prices were passed on. did not impact EBITDA. The positive exceptional items in the first quarter of 2018. While sales volumes in the Overall, there was a negative price effect on sales of 2.7% fully impacted EBITDA. Please see “Notes on EBIT and Polymer Additives business unit exceeded the previous at segment level. Shifts in exchange rates had a positive EBITDA (Pre Exceptionals)” for details. year’s level, volumes declined in the Lubricant Additives 90 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information business unit due among other things to the termination business units of the segment by a parallel adjustment Performance Chemicals of unfavorable customer contracts. In addition, sales were of selling prices. Lower sales volumes in the Lubricant As of December 31, 2019, the Leather business unit is reduced in the Lubricant Additives Business and Rhein Additives Business and Rhein Chemie business units, recognized as a discontinued operation in accordance Chemie business units due to the weak demand from the partly due to weak demand from the automotive industry, with IFRS 5 and is therefore no longer part of the Perforautomotive ­industry. In all the segment’s business units, had a negative impact on earnings. The EBITDA margin mance Chemicals segment. The previous year’s figures the development of exchange rates, especially of the U.S. pre exceptionals improved from 17.3% in the previous have been restated accordingly. dollar, had a positive impact and increased sales by 3.4%. year to 18.0%. Compared with the previous year, selling prices were highOverview of Key Data er in the Polymer Additives and Rhein Chemie business In fiscal year 2019, net negative exceptional items 2018 2019 units. They were lower in the Lubricant Additives business ­a mounted to €18 million, resulting from negative € Margin € Margin Change unit because lower procurement prices for raw materials ­exceptional items of €19 million and positive excepmillion % million % % were passed on. Overall, this had a slightly positive effect tional items of €1 m ­ illion, which impacted EBITDA. Of Sales 976 1,052 7.8 of 0.7% on sales at segment level. The phosphorus addithe negative ­exceptional items, which mainly related to EBITDA pre exceptionals 156 16.0 192 18.3 23.1 tives business acquired in the previous year also made a measures to realize r­ emaining synergies in connection EBITDA 154 15.8 190 18.1 23.4 positive sales contribution of 0.3%. Segment sales were with the i­ntegration of Chemtura, €17 million impacted Operating increased in the Asia-Pacific region. In all other regions, the EBITDA and €2 million did not. In the previous year, the result (EBIT) pre exceptionals 98 10.0 125 11.9 27.6 segment recorded lower sales than in the previous year. segment’s exceptional items amounted to €3 million, Operating result ­resulting from negative exceptional items of €15 mil(EBIT) 86 8.8 123 11.7 43.0 EBITDA pre exceptionals for the Specialty Additives seglion and ­positive ­exceptional items of €12 million. Of Cash outflows for capital ment was €353 million, €10 million, or 2.9%, above the the negative e­ xceptional items, which mainly related expenditures 61 60 (1.6) prior-year level. The improvement in earnings was due to the strategic realignment of the LANXESS Group, Depreciation to good development of the Polymer Additives business €14 million ­impacted EBITDA and €1 million did not. and amortization 68 67 (1.5) unit and the realization of cost synergies from the integraOf the positive exceptional items, which related to the Employees as of Dec. 31 2,557 2,409 (5.8) tion of Chemtura. In addition, earnings were increased in discontinuation of production at the Ankerweg site in particular by advantageous exchange rate effects, espeAmsterdam, Netherlands, €11 million ­impacted EBITDA cially a stronger U.S. dollar. The change in procurement and €1 million did not. Please see “Notes on EBIT and Sales in the Performance Chemicals segment in fiscal prices for raw materials and energy was offset in all three EBITDA (Pre E ­ xceptionals)” for details. year 2019 rose by €76 million, or 7.8%, to €1,052 million. Higher sales volumes, especially in the Material Protection Products and Liquid Purification Technologies business units, had a positive effect on sales and resulted in sales growth of 4.3% at segment level. Shifts in exchange rates also had a positive effect on sales in 91 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information all business units. Overall, there was a positive impact Engineering Materials sales by 1.8%. While higher sales were achieved in the of 2.3% at segment level. Compared with the previous Asia-Pacific and Latin America regions, the segment year, selling prices were higher in the Material Protection Overview of Key Data posted lower sales in the other regions. Products and Liquid Purification Technologies business 2018 2019 units and slightly lower in the Inorganic Pigments busi€ Margin € Margin Change The Engineering Materials segment’s EBITDA pre excepness unit. The change in selling prices increased the million % million % % tionals fell by €29 million, or 10.9%, to €238 million. In segment’s sales by 1.2%. With the exception of Germany, Sales 1,576 1,450 (8.0) particular, the weak demand from the automotive industry EBITDA pre the segment reported higher sales than in the previous led to a decline in earnings driven by volumes. Lower raw exceptionals 267 16.9 238 16.4 (10.9) year across all regions. EBITDA 266 16.9 238 16.4 (10.5) material and energy prices were passed on to the marOperating ket by adjusting selling prices. In addition, earnings were EBITDA pre exceptionals for the Performance Chemicals result (EBIT) pre improved by advantageous exchange rate effects, chiefly exceptionals 206 13.1 172 11.9 (16.5) segment was €192 million, a significant €36 million, or a strong U.S. dollar. The segment’s EBITDA margin pre Operating result 23.1%, above the prior-year level. Higher sales volumes (EBIT) 205 13.0 172 11.9 (16.1) exceptionals came in at 16.4%, against 16.9% a year ago. in particular contributed to the positive earnings trend. Cash outflows for capital The change in exchange rates and the overall effect of No exceptional items were recorded in the segment in expenditures 76 104 36.8 the changes in raw material, energy and selling prices Depreciation fiscal year 2019. In the previous year, negative exceptional also made a positive impact. The EBITDA margin pre and amortization 61 66 8.2 items of €1 million were incurred, which fully impacted exceptionals increased from 16.0% to 18.3%. Employees EBITDA. Please see “Notes on EBIT and EBITDA (Pre as of Dec. 31 2,105 2,203 4.7 Exceptionals)” for details. In the reporting year, negative exceptional items of €2 million, all of which impacted EBITDA, were attri­ Sales in our Engineering Materials segment decreased Reconciliation butable to the segment. In the previous year, n ­ egative by 8.0% year-on-year to €1,450 million in fiscal year ­exceptional items amounted to €12 million, of which 2019. The decline in sales was particularly attributOverview of Key Data €2 million ­affected EBITDA and €10 million did not, able to the High Performance Materials business unit Change and primarily related to the closure of the Inorganic with weak d ­ emand from the automotive industry. Sales € million 2018 2019 % Pigments business unit’s production line at the Jinshan volumes in both of the segment’s business units were Sales 85 86 1.2 site in Shanghai, China. Please see “Notes on EBIT and below the previous year’s level and reduced sales by EBITDA pre exceptionals (139) (153) (10.1) EBITDA (213) (231) (8.5) EBITDA (Pre E ­ xceptionals)” for details. 8.2%. In addition, the selling prices were below the Operating result (EBIT) previous year’s level because lower raw material prices pre exceptionals (162) (176) (8.6) were passed on. Overall, there was a negative price Operating result (EBIT) (236) (258) (9.3) effect on sales of 1.6% at segment level. In contrast, Cash outflows for capital expenditures 49 62 26.5 the change in exchange rates had a positive influence Depreciation and amortization 23 27 17.4 Employees as of Dec. 31 2,950 3,042 3.1 in both business units and increased the segment’s 92 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information EBITDA pre exceptionals for the reconciliation came to Reconciliation to EBIT/EBITDA minus €153 million, compared with minus €139 milEBIT EBIT EBITDA EBITDA lion in the previous year. This change was due partly to € million 2018 2019 2018 2019 results from hedging currency risks, costs remaining EBIT/EBITDA pre exceptionals 581 557 986 1,019 after the disposal of ARLANXEO, and a general cost Advanced Intermediates 0 (48) 0 (13) increase. There were net negative exceptional items of Strategic realignment1) 0 (48) 0 (13) €82 million in the reconciliation in the reporting year. Specialty Additives (3) (18) (3) (16) Strategic realignment 2) (11) (19) (10) (17) They resulted from negative exceptional items of €84 milAdjustment of the production network3) 8 1 7 1 lion and positive exceptional items of €2 million, which Performance Chemicals (12) (2) (2) (2) ­impacted ­EBITDA. The negative exceptional items, of Adjustment of the production network4) (12) (2) (2) (2) which €80 million impacted EBITDA and €4 million did Engineering Materials (1) 0 (1) 0 not impact EBITDA, primarily related to expenses in conStrategic realignment (1) 0 (1) 0 nection with the strategic realignment of the LANXESS Reconciliation (74) (82) (74) (78) Strategic realignment (17) (8) (17) (6) Group, strategic IT projects, digitalization projects and Strategic IT projects (19) (25) (19) (24) M&A costs. In the previous year, net negative exceptional Digitalization, M&A expenses and other (38) (49) (38) (48) items of €74 million, which fully impacted EBITDA, resultTotal exceptional items (90) (150) (80) (109) ed from negative exceptional items of €78 million and EBIT/EBITDA 491 407 906 910 positive exceptional items of €4 million. Please see “Notes 1) T  he exceptional items mainly related to the sale of the business and the intended end to production of tin-based organometallics at the site in Bergkamen, on EBIT and EBITDA (Pre Exceptionals)” for details. Germany, and to the sale of the business with gallium-based organometallics in Pyeongtaek, South Korea, in January 2020. 2) T he exceptional items mainly related to the integration of Chemtura. 3) T he exceptional items mainly related to the consolidation of the production of lubricant precursors and the discontinuation of production at the Ankerweg site in Amsterdam, Netherlands. 4) T  he exceptional items mainly related to the closure of production at the Jinshan site in Shanghai, China. NOTES ON EBIT AND EBITDA (PRE EXCEPTIONALS) EBITDA is calculated from the operating result (EBIT) by STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSIIn order to better assess our operational business and to adding back depreciation and impairments of property, TION AND FINANCIAL CONDITION steer earning power at Group level and for the individual plant and equipment as well as amortization and impairsegments, we additionally calculate the earnings indicators ments of intangible assets and subtracting reversals of Assets and liabilities EBITDA, and EBITDA and EBIT pre exceptionals, none impairment charges on property, plant, equipment and ›› Total assets of €8,695 million as of of which are defined by International Financial Reporting intangible assets. ­ ecember 31, 2019, close to the previous year’s D Standards. These indicators are viewed as supplementary figure of €8,687 million to the data prepared according to IFRS; they are not a EBIT pre exceptionals and EBITDA pre exceptionals ›› Increase in net financial liabilities after deduction substitute. are EBIT and EBITDA before exceptional items. of short-term money market investments and ­securities from €1,381 million to €1,742 million ›› Equity ratio down from 31.9% to 30.4% 93 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Structure of the Statement of Financial Position Non-current assets increased by €279 million to Structure of the Statement of Financial €5,065 million. Property, plant and equipment increased Position – Equity and Liabilities Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2019 Change € € from €2,577 million to €2,724 million. Alongside addi€ million 8,687 8,695 million % million % % tions from capital expenditures, this rise resulted mainly 640 743 ASSETS from the introduction of IFRS 16, the new standard for 879 739 Non-current Equity lease accounting, and the right-of-use assets recognized assets 4,786 55.1 5,065 58.3 5.8 Non-current ﬁnancial liabilities 1,706 1,787 Current assets 3,901 44.9 3,630 41.7 (6.9) in this context. Right-of-use assets of €148 million were Other non-current liabilities Total assets 8,687 100.0 8,695 100.0 0.1 recognized as of December 31, 2019. Property, plant Current ﬁnancial liabilities 2,689 2,779 and equipment were reduced by the reclassification of Other current liabilities EQUITY AND the assets from discontinued operations. There were also ­LIABILITIES Equity (including write-downs relating to the sale of the business and the 2,773 2,647 non-controlling intended end to production of tin-based organometallics interests) 2,773 31.9 2,647 30.4 (4.5) 2018 2019 at the site in Bergkamen, Germany, and to the sale of the Non-current liabilities 4,395 50.6 4,566 52.5 3.9 business with gallium-based organometallics in PyeongCurrent liabilities 1,519 17.5 1,482 17.1 (2.4) taek, South Korea, in January 2020. Intangible assets Cash outflows for purchases of property, plant and equipTotal equity were on a par with the previous year at €1,765 million ment and intangible assets amounted to €508 million, up and liabilities 8,687 100.0 8,695 100.0 0.1 as of December 31, 2019. on the prior-year figure of €482 million. Net of reversals of write-downs of €1 million (previous year: €1 million), Structure of the Statement of depreciation and amortization rose by €88 million from Structure of the statement of Financial Position – Assets the previous year’s figure of €415 million to €503 milfinancial position € million 8,687 8,695 lion. This rise is attributable in roughly equal parts to As of December 31, 2019, the LANXESS Group’s toIFRS 16, the new standard for lease accounting, and 854 1,370 tal assets stood at €8,695 million, €8 million or 0.1% 797 296 to write-downs, which primarily related to the strategic Intangible assets and property, higher than at the end of the previous year. As of Decemplant and equipment realignment of our organometallics business. Depreci2,250 1,964 ber 31, 2019, LANXESS recognizes the Leather busiOther non-current assets ation on the right-of-use assets from leases amounted Inventories and receivables 445 576 ness unit as a discontinued operation in accordance with to €49 million in the current fiscal year. Depreciation of Cash and cash equivalents IFRS 5. Assets and liabilities assigned to discontinued Other current assets €5 million was recognized on assets from finance leases operations were reclassified to “Assets held for sale and 4,341 4,489 in the previous year. At €324 million, deferred tax assets discontinued operations” and “Liabilities directly attributwere up €37 million on the previous year. The ratio of able to assets held for sale and discontinued operations.” non-current assets to total assets increased from 55.1% 2018 2019 to 58.3% as of December 31, 2019. 94 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Current assets decreased by €271 million, or 6.9%, comEquity fell by €126 million, or 4.5%, to €2,647 milCurrent liabilities came to €1,482 million, down by pared with December 31, 2018, to €3,630 million. The lion compared with December 31, 2018. The decline €37 million, or 2.4%, compared with December 31, 2018. €134 million or 14.8% decline in trade receivables to ­resulted primarily from the buyback of own shares and Other current financial liabilities increased from €59 mil€769 million resulted in part from adjustments in sellthe dividend payment in 2019. The ratio of equity to lion to €66 million. The increase resulted from a rise in ing prices driven by raw materials. At 42.3, days of sales the Group’s total assets was 30.4% as of December lease liabilities, which offset a decline in liabilities to banks. outstanding (DSO) were below the previous year’s figure 31, 2019, compared with 31.9% in the previous year. In addition, other current provisions fell by €56 million of 46.0 days. Inventories were down by €152 million, or to €409 million. Trade payables declined by a total of 11.3%, to €1,195 million, partly as a result of lower volNon-current liabilities increased by €171 million to €139 million to €656 million due partly to raw material umes. At 65.7, days of sales in inventory (DSI) were below €4,566 million. Provisions for pensions and other prices and the reclassification of liabilities from disconthe previous year’s figure of 68.6 days. The reclassification post-employment benefits increased by €95 million to tinued operations. The ratio of current liabilities to total of the assets from discontinued operations also affected €1,178 million. The effect of lower discount rates for penassets was 17.1% as of December 31, 2019, after 17.5% the decline of trade receivables and inventories. sion obligations (decline from 2.0% to 1.3% in ­Germany) at the end of 2018. was partially offset by the reclassification of the provisions Cash and cash equivalents fell from €797 million to from discontinued operations. At €2,522 million, net financial liabilities were up on the €296 million, due in particular to short-term money market figure as of December 31, 2018, of €1,923 million. After investments and investments in securities, the acquisition Other non-current provisions amounted to €337 mildeduction of short-term money market investments and of own shares worth €200 million, and the dividend paylion, coming close to the previous year’s figure of securities, they declined to €1,742 million as of December ment of €79 million in May 2019. Current financial assets €338 million. Other non-current financial liabilities rose 31, 2019. The invested funds originally came from the rose from €598 million to €864 million in the reporting by €91 million from €2,686 million to €2,777 million, purchase price payment received for the 50% interest in period. The increase was due to the above-mentioned ­primarily due to the introduction of the new standard for ARLANXEO at the end of the previous year. short-term money market investments and investments lease accounting and the associated recognition of lease in securities. The ratio of current assets to total assets was liabilities. Non-current lease liabilities increased from 41.7%, compared with 44.9% as of December 31, 2018. €12 million to €100 million. The ratio of non-­current ­liabilities to total assets was 52.5%, compared with 50.6% as of December 31, 2018. 95 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information The Group’s key ratios developed as follows: In regional terms, 57% of our capital expenditures in the reporting period were made in Germany, 21% in Ratios North America, 14% in the EMEA region (excluding Germany), 6% in Asia-Pacific and 2% in Latin ­America. % 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Capital expenditures in Germany mostly comprised Equity1) our investments to increase capacity and modernize Equity ratio Total assets 32.2 37.7 32.8 31.9 30.4 facilities in all segments, but especially investments in Non-current assets the High Performance Materials, Advanced Industrial Non-current asset ratio Total assets 57.9 45.8 62.0 55.1 58.3 Intermediates and Saltigo business units, with the latter Equity 1) making a large number of smaller investments. Capital Asset coverage I Non-current assets 55.6 82.5 52.9 57.9 52.3 expenditures in EMEA (excluding Germany) were partly Equity1) and non-current liabilities attributable to investments to modernize facilities at the Asset coverage II Non-current assets 125.8 182.4 123.2 149.8 142.4 sites in Antwerp, Belgium, and Latina, Italy. A portion Current liabilities of the capital expenditures in the Asia-Pacific region Funding structure Total liabilities 40.0 26.6 35.1 25.7 24.5 related to the construction of a new production line for 1) Equity includes non-controlling interests. high-performance plastics of the Durethan and Pocan brands at the site in Changzhou, China, which was completed in 2019. Capital expenditures In 2019, our capital expenditures for property, plant and In the reporting year, capital expenditures focused on Cash Outﬂows for Capital Expenditures by Segment equipment and intangible assets amounted to €578 million, the following areas: € million against €501 million in the previous year. Cash outflows 508 482 made up €508 million of this total (previous year: €482 mil›› Expansion and maintenance of existing facilities, 49 62 Advanced Intermediates lion). In the same period, depreciation and amortization construction of new facilities 76 104 totaled €504 million (previous year: €416 million), with ›› Measures to increase plant availability Specialty Additives Performance Chemicals 61 depreciation and amortization being mitigated by reversals ›› Projects to improve plant safety, enhance q­ uality Engineering Materials 60 of write-downs of €1 million (previous year: €1 million). The and comply with environmental protection Reconciliation 141 120 increase in non-cash capital expenditures and depreciation ­requirements and amortization is primarily attributable to the application 155 162 of the new leasing standard, IFRS 16, from January 1, 2019. Around one-third of the capital expenditures in 2019 In addition, the figure for depreciation and amortization went toward expansion or efficiency improvement mea2018 2019 in 2019 included write-downs of €44 million (previous sures, while the rest went to maintain existing facilities. year: €15 million), which primarily related to the strategic realignment of our organometallics business. 96 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Capital expenditures in the Advanced Intermediates Purification Technologies business unit’s ion exchanger Financial position segment amounted to €204 million (previous year: production. There were also various process modifica›› Operating cash flow supported by reduction in net €168 million). At €162 million (previous year: €155 miltions and smaller capacity increases in the Material Proworking capital lion), cash outflows were lower than the depreciation and tection Products and Inorganic Pigments business units. ›› Stock repurchase influences net cash used in amortization of €185 million (previous year: €127 milfinancing activities lion). These included cash outflows in connection with In the Engineering Materials segment, capital expendi›› Liquidity position remains solid the capacity expansion of special-amine production in tures totaled €111 million (previous year: €77 million), the Advanced I­ndustrial Intermediates business unit at €104 million (previous year: €76 million) of which were The statement of cash flows shows inflows and outthe Leverkusen site in Germany, which was completed cash outflows. Depreciation and amortization came to flows of cash and cash equivalents by type of business in the first half of 2019. In addition, production capacity €66 million (previous year: €61 million). A high eightoperation. for hexanediol and menthol in the Advanced Industrial f­igure sum in euros of the capital expenditures in this Intermediates business unit is being expanded at the site in segment was invested in new production capacity for Cash Flow Statement Krefeld-Uerdingen, Germany. These expansion measures high-performance plastics of the Durethan and Pocan € million 2018 2019 Change have an investment volume totaling €60 million. brands in the High Performance Materials business unit. Income before income taxes 381 346 (35) These brands are used in particular in the IT and electriDepreciation and a­ mortization/ Capital expenditures of €128 million were made in the cal/electronics industries and in the field of electric moreversals of impairment charges 415 503 88 Specialty Additives segment (previous year: €144 milbility. In addition, Durethan is used as a base resin in the Other items (176) (283) (107) Net cash provided by ­operating lion). Cash outflows made up €120 million of this total production of continuous-fiber-reinforced thermoplastic activities – continuing­operations (previous year: €141 million). By contrast, depreciation composites of the LANXESS brand Tepex. As well as the before change in net working and amortization stood at €158 million (previous year: construction of a new production facility at the site in capital 620 566 (54) Change in net working capital (179) 68 247 €136 million). A significant portion of the capital expenKrefeld-Uerdingen, Germany, a new compounding facility Net cash provided by ­operating ditures went toward the production network for flame at the site in Changzhou, China, was commissioned in activities – continuing operations 441 634 193 retardants in the Polymer Additives business unit. In September. In addition, the High Performance Materials Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities – continuing addition, the Rhein Chemie business unit invested in business unit invested a total of around €10 million in operations 80 (697) (777) capacity expansion for dyes of the Macrolex brand. The two new production lines in Brilon, Germany, which were Net cash used in financing expanded facility was commissioned in 2019. commissioned in the third quarter of 2019. activities – continuing operations (160) (431) (271) Change in cash and cash equivalents from continuing operations 361 (494) (855) In the Performance Chemicals segment, capital expenThe Urethane Systems business unit also invested in Change in cash and cash equivalents ditures came to €64 million (previous year: €63 million), production capacity for pre-polymers at the Porto Feliz from discontinued operations (96) (8) 88 €60 million (previous year: €61 million) of which were site in Brazil. The facility was commissioned in mid-2019. Cash and cash equivalents as of December 31 797 296 (501) cash outflows. By contrast, depreciation and amortization of which stood at €67 million (previous year: €68 million). For continuing operations 797 296 (501) example, the capital expenditures related to the Liquid of which discontinued operations 0 0 0 97 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information The following comments on the statement of cash flows Investing activities resulted in a cash outflow of €697 milamounted to €90 million, and interest payments and relate to LANXESS’s continuing operations. lion in fiscal year 2019, compared with a cash inflow other financial disbursements amounted to €66 milof €80 million in the prior-year period. The previous lion. While lease payments were previously shown in Cash provided by operating activities, before ­changes year’s cash inflow resulted from the financial resources of cash flow from operating activities, these items have in net working capital, decreased by €54 million to €1,427 million received from the sale of the 50% interest included both the repayment and interest portion of lease €566 million in fiscal year 2019. The starting point was in ARLANXEO less divested cash and cash equivalents payments since the introduction of IFRS 16, the new income before income taxes of €346 million, which of €123 million. This was countered in the previous standard for lease accounting. In contrast, short-term was down €35 million year-on-year. Net of reversals year by the investment in time deposits and securities leases and leases for low-value assets continue to be of write-downs, the depreciation and amortization of as well as the addition to pension assets. The net cash expensed immediately and reduce net cash provided €503 million were up €88 million on the previous outflow in the reporting period resulted in particular from by operating activities. year’s figure of €415 million. This rise was attributable cash outflows for financial assets in connection with the in roughly equal parts to the introduction of IFRS 16, the ­investment of the financial resources received at the end The net decrease in cash and cash equivalents from connew standard for lease accounting, and to write-downs of the previous year from the sale of the 50% interest in tinuing operations in fiscal year 2019 was €494 million, primarily in connection with the strategic realignment of ARLANXEO. Cash inflows from financial assets due to after an increase of €361 million in the previous year. our ­organometallics business. Depreciation on the rightthe maturity of short-term money market investments had After taking into account currency-related and other of-use a­ ssets from leases amounted to €49 million in the an opposing effect. In addition, the sale of the business changes in cash and cash equivalents of €1 million, cash current fiscal year. In the previous year, depreciation of with tin-based organometallics resulted in cash inflows and cash equivalents at the closing date amounted to €5 million was recognized on assets from finance leases. of €20 million. In contrast, cash outflows for purchases €296 million, against €797 million at the previous year’s The other items in the reporting year included tax payof intangible assets and property, plant and equipment closing date. On December 31, 2019, the Group continments, effects from currency hedging of intercompany increased as planned from €482 million to €508 million. ued to have a solid liquidity position. loans, and cash outflows for variable compensation as Interest and dividends received totaled €26 million, up well as restructuring measures. €11 million on the previous year’s figure, driven primarily Free cash flow – the difference between the cash inflows by the payment of a higher profit distribution by Currenta from operating activities and the cash used for capital The change in net working capital against December GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany. expenditures for property, plant and equipment and intan31, 2018, resulted in a cash inflow of €68 million after gible assets – increased by €167 million to €126 million. a cash outflow of €179 million in the previous year. The Net cash used in financing activities came to €431 milinflow in the reporting period resulted in particular from lion, against €160 million the year before. A new Eurothe decrease in inventories and trade receivables, while bond with a volume of €500 million was placed in the the decline in trade payables had a countervailing effect. previous year. The cash outflow in the reporting period Therefore, the net cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to payments for stock repurchases of totaled €634 million, up on the previous year’s figure €200 million and the dividend payment of €79 million to of €441 million. LANXESS shareholders. The repayment of borrowings 98 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Principles and objectives of financial park operator Currenta serves as confirmation of the rating with a stable outlook, Moody’s a “Baa2” rating ­management rating agencies’ assessment of LANXESS’s improved with a stable outlook, and Scope Ratings a “BBB+” rating LANXESS pursues a conservative financial policy characrisk profile. Standard & Poor’s gives LANXESS a “BBB” likewise with a stable outlook. terized by the forward-looking management of financial risks. Our aim is to be able to provide sufficient liquidity to Development of ­L ANXESS Ratings and Rating Outlook Since 2015 our business operations at all times, regardless of cyclical 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 fluctuations in the real economy or financial markets. The Standard & Poor’s BBB–/positive BBB–/negative BBB–/stable BBB/stable BBB/stable debt level is largely aligned with the ratio systems of the Sep. 24, 2015 Sep. 26, 2016 Jul. 31, 2017 Oct. 16, 2018 Sep. 5, 2019 leading rating agencies for investment-grade companies Moody’s Investors Service Baa3/stable Baa3/stable Baa3/stable Baa2/stable Baa2/stable Jul. 2, 2015 Sep. 26, 2016 Oct. 20, 2017 Aug. 23, 2018 Aug. 26, 2019 and, along with free cash flow, is the focus of financial Scope Ratings BBB+/stable BBB+/stable management. In addition to liquidity risk, financial manAug. 15, 2018 Jul. 23, 2019 agement also covers other financial risks, such as interest and foreign exchange risks. Here too, we aim to mitigate the financial risks that arise and thereby increase planning Financing analysis reliability, partly by using derivative financial instruments. In fiscal year 2019, LANXESS retained a balanced Other current financial liabilities increased from €59 milDetailed information about the management of these ­financing structure and a solid liquidity position. The lion in the previous year to €66 million. The increase risks is contained in the “Opportunity and risk report.” next bond will mature in October 2021. The existing debt ­resulted primarily from the introduction of the new issuance program allows the very flexible placement of ­leasing standard, IFRS 16, and the associated increase LANXESS Group ratings bonds on the capital market. As of December 31, 2019, in lease liabilities. In the previous year, liabilities were Access to the capital markets and good relations with around €2.2 billion of the €5.0 billion financing ­facility only recognized from finance leases, which were used German and international commercial banks are essenhad been utilized to issue bonds and private placeonly to a limited extent in the LANXESS Group. The tial for achieving our financial management objectives. ments. The volume of the debt issuance program can ­introduction of IFRS 16 means that, in addition to finance Accordingly, ongoing dialog and communication with be ­adjusted flexibly in line with future requirements so as leases, payment obligations under contracts previously banks, investors and rating agencies are of crucial importo ensure financial headroom. Capital market ­financing classified as operating leases are also recognized as tance. In 2019, all three rating agencies confirmed their is a central component in LANXESS’s financing mix, lease liabilities. As of December 31, 2019, total lease assessment of LANXESS’s creditworthiness. The rating which is subject to regular review to ensure the adequate liabilities were up to €141 million from €17 million in agencies take a positive view of LANXESS’s continuous diversification of our financing sources and our strategic the previous year, due primarily to the introduction of transformation into a specialty chemicals company with alignment. IFRS 16. Liabilities to banks decreased. a focus on stable businesses in small and medium-sized niche markets. The agreed sale of shares in the chemical 99 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information On December 31, 2019, LANXESS had a small amount Financing Structure of financing items that were not reported in the statement Instrument Amount Term Interest Financial of financial position in the form of short-term leases and € ­million rate % covenant leases of low value. Eurobond 2016/2021 (€500 million) 498 October 2021 0.250 no November The Group’s total financial liabilities, net of accrued Eurobond 2012/2022 (€500 million) 498 2022 2.625 no ­interest, increased from €2,720 million in 2018 to Eurobond 2018/2025 (€500 million) 494 May 2025 1.125 no Eurobond 2016/2026 (€500 million) 494 October 2026 1.000 no €2,818 million as of December 31, 2019. Net financial December liabilities – defined as total financial liabilities net of cash, Hybrid bond 2016/2076 (€500 million) 490 2076 4.500 no cash equivalents, accrued interest and near-cash assets Private placement 2012/2022 (€100 million) 100 April 2022 3.500 no – amounted to €2,522 million at the end of the reporting Private placement 2012/2027 (€100 million) 99 April 2027 3.950 no Other loans 4 n/a no year, up from €1,923 million as of December 31, 2018. Finance lease 141 n/a no As of December 31, 2019, moreover, short-term money Total financial l­ iabilities 2,818 market investments and securities were held totaling Cash and cash equivalents 296 ≤ 3 months €780 million. Net financial liabilities after deduction of Near-cash assets 0 ≤ 3 months short-term money market investments and securities Total liquidity 296 Net financial liabilities 2,522 amounted to €1,742 million at the end of 2019. Of the less short-term money market investments and securities 780 total financial liabilities, almost 100% bear a fixed interest Net financial liabilities after deduction of short-term money market rate over the term of the financing, which is unchanged investments and securities 1,742 from the previous year. Interest rate changes do not have a material effect on LANXESS’s financial condition considering the current financing structure. The proportion of The other loans relate mainly to a financial commitment equivalents, LANXESS holds short-term money market loans and bonds denominated in euros averaged 100% to the “High-Tech Gründerfonds III.” No refinancing investments and securities of €780 million. There are in the reporting year, up slightly on the prior-year level of risks existed at the time these financial statements were also additional liquidity reserves in the form of undrawn 99%. The weighted average interest rate for our financial prepared. credit lines. Money market investments are largely held liabilities in euros of 2.0% at year-end 2019 was on a par at banks. with the previous year. Liquidity analysis Around 60% of our cash and cash equivalents of Thanks to our good liquidity position, our solvency was The following overview shows LANXESS’s financing €296 million are held in Group companies in countries assured at all times in fiscal year 2019. structure as of December 31, 2019, in detail, including with no restrictions on foreign exchange and capital its principal liquidity reserves. transfers. The remaining approximately 40% are held By far the most important of LANXESS’s credit lines is the in companies in regulated capital markets where cash syndicated credit facility of €1.0 billion, which was signed transfers are restricted. In addition to cash and cash in December 2019 and has a basic term until December 100 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information 2024. The credit facility is tied to ESG (“environmental, segments, they fell short of the previous year in the EngiThe equity ratio fell from 31.9% to 30.4%. Total assets social and governance”) criteria. The interest rate terms neering Materials and Specialty Additives segments, due increased from €8,687 million to €8,695 million. depend in part on the successful reduction of Scope 1 partly to weak demand in the automotive industry. Shifts greenhouse gas emissions and the increase in the proin exchange rates had a positive influence on sales develOur statement of financial position shows that our liquidportion of women at the top three levels of management. opment in all segments. In addition, the U.S. phosphorus ity position remains solid. Additional substantial liquidity The credit line replaced the syndicated credit facility of additives business acquired from the Belgian chemicals reserves in the form of undrawn credit lines are also avail€1.25 billion originally expiring in May 2023 at an early group Solvay in the previous year had a slightly positive able. Of the total financial liabilities, almost 100% bear a stage and at better terms. portfolio effect on sales. fixed interest rate over the term of the financing, which is unchanged from the previous year. Our financial liabilities The credit facility remains undrawn to date. It is ­designed EBITDA pre exceptionals in 2019 increased by €33 milare free of financial covenants. as an operating line of credit and to provide funds lion from €986 million to €1,019 million. Three of our for capital investment and complies with the market four segments contributed to this positive development. Our net financial liabilities increased after deduction of ­requirements of the European syndicated loan market for short-term money market investments and securities by investment-grade companies with a BBB rating. None of Net income and earnings per share declined consider€361 million to €1,742 million. In fiscal year 2019, the our major loan agreements contains a financial covenant. ably year-on-year from €431 million to €205 million and rating agencies Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s and Scope In total, we had undrawn credit facilities of €1.0 billion from €4.71 to €2.32, respectively. The declines were Ratings confirmed their assessments of our credit ratas of December 31, 2019. mainly due to the development of income from disconing. Standard & Poor’s gives LANXESS a “BBB” rating, tinued operations: Net income from discontinued operMoody’s a “Baa2” rating, and Scope Ratings a “BBB+” The total of liquid assets, short-term money market ations ­decreased from €149 million to minus €35 milrating. All three rating agencies continue to assume a ­investments and securities, and undrawn credit lines lion, e­ arnings per share from discontinued operations stable outlook. gives us available liquidity of around €2.1 billion. from €1.63 to minus €0.40. In addition, the sum of ­exceptional items increased from minus €90 million to We see the earnings performance of the past fiscal year minus €150 million. and our economic situation as positive overall. We still MANAGEMENT’S SUMMARY OF believe we are on track to become a much more stable BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT AND We upheld our conservative accounting and financing specialty chemicals company, with stronger cash flow and THE FISCAL YEAR policy in 2019 as well. In accordance with the c­ onsistency a more balanced and sustainable portfolio. principle, we essentially applied the same measurement Sales of the LANXESS Group in the reporting period methods and exercised the same discretion as in the amounted to €6,802 million, which was at the previprevious year. Information on the effects of the new ous year’s level. While higher sales were posted in the ­accounting standard for leases, IFRS 16, can be found Performance Chemicals and Advanced Intermediates under “­Financial Reporting Standards and Interpretations Applied” in the notes to the 2019 consolidated financial statements. 101 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information KEY BUSINESS DATA – EARNINGS, ASSET AND MULTI-PERIOD OVERVIEW FINANCIAL POSITION OF LANXESS AG Indicators LANXESS AG serves primarily as the management € million 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 holding company for the LANXESS Group. The prinEarnings performance cipal management functions for the entire Group are Sales 7,902 7,699 6,530 6,824 6,802 EBITDA pre exceptionals 885 995 925 986 1,019 performed by the Board of Management. The Board EBITDA margin pre exceptionals 11.2% 12.9% 14.2% 14.4% 15.0% of Management shapes Group strategy and manages EBITDA 833 945 709 906 910 resource allocation, infrastructure and organization. The Operating result (EBIT) pre exceptionals 422 514 558 581 557 Group management company is also responsible for Operating result (EBIT) 415 464 299 491 407 financing and communication with LANXESS’s key stakeEBIT margin 5.3% 6.0% 4.6% 7.2% 6.0% Net income 165 192 87 431 205 holders. The economic performance of LANXESS AG Average number of shares outstanding 91,522,936 91,522,936 91,522,936 91,522,936 88,334,641 depends principally on the operating business e ­ ntities Earnings per share (€) 1.80 2.10 0.95 4.71 2.32 in the LANXESS Group and on the development of the chemical industry. The balance of income and losses Financial position from investments in affiliated companies resulting from Cash flow from operating activities 692 689 568 441 634 Depreciation and amortization/ profit or loss transfers and dividends from affiliated reversals of impairment charges 418 481 410 415 503 companies is of key importance for the future ability Cash outflows for capital expenditures 434 439 397 482 508 of LANXESS AG to pay a dividend. Therefore, espeNet financial liabilities 1,211 2,394 2,252 1,923 2,522 cially the statements made in the “Opportunity and risk Net financial liabilities after deduction of short-term money market investments and securities 1,211 269 2,252 1,381 1,742 ­report” in this management report apply in principle to LANXESS AG as well. Assets and liabilities Total assets 7,219 9,877 10,4111) 8,687 8,695 The financial statements of LANXESS AG are prepared Non-current assets 4,180 4,519 6,4541) 4,786 5,065 in accordance with the German Commercial Code (HGB) Current assets 3,039 5,358 3,957 3,901 3,630 Net working capital 1,526 1,628 1,948 1,455 1,308 and the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG). Equity (including non-controlling interests) 2,323 3,728 3,413 2,773 2,647 Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits 1,215 1,249 1,490 1,083 1,178 Indicators ROCE 8.4% 6.9% 9.3% 11.4%1) 10.0%1) Equity ratio 32.2% 37.7% 32.8% 31.9% 30.4% Non-current asset ratio 57.9% 45.8% 62.0% 55.1% 58.3% Asset coverage I 55.6% 82.5% 52.9% 57.9% 52.3% Net working capital/sales 19.3% 21.1% 20.2% 20.2% 19.2% Employees (as of December 31) 16,225 16,721 19,029 15,441 14,304 Figures from 2017 not including ARLANXEO, and key figures for 2017 on this basis. 1) Capital employed as of December 31, 2018, and as of December 31, 2019, adjusted. See “Profitability” for details. 102 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Sales and earnings of LANXESS AG The earnings of LANXESS AG are largely determined The financial result, which comprises the balance of by profit or loss transfers from LANXESS Deutschland income and losses from investments in affiliated comLANXESS AG Income Statement in Accordance GmbH, net interest and general administration expenses. panies, the net interest position, income from loans with the German Commercial Code (HGB) – Abridged  included in financial non-current assets, write-downs Change Sales at LANXESS AG stood at €5 million, which was on securities classified as current assets, and other € million 2018 2019 % ­lower than in the previous year. They related mainly to ­financial income and expense, rose from €240 million Sales 7 5 (28.6) services provided to LANXESS Deutschland GmbH. A to €680 million. The change resulted chiefly from the Cost of sales (7) (5) 28.6 balanced result remained after deducting the cost of profit transfer from LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Gross profit 0 0 – General administration expenses (48) (60) (25.0) sales, which consisted mostly of personnel expenses and which, due primarily to the disclosure of hidden reserves Other operating income 2 1 (50.0) ­appropriate shares of the general administration expenses. in connection with the planned sale of the interest in Other operating expenses 0 0 – ­Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, increased by €434 yearOperating result (46) (59) (28.3) General administration expenses increased year-on-year on-year to €752 million. The financial result was likewise Income from investments in affiliated companies 318 752 > 100 by €12 million, or 25.0%, to €60 million. They principally positively influenced by the €6 million improvement in Income from loans held as comprised personnel and other business expenses not the net interest position to minus €63 million. financial assets 9 9 0.0 directly related to the services provided to Group compaNet interest expense (69) (63) 8.7 nies. The operating result amounted to minus €59 million, Income taxes resulted in expenses of €158 million. These Write-downs on securities classified as current assets (1) 0 100.0 €13 million below the previous year’s figure. were comprised of tax expenses of €35 million for the Other financial income and reporting period and €123 million for previous years. expenses – net (17) (18) (5.9) Net income for fiscal year 2019 was €463 million after Financial result 240 680 > 100 €85 million in the previous year. Income taxes (109) (158) (45.0) Income after income taxes 85 463 > 100 Net income 85 463 > 100 As of December 31, 2019, the company reported a disCarryforward to new account 42 48 14.3 tributable profit of €279 million taking into account the Withdrawal from other allocation of €232 million (previous year: €0 million) to retained earnings 0 –232 – other retained earnings and the profit carryforward of Distributable profit 127 279 > 100 €48 million. In the previous year, a distributable profit of €127 million was posted. 103 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Asset and capital structure carrying amount of the investment in LANXESS Deutschof LANXESS AG land GmbH, which stands at €739 million, and loans to subsidiaries of €198 million. The share of non-current LANXESS AG Statement of Financial Position in Accordance with the German Commercial Code (HGB) – Abridged assets in total assets decreased from 18.3% to 15.1%. Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2019 Change Current assets increased by €1,163 million, or 26.4%, to € million % € million % % €5,572 million and accounted for 84.5% of total assets, ASSETS compared with 81.1% in the previous year. Receivables Financial assets 997 18.3 997 15.1 0.0 from subsidiaries accounted for 68.4% of total assets and Non-current assets 997 18.3 997 15.1 0.0 related principally to short-term loans, financial transactions Receivables from affiliated companies 3,061 56.3 4,514 68.4 47.5 and claims to profit or loss transfers. Other receivables Other assets 245 4.5 558 8.5 > 100 Liquid assets and securities 1,103 20.3 500 7.6 (54.7) largely consisted of non-disposable money market investCurrent assets 4,409 81.1 5,572 84.5 26.4 ments and accounted for 8.5% of total assets compared Prepaid expenses 31 0.6 26 0.4 (16.1) with 4.5% in the previous year. The share of bank balances Total assets 5,437 100.0 6,595 100.0 21.3 and securities in total assets decreased from 20.3% to 7.6%. EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity 2,011 37.0 2,195 33.3 9.1 Provisions 167 3.1 258 3.9 54.5 Equity increased by €184 million to €2,195 million, largely Bonds 2,700 49.7 2,700 40.9 0.0 due to net income of €463 million. This was offset by the Liabilities to banks 29 0.5 25 0.4 (13.8) dividend payment for 2018 and the purchase and cancelPayables to affiliated companies 527 9.7 1,416 21.5 > 100 ation of treasury shares in the amount of €200 million. The Other liabilities 3 0.1 1 0.0 (66.7) Liabilities 3,259 59.9 4,142 62.8 27.1 equity ratio was 33.3%, after 37.0% at the end of 2018. Total assets 5,437 100.0 6,595 100.0 21.3 The provisions increased by €91 million to €258 million and related in particular to commitments to employees, In view of its function as a strategic holding company, the LANXESS AG had total assets of €6,595 million as of statutory and contractual obligations, and income taxes. statement of financial position of LANXESS AG is domiDecember 31, 2019, which was €1,158 million, or 21.3%, Liabilities increased by €883 million to €4,142 million. nated by financial assets and liabilities and by receivables above the prior-year figure. Non-current assets were This was mainly because of the year-on-year increase from, and payables to, subsidiaries. unchanged at €997 million and primarily included the in payables to affiliated companies of €889 million to €1,416 million. 104 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information COMPENSATION REPORT The aim of the compensation system is to support In order to give Board of Management compensation a successful and sustainable corporate governance. more long-term basis and to meet the expected requireThis compensation report complies with statutory LANXESS’s compensation structure is therefore ments of the legislative procedure regarding the Second ­requirements and the recommendations of the German ­designed to provide the motivation to successfully work Shareholder Rights Directive Implementation Act (ARUG Corporate Governance Code. It describes and explains toward sustainable corporate development. Two of the II), which was still ongoing at the time, and to comply in detail the compensation system for the Board of Manthree variable components are measured according to with certain recommendations of the proposed new agement and Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG and corporate performance over several years, and thus set version of the GCGC, the Supervisory Board adjusted the compensation of the individual members of the Board long-term incentives. Because one of these multi-year the Board of Management members’ service contracts of Management and Supervisory Board. For LANXESS, compensation components measures stock price develin fiscal year 2019 with retroactive effect as of January 1, transparent and understandable reporting on these topics opment, the management’s objectives are aligned with 2019. The following changes were made: is a key element of good corporate governance. the direct interests of the shareholders. ›› The total compensation for the members of the Compensation of the Board of The compensation system that was introduced for Board of Management was capped. ­Management ­members of the Board of Management in 2010 was ›› The size of the contributions to the company approved by the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of ­ ension plan and the size of compensation in kind p Compensation system LANXESS AG on May 28, 2010, with a majority of were capped to a certain percentage of the annual The structure of the compensation system and the level of 99.10% of the capital represented. base salary. compensation for the members of the Board of Manage›› The Supervisory Board’s granting of an ad ment are determined by the Supervisory Board, after prepaComponents of the compensation system hoc ­discretionary bonus to recognize special ration by the Presidial Committee. The appropriateness of The components of the compensation for members of ­achievements or to create an additional performance the compensation is regularly reviewed by an external perthe Board of Management are the base salary; the shortincentive was limited to a maximum amount. sonnel consulting company. Such a review was conducted term and long-term variable components, which are the ›› The LTPB was altered to assess target attainment again in fiscal year 2019. In this review, the compensation Annual Performance Payment (APP), the Long-Term over three consecutive fiscal years instead of two. of the Board of Management was compared with that of the Stock Performance Plan (LTSP) and the Long-Term Per›› The Supervisory Board reserves the right to withcompanies listed in the MDAX and with that of a group of formance Bonus (LTPB); and a retirement pension. The hold or reclaim (“claw-back”) the granted variable selected chemicals companies1). The criteria for determining three variable components APP, LTSP and LTPB are linked compensation in full or in part in the event of grave the appropriateness of the compensation for an individual to LANXESS’s annual performance and performance dereliction of duty. Board of Management member include, in particular, his over a number of years and thus reward the sustainable, duties, his personal performance, the economic situation, value-oriented development of the company. The average Now that the legislative procedure regarding ARUG II and the success and sustainable growth of the LANXESS compensation mix of 32% annual base salary and 68% has been concluded and on the basis of the new version Group. In addition, consideration is also given to compenvariable compensation components, assuming 100% of the GCGC of December 16, 2019, published in this sation at comparable companies and the company’s overall target attainment, is strongly aligned with the company’s context but not yet in force, the Supervisory Board will compensation structure with regard to the ratio between performance and long-term value creation. revise the compensation system over the course of 2020 the compensation of the Board of Management and that of LANXESS’s senior executives and the rest of the workforce, both overall and in terms of time. 1) T  he reference group comprises the following companies: AkzoNobel, Beiersdorf, Clariant, Covestro, Evonik, Henkel, K+S, Linde, Lonza, Merck, Royal DSM, Solvay, Symrise, Wacker Chemie. 105 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information and present it for the approval of the 2021 Annual Stockcapped at 200% of the individual budget in line with the In parallel with the introduction of the LTSP 2018–2021, holders’ Meeting in accordance with the requirements of caps applied for non-managerial and managerial staff. If the Share Ownership Guideline (SOG) was established ARUG II (“say on pay”). targets are missed to a considerable degree, it is possible in 2018. Continuously over a period of four years, the that no APP payment (0%) will be made. In addition, members of the Board of Management are obliged to Fixed compensation the Supervisory Board reserves the right to reduce the verifiably acquire and a minimum amount of shares in The fixed compensation comprises the annual base APP in the event of serious occupational safety and/or LANXESS AG and hold them until the end of their service salary and compensation in kind, the latter consisting environmental problems. contract (SOG target). The amount is reviewed annually. mainly of the tax value of perquisites, such as the use of The SOG target is 150% of annual base salary for the a company car. The annual base salary of the members Long-Term Stock Plan (LTSP) Chairman of the Board of Management and 100% of of the Board of Management is market-oriented and in The Long-Term Stock Performance Plan over several annual base salary for the other members of the Board line with the above-mentioned reference group. It is paid years is another element of variable compensation. This of Management. The number of shares to be acquired each month pro rata as salary. stock-based compensation component is based on the is calculated on the basis of the average price of the performance of LANXESS stock against a reference index. LANXESS share over the last ten trading days and the Variable compensation This reference index is the MSCI World Chemicals Index, first ten trading days of the current year. which was first used as a basis for the LTSP 2014–2017 Annual Performance Payment (APP) established in 2014. The condition for participation in LTSP 2014–2017 and The annual performance-related component of variable earlier LTSP programs was a prior personal investment compensation is the Annual Performance Payment. It is The LTSP 2018–2021, in place since 2018, is divided into each year in LANXESS shares of 5% of the annual base based on corporate business targets, such as attainment four four-year tranches. The rights granted are exercised salary. These shares have a lock-up period of four years of predefined targets for the LANXESS Group’s EBITDA immediately at the end of the four-year vesting period. (LTSP 2014–2017). The rights granted by the LTSP pre exceptionals, and applies in identical form for most Assuming 100% target attainment, the LTSP programs may be exercised at the end of the four-year vesting non-managerial and managerial staff around the world. provide for a possible payment per tranche of 30% of the period. The exercise period is three years in general, In the case of 100% target attainment, the individual individual target income. The maximum payment is 60% but five years for the 2012 and 2013 tranches, which APP budget for fiscal year 2019 for Mr. Zachert is 125% of the individual target income if the average performance are the only outstanding tranches from earlier programs and for the other members of the Board of Management of the stock relative to the reference index is 115%. The (LTSP 2010–2013). 100% of their respective annual base salaries. The target payment can be canceled if the stock performance relative and threshold values applicable to the payment level are to the index is less than 100%, and must be canceled if it For more information, particularly regarding the valuset each year by the Supervisory Board before the start is less than 85%. The individual target income is the fixed ation parameters applied, please see Note [15] to the of a new fiscal year. There is no payment of a minimum annual base salary plus the APP on the basis of 100% consolidated financial statements. amount. For fiscal year 2019, the maximum payment is target attainment. 106 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information For fiscal year 2019, the share-based compensation The individual components of the compensation system ­resulted in an expense of €2,143 thousand for Mr. Zachbreak down as follows: ert (previous year: €58 thousand), expense of €57 thousand for Dr. Borkowsky (previous year: €0 thousand), Compensation Mix for Members of the Board expense of €644 thousand for Dr. Fink (previous year: of Management income of €113 thousand), expense of €644 thousand in % for Mr. Pontzen (previous year: income of €113 thousand) 14 Annual base salary and an expense of €1,030 thousand for Dr. van Roessel 32 Annual Performance (previous year: €87 thousand). Payment 19 Long-Term Stock Long-Term Performance Bonus (LTPB) Performance Plan The Long-Term Performance Bonus, which is the third Long-Term Performance Bonus variable component, is likewise aligned with long-term corporate performance. It rewards target attainment only 35 after three consecutive fiscal years. The basis for calculating the LTPB is the individual APP target attainment for the fiscal years in question. The exact amount of the LTPB results from the average individual APP target attainment for the three fiscal years. The LTPB for the Board of Management is set by the Supervisory Board and amounts to 45% of fixed annual compensation in the event of average APP target attainment of 100%. 107 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information The following table shows the total compensation of the total of 2,035,000 rights were granted to the members Board of Management for fiscal year 2019: of the Board of Management (previous year: 1,860,000). Regarding the fair value per right of the individual tranchCompensation of the Board of Management es on the reporting date, please see Note [15] to the consolidated financial statements. Payments from LTSP In the previous fiscal year 2018, the comparatively high Fixed compensation Variable compensation rights compensation in kind for Mr. Zachert and Mr. Pontzen Year Annual Compen­ PerforLTPB Payment Total cash Fair resulted from the security measures in their homes base sation mance (multifor previcompen­ values € thousand salary in kind bonus4) year) ous years sation Total ­approved by the Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG. 2019 1,313 79 1,553 1,1322) (15)3) 4,062 810 4,872 Matthias Zachert 2018 1,200 757 1,950 7021) – 4,609 810 5,419 Retirement pensions Dr. Anno Borkowsky 2019 292 29 268 1212) – 710 175 885 On termination of their service contracts, the members (since June 1, 2019) 2018 – – – – – – – – of the Board of Management receive benefits under the 2019 550 53 506 4432) (6)3) 1,546 330 1,876 Dr. Hubert Fink company pension plan. These benefits are paid when 2018 550 53 715 3221) – 1,640 330 1,970 2019 550 50 506 4432) (6)3) 1,543 330 1,873 the beneficiary reaches the age of 60 or 62 or if the Michael Pontzen 2018 550 187 715 3221) – 1,774 330 2,104 beneficiary is permanently unable to work. They are paid Dr. Rainier van Roessel 2019 650 52 650 5492) (7)3) 1,894 390 2,284 to surviving dependents in the event of the beneficiary’s (until December 31, 2019) 2018 650 51 845 3801) – 1,926 390 2,316 death. Former Board member Stephen C. Forsyth 2019 – – – – – – – – (until May 31, 2018) 2018 188 – 186 – – 374 – 374 The pension plan for the members of the Board of ManTotal 2019 3,355 263 3,483 2,688 (34) 9,755 2,035 11,790 agement is a defined contribution plan stipulating a basic 2018 3,138 1,048 4,411 1,726 – 10,323 1,860 12,183 contribution to be made by the company equal to 50% or 1) P  ayment in 2019 and 2020, respectively. 2) Payment in 2020, 2021 and 2022, respectively. Also takes into account the alteration to assess LTPB target 56.25% of the annual base salary. Moreover, the members attainment over three consecutive fiscal years instead of two. 3) Payment in 2019, 2020 and 2021, respectively. 4) Payment in 2019 and 2020, respectively. of the Board of Management must themselves pay an amount from deferred compensation amounting to 12.5% The aggregate compensation for the Board of Manin components with a long-term incentive effect. In fisof the APP. The members of the Board of Management agement was €11,790 thousand (previous year: cal year 2019, the performance-related components may increase their personal contribution to up to 25% €12,183 thousand), comprising €3,618 thousand were based on the EBITDA pre exceptionals achieved of the APP. Regardless of actual target attainment, the (previous year: €4,186 thousand) in non-performance-­ of €1,019 million and the resulting APP target attaincontribution is calculated on the basis of 100% target related components, €6,137 thousand (previous year: ment of 92%. APP target attainment would have been attainment. The sum of the contributions is capped. From €6,137 thousand) in performance-related components 100% for fiscal year 2019 if EBITDA pre exceptionals the date of entitlement, up to 30% of the accumulated capand €2,035 thousand (previous year: €1,860 thousand) had been €1,045 million. In the context of the LTSP, a ital – including the interest thereon – may be converted to 108 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information a pension benefit. There are claims arising from provisions LANXESS has established provisions for the future claims Benefits associated with and following in place before 2006 that are granted as vested rights to of Board of Management members. The service costs termination of service on the Board of individual members of the Board of Management. If the recognized under IFRS accounting rules for this purpose, ­Management service contract ends before the beneficiary reaches the the net expense recognized under HGB accounting rules The members of the Board of Management have age of 60 or 62, the company pays certain additional for this purpose and the present value of the obligations ­indemnification rights should their service contracts be benefits up to a defined ceiling. ­under IFRS and HGB accounting rules can be found in the terminated for defined reasons at the instigation of the following table: company or in the event of a material change of control over the company. The terms depend on the respective Pension Claims circumstances and include severance payments amounting to up to twice the annual base salary or, in the event IFRS HGB of a change of control, three times the annual base salary, Year Service costs Present value of Net expense Present value of the obligations for pension the obligations plus the APP and LTPB. In the event of departure, LTSP € thousand entitlements rights are compensated in accordance with the terms 2019 759 7,894 1,122 6,207 and conditions of the plan. Matthias Zachert 2018 749 6,251 979 5,085 2019 56 2,548 2,029 2,029 Dr. Anno Borkowsky No additional benefits have been pledged to any member 2018 – – – – 2019 308 5,229 815 4,121 of the Board of Management in the event of termination Dr. Hubert Fink 2018 311 4,058 639 3,306 of their service. 2019 318 2,898 367 2,135 Michael Pontzen 2018 323 2,298 346 1,768 Payments totaling €7,070 thousand (previous year: Dr. Rainier van Roessel 2019 158 8,330 761 7,460 €473 thousand) were made to former members of the (until December 31, 2019) 2018 158 7,370 617 6,699 2019 1,599 26,899 5,094 21,952 Board of Management in fiscal year 2019, of which Total 2018 1,541 19,977 2,581 16,858 €6,459 thousand (previous year: €0 thousand) related to one-time capital payments. As of December 31, 2019, obligations to former memOther bers of the Board of Management totaled €34,629 thouDr. Rainier van Roessel left the Board of Management as sand (previous year: €35,261 thousand) under IFRS planned on December 31, 2019, and retired at the end of ­accounting rules and €27,904 thousand (previous year: the year. For fiscal year 2019, target attainment of 100% €30,089 thousand) under HGB accounting rules. was set for the performance-related variable compensation components APP and LTPB. The payments for APP and LTPB will be made on the usual payment dates. In deviation from the terms of the program, the 2012 and 2013 tranches of the LTSP 2010 to 2013 and the 2016 109 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information and 2017 tranches of the LTSP 2014 to 2017 will not be In the past fiscal year, no member of the Board of ManIndividual compensation in line with the settled. Instead, Dr. van Roessel can continue to exercise agement received substantial benefits or assurances of recommendations of the German Corporate them. In accordance with the terms of the program, the benefits from third parties with respect to their duties as Governance Code rights from the 2018 and 2019 tranches of the LTSP 2018 members of the Board of Management. The following tables list the compensation, additional to 2021 are unchanged after termination of the service benefits and allocations (payments) for 2018 and 2019, contract and will be paid out on maturity according to the No loans were granted to members of the Board of in line with the recommendations of the German Coractual performance determined at that time. ­Management in fiscal year 2019. porate Governance Code. The variable compensation components differ depending on the reference period. The amounts of compensation shown also include the maximum and minimum attainable compensation. Compensation Granted Dr. Anno Borkowsky Matthias Zachert Member of the Board of Management Dr. Hubert Fink Chairman of the Board of Management Appointed June 1, 2019 Member of the Board of Management Target Target Target Target Target Target value value 2019 2019 value value 2019 2019 value value 2019 2019 € thousand 2018 2019 (min.) (max.) 2018 2019 (min.) (max.) 2018 2019 (min.) (max.) Annual base salary 1,200 1,313 1,313 1,313 – 292 292 292 550 550 550 550 Compensation in kind 757 79 79 79 – 29 29 29 53 53 53 53 Total 1,957 1,392 1,392 1,392 – 321 321 321 603 603 603 603 Annual Performance Payment (APP) 1,500 1,688 0 3,375 – 292 0 583 550 550 0 1,100 Multi-year variable compensation 1,350 2,181 335 4,025 – 474 0 948 578 849 106 1,591 LTPB (tranche 2017–2019) 540 97 74 119 – 44 0 88 248 – – – LTPB (tranche 2018–2020) – 666 261 1,071 – 119 0 238 – 271 106 436 LTPB (tranche 2019–2021) – 608 0 1,215 – 225 0 450 – 248 0 495 LTSP 2018–2021 (tranche 2018) 810 – – – – – – – 330 – – – LTSP 2018–2021 (tranche 2019) – 810 0 1,620 – 175 – 350 – 330 0 660 Total 4,807 5,261 1,727 8,792 – 1,087 321 1,852 1,731 2,002 709 3,294 Service cost 749 759 759 759 – 56 56 56 311 308 308 308 Total compensation 5,556 6,020 2,486 9,551 – 1,143 377 1,908 2,042 2,310 1,017 3,602 110 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Compensation Granted Dr. Rainier van Roessel Stephen C. Forsyth Michael Pontzen Member of the Board of Management Member of the Board of Management Chief Financial Officer Resigned Dec. 31, 2019 Resigned May 31, 2018 Target Target Target Target Target Target value value 2019 2019 value value 2019 2019 value value 2019 2019 € thousand 2018 2019 (min.) (max.) 2018 2019 (min.) (max.) 2018 2019 (min.) (max.) Annual base salary 550 550 550 550 650 650 650 650 188 – – – Compensation in kind 187 50 50 50 51 52 52 52 – – – – Total 737 600 600 600 701 702 702 702 188 – – – Annual Performance Payment (APP) 550 550 0 1,100 650 650 – 1,300 186 – – – Multi-year variable compensation 578 849 106 1,591 683 711 126 1,296 – – – – LTPB (tranche 2017–2019) 248 – – – 293 – – – – – – – LTPB (tranche 2018–2020) – 271 106 436 – 223 126 321 – – – – LTPB (tranche 2019–2021) – 248 0 495 – 98 0 195 – – – – LTSP 2018–2021 (tranche 2018) 330 – – – 390 – – – – – – – LTSP 2018–2021 (tranche 2019) – 330 0 660 – 390 0 780 – – – – Total 1,865 1,999 706 3,291 2,034 2,063 828 3,298 374 – – – Service cost 323 318 318 318 158 158 158 158 – – – – Total compensation 2,188 2,317 1,024 3,609 2,192 2,221 986 3,456 374 – – – Allocations Dr. Anno Borkowsky Matthias Zachert Member of the Board of Management Dr. Hubert Fink Chairman of the Board of Management Appointed June 1, 2019 Member of the Board of Management € thousand 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 Annual base salary 1,200 1,313 – 292 550 550 Compensation in kind 757 79 – 29 53 53 Total 1,957 1,392 – 321 603 603 Annual Performance Payment (APP) 1,950 1,538 – 268 715 500 Multi-year variable compensation 2,333 2,470 – 40 408 346 LTPB (tranche 2017–2018) 891 (3) – 408 (1) LTPB (tranche 2017–2019) – 853 – 40 – 347 LTSP 2010–2013 – – – – – – LTSP 2014–2017 1,4421) 1,6202) – – – – Total 6,240 5,400 – 629 1,726 1,449 Service cost 749 759 – 56 311 308 Total compensation 6,989 6,159 – 685 2,037 1,757 1) Exercise of LTSP tranche 2014 2) Exercise of LTSP tranche 2015 111 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Allocations Dr. Rainier van Roessel Stephen C. Forsyth Michael Pontzen Member of the Board of Management Member of the Board of Management Chief Financial Officer Resigned Dec. 31, 2019 Resigned May 31, 2018 € thousand 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 Annual base salary 550 550 650 650 188 – Compensation in kind 187 50 51 52 – – Total 737 600 701 702 188 – Annual Performance Payment (APP) 715 500 845 643 186 – Multi-year variable compensation 408 346 1,244 1,197 – – LTPB (tranche 2017–2018) 408 (1) 483 (1) – – LTPB (tranche 2017–2019) – 347 – 418 – – LTSP 2010–2013 – – – – – – LTSP 2014–2017 – – 7611) 7802) – – Total 1,860 1,446 2,790 2,542 374 – Service cost 323 318 158 158 – – Total compensation 2,183 1,764 2,948 2,700 374 – 1) Exercise of LTSP tranche 2014 2) Exercise of LTSP tranche 2015 Compensation of the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board members are reimbursed for their compensation component, this variable compensation The compensation of the Supervisory Board is governed expenses in addition and also receive an attendance component is not paid every year, but only once at the by Section 12 of the company’s articles of association. allowance of €1.5 thousand for each Supervisory Board end of the standard term of office. The current assessThe members of the Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG meeting and each committee meeting they attend, with ment period for calculating variable compensation ends receive fixed compensation of €80 thousand per year. the exception of meetings of the Committee formed at the end of the 2020 Annual Stockholders’ Meeting. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board receives three pursuant to Section 27, Paragraph 3 of the German If a Supervisory Board member serves a shorter term, times, and the Vice Chairman one and a half times, this Codetermination Act and meetings of the Nominations the amount is prorated. amount. Serving as the chair or a member of Super­visory Committee. With respect to their membership on the Board committees is compensated separately in accorsupervisory boards of LANXESS Group companies, the Payment of the variable compensation depends on dance with the German Corporate Governance Code. members of the Supervisory Board are remunerated only how LANXESS’s stock performs relative to the Dow Supervisory Board members who belong to a c­ ommittee for their service on the Supervisory Board of LANXESS Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM during a member’s receive one half of the fixed compensation amount Deutschland GmbH in the amount of €5 thousand each. five-year term. The average price of LANXESS stock in addition. The chair of the Audit Committee receives and the average level of the index during the 90 trading a further half. Supervisory Board members who chair Until the end of the 2020 Annual Stockholders’ Meeting, days prior to the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting at which a committee other than the Audit Committee r­ eceive a the Supervisory Board members also receive a longthe Supervisory Board members were elected are each further quarter. However, no member may receive in total term incentive based on the company’s performance compared with the respective average for the 90 tradmore than three times the fixed compensation amount. during the standard term of an individual’s membership ing days prior to the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting at on the Supervisory Board (five years). Unlike the fixed the conclusion of which the members’ terms end. The 112 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information variable compensation is only payable if the stock has The following table breaks down the compensation outperformed the benchmark index. The exact amount ­received by each member of the Supervisory Board for of the variable compensation depends on the extent to their work on the Supervisory Board. which the stock price outperformed the benchmark index in the preceding five years. If LANXESS stock has outCompensation of the Supervisory Board performed the Dow Jones STOXX 600 C ­ hemicalsSM by Year Fixed Compensation Attendance Fixed Total up to ten percentage points, the variable ­compensation compensation as committee allowance compensation amounts to €50 thousand for this five-year period; if ­L ANXESS AG member ­L ANXESS ­L ANXESS AG Deutschland it has outperformed the index by between 10 and €1) GmbH 20 ­percentage points, €100 thousand is paid, and if Dr. Matthias L. Wolfgruber, Chairman 2019 240,000 – 16,500 5,000 261,500 the degree of outperformance is greater than this, the (Chairman as of May 15, 2018) 2018 181,015 52,626 19,500 5,000 258,141 compensation is €150 thousand. Dr. Rolf Stomberg, former Chairman 2019 – – – – – (resigned May 15, 2018) 2018 88,478 22,120 7,500 1,843 119,941 Ralf Sikorski, 2019 120,000 40,000 10,500 5,000 175,500 LANXESS AG’s Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on Vice Chairman 2018 120,000 40,000 16,500 5,000 181,500 May 23, 2019, resolved to change the Supervisory Birgit Bierther 2019 74,740 32,438 16,500 4,671 128,349 Board compensation to fixed compensation only. The (appointed January 25, 2019) 2018 – – – – – former performance-based variable compensation, for 2019 80,000 40,000 15,000 5,000 140,000 Werner Czaplik which the relevant assessment period ends at the end of 2018 80,000 40,000 18,000 5,000 143,000 2019 80,000 40,000 15,000 5,000 140,000 the company’s Annual Stockholders’ Meeting in 2020, Dr. Hans-Dieter Gerriets 2018 80,000 40,000 18,000 5,000 143,000 was abolished. Despite the discontinuation of the per2019 80,000 – 9,000 5,000 94,000 Dr. Heike Hanagarth formance-based compensation, the fixed compensation 2018 80,000 – 12,000 5,000 97,000 was not increased. 2019 80,000 120,000 22,500 5,000 227,500 Dr. Friedrich Janssen 2018 80,000 105,254 22,500 5,000 212,754 Pamela Knapp 2019 80,000 40,000 13,500 5,000 138,500 No variable compensation was paid out in fiscal year 2019. (appointed May 15, 2018) 2018 50,507 25,254 10,500 3,157 89,418 2019 80,000 40,000 13,500 5,000 138,500 The expected compensation payable for the current terms Thomas Meiers 2018 80,000 40,000 16,500 5,000 141,500 of office of Supervisory Board members was valued at 2019 80,000 40,000 15,000 5,000 140,000 Lawrence A. Rosen €1,670 thousand (previous year: €1,310 thousand) as 2018 80,000 40,000 18,000 5,000 143,000 2019 80,000 40,000 16,500 5,000 141,500 of December 31, 2019, and recognized as a provision. Manuela Strauch 2018 80,000 40,000 19,500 5,000 144,500 Ifraim Tairi 2019 – – – – – None of the members of the Supervisory Board ­received (resigned December 31, 2018) 2018 80,000 40,000 19,500 5,000 144,500 benefits for services provided personally during the 2019 80,000 40,000 13,500 5,000 138,500 Theo H. Walthie ­reporting period. No loans or advances were ­granted 2018 80,000 54,746 22,500 5,000 162,246 to members of the Supervisory Board during the 2019 1,154,740 472,438 177,000 59,671 1,863,849 Total 2018 1,160,000 540,000 220,500 60,000 1,980,500 reporting year. 1) Figures exclude value-added tax. 113 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 4. N o shares carry special rights granting control Section 179 of the German Stock Corporation Act 289A, 315A OF THE GERMAN authority. provides that a resolution of the Annual Stockhold­COMMERCIAL CODE (HGB) ers’ Meeting is required for any amendment to the 5. Employees hold a direct interest in the capital of articles of association. Pursuant to Section 17, ParaPursuant to Section 289a, Sentence 1, Nos. 1 to 9, and LANXESS AG through employee stock programs. graph 2 of the articles of association, resolutions of Section 315a, Sentence 1, Nos. 1 to 9, of the ­German There are no restrictions on directly exercising the the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting require a simple Commercial Code, we hereby make the following control rights arising from these shares. majority of the votes cast and, if a capital majority declarations: is required, a simple majority of the capital stock, 6. Sections 84 and 85 of the German Stock Corporaunless otherwise required by law or provided by the 1. The capital stock of LANXESS AG amounted to tion Act and Section 31 of the German Codetermiarticles of association. The articles of association €87,447,852 as of December 31, 2019, and is nation Act apply to the appointment and dismissal contain no further provisions in this regard. Section composed of 87,447,852 no-par bearer shares. of Board of Management members. Under the pro10, Paragraph 9 of the articles of association of On the basis of a Board of Management resolution visions of these sections, Board of Management LANXESS AG authorizes the Supervisory Board to dated July 9, 2019, the company, after implementmembers are appointed by the Supervisory Board resolve on amendments relating solely to the form ing a stock repurchase, resolved to reduce the capfor a term not exceeding five years. Such appointof the articles of association. ital stock by way of simplified capital reduction in ment may be renewed or the term of office may accordance with Section 71, Paragraph 1, No. 8, be extended, provided that the term of each such 7. The Board of Management of LANXESS AG has been Sentence 6 of the German Stock Corporation Act renewal or extension shall not exceed five years. authorized to issue or repurchase shares as follows: by €4,075,084 from €91,522,936 to €87,447,852 Appointments require a majority of at least twoby canceling 4,075,084 no-par bearer shares with thirds of the Supervisory Board members’ votes. Own shares a notional share in the capital stock of €1.00 per Section 6, Paragraph 1 of the articles of association At the beginning of fiscal year 2019, neither the comshare. All shares carry the same rights and obligastates that the Board of Management must consist pany nor dependent or majority-owned entities, or tions. One vote is granted per share, and profit is of at least two members. The number of members third parties acting for the account of the company distributed per share. The rights and obligations of the Board of Management is determined by the or for the account of dependent or majority-owned arising from the shares are governed by the German Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board may entities, held shares in the company. On the basis of Stock Corporation Act. appoint a chairman of the Board of Management the resolution of the Annual Stockholders’ ­Meeting and a vice chairman of the Board of Management. of LANXESS AG of May 20, 2016, the Board of 2. We are not aware of any restrictions affecting voting Alternative members of the Board of Management Management was authorized in accordance with rights or the transfer of shares. However, shares may be appointed. The Supervisory Board may Section 71, Paragraph 1, No. 8 of the German Stock allocated under employee stock plans are subject ­revoke the appointment of a member of the Board ­Corporation Act to acquire shares in the company to a vesting period before they may be sold. of Management or the appointment of a member representing up to 10% of the capital stock until May as Chairman of the Board of Management for cause 19, 2021, and to utilize them for any purpose per3. We received no reports of direct and indirect (Section 84, Paragraph 3 of the German Stock mitted by law. Subsidiaries of the company or third ­equity investments in the capital of LANXESS AG ­Corporation Act). parties acting for the account of the c­ ompany or its ­exceeding 10% of total voting rights. 114 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information subsidiaries were also permitted to utilize this authofurther resolution by the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting. Conditional capital rization. At the discretion of the Board of Manage­ The company’s capital stock was accordingly reduced The Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of LANXESS AG ment, such shares were able to be acquired either to €87,447,852. on May 15, 2018, authorized the Board of Manageon the market or via a public tender offer. The Board ment until May 14, 2023, with the approval of the of Management was authorized to use them for any On May 23, 2019, the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting Supervisory Board, to issue – in one or more installpurpose permitted by law, especially the purposes of LANXESS AG resolved, with effect after a time ments – warrant bonds and/or convertible bonds, specifically listed in the authorization. delay, to suspend the stock repurchase authorization profit-participation rights and/or income bonds or of May 20, 2016, and issue a new authorization for a combination of these instruments (collectively The Board of Management of the company resolved the purchase and utilization of treasury shares. The referred to as “bonds”) – as either registered or on January 10, 2019 to exercise its stock repurchase suspension and the new authorization took effect bearer bonds – with a total nominal value of up to authorization and to buy treasury shares at a purchase on August 13, 2019, at the beginning of the day €1,000,000,000, with or without limited maturity, price of up to €200 million (not including incidental that lay two months after the day on which the last and to grant option rights to, or impose exercise expenses) on the stock exchange. In the period from notification relating to the stock repurchase program obligations on, the holders or creditors of warrant January 14, 2019, to June 12, 2019, the company announced on January 10, 2019, announcing its bonds, profit-participation rights with warrants or then purchased a total of 4,075,084 no-par bearer completion, was published via a European media income bonds with warrants, and/or to grant conshares of the company with a pro rata amount of €1.00 pool. The new authorization allows the Board of version rights to, or impose conversion obligations per share. The amount of capital stock attributable to Management to acquire shares in the company on, the holders or creditors of convertible bonds, these shares is €4,075,084. This equates to 4.453% representing up to 10% of the capital stock until convertible profit-participation rights or convertible of the company’s capital stock of €91,522,936 at that May 22, 2024, and to utilize them for any purpose income bonds in respect of bearer shares of the time. The purchases were made exclusively via the permitted by law. This authorization may also be company representing a total pro rata increase of stock market by a bank commissioned by the compautilized by subsidiaries of the company or by third up to €9,152,293 in the company’s capital stock on ny. They were carried out in electronic trading on the parties on behalf of the company or its subsidiaries. the terms to be defined for these bonds. ­Pursuant to Frankfurt Stock Exchange on 94 Xetra trading days. At the discretion of the Board of Management, such Section 4, Paragraph 5 of the articles of association, The weighted average price amounts to €49.0787 per shares may be acquired either on the market or via the capital stock of LANXESS AG is thus conditionrepurchased share. The total price for the repurchased a public tender offer. The Board of Management is ally increased by up to €9,152,293 (Conditional shares, not including incidental expenses, amounted to authorized to use them for any purpose permitted by Capital). €199,999,958.47. The treasury shares were acquired law, especially the purposes specifically listed in the for the purpose of canceling them and reducing the authorization. No treasury shares were purchased company’s capital stock. On July 9, 2019, the Board on the basis of this new authorization in fiscal year of Management resolved to cancel all repurchased 2019. At the end of fiscal year 2019, neither the shares in line with the stock repurchase authorization company nor dependent or majority-owned entities, in accordance with Section 71, Paragraph 1, No. 8, or third parties acting for the account of the comSentence 6 of the German Stock Corporation Act. pany or for the account of dependent or majority-­ The shares were canceled on July 12, 2019, without a owned entities, held shares in the company. 115 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information The conditional capital increase shall only be imparticipation rights and/or income bonds (or comthe approval of the Supervisory Board, the Board of plemented to the extent that the holders or credibinations of these instruments). By way of self-comManagement can exclude these subscription rights tors of, or persons obligated to exercise, warrants mitment, the Board of Management undertakes to when, for example, the company’s capital stock is or conversion rights pertaining to warrant bonds perform capital measures with stockholders’ subincreased against contributions in kind, particularly and/or convertible bonds, profit-participation rights scription rights disapplied up to a maximum total for the acquisition of companies. Subscription rights and/or income bonds (or a combination of these amount of 20% of the company’s current capital can also be excluded if the issue price of the new instruments) issued by the company or a depenstock. This restriction applies when issuing new shares is not significantly lower than the stock mardent company against cash contributions, or issued shares utilizing authorized capital, utilizing treasury ket price at the time the issue price is fixed and the against cash contributions and guaranteed by the shares or issuing bonds with warrants or conversion issued shares do not exceed 10% of the company’s company or a dependent company, on or before rights/obligations on the basis of which shares must capital stock. May 14, 2023, on the basis of the authorization be issued, with stockholders’ subscription rights disgranted to the Board of Management by the Annual applied in each case. The Board of Management will Furthermore, pursuant to Section 4, Paragraph 4 of Stockholders’ Meeting on May 15, 2018, exercise be bound by this declaration until a future Annual LANXESS AG’s articles of association, the Annual their warrants or conversion rights or, where they Stockholders’ Meeting again resolves to authorize Stockholders’ Meeting on May 26, 2017, authorized are obligated to do so, fulfill such obligation, or to the the Board of Management to implement capital meathe Board of Management until May 25, 2022, with extent that the company elects to grant shares in the sures under exclusion of stockholders’ subscription the approval of the Supervisory Board, to increase company in place of all or part of the cash amount rights. The authorization to issue bonds has not yet the company’s capital stock on one or more occadue for payment. The conditional capital increase been utilized. sions by issuing new bearer shares against cash shall not be implemented if cash compensation is or contributions in kind up to a total amount of granted or if the company’s own shares, shares isAuthorized capital I and III €9,152,293 (Authorized Capital III). Stockholders sued out of authorized capital or shares in another Pursuant to Section 4, Paragraph 3 of LANXESS are generally entitled to subscription rights when listed company are used to service the warrant or AG’s articles of association, the Annual StockholdAuthorized Capital is utilized. Pursuant to Section 4, conversion rights. ers’ Meeting on May 15, 2018, authorized the Board Paragraph 4 of the articles of association and with of Management until May 14, 2023, with the approvthe approval of the Supervisory Board, the Board of The Board of Management is authorized, with the al of the Supervisory Board, to increase the capital Management can exclude these subscription rights. approval of the Supervisory Board, to exclude substock on one or more occasions by issuing new It can exclude fractional amounts from the stockscription rights in certain cases which are detailed no-par bearer shares against cash or contributions holders’ subscription rights in the event of capital in the authorization. The Board of Management will in kind up to a total amount of €18,304,587 (Authoincreases against cash contributions. Subscription consider other capital measures with stockholders’ rized Capital I). Stockholders are generally entitled rights can also be excluded in the event of capital subscription rights disapplied in its decision to disto subscription rights when Authorized Capital is increases against cash contributions if the issue apply stockholders’ subscription rights when issuing utilized. However, pursuant to Section 4, Paragraph 3 price of the new bearer shares is not significantly convertible bonds and/or bonds with warrants, profit of LANXESS AG’s articles of association and with lower than the stock market price at the time the 116 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information issue price is definitively fixed and the issued shares issuance program may contain a change-of-control agreement can be terminated without notice if anin total do not exceed 10% of the company’s capital clause which gives bondholders the right to redeem other company or person takes control of more than stock. By way of self-commitment, the Board of Manthe bond should certain events occur that affect its 50% of LANXESS AG. Furthermore, according to agement undertakes to perform capital measures rating. This applies to the €500 million Eurobond agreements between the company and LANXESS with stockholders’ subscription rights disapplied up issued by LANXESS Finance B.V. in fiscal year Pension Trust e.V., the company is obligated to make to a maximum total amount of 20% of the company’s 2012 and taken over by LANXESS AG in 2015. The considerable payments to LANXESS Pension Trust current capital stock. This restriction applies when terms for two private placements with a volume of e.V. in the event of a change of control. issuing new shares utilizing authorized capital, utiliz€100 million each made by LANXESS Finance B.V. ing treasury shares or issuing bonds with warrants or under the debt issuance program in fiscal year 2012 9. The service contracts between the company and the conversion rights/obligations on the basis of which likewise contain corresponding change-of-control members of the Board of Management of LANXESS shares must be issued, with stockholders’ subscripclauses. These placements have now also been AG as well as between the company and members tion rights disapplied in each case. The Board of taken over by LANXESS AG. Equally, the terms of of the first and second levels of upper management Management will be bound by this declaration until a the bonds with a volume of (i) €500 million (maturity of LANXESS AG contain compensation agreements future Annual Stockholders’ Meeting again resolves 2021) and (ii) €500 million (maturity 2026) issued applicable in the event of a change of control, as such to authorize the Board of Management to implement by LANXESS AG in fiscal year 2016 and the bonds change is more particularly described in the respeccapital measures under exclusion of stockholders’ with a volume of (iii) €500 million (maturity 2025) tive contracts. subscription rights. Authorized Capital I and III have issued by LANXESS AG in fiscal year 2018 under not yet been utilized. the debt issuance program contain corresponding change-of-control clauses. The terms of the suborREPORT PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 8. The service contracts between the company and dinated hybrid bond with a volume of €500 million 289F AND 315D OF THE GERMAN the members of the Board of Management of also issued by LANXESS AG in fiscal year 2016 conCOMMERCIAL CODE (HGB) LANXESS AG contain provisions regarding the tain a change-of-control clause as well. According potential departure of the members of the Board to these terms, in the event of a change of control The Board of Management and Supervisory Board have of Management in the context of a change of conand in connection with certain events that affect issued the corporate governance declaration pursuant to trol. These are outlined in the compensation reits rating, LANXESS AG must pay bondholders an Section 289f and 315d of the German Commercial Code port in this combined management report. Such increased rate of interest if the company does not (HGB). This has been made available to the stockholders agreements, albeit with different terms, also exist make use of the right of termination that is similarly and can be found at www.lanxess.com in the Investor between the company and members of the first available. The company has entered into an agreeRelations section under Corporate Governance. level of upper management. In addition, the terms ment with a syndicate of banks concerning a credit for placing bonds under the company’s existing debt facility with a current volume of €1,000 million. This 117 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information REPORT ON FUTURE We expect global chemical industry production to Future perspectives ­PERSPECTIVES, RISKS AND ­expand by 2.5%. Customer industries are becoming ­OPPORTUNITIES more cautious in this volatile environment, while demand Expected earnings position of the from the key customer sectors in the chemical industry, LANXESS Group In the economic outlook below, we describe our expecsuch as the construction industry, is expected to increase We expect development of the current business to be tations for economic development. Following the report slightly in 2020. We expect global sales in the automotive stable overall in 2020. The more balanced product porton future perspectives, we discuss the opportunities and industry to stagnate. folio is helping to smooth out some conflicting developrisks which may result in deviations from our predictions. ments in our sales markets and customer industries. Expected Growth in 2020 The Leather business unit is recognized as discontinued Economic outlook operations and is therefore no longer part of the PerforChange vs. prior year Gross domesChemical Fiscal year 2019 was characterized by a weakening ecoin real terms (%)1) tic product production mance Chemicals segment. The earnings forecast shown nomic environment. The increased uncertainty due to Americas 1.5 0.0 below therefore concentrates on the forecast EBITDA pre global risks such as consequences of the coronavirus EMEA (incl. Germany) 1.0 1.0 exceptionals of continuing operations, taking into account epidemic, trade conflicts, Great Britain’s exit from the Asia-Pacific 4.0 3.5 the expected consequences of the coronavirus epidemic. World 2.5 2.5 EU without a deal, unrest in the Middle East and South America, Iran sanctions, and the trend for the formation 1) Rounded to the nearest 0.5%. Overall, our Advanced Intermediates segment’s busiSource: LANXESS estimates and IHS Markit of new, populist governments could further tarnish the ness performance in 2020 is expected to be at around global economy’s growth in the reporting year 2020. We the previous year’s level. The diversification of the end believe that an escalation of trade tensions between the The following table shows the anticipated evolution of markets continues to support this development. The U.S., China and Europe would have a significant negative our selling markets. agrochemicals business is set to benefit from the slight effect on the economic situation. improvement in customer demand over the course of Expected Evolution of Major User Industries in 2020 2020. In fiscal year 2020, we expect moderate growth of Change vs. prior year Auto­ Agro­Con2.5% for the global economy, driven mainly by business in real terms (%)1) motive chemicals struction For the Specialty Additives segment, we expect business performance in Asia-Pacific. We see China remaining Americas 1.0 2.0 (1.0) performance in 2020 to be slightly below the previous EMEA (incl. Germany) 0.0 1.0 1.5 among the main drivers despite lower growth momenyear’s level overall. From the automotive industry, we Asia-Pacific 0.0 2.0 4.0 tum, primarily caused by the trade conflict with the U.S. World 0.0 2.0 2.5 expect weaker demand for the rubber-based additives For EMEA (including Germany), we expect economic business in particular. 1) Rounded to the nearest 0.5%. growth of 1.0%. Source: LANXESS estimates and IHS Markit Our Performance Chemicals segment is expected to develop on a par with the previous year’s level. After strong demand for our disinfectants in the veterinary sector due to the outbreak of African swine fever in Asia in 2019, we expect to keep the business at this level in the forecast period. We also expect development at 118 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information the previous year’s level for the business with inorganic Expected financial position of the Expected earnings position of LANXESS AG pigments. Without the volatile Leather business unit, the LANXESS Group In fiscal year 2020, we expect the financial statements segment is generally more stable thanks to the robust of LANXESS AG to show substantially lower net income end markets in continuing operations. Liquidity situation than in the previous year. The net income of the reporting LANXESS will continue to pursue a forward-looking and period was primarily influenced by the disclosure of hidFor the Engineering Materials segment, we expect busiconservative financial policy in the current year. With den reserves in connection with the planned sale of the ness in 2020 to be considerably below the previous year’s around €2.1 billion in cash, short-term money market interest in Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG and the resulting level overall. In the automotive industry in particular, the investments, securities and undrawn credit lines as of sharp rise in income from investments in affiliated comlevel is expected to remain weak in 2020. In particular, the end of 2019, as described under “Financial condipanies. Other than by the administration expenses the our forecast includes a negative earnings effect due to tion” in this management report, we have a very good company incurs in performing its tasks as a management scheduled maintenance downtime of several weeks at liquidity and financing position, which ensures our corholding company, net income is essentially impacted by the Antwerp production site of the High Performance porate flexibility to implement LANXESS’s strategy. In the financial result, especially the net interest position and Materials business unit. the second quarter, we expect a further liquidity inflow the balance of income and losses from investments in from the sale of our interest in Currenta GmbH Co. OHG, affiliated companies. The balance of income and losses In the Reconciliation segment, we expect earnings to Leverkusen, Germany. from investments in affiliated companies and the corre­deteriorate considerably year-on-year due to general inflasponding ability of LANXESS AG to pay a dividend will tion of the cost base and remnant costs from the portfolio Capital expenditures significantly depend on the profit transfers and dividends measures in the Leather business unit and the organoAs in the past fiscal year, our capital expenditures will paid by the other companies of the LANXESS Group. We metallics business and from the full sale of ARLANXEO. be primarily directed toward the maintenance of existing will maintain our consistent dividend policy and expect production facilities as well as efficiency improvements LANXESS AG to report a distributable profit that will The U.S. dollar will remain the key currency for our and the expansion of existing plants. We again intend enable our stockholders to adequately participate in the businesses. total cash outflows for capital expenditures of around LANXESS Group’s earnings in the coming year. €500 million in 2020. Up to the reporting date, orders Against the background of the expected performance totaling €137 million were issued for this purpose, which Dividend policy of our segments and taking into account adverse effects can be paid out of existing liquidity. LANXESS has been pursuing a consistent dividend policy resulting from the coronavirus epidemic, we expect to genfor years. Our goal remains to increase the dividend each erate EBITDA pre exceptionals of between €900 million Financing measures year or at least to keep it at a stable level. At the Annual and €1,000 million in 2020 as a whole. LANXESS is in a good position due to the long-term Stockholders’ Meeting on May 13, 2020, the Board of nature of its financing. We have no significant maturities Management and Supervisory Board will propose a diviof financial liabilities in fiscal year 2020. We will continue dend of €0.95 per share for fiscal year 2019. our efforts aimed at securing long-term funding as part of a conservative financing policy. 119 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Summary of the Group’s projected Our management system is based both on internal primary duty of the heads of all business units, as well as ­performance ­organizational workflows that are managed by way of of those people in Group companies who hold process We expect our business to generate EBITDA pre excepcontrol and monitoring mechanisms and on early warnand project responsibility. This is why our opportunity and tionals of between €900 million and €1,000 million this ing systems that are used to closely observe changes risk management is based on clearly defined business year, after €1,019 million in the previous year. in external conditions and systematically implement the processes, the precise assignment of responsibilities, and appropriate measures. This approach applies equally to reporting systems that ensure the timely provision of the We will be continuing the strategic realignment of the opportunities and risks. information required for decision-making for the Board Group in 2020 with the aim of achieving a more stable of Management and subordinate management levels. and less cyclical business profile. LANXESS will continLike all methods intended for dealing with business risk, ue to work on optimizing its production platform and, as this system does not offer absolute protection. However, Roles of key organizational units announced, pursue active portfolio management as well it is intended to prevent business risks from having a Our business units conduct their own operations, for which as projects geared toward organic growth. material impact on the company with a sufficient degree they have global profit responsibility. Group functions and of certainty. service companies support the business units by providing However, we must take the strained geopolitical situation financial, legal, technical and other centralized services. and the associated uncertainties for global economic Structural basis Complementing this global alignment of the business development into account. The further course of the coroThe principles of our opportunity and risk management units and Group functions, the country organizations ennavirus epidemic also represents an uncertainty factor system are set forth in a Group directive. The managesure the required proximity to markets and the necessary for our business. ment system, which uses the COSO model as the enorganizational infrastructure. terprise risk management framework, comprises many Opportunity and risk report different elements that are incorporated into business In line with this division of duties, we have assigned processes via the company’s organizational structure, ­responsibility to risk owners for the following: Opportunity and risk management system workflows, planning, reporting, communication systems, Our success is significantly dependent on identifying as well as a set of detailed management policies and ›› Identification and assessment of opportunities and ­opportunities and risks in our business activities and technical standards. The system is based on an interisks actively managing them. The goal of the management gration concept. ›› Implementation of control measures (measures system is to safeguard the company’s existence for the t­ aken to exploit or enhance opportunities and to long term and ensure its successful ongoing developIn other words, the early identification of opportunities avoid or minimize risks) ment by identifying opportunities and risks at an early and risks is an integral part of the management system ›› Monitoring the development of opportunities and stage and, d ­ epending on their nature, appropriately conand not the object of a separate organizational structure. risks (e.g. on the basis of performance indicators sidering these in strategic and operational decisions. The management of opportunities and risks is therefore a and, perhaps also, early warning indicators) Opportunities and risks are understood as possible future developments or events that may result in either positive or negative deviations from forecasts or business objectives. 120 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information ›› Communication of the key opportunities and risks to representatives of the Treasury & Investor Relations Group Opportunity and risk assessment the management committees of the business units function, manages transactions centrally, particularly for Opportunity and risk management is integrated into the and Group functions. the transfer of financial but also operating risk (hedging planning and forecasting process and identifies opportransactions or insurance). tunities and risks as potential deviations from planned or The Corporate Risk Committee, commissioned by the forecast EBITDA pre exceptionals or Group net income. Board of Management and headed by the Chief Financial The duty to report opportunities and risks to the Corporate Officer, is responsible for the structure and implementation Controlling Group function is based on the anticipated imDepending on the type of opportunity or risk, different of the Group-wide risk management process. It is made up pact on Group net income or EBITDA pre exceptionals. All calculation methods are applied in their assessment. of representatives of selected Group functions and analyzes opportunities and risks must be reported if their anticipated Distribution opportunities and risks are identified on the the principal opportunities and risks and their development impact is more than €1 million following the implementabasis of sensitivities in planning parameters (exchange from the viewpoint of the entire company. It examines existtion of measures. In addition, those risks must be reported rates, raw material prices and energy prices). Changes ing measures to counter risks, initiates additional measures which have an anticipated impact that was reduced by more in these variables may result in either positive or negative as required and instigates further analyses of individual than €10 million through the implementation of measures. deviations from planned or forecast figures. opportunities and risks if necessary. These minimum thresholds guarantee that the information gathered about opportunities and risks is comprehensive Event-based opportunities and risks (such as the failure The Corporate Controlling Group function coordinates the and that the collection of information is not just limited to of a supplier or the occurrence of an insured event) that Group-wide risk management process for the Corporate material risks or risks that could jeopardize the future of the would only impact earnings if they actually occurred are Risk Committee and appoints a Group Risk Management company as a going concern. Only then, the Corporate evaluated on the basis of the expected probability of their Coordinator for this purpose. This coordinator is responsible Controlling Group function centrally determines the top occurrence and effect on EBITDA pre exceptionals or for collecting and aggregating key opportunity and risk opportunities and risks. Group net income. information across the Group. The short-, mediumand long-term opportunities and risks are identified twice a year There is also provision for immediate internal reporting on Significance of the Group-wide planning process in the context of the intrayear forecasting process and the specific risk issues such as unexpected operational events Corporate planning is a core element of our opportunity budget and planning process. with an impact of more than €5 million after the implemenand risk management. Events with a high probability of tation of countermeasures. occurrence flow directly into the planning process. The The Corporate Development Group function helps with processes for corporate planning and intrayear forecastthe analysis and evaluation of systematically important and The reported opportunities and risks are managed by ing as well as the corresponding analyses and suggesstrategic opportunities and risks. means of risk management software and regularly analyzed tions for action are steered by the Corporate Controlling for the Corporate Risk Committee, the Board of ManageGroup function, which works closely in this regard with The Corporate Risk Committee has subcommittees made ment and the Supervisory Board. This ensures that when the business units. Certain Board of Management meetup of representatives of the business units and Group funcnew opportunities and risks arise or when existing ones ings are dedicated to discussing and adopting corporate tions that deal with specific risk areas in order to enable a change substantially, the necessary information can be planning outcomes, including the associated opportufast and flexible response to changing situations and their communicated promptly to the Board of Management and nities and risks. We monitor, and if necessary adjust, impacts. Accordingly, for example, the Financial Risk Comtherefore also be specifically integrated into the general the annual budget in any given fiscal year by regularly mittee, headed by the Chief Finance Officer and made up of management of the company. updating our expectations for business development. 121 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Compliance as an integral component (Group) Accounting aspects of the internal consolidated financial statements, which are then forwardRisk management also includes preventing illegal concontrol and risk management system ed to the Supervisory Board’s Audit Committee without duct by our employees. To this end, we obtain extenThe aspects of the internal control and risk management delay. Upon recommendation by the Audit Committee, the sive legal advice concerning business transactions and system relating to the (Group) accounting process i­nclude annual financial statements and the consolidated financial obligate employees by means of our “Code of conduct the principles, procedures and measures required to statements are adopted and approved by the Supervisory – Code for integrity and compliance at LANXESS” to ­ensure the effectiveness, efficiency and propriety of the Board at its financial statements meeting. The Superobserve the law and our internal directives and to act company’s accounting, and compliance with applicable visory Board, and especially its Audit Committee, deal responsibly. The compliance code is part of a comprelegal regulations. To this end, clear organizational, control with major questions relating to LANXESS’s accounting, hensive compliance management system (CMS) that has and monitoring structures have been established. The opportunity and risk management, the audit mandate been structured in accordance with the principles of an distinctive features of the chemical industry and the risk and the areas of focus for the auditor’s audit of the annual ­internationally recognized framework for enterprise risk manage­ment tools we regularly use in this regard are financial statements. management (COSO). This CMS is supported by the taken into account. In addition to the (Group) ­accounting compliance ­organization, which is made up of the Group process in its narrower sense, this also includes the Quarterly statements are prepared for the first and third Compliance Officer, regional Compliance Officers, and a aforementioned structured budget and forecasting proquarters. The condensed consolidated interim financial network of local Compliance Officers in the countries in cess, and extensive contract management. However, the statements as of June 30 that are also prepared are which we have subsidiaries. The objective of the CMS is ­effectiveness and reliability of the internal control and risk ­reviewed, while the annual financial statements and the to ensure the observance of our compliance principles. management system can be restricted by discretionary consolidated financial statements are subjected to a full The ­Compliance function, which includes the global comdecisions, criminal acts, faulty controls or other circumaudit by the auditor of the company’s annual financial pliance organization, reports directly and regularly to the stances. Thus, even if the system components used are statements and consolidated financial statements. Board of Management. applied Group-wide, the correct and timely recording of (Group) accounting issues cannot be guaranteed with Our accounting in compliance with the German Commerfull assurance. cial Code is based on a structured process with appropriate organizational structures and workflows, including The Accounting Group function, which reports to the Chief the related working instructions. In addition to the segreFinancial Officer, is responsible for the (Group) a­ ccounting gation of duties, the dual-control principle and continual process and therefore for preparing the annual financial plausibility testing serve as fundamental monitoring tools statements of LANXESS AG and the consolidated financial during the financial statement preparation process. On the statements of the LANXESS Group. It is also responsiIT side, the accounting process is supplemented by an ble for ensuring the uniform preparation of the financial integrated IT system that is based largely on off-the-shelf statements of the subsidiaries that are included in the software and is protected by security measures against consolidated financial statements. The Board of Manage­ unauthorized access. The correctness of the automatically ment prepares the annual financial statements and the generated postings and the master data required for them 122 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information is regularly reviewed. Manual postings are based on a as expressed in structured authorization and approval Accounting Group function to identify and deal with issues systematic voucher system, documented to the necessary procedures and the dual-control principle as well as conarising outside of accounting processes. These include extent and verified downstream. tinual plausibility testing on data is applied end-to-end litigation risks, projections for impairment testing and spethroughout the preparation and consolidation process. cial contractual agreements with suppliers or customers. The foundation for uniform and IFRS-compliant In addition, third-party service providers are consulted ­consolidated financial reporting at LANXESS is the Group For the consolidated financial statements, all subsidiaries on special issues, particularly relating to the valuation of Financial Statements Guideline. This governs the way subject to reporting requirements transmit their Group pensions and other post-employment benefits. the provisions of the International Financial Reporting reporting data using the above-mentioned consolidaStandards (IFRS) applicable to the Group are applied tion system. Validation rules integrated into the system Monitoring of risk management system and by the subsidiaries as reporting entities. Moreover, the ensure on delivery that the data reported by the subsidinternal control system (ICS) guideline also defines the chart of accounts that is bindiaries are consistent. The accounting departments of the LANXESS’s Corporate Audit Department within the ing throughout the Group. On the IT side, the guideline subsidiaries are responsible for ensuring the correctness Legal & Compliance Group function oversees whether is supplemented by a uniform, Group-wide delivery and of the reported data content, which is also tested by the the internal control and monitoring system works and consolidation system that is based largely on off-the-shelf Corporate Accounting Department within the Accounting whether organizational safeguards are being observed. software and is protected by security measures against Group function. To this end, the department evaluates The planning of audits (selection of audit subjects) and unauthorized access. standardized reports in which the companies explain the audit methods applied are correspondingly aligned material facts relevant to financial reporting. After the with risks. To assess the effectiveness of the ICS, an By controlling and monitoring LANXESS’s (Group) process-based controls have been applied, consolidation annual self-assessment is also carried out in major Group ­accounting process, we ensure that generally accepted including currency translation is carried out in the same companies, operating units and Group functions. The accounting practices in line with the applicable laws and system, without additional interfaces, utilizing both autoSupervisory Board exercises control functions, ­including standards are applied and guarantee reliable financial mated and manual procedures. The correctness of the regular monitoring of the efficiency of the management reporting. The (Group) accounting-related internal control automated consolidation steps and of the master data systems described above by the full Supervisory Board system we use is based on generally accepted standards necessary for this purpose is reviewed regularly. Conand by its Audit Committee. The Audit C ­ ommittee (COSO model). There were no material changes to this solidation information that must be entered manually is ­reviews reports about the Compliance function’s system during the reporting period. Corresponding stanposted separately, documented to the extent required and ­activities and findings, the work of the Corporate Audit dards also apply to the single-entity financial statements verified downstream. This is supplemented by validation Department, and the status of the risk management and of the subsidiaries. rules that are integrated into the system. internal control systems. In addition, the early warning system is evaluated by the external auditor as part of the Preparation of the consolidated financial statements is Regular coordination with other financial Group funcaudit of the consolidated and annual financial statements. based on a detailed process that includes specifying a tions, particularly the Treasury & Investor Relations, Tax financial statement calendar containing deadlines for the & Trade Compliance and Corporate Controlling Group delivery of certain data. A further component is regular functions, assists the financial reporting process. A conreviews of the correctness and completeness of the scope tinual exchange of information with the operating business of consolidation. The principle of the segregation of duties units and other Group functions makes it possible for the 123 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Opportunities and risks of future and contracts containing price escalation clauses. On the product specifications issued by us define the properties ­development selling side, equivalent agreements are in place. We also to be fulfilled by suppliers. They are checked via ongoing Full identification of the LANXESS Group’s opportunities have the option of hedging this risk via derivatives transgoods-in analyses. and risks is performed on the basis of a catalog of cateactions if liquid futures markets are available for hedging gories, which are summarized in the eight groups below: raw material and energy price risks. Further information Human resources can be found in the “Finance” section of this opportunity We see a significant opportunity in the LANXESS corpoCategories and risk report. Additionally, we are constantly looking rate culture, which is based on shared values. We actively Procurement markets for ways to use our resources more efficiently so that we cultivate this culture and are constantly refining it with a Human resources can offset higher costs by raising productivity. Unfulfilled wide range of measures, such as the annual Performance Production and technology acceptance obligations may result in unscheduled costs Culture Day. We promote an appreciative, vibrant and Safety and the environment due to fines. To guard against possible supply bottlenecks open corporate culture, which is distinguished among IT and security due to factors such as the failure of a supplier or of an other things by good leadership, prospects for personSales markets Finance upstream operation at a networked site, we pursue an al development, flexible working, and clear values and Legal and country-specific environment and compliance appropriate inventory strategy and line up alternative principles. We are convinced that our measures to prosources of supply. Failures can be caused by factors mote the corporate culture result in increased employee such as inadequate maintenance or insolvencies at the engagement, and thus stronger company performance, Subsequent reporting in respect of the main categories is supplier end. We endeavor to avoid supply bottlenecks or successful change, a strong employer brand and ultigenerally based on a planning horizon of one year. reliance on individual suppliers using strategies like multimately long-term corporate success. ple sourcing. If we were to be forced to utilize alternative Procurement markets sources of supply in the context of contingency plans, We see another opportunity in the successful impleOn the procurement side, the principal opportunities this could result in, for example, higher procurement mentation of the HR transformation project launched and risks lie in the high volatility of raw material and prices or additional transportation costs. in 2017. In the future, we will be able to provide more ­energy prices. An increase or decrease in the price of the targeted support for our corporate strategy and respond materials we use directly results in higher or lower proLogistics, both of the goods and services that we purto HR trends more quickly and effectively by realigning duction costs. If prices decrease, write-downs may have chase and of those that we provide or render, is subject our g ­ lobal HR organization and launching state-of-theto be recognized on inventories. In addition, ­changes to increasing complexity. We counter these challenges art products and solutions in HR. Global, user-friendly in raw material prices result in higher or lower selling with the coordinated management of our supply pro­s ystems and standardized, digitalized and transparprices – either immediately or after a delay. We mitigate cesses and can thus minimize the risk of unplanned ent processes improve quality, service and customer situations like this by following a sensible inventory and production downtime. Furthermore, the quality of the ­orientation and ultimately increase our competitiveness. procurement policy. Most of the company’s raw material supplied raw materials constitutes a risk factor that may and energy needs are met by long-term supply contracts negatively affect the quality of our products. Detailed 124 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Changes always entail the risk of demotivating employmaking acquisitions, we give high priority to professioncross-divisional and cross-hierarchical talent programs, ees and reducing their performance. This can be sigal project management, which encompasses detailed we retain particularly high-performing employees within nificant if employees do not feel sufficiently involved in communication with employees, fair consolidation proour company and can identify suitable successors for decision-making processes or do not understand new cesses and appropriate severance packages. In the event key positions at an early stage. processes and practices. Thanks to a targeted change of potential legal action, the HR department monitors management strategy, we counter this risk by communithe situation very closely in coordination with the Legal We are increasingly seeing the risk of a shortage of cating next steps and forthcoming measures as clearly and Communication departments to enable appropriate skilled workers in various fields. We are countering and early as possible. This is supplemented by extensive measures to be taken at an early stage. With the above this risk by strengthening our recruitment organization, training measures, such as in management or using new measures relating to the corporate culture and attractive standardizing sourcing processes and investing in a system solutions. offers as an employer, we promote a respectful relationdistinctive employer brand. We position our company ship between managers and (former) employees and as an attractive employer and seek early contact with The risk of walkouts in connection with negotiations conthus try to avert the risk of walkouts or lawsuits. highly talented young people at many events and concerning future collective pay agreements or associated ferences around the world, and increasingly on social with restructuring measures cannot be ruled out. We Germany’s plans for a law regulating fixed-term employmedia. We cooperate closely with research institutes, also face increases in our personnel expenses because ment without good cause could likewise trigger increasuniversities, high schools and public institutions. We of future wage increases. Such an increase in the cost ing personnel expenses. Our HR and Legal departments provide students in Germany, where we have the largest of human resources can be detrimental to earnings. We always observe plans for changes in the law very closely headcount, with both financial and expert support with counter this risk by fostering open communication with in order to prepare early for potentially increased costs the Germany scholarship. Our intern loyalty program also our employees and their representatives in a culture and to take appropriate measures. enables us to stay in close contact with interns who have of active labor relations. Particularly with regard to the done particularly excellent work. In addition, regular HR challenges in the working world from globalization and Our employees’ expert knowledge of internal processes develop­ment conferences help us to hone in-house skills. increasing digitalization, we make continuous use of and issues relating to their areas of specialization is a In addition, we continue to invest in the next generation of existing dialog platforms such as the European Forum, critical factor in the efficiency of our business operations. employees, either with a considerable number of training which brings together the works councils in Europe. We To mitigate the risk of a manpower shortage on the one opportunities in various areas in Germany or through also actively seek dialog with the representatives of our hand and a loss of knowledge on the other hand, we internship programs or our corporate trainee program, employees, the trade unions and other interest groups help our employees to find an improved work-life balwhich is well established in terms of fostering upcoming in the other regions in which we operate, particularly ance as well as offer attractive remuneration models, management talents concerning the acquisition and integration of companies. challenging tasks and international career opportunities. We use legally sound and proven employment contracts In addition, we deal with structured succession planning and ensure legally secure collective agreements. When at annual HR development conferences. With our global, 125 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information In terms of demographic change and the associated and application of the various measures are subject to because they enable us to unlock new ­potential and aging of the population, along with a shortage of qualified global compliance checks. We also counter the risk of ­improve our positioning in key markets. specialist employees, there is also the risk of health-relatproduction stoppages by manufacturing certain products ed absence, outdated knowledge or loss of knowledge, at various sites worldwide. Safety and the environment and declining attractiveness as an employer. In order Although LANXESS applies high technical and safety to counter the challenges of demographic change in Unlocking and exploiting operational opportunities is an standards to the construction, operation and maintea structured way, we set up an extensive demographic important aspect of our entrepreneurial activities. We are nance of production facilities, interruptions in operprogram back in 2011. A whole host of initiatives have committed to using existing products and new solutions ations – including those due to external factors such been initiated and implemented since the program was to advance our growth and sustainably strengthen our as natural disasters or terrorism – cannot be ruled out launched. In Germany, for example, around 110 demogposition in global markets. Investing in new plants as well entirely. These could lead to fires and explosions, the raphy positions (e.g. for chemical production technicians as expanding the capacities and increasing the productivrelease of materials hazardous to health or accidents in and engineers) have been created, additional training ity of existing ones are key elements in these efforts. The which people, property or the environment are harmed. courses have been developed, workplace reintegration anticipated effects are taken into account in our planning In addition to systematically monitoring compliance with programs have been stepped up (reintegration after or are reported as opportunities. In principle, we expect quality standards in order to avoid such stoppages and illness), workplace healthcare offerings have been exinvestments to yield benefits, but they are also coupled accidents, we are also insured against the resulting dampanded (for example, through the introduction of a digital with risks. For example, the success of our investments in age to the extent usual in the industry. In addition, risk health platform), and working has been made more flexAsia has been substantially impacted by increasingly chalengineering professionals commissioned by the insurible. Our strategic HR planning process also enables us lenging trade relations between the U.S. and China. The ance companies perform regular inspections of our sites. to identify staff shortages at an early stage and instigate preparatory work for investments that exceed a specified appropriate measures. significance threshold is the responsibility of the relevant Our product portfolio includes substances that are business units. After review by an Investment Committee ­classified as hazardous to health. To prevent possible Production and technology set up for this purpose, the information is presented to the harm to health, we systematically test the properties A lack of plant availability due to disruptions can make Board of Management for a decision. By following this of our products and draw our customers’ attention to it ­impossible for us to meet production targets and procedure, we ensure that investments are in line with the risks associated with their use in the context of our ­adequately service demand, resulting in a loss of marginal our corporate strategy and satisfy our profitability and ­Responsible Care® activities. We also carry product income. We use a comprehensive range of measures security requirements. ­liability insurance that is customary in our industry. to counter this scenario. These include proactive facility maintenance, systematic training of our employees Sales and earnings effects expected from our investments In line with our forward-looking approach, product and regular audits to analyze weak points. Systematic and from acquisitions completed by the reporting date are monitoring enables us to identify and evaluate potential safety appraisals and risk assessments also contribute already considered in our forecasts. These t­ argeted invest­hazards associated with our product portfolio and initiate to ­improving plant and process safety. Implementation ments may also generate further operational opportunities suitable measures if applicable. 126 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Regulatory measures may lead to the tightening of safety, LANXESS was and is responsible for numerous sites at reputational damage, which is why we invest in data quality and environmental regulations and standards in which chemicals have been produced for periods that in protection systems designed to prevent the loss of data different areas. These may result in higher costs, prosome cases exceed 150 years. This responsibility also and information. Various security and monitoring tools duction bans and liability risks. Particularly noteworthy extends to waste disposal facilities. The possibility canand access restriction and authorization systems are in this regard is compliance with the E.U. Regulation not be ruled out that ground pollution occurred during used to ensure the integrity, confidentiality and availability concerning the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization these periods that has not been identified to date. We of data and information and the trouble-free operation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH). As well as ­direct are committed to the Responsible Care® initiative and of systems. To improve the security of the IT infrastruccosts that could arise due to additional measures necpursue active environmental management and proactive ture, our security measures are subject to regular checks essary to comply with these standards, market strucenvironmental protection management. This includes and evaluations. Where necessary, these measures are tures could change to our disadvantage as a result of constant monitoring and testing of the soil, groundwater ­upgraded. To protect against threats, protective meaa shift by suppliers and customers to regions outside and air as well as of various emissions. We have set up sures have been intensified and adapted in line with Europe. Additional requirements imposed by energy and sufficient provisions for necessary containment or remethe current threat level. To protect against cyber risks, ­environmental policy such as the new emissions trading diation measures in areas with identified contamination. LANXESS has also concluded a cyber insurance ­policy. regulations, new environmental taxes and the redistriAdditional information on our environmental provisions We regularly train the users of our IT systems on IT risks, bution of costs associated with the German R ­ enewable can be found in Note [15], “Other non-current and current appropriate conduct and preventive measures. We conEnergy Act (EEG) could result in higher costs and in part provisions,” to the consolidated financial statements. duct security campaigns to raise awareness of current substantial disadvantages in international competition. issues surrounding IT security. These also include the retrospective review, initiated by IT and security the transmission system operator in connection with the Our IT systems are part of the value chain and support Sales market EEG, of the generation capacity that LANXESS has used our global business activities with standardized processOur company is inherently exposed to general economic for many years to generate its own electricity in power es. We aim to provide efficient, stable and scalable IT developments and to political and geopolitical change plants at sites in the Lower Rhine region and in Duisburg. services. We support this by developing a uniform, intein the countries and regions in which we operate. We With a view to mitigating this risk, we engage in active engrated system architecture and investing in the expansion see the unchanged global tendency toward ­protectionist ergy management to reduce the consumption of energy. and modernization of our IT services worldwide. measures, which would also impact the chemical ­industry We are also discussing the economic consequences of in particular, as a medium-term risk to growth and increasing energy prices with the authorities and govThe operation and use of IT systems entails risks. For ­stability. The value chains in the chemical industry are ernment – either directly or in cooperation with other example, networks or systems may fail, or data and highly interconnected and on a global scale. Increased energy-intensive companies via industry organizations. ­information may be compromised or destroyed because ­protectionism would have a negative impact on growth. of operator and programming errors or external factors. Regional ­differences in economic performance and the In particular, we are observing a growing threat to our IT associated demand trends can affect the Group’s pricing infrastructure resulting from outside attack (cyber risks). and sales potential in its various geographical markets, All these can cause serious business interruptions and with corresponding positive or negative effects on its 127 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information earnings. Our global presence, which we are continuing the competition, and continuously ­adjusting our product Price changes to expand in growth markets, enables us to participate portfolio accordingly, sharpening its focus and aligning Currencies in favorable regional developments and, at the same our offering with innovative customer segments, which Since the LANXESS Group undertakes transactions in time, reduce our dependence on certain regions. This will enable us to operate successfully in the long term. various currencies, it is exposed to fluctuations in the approach is discussed in further detail in the “Strategy” relative value of these currencies. Associated risks are section of this management report. Finance partly hedged insofar as they are cash-effective. Fixed The Treasury & Investor Relations Group function has exchange rates were used in our planning for fiscal year The volatility and cyclicality that are typical of the global the task of centrally recording and managing financial 2020. The development of the U.S. dollar against the chemical and polymer markets and their dependence opportunities and risks. Chief among these are: euro is of particular relevance. An appreciation of the on developments in customer industries harbor uncerU.S. dollar compared with the exchange rate used in tainties for our business. Additional and unplanned sales Financial Opportunities and Risks planning would have a positive effect on our planned opportunities may arise through access to new markets Price Liquidity and Counter­ Capital EBITDA pre exceptionals (and vice versa). or the acquisition of new customers. For example, we changes refinancing party risks investments expect our Engineering Materials segment to benefit Currencies Availability of Customers Investments Currency risks from potential declines in the value of from increasing demand for electric vehicles in the long cash in pension financial instruments due to exchange rate fluctuations Interest rates Access to multiBanks assets term. In addition to being subject to these demand-side and bilateral (transaction risks) arise mainly when receivables and Raw materials market influences, our earning power can be impacted by Energies capital markets payables are denominated in a currency other than the structural changes in markets, such as the exit of existing company’s functional currency. Such risks are always fully competitors or the entry of new ones and the availability hedged. Likewise, currency risks arising from financial of additional capacity, regional shifts, the migration of At regular strategy meetings of the Financial Risk Comtransactions, including the interest component, are gencustomers to countries with lower costs, and product submittee chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, there are erally fully hedged through forward exchange contracts. stitution or market consolidation trends in some sectors. reports on the outcome of financial risk management, In the short term, therefore, the appreciation or depreciaSpecific examples of such developments are the environthe current risk and further action. The aim of financial tion of the euro against other major currencies can have ment-driven consolidation of the Chinese chemicals inrisk management is to identify and evaluate risks so that no material impact on future cash flows. In addition, transdustry and the exodus of chemical production from China their impact can be controlled and, if necessary, limited. lation risks exist from converting entries in the financial to Southeast Asia (e.g. Vietnam) as a result of the trade statements from local currencies into euros for inclusion in war with the U.S. We counter these trends by consistently the LANXESS consolidated financial statements. Unlike managing costs, systematically monitoring the market and the effects of exchange rate fluctuations in the case of 128 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information the transaction risk, the translation risk has no impact In the context of long-term planning, LANXESS regularly part on the successful reduction of Scope 1 greenhouse on the company’s cash flows in local currencies. In addidecides on refinancing to cover the forecast liquidity gas emissions and the increase in the proportion of womtion, material assets and liabilities in local currencies are requirement. en at the top three levels of management. This financing subject to a long-term currency risk, which is regularly replaced the syndicated credit facility of €1.25 billion origestimated and evaluated. However, currency hedging is Raw materials/energy inally expiring in May 2023 at an early stage. In addition to only undertaken if LANXESS is considering withdrawal In the course of its business operations, the LANXESS credit facilities, the Group has short-term liquidity reserves from certain businesses and intends to ­repatriate the Group is exposed to changes in the market prices for energy of €296 million in the form of cash and cash equivalents. funds released as a result. and raw materials. As a rule, these changes are passed on Accordingly, the LANXESS Group has a liquidity position to customers. Where certain market-price risks for energy based on a broad range of financing instruments. The opportunities and risks relating to operating activities and raw materials cannot be passed on to customers in are systematically monitored and analyzed. To this end, their entirety, they may be hedged on a case-by-case basis Counterparty both sales and costs are planned in foreign currencies. In by forward commodity contracts in order to reduce the Counterparty risks (credit risks) arise from trade relathe long term, exchange rate fluctuations could adversely volatility of cash flows. LANXESS had only a small number tionships with customers and dealings with banks and affect future cash flows should the LANXESS Group of forward commodity contracts as of the reporting date. other financial partners, especially with regard to the innot be able to counter them, for example, by pricing its vestment business and financial instrument transactions. products in the respective local currencies. This risk is Liquidity and refinancing minimized by partial hedging with derivative financial We ensure our access to the capital markets and our Customer risks are systematically identified, analyzed and instruments. Hedging is performed in line with principles solvency through a conservative financing policy and a managed using both internal and external information determined by the Board of Management and is subject target capital structure that is largely based on the ratio sources. Customer portfolios may be insured against to continuous monitoring. We have already entered into systems used by leading rating agencies. Our conservative credit risks, especially where the risk profile is elevated. hedging transactions for 2020, 2021 and 2022 to mitifinancing policy takes into account the risk of a change gate the effects of currency fluctuations. to our rating and the associated effects on financial risk The objective of receivables management at LANXESS management, even though LANXESS has no direct influis to collect all outstanding payments punctually and in Interest rates ence on the assessments by independent rating agencies. full, and thus to minimize the risk of default. Continuous Market interest rate movements can cause fluctuations monitoring is computer-assisted, based on the payment in the fair value of a financial instrument. They affect both Our main liquidity reserve is a €1 billion syndicated terms agreed with the customers. These are generally financial assets and financial liabilities. ­credit facility, signed in December 2019, which remained based on the customary payment terms for the business ­undrawn on the reporting date. It has a term until Decemor country. Reminders are sent out at regular intervals if Since the majority of financial liabilities were entered ber 2024 and two options for one-year extensions. The payments are overdue. The maximum risk of default on into at fixed interest rates, changes in interest rates in credit facility is tied to ESG (“environmental, social and receivables, cash and cash equivalents, near-cash assets, the coming years will have only a limited impact on the governance”) criteria. The interest rate terms depend in derivatives and other financial assets is reflected in their LANXESS Group. 129 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information carrying amounts in the statement of financial position Capital investments When information is gathered in the context of ­acquisitions, (disregarding netting arrangements not reflected in the Opportunities and risks associated with the investment it is possible that certain facts required to assess an statement of financial position). of pension assets are monitored by the Pension Commit­a cquisition candidate’s future performance or to tee, which is made up of the Chief Financial Officer and ­determine the purchase price are not available or are not Credit risk relating to receivables from customers is covrepresentatives from the Treasury & Investor Relations, correctly interpreted. We address this risk by conductered by opening letters of credit in favor of the LANXESS Accounting and Human Resources Group functions. ing well-structured due diligence analyses and, where Group for some customers and by agreeing prepayment possible, by concluding appropriate residual risk-minimizwith contractual partners. In addition, LANXESS has a Legal and country-specific environment and ing agreements with the sellers. Insufficient i­ntegration contractually agreed title to goods until the contractual compliance of acquired companies or businesses can result in the partner has paid the full purchase price. The vast maWe actively pursue the strategic optimization of the ­expected value added not being generated. For this reajority of receivables relate to customers with very high ­enterprise. Our efforts include ongoing efficiency enson, we have processes in place with which full integracredit standing. hancement, optimization of opportunities and risks, tion of acquired businesses is assured. If assumptions strengthening of core businesses, active portfolio concerning future developments – such as the realization The creditworthiness of the counterparty is a key critemanagement and proactive participation in industry of synergies – do not materialize, this might result in a rion in the financial policy and credit risk management consolidation through partnerships, divestments and write-down on assets. We monitor this risk by carrying of the LANXESS Group, especially in the selection of acquisitions. Further information can be found in the out impairment testing at least once a year. The risk of banks and financial partners for capital investments and “Strategy” section of this management report. the need to carry out impairment of assets is assigned transactions involving financial instruments. LANXESS to the finance group. therefore endeavors to undertake transactions with banks The success of the decisions associated with these efand other financial counterparties that have at least an forts is naturally subject to forecasting risk with respect Companies in the LANXESS Group are subject to ­legal investment-grade rating. to predicting future (market) developments and the risks and are parties to various litigations. The outcome feasibility of planned measures. For example, the entry of individual proceedings cannot be predicted with Credit risk management also includes global manageinto or exit from a business segment could be based ­assurance due to the uncertainties always associated ment of the counterparty risk relating to all existing on profitability or growth expectations that prove to be with legal disputes. To the extent necessary in light of relationships with banks and financial partners. The unrealistic over time. We mitigate this risk by carefully and the known circumstances in each case, we have set up LANXESS Group pays particular attention to risk diversystematically analyzing the information that is relevant to risk provisions for the event that the outcome of such sification to prevent any cluster risks that could jeopardize decision-making and regularly checking developments. proceedings is unfavorable to LANXESS. Taking into its continued existence. Through master agreements, the During this process, the business units affected and the account existing provisions and insurance, as well as market values of open trading positions can be netted if Board of Management receive support from departments agreements reached with third parties in respect of a partner becomes insolvent, thereby further reducing with the requisite expertise and, if necessary, also from ­liability risks arising from legal disputes, it is currently risks. external consultants. estimated that none of these proceedings will materially affect our planned EBITDA pre exceptionals. 130 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information As an approach to avoiding legal risks, LANXESS has proactively monitoring trade policy developments, timely To ensure standard delivery times even in the event of ­established an extensive compliance management sysinformation is provided to both the operating units and Great Britain leaving without a deal, we have already tem (CMS) incorporating a range of preventive organizathe management organs concerning changes to foreign ­implemented a number of preparatory measures includtional measures. Among the material risks LANXESS has trade and the associated opportunities and risks, and ing stocking up inventories and ensuring the continuous identified are those relating to antitrust legislation and appropriate recommendations for action are made. sharing of information with customers and suppliers. In plant safety/environmental protection. Within the frameaddition, LANXESS has made preparations to be able work of the CMS, these issues are assigned as specific Tax matters are subject to a degree of uncertainty to seamlessly transfer existing British registrations to responsibilities to different Group functions that have in terms of their assessment by the tax authorities in LANXESS companies within the European Union and established relevant compliance programs. In connection Germany and other countries. Even if we believe that to ensure compliance with regulatory requirements with risks relating to antitrust legislation, for example, all circumstances have been reported correctly and in within Great Britain at an early stage through grandfaLANXESS has developed a program that combines classcompliance with the law, the possibility cannot be ruled thering provisions as well as notification and registration room training and e-learning to ensure compliance with out that the tax authorities may come to a different conprocesses. Thanks to this thorough preparation and competition law. In this way, our employees and managclusion in individual cases. the fact that only a small proportion of our total sales ers are schooled in the particular risks pertaining to their are made in Great Britain, we are confident that even areas of business and made aware of their significance. Great Britain’s exit from the European Union on JanuGreat Britain’s departure without a deal will not have This training is performed and documented at regular ary 31, 2020, will be followed by a transition period until any significant, negative impact on our business. Despite intervals. Our employees can also contact designated December 31, 2020, in which economic and trading everything, however, a conclusive assessment of the experts in the Legal & Compliance Group function if they relations between the European Union and Great ­Britain political framework and the associated implications of have any specific questions. Further information can be are not expected to change. If no agreement on the future Great Britain’s departure from the European Union is found in the “Compliance as an integral component” of these relations is reached before the end of the trannot currently possible. section of this opportunity and risk report. sition period, and no extension is requested, there will again be the threat of Great Britain leaving without a deal Furthermore, we have investigated the impact of the Any violations of foreign trade regulations may result (“no-deal Brexit”). In the context of risk and opportunity ongoing trade conflict between China and the U.S. on in prohibitions and restrictions on LANXESS’s export management, we have also been assessing the impact LANXESS. The assessment found that only isolated activities and the loss of its privileges with respect to of this scenario on our business activities. In response, products in our portfolio are affected, and that the flow export procedures. In individual cases, this may also we have established a cross-disciplinary team of experts of goods between China and the U.S. is only weak. For result in fines, trade sanctions and loss of reputation. tasked with, among other things, safeguarding our supply this reason, the direct consequences of the conflict are The LANXESS Group ensures compliance in foreign chains and, if necessary, adjusting our internal processes. not expected to have a significantly negative impact on trade and export control through the global implemenWe are also preparing the necessary steps with regard to our operations. tation and optimization of appropriate and stable control the Regulation concerning the Registration, Evaluation, instruments and automated screening processes. By Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH). 131 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Significance of opportunities and risks and Even though the currency category and the legal and Summary of overall opportunities and risks result of opportunity and risk assessment country-specific environment and compliance group are The chemical industry worldwide is operating in an The opportunities and risks of future development that of little importance to opportunity and risk reporting for ­e nvironment in which protectionist developments we identify are categorized and grouped, as described 2020, possible positive and negative deviations from in major economies are restricting global trade and above. The significance of the opportunities and threats targets are also set out below for this category and group, ­investment. The global challenges of our time – such as lies in their potential impact on planned EBITDA pre which were significant in the past: climate protection, scarcity of drinking water, and feeding exceptionals for the LANXESS Group. Individual catea growing global population – also entail long-term risks gories in which the opportunity or risk may produce a Opportunity and Risk Proﬁle1) and challenges. However, value-based, responsible and deviation of more than 5% from our projected EBITDA % reliable action, combined with clear strategic guidelines, pre exceptionals in the planning year are considered to gives us the headroom we need to remain effective and Raw CurrenSales Safety Legal and be of medium to high significance. This also applies to material cies market and the countrycompetitive even in the evolving operating environment. prices environspeciﬁc groups in which this threshold is exceeded only on a In addition, this will allow us to leverage strategic and ment environment cumulative basis across all the categories assigned to and operational opportunities and to make maximum use of compliance each group. growth potential. 15% Within the context of opportunity and risk management 10% for the planning year, the raw material prices category, the sales market group and the safety and environment 5% group were considered to be of medium to high significance. Based on the scenarios applied or the assumed Forecast EBITDA pre exceptionals probability of occurrence, this category and these groups could produce a positive or negative deviation of up to (5%) 7% from our projected EBITDA pre exceptionals, which is our key controlling parameter. (10%) (15%) Opportunities Risks 1) Eventand distribution-based opportunities and risks in line with assumed scenarios; on account of the interactions between the various categories, the eﬀects of the opportunities and risks may not be added. 132 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Our portfolio adjustments followed a clear strategic that planning and forecasts in general are somewhat less ­direction, with the successful reduction of the f­ormerly reliable, for example due to the changes in our procurevery high automotive portion in favor of consumer ment and customer markets. ­applications and the expansion of our presence in medium-­sized, partially regulated, and thus protected The economic ramifications of the coronavirus epidemic markets for specialty businesses. This balanced structure are an uncertainty factor. of our customer markets is intended to provide us with stability, especially in phases of economic downturn. The In light of our present financing structures, our sound strengthening of our business with disinfectants and preliquidity position and the headroom created by our servatives is driving profitability and growth. However, our ­realignment and in particular by the changes to our strategy also entails separating from businesses for which Group portfolio, we are confident of managing any risks we no longer see long-term development prospects at that arise in the future. LANXESS. We therefore decided to sell all operations of the Leather business unit, which was previously part of Based on an overall evaluation of risk management the Performance Chemicals segment. We still have no ­information, the Board of Management at the present substantial risk exposure thanks to our broadly diversified time cannot identify any sufficiently likely risks or risk product and customer portfolios. combinations that would jeopardize the continued ­existence of LANXESS. All planning is subject to a certain degree of fore­casting risk, which could necessitate flexible adjustments to ­rapidly changing business conditions over the course of the year. This is particularly true in view of the fact 133 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 135 Statement of Financial Position 170 (4) Investments in Other Affiliated ­Companies 193 (25) General Administration Expenses 136 Income Statement 170 (5) Derivative Financial Instruments 193 (26) Other Operating Income 136 Statement of Comprehensive Income 174 (6) Other Non-Current and Current F ­ inancial Assets 194 (27) Other Operating Expenses 137 Statement of Changes in Equity 174 (7) Non-Current and Current Income 194 (28) Financial Result 138 Statement of Cash Flows Tax Receivables 195 (29) Income Taxes 175 (8) Other Non-Current Assets 196 (30) Earnings and Dividend per Share 139 Notes to the Consolidated 175 (9) Inventories 197 (31) Personnel Expenses Financial ­Statements 175 (10) Trade Receivables 139 General Information 175 (11) Other Current Assets 197 Other Information 139 Structure and Components of the 176 (12) Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale and 197 (32) Employees Consolidated Financial Statements ­Discontinued Operations 197 (33) Contingent Liabilities and Other ­Financial 139 Financial Reporting Standards and 176 (13) Equity ­Commitments Interpretations Applied 178 (14) Provisions for Pensions and Other 198 (34) Related Parties 141 Financial Reporting Standards and ­Post-­Employment Benefits Interpretations Issued but not yet Mandatory 199 (35) Compensation of the Board of ­Management 186 (15) Other Non-Current and Current P ­ rovisions and the Supervisory Board 141 Restatement of Prior-Year Figures 190 (16) Other Non-Current and Current ­ 200 (36) Leases 141 Consolidation Financial Liabilities 201 (37) Financial Instruments 143 Currency Translation 191 (17) Non-Current and Current Income Tax Liabilities 211 (38) Notes to the Statement of Cash Flows 144 Accounting Policies and ­Valuation ­Principles 191 (18) Other Non-Current and Current L ­ iabilities 213 (39) Segment Reporting 156 Estimation Uncertainties and the E ­ xercise of Discretion 192 (19) Trade Payables 216 (40) Audit Fees 159 Companies Consolidated 192 (20) Further Information on Liabilities 217 (41) Declaration of Compliance Pursuant to Section 161 of the Stock Corporation Act 217 (42) Utilization of Disclosure Exemptions 166 Notes to the Statement of 192 Notes to the Income Statement ­Financial Position 217 (43) Events after the Reporting Period 192 (21) Sales 166 (1) Intangible Assets 193 (22) Cost of Sales 168 (2) Property, Plant and Equipment 218 Responsibility Statement 193 (23) Selling Expenses 170 (3) Investments Accounted for Using the 219 Independent Auditor’s Report 193 (24) Research and Development Expenses Equity Method CONTENTS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Statement of Financial Position LANXESS Group € million Note Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2019 € million Note Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2019 ASSETS EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Intangible assets (1) 1,764 1,765 Capital stock and capital reserves 1,317 1,317 Property, plant and equipment (2) 2,577 2,724 Other reserves 1,391 1,429 Investments accounted for using the equity method (3) 0 – Net income 431 205 Investments in other affiliated companies (4) 2 1 Other equity components (359) (282) Non-current derivative assets (5) 0 1 Equity attributable to non-controlling interests (7) (22) Other non-current financial assets (6) 25 29 Equity (13) 2,773 2,647 Non-current income tax receivables (7) 14 89 Deferred taxes (29) 287 324 Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits (14) 1,083 1,178 Other non-current assets (8) 117 132 Other non-current provisions (15) 337 338 Non-current assets 4,786 5,065 Non-current derivative liabilities (5) 3 2 Other non-current financial liabilities (16) 2,686 2,777 Inventories (9) 1,347 1,195 Non-current income tax liabilities (17) 117 95 Trade receivables (10) 903 769 Other non-current liabilities (18) 80 67 Cash and cash equivalents 797 296 Deferred taxes (29) 89 109 Current derivative assets (5) 4 5 Non-current liabilities 4,395 4,566 Other current financial assets (6) 598 864 Current income tax receivables (7) 55 110 Other current provisions (15) 465 409 Other current assets (11) 197 186 Trade payables (19) 795 656 Assets held for sale and discontinued operations (12) – 205 Current derivative liabilities (5) 25 17 Current assets 3,901 3,630 Other current financial liabilities (16) 59 66 Total assets 8,687 8,695 Current income tax liabilities (17) 44 122 Other current liabilities (18) 131 111 Liabilities directly related to assets held for sale and discontinued operations (12) – 101 Current liabilities 1,519 1,482 Total equity and liabilities 8,687 8,695 135 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Income Statement Statement of Comprehensive Income LANXESS Group LANXESS Group € million Note 2018 2019 € million 2018 2019 Sales (21) 6,824 6,802 Income after income taxes 523 191 Cost of sales (22) (5,086) (5,043) Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Gross profit 1,738 1,759 Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability for post-employment benefit plans 39 (128) Selling expenses (23) (759) (812) Income taxes (8) 14 Research and development expenses (24) (109) (114) 31 (114) General administration expenses (25) (295) (274) Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Other operating income (26) 114 95 if specific conditions are met Other operating expenses (27) (198) (247) Exchange differences on translation of operations outside the eurozone 31 70 Financial instruments fair value measurement (47) (1) Operating result (EBIT) 491 407 Financial instruments cost of hedging (28) 11 Income from investments accounted for using the Income taxes 22 (4) equity method 0 0 (22) 76 Interest income 6 22 Other comprehensive income, net of income tax 9 (38) Interest expense (75) (76) Total comprehensive income 532 153 Other financial income and expense (41) (7) of which attributable to non-controlling interests 92 (15) Financial result (28) (110) (61) of which attributable to ­L ANXESS AG stockholders 440 168 from continuing operations 297 204 Income before income taxes 381 346 from discontinued operations 143 (36) Income taxes (29) (99) (105) Income after income taxes from continuing operations 282 241 Income after income taxes from discontinued operations 241 (50) Income after income taxes 523 191 of which attributable to non-controlling interests 92 (14) of which attributable to L ­ ANXESS AG stockholders (net income) 431 205 Earnings per share (undiluted/diluted) (€) (30) from continuing operations 3.08 2.72 from discontinued operations 1.63 (0.40) from continuing and discontinued operations 4.71 2.32 Prior-year figures restated 136 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Statement of Changes in Equity LANXESS Group Capital stock Capital Other Net Other equity c ­ omponents Equity Equity Equity ­reserves reserves income attributable to ­attributable Currency Financial LANXESS AG to non-­ translation instruments stock­holders controlling adjustment Fair value Cost of interests € million measurement hedging Dec. 31, 2017 91 1,226 1,381 87 (509) 16 (5) 2,287 1,126 3,413 Allocations to retained earnings 87 (87) 0 0 Change in accounting policies (11) 1 (10) (7) (17) Transactions with owners (2) (2) 2 0 Dividend payments (73) (73) (41) (114) Total comprehensive income 9 431 38 (27) (11) 440 92 532 Income after income taxes 431 431 92 523 Other comprehensive income, net of income tax 9 38 (27) (11) 9 0 9 Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability for postemployment benefit plans 8 8 31 39 Exchange differences on translation of operations outside the eurozone 38 38 (7) 31 Financial instruments (37) (17) (54) (21) (75) Income taxes on other comprehensive income 1 10 6 17 (3) 14 Changes in scope of c­ onsolidation 126 2 10 138 (1,179) (1,041) Dec. 31, 2018 91 1,226 1,391 431 (345) (8) (6) 2,780 (7) 2,773 Allocation to retained earnings 431 (431) 0 0 Acquisition and withdrawal of own shares (4) 4 (200) (200) (200) Dividend payments (79) (79) 0 (79) Total comprehensive income (114) 205 71 (1) 7 168 (15) 153 Income after income taxes 205 205 (14) 191 Other comprehensive income, net of income tax (114) 71 (1) 7 (37) (1) (38) Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability for p ­ ostemployment benefit plans (128) (128) (128) Exchange differences on translation of operations outside the eurozone 71 71 (1) 70 Financial instruments (1) 11 10 10 Income taxes on other comprehensive income 14 0 (4) 10 10 Dec. 31, 2019 87 1,230 1,429 205 (274) (9) 1 2,669 (22) 2,647 137 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Statement of Cash Flows LANXESS Group € million Note 2018 2019 € million Note 2018 2019 Income before income taxes 381 346 Cash outflows for external funding of pension obligations (CTAs) (200) – Amortization, depreciation, write-downs and reversals Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities – of impairment charges of intangible assets, property, continuing operations (38) 80 (697) plant and equipment 415 503 Net cash used in investing activities – Gains on disposals of intangible assets and discontinued operations (184) (15) property, plant and equipment (1) (1) Net cash used in investing activities – total (104) (712) Financial losses 63 34 Proceeds from borrowings 653 4 Income taxes paid (154) (193) Repayments of borrowings (662) (90) Changes in inventories (148) 85 Interest paid and other financial disbursements (77) (66) Changes in trade receivables (84) 94 Dividend payments (74) (79) Changes in trade payables 53 (111) Acquisition of own shares – (200) Changes in other assets and liabilities (84) (123) Net cash used in financing activities – Net cash provided by operating activities – continuing operations (38) (160) (431) continuing operations (38) 441 634 Net cash used in financing activities – Net cash provided by operating activities – discontinued operations (57) (2) discontinued operations 145 9 Net cash used in financing activities – total (217) (433) Net cash provided by operating activities – total 586 643 Change in cash and cash equivalents from Cash outflows for purchases of intangible assets and continuing operations 361 (494) property, plant and equipment (482) (508) Change in cash and cash equivalents from Cash inflows from sales of intangible assets and discontinued operations (96) (8) property, plant and equipment 3 6 Change in cash and cash equivalents – total 265 (502) Cash outflows for financial assets (494) (323) Cash and cash equivalents as of January 1 538 797 Cash inflows from financial assets – 82 Exchange differences and other changes in cash and cash Cash outflows for the sale of subsidiaries and other equivalents (6) 1 ­businesses, less acquired cash and cash equivalents (66) – Cash and cash equivalents as of December 31 (38) 797 296 Cash inflows from the sale of subsidiaries and other of which continuing operations 797 296 businesses, less acquired cash and cash equivalents 1,304 20 of which discontinued operations – 0 Interest and dividends received 15 26 Prior-year figures restated 138 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements GENERAL INFORMATION STRUCTURE AND COMPONENTS FINANCIAL ­REPORTING ­STANDARDS OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL AND I­NTERPRETATIONS APPLIED LANXESS AG is entered as a stock corporation in the STATEMENTS Commercial Register of the Cologne District Court under The consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS HRB 53652. Its registered office is at Kennedyplatz 1, The consolidated financial statements comprise the Group as of December 31, 2019, were prepared in 50569 Cologne, Germany. statement of financial position, the income statement ­accordance with the International Financial Reporting and statement of comprehensive income, the statement Standards (IFRS) as endorsed by the European Union The annual financial statements of LANXESS AG and of changes in equity, the statement of cash flows and the (E.U.) and the corresponding interpretations, together the consolidated financial statements of LANXESS AG, notes, which include the segment information. with the additional requirements of Section 315e, Parato which the auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH graph 1 of the German Commercial Code (HGB). Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, Frankfurt/Main, have The consolidated financial statements were prepared issued unqualified auditor’s reports, are published in the in euros (€). Amounts are stated in millions of euros Leases German Federal Gazette (Bundesanzeiger). (€ million) except where otherwise indicated. Assets On January 13, 2016, the IASB published the new stanand liabilities are classified in the statement of financial dard IFRS 16, which supersedes IAS 17. The standard The consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS position as current or non-current. Further details of their was endorsed by the E.U. in October 2017 and is to be Group for fiscal year 2019 were prepared by the maturities are provided in these notes in certain cases. applied for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, Board of Management of LANXESS AG and autho2019. The transition was made applying the modified rized for s­ ubmission to the Supervisory Board on The consolidated financial statements were prepared retrospective method. Therefore, the comparative figures ­February 27, 2020. It is the responsibility of the Super­ on the basis of historical acquisition, construction or of fiscal year 2018 have not been restated. The transition visory Board to ­examine the consolidated financial stateproduction costs of the assets. Where different valuation had no effects on equity. ments and declare whether or not it approves them. principles are prescribed, these are used and explained separately in the section on accounting policies and Under IFRS 16, lessees recognize all leases as a right-ofvaluation principles. use asset and a lease liability in the statement of financial position on the basis of the present value of the lease The income statement was prepared using the cost-ofpayments. For lessees, the distinction between operatsales method. ing and finance leases is abolished. The lease liability is remeasured on the occurrence of specified events The fiscal year for these consolidated financial statements (e.g. change in the term of the lease or change in future is the calendar year. lease payments resulting from a change in an index). In 139 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information general, remeasurements of lease liabilities result in an As of the transition date of January 1, 2019, present Reconciliation of Lease Liabilities IFRS 16 adjustment of the right-of-use asset. Depreciation on the values of €133 million for lease liabilities, asset retire€ million Jan. 1, 2019 capitalized right-of-use asset and interest expense for ment obligations of €2 million and conversely rightOperating lease obligations as of compounding the lease liabilities are recognized in the of-use assets of €135 million were recognized under December 31, 2018 176 income statement. The application of IFRS 16 r­ esults in property, plant and equipment in the statement of Nominal value of liabilities from finance leases a shift in the cash flows in the statement of cash flows. f­inancial position, of which lease liabilities of €4 million as of December 31, 2018 21 Application of options for lessees and others (12) Instead of the lease payments previously shown in cash and right-of-use assets of €4 million are attributable Nominal value of lease liabilities flow from operating activities, the principal and interest to discontinued o ­ perations. This reduced the equity as of January 1, 2019 185 portions of the lease payments are recognized in cash ­ratio by around 0.5 percentage points compared with Discounting (35) flow from financing activities. IFRS 16 results in no ma­December 31, 2018. Net financial liabilities increased Present value of lease liabilities as of January 1, 2019 150 terial changes for lessors. by the value of the additional lease liabilities. Present value of liabilities from finance leases as of December 31, 2018 (17) LANXESS applies the options for lessees provided by the Starting with the operating lease obligations as of Additional liabilities due to initial application of IFRS 16 133 new standard for the treatment of short-term leases and ­December 31, 2018, the reconciliation with the o ­ pening Adjustments in accordance with IFRS 5 (4) leases for low-value assets. As these options are applied, balance of the lease liabilities as of January 1, 2019, Additional liabilities due to initial application the costs of these leases are expensed immediately and was as follows: of IFRS 16 after adjustments in accordance the payments are recognized in cash flow from operating with IFRS 5 129 activities. The new requirements were not applied to leases whose term ends within twelve months of the The right-of-use assets and lease liabilities were disdate of first-time application. These leases are accounted counted using the incremental borrowing rate as of for as short-term leases. LANXESS has decided not to ­January 1, 2019. The weighted average rate at the time reassess leases concluded before the transition date of initial application was 2.7%. As of December 31, 2019, to determine whether an arrangement is or contains a there were lease liabilities of €141 million and right-of-use lease at the date of initial application, but instead to retain assets of €148 million. the assessment made according to IAS 17 and IFRIC 4. Initial direct costs were excluded from the measurement The past expense for operating leases is no longer of right-of-use assets on initial application. If leases had ­reported in the income statement and is replaced by options to extend or terminate the lease, LANXESS made the depreciation expense of the recognized right-of-use estimates regarding the retrospective determination of assets and interest expenses on the lease liability. terms on the basis of previous experience. The mandatory first-time application of the following financial reporting standards and interpretations in fiscal 140 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information year 2019 currently has no impact, or no material impact, Standard/Interpretation Date of Mandatory Endorsed on the LANXESS Group: publication for LANXESS by the E.U. as of fiscal year IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts May 18, 2017 2021 No Standard/Interpretation Conceptual Amendments to References to the Conceptual Framework in IFRS 9 Amendments to IFRS 9 – Prepayment Features Framework IFRS Standards March 29, 2018 2020 Yes with Negative Compensation IFRS 3 Amendments to IFRS 3 – Definition of a Business October 22, 2018 2020 No IFRIC 23 IFRIC 23 – Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments IAS 1/IAS 8 Amendment to IAS 1 and IAS 8 – Definition of Material October 31, 2018 2020 Yes IAS 28 Amendments to IAS 28 – Long-term Interests in IFRS 9/IAS 39/ Amendments to IFRS 9, IAS 39 and IFRS 7 – Interest Rate Associates and Joint Ventures IFRS 7 Benchmark Reform Sept. 26, 2019 2020 Yes IAS 19 Amendments to IAS 19 – Plan Amendment, IAS 1 Amendments to IAS 1 – Classification of Liabilities as January 23, 2020 2022 No Curtailment or Settlement Current or Non-Current Various IAS Annual Improvements to International Financial and IFRS Reporting Standards (2015–2017 Cycle) RESTATEMENT OF PRIOR-YEAR Intra-Group profits or losses, sales, income and exFINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS FIGURES penses as well as receivables and payables between AND INTERPRETATIONS ISSUED ­consoli­dated companies are eliminated. BUT NOT YET MANDATORY Due to the application of IFRS 5, the prior-year figures in the income statement as well as the statement of cash Scope of consolidation In fiscal year 2019, the International Accounting flows and the associated disclosures in the notes were The consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS ­Standards Board (IASB) and the IFRS Interpretations restated. Group include LANXESS AG and all subsidiaries Committee issued financial reporting standards and ­under the control of LANXESS AG. Control exists if interpretations, whose application was not yet mandatory LANXESS AG is exposed to variable returns from the for that year and which the LANXESS Group thus did CONSOLIDATION relationship with a company and has power over the not yet apply. The application of these standards and company. Power means that LANXESS AG has existing interpretations is in some cases contingent upon their The financial statements of the consolidated companies rights that give it the current ability to direct the relevant endorsement by the E.U. It is therefore possible that the were prepared using uniform accounting policies and activities of the company and thus exert a significant dates for mandatory application may ultimately be later valuation principles. influence over the variable returns. The ability to control than indicated below. another company generally derives from direct or indirect If the fiscal year of a consolidated company does not ownership of a majority of the voting rights. In the case The following financial reporting standards and interpreend on December 31, interim financial statements are of structured entities, control normally derives from contations currently have no impact, or no material impact, prepared for the purpose of consolidation. tractual agreements. A company is consolidated as of the on the LANXESS Group: date from which LANXESS AG is able to exercise control and deconsolidated when this is no longer the case. 141 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Interests in associates in which the LANXESS Group For each business combination, there is an option to Differences arising from the first-time accounting for exerts a significant influence, generally through an owner­ include any shares not acquired either at their fair value investments using the equity method are determined ship interest between 20% and 50%, and interests in or at the pro rata share of the fair value of the acquiree’s according to the same principles as for consolidated joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method. net assets. They are reported in the statement of financial subsidiaries. Any goodwill is included in the carrying position as equity attributable to non-controlling interests. amount of the entity. Entities that are in aggregate immaterial to the Group’s earnings, asset and financial position are not consoli­ Acquisition-related costs – except those incurred to issue Joint operations dated, but are included in the consolidated financial debt or equity securities – are recognized in profit or loss. Joint operations are arrangements in which the parties statements at fair value. that exercise joint control have rights to the assets and Goodwill is measured as of the acquisition date as the obligations for the liabilities relating to the arrangement. Changes in the scope of consolidation are stated in the excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of LANXESS accounts for its share of the joint assets and section headed “Companies Consolidated,” which also any non-controlling interests and the fair value of any joint liabilities of such joint operations and its share of contains a list of companies. previously held equity interest over the fair value of the the revenues and expenses, including its share of jointly net assets acquired. Negative goodwill is recognized in incurred expenses. Fully consolidated companies the income statement. Business combinations are accounted for using the Transactions with owners ­acquisition method. The cost of a business combi­nation Investments accounted for using the Transactions with non-controlling interests, which do is stated as the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of equity method not result in a loss of control, are treated as transactions acquisition, of the assets transferred, liabilities incurred or The cost of acquisition of an entity accounted for using between shareholders of the LANXESS Group. Changes assumed, and any equity instruments issued in ­exchange the equity method is adjusted annually by the percentage in ownership interests are accounted for by adjusting for control of the acquiree. It also contains the fair value of any change in its equity corresponding to LANXESS’s the carrying amounts of the controlling and non-conof assets and liabilities resulting from contingent conpercentage interest in the entity. If any decline in value trolling interests. Differences between the adjustment sideration contracts. exceeds the carrying amount of the entity, write-downs to the carrying amount of the non-controlling interests are recognized on the associated non-current assets. and the fair value of the consideration paid or received For the first-time consolidation, the assets, liabilities and If the carrying amount of the entity and the associated are recognized immediately in other reserves and thus contingent liabilities identified in the course of the acquiassets are reduced to zero, liabilities would be recogassigned to the equity attributable to the stockholders sition are measured at fair value as of the acquisition date. nized if the owner has entered into a legal or substantive of LANXESS AG. obligation, e. g. to offset pro rata losses, or has made payments for the entity. 142 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information CURRENCY TRANSLATION Equity is translated at historical rates, while income, exfor inflation for fiscal years before December 31, 2016, penses and other changes during the year are translated and the retail consumer price index (IPC Nacional In the financial statements of the individual ­consolidated at average rates. The differences between the resulting ­INDEC) was used from January 1, 2017. The price index companies that form the basis for the consolidated amounts and those obtained by translating at closing came to 184.59 points at the start of the fiscal year and ­financial statements of the LANXESS Group, all foreign-­ rates are reported separately in other comprehensive 284.96 points at the end of the fiscal year. currency assets and liabilities are translated at closing income as exchange differences on translation of operrates, irrespective of whether they are hedged. Forations outside the eurozone. The principal exchange rates used for currency trans­ ward contracts serving as economic hedges against lation in the LANXESS Group were: fluctuations in exchange rates are reflected at fair value. Foreign currency transactions for which advance con­Exchange differences resulting from currency translation sideration has been paid or received are translated at Exchange Rates are reflected in profit or loss in the net exchange result the exchange rate of the advance consideration paid or Closing rate Average rate within other financial income and expense. received up to the amount of the advance consideration Dec. 31, Dec. 31, paid or received, if material. €1 2018 2019 2018 2019 The financial statements of each foreign entity are valued Argentina ARS 43.13 67.26 32.91 53.95 on the basis of the currency of the primary economic If a company is deconsolidated, the relevant exchange Brazil BRL 4.44 4.53 4.30 4.41 environment in which the entity operates (functional differences are reversed and recognized in profit or loss. China CNY 7.88 7.82 7.81 7.73 Great Britain GBP 0.89 0.85 0.88 0.88 currency concept). By far the majority of foreign comIndia INR 79.88 80.19 80.71 78.83 panies are financially, economically and organizationally IAS 29 has been applicable to the subsidiar y Japan JPY 125.85 121.94 130.40 122.05 autonomous and their functional currencies are therefore LANXESS S.A., Buenos Aires, Argentina, since fi­ scal Canada CAD 1.56 1.46 1.53 1.49 the respective local currencies. The assets and liabilities year 2018. Non-monetary items in the statement of Singapore SGD 1.56 1.51 1.59 1.53 of these companies are translated at closing rates, while ­financial position, components of equity and items in South Africa ZAR 16.46 15.78 15.61 16.17 U.S. USD 1.15 1.12 1.18 1.12 income and expense items are translated at average the statement of comprehensive income were adjusted rates for the year. to the actual price level using the price index proposed by the Government Board of the Argentine Federation of Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity is Professional Councils of Economic Sciences (FACPCE) recognized in the currency of the acquired entity and as of December 31, 2019, and subsequently translated translated at the closing rate, irrespective of the date at the closing rate at the end of the reporting period. The on which it arose. wholesale consumer price index (Indec IPIM) was used 143 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND annually or more often if events or a change in circumlonger apply, provided that this does not cause the carryVALUATION PRINCIPLES stances indicate a possible impairment. Any impairment ing amount of the assets to exceed either the amortized charges are recognized in other operating expenses. cost at which they would have been recognized if they The accounting policies and valuation principles are the Impairment charges on goodwill are not reversed. had not been written down or their current recoverable same as those used in the previous fiscal year and have amount. been consistently applied. However, certain changes The costs incurred for in-house software development have resulted from the mandatory first-time application at the application development stage are capitalized. For The cost of self-constructed property, plant and equipin fiscal year 2019 of new or amended financial reportdevelopment costs to be capitalized, it must be sufficiently ment comprises the direct costs, as well as an appropriing standards and interpretations. These changes are certain that the development activity will generate future ate share of the necessary material and manufacturing explained in the section headed “Financial Reporting economic benefits which will also cover the associated overheads. It also includes the shares of depreciation Standards and Interpretations Applied.” development costs. These costs are amortized over the as well as of expenses for company pension plans and expected useful life of the software from the date it is discretionary employee benefits that are attributable to Intangible assets completed. production. Intangible assets comprise goodwill and other intangible assets such as software, concessions, industrial Emissions rights are recognized at cost. Rights allocated Where an obligation exists to shut down or dismantle property rights, similar rights and assets, and licenses to free of charge by the German Emissions Trading Authority assets at the end of their useful life or to restore a site to such rights and assets. Acquired intangible assets with a (DEHSt) or comparable authorities in other European its original condition, the present value of the obligation is definite useful life are recognized at cost and amortized countries are capitalized at a value of zero. capitalized along with the cost of acquisition or construcover their respective useful lives using the straight-line tion and a provision in the same amount is recognized. method. The amortization for intangible assets other Property, plant and equipment than goodwill is between 3 and 20 years. Amortization Property, plant and equipment is carried at the cost of If the construction phase of property, plant or equipin the reporting period is allocated to the respective funcacquisition or construction less usage-based depreciament extends over a long period, the directly attributtional areas. Any further decline in value is recognized tion. Write-downs are recognized for any reduction in able borrowing costs incurred up to the date of comby means of a write-down. Write-downs are reversed in value that goes beyond ordinary depreciation. In completion are capitalized as part of the cost of acquisition the following year if the reasons for them no longer exist, pliance with IAS 36, impairment charges are measured or construction. provided that this does not cause the carrying amount of by comparing the carrying amount with the discounted the assets to exceed either the amortized cost at which cash flows expected to be generated by the assets in Expenses for current maintenance and repairs are recthey would have been carried if the write-downs had not the future. Where it is not possible to allocate future ognized directly in profit or loss. Subsequent acquisition been recognized or their current recoverable amount. cash flows to specific assets, the impairment charge is or construction costs are capitalized if they will result in The lower of these two amounts is recognized. Goodwill assessed on the basis of the discounted cash flows for future economic benefits and can be reliably determined. and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. amortized, but subject to an impairment test performed Write-downs are reversed accordingly if the reasons no 144 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Expenses for general overhauls of major large-scale Leases (IFRS 16) Right-of-use assets are measured at cost and reported in plants are recognized separately at the cost of the overSince January 1, 2019, lessees have recognized all property, plant and equipment. Cost includes the present haul as part of the related assets and depreciated over leases as a right-of-use asset and a lease liability in the value of the aforementioned lease liabilities, advance the period between one general overhaul and the next statement of financial position on the basis of the present lease payments made, initial direct costs and asset reusing the straight-line method. value of the lease payments. tirement obligations. Right-of-use assets are depreciated using the straight-line method over the shorter of the Where assets comprise material components with difLease liabilities are recognized as financial liabilities and asset’s useful life and the term of the lease and fall under ferent purposes, different properties, or different useful include the fixed lease payments. Variable payments that the scope of IAS 36. In subsequent periods, they are lives, the components are capitalized individually and depend on an index or a rate and expected residual value measured at amortized cost. depreciated over their useful lives. payments or residual value guarantees are also included. If the exercise of a purchase option or the exercise of Costs of short-term leases and leases for low-value assets When property, plant or equipment is sold, the difference an extension option is reasonably certain, the exercise are recognized as current expense. Furthermore, the between the net proceeds and the carrying amount is price or the corresponding lease payments are included leasing standards are not applied to leases for intangible recognized as a gain or loss in other operating income in the calculation of the lease liabilities. Penalties for the assets. Lease and non-lease components are separated or expenses. termination of the lease are included if their utilization provided they are clearly identifiable and distinct. is reasonably certain. The present value is calculated at Assets are depreciated using the straight-line method the interest rate implicit in the lease. If there is no such Assets leased under operating leases are recognized in based in general on the following useful lives: interest rate, discounting is performed at the incremenproperty, plant and equipment at amortized cost. The tal borrowing rate. The incremental borrowing rate is lease payments received in the period are recognized Useful Lives calculated by using yields with matching maturities on in sales. Under finance leases, the asset concerned is Buildings 20 to 50 years government bonds for the respective country in question derecognized, and a lease receivable is recognized at an Outdoor infrastructure 10 to 20 years in the respective currency and adding credit risk premiamount equal to the net investment in the lease. Plant installations 3 to 25 years ums. Interest on the lease liability is recognized in the Machinery and equipment 8 to 15 years interest expense of the financial result. Lease liabilities Laboratory and research facilities 3 to 5 years are remeasured on the occurrence of specified events Storage tanks and pipelines 10 to 20 years Vehicles 5 to 8 years (e.g. change in the term of the lease or change in future Computer equipment 3 to 5 years lease payments resulting from a change in an index). In Furniture and fixtures 5 to 10 years general, remeasurements of lease liabilities result in an adjustment of the right-of-use asset. 145 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Leasing arrangements may be embedded in other Property, plant and equipment also included assets that In the case of regular-way purchases and sales, the contracts. Where IFRS stipulates separation of the LANXESS leased or rented out to third parties under settle­ment date is the relevant date for first-time recog­embedded leasing arrangement, the components of agreements other than finance leases. However, if the nition or derecognition of financial assets in the financial the contract are recognized and measured separately. lessee was regarded as the economic owner of the statements. ­assets, a receivable was recognized in the amount of Leases (IAS 17) the discounted future lease or rental payments. Financial assets are initially recognized at fair value. For The accounting policies and valuation principles for ­leases, subsequent measurement, depending on their classiwhich were applied in accordance with the requirements Leasing arrangements may have been embedded in fication, they are recognized at amortized cost using of IAS 17 in the previous year, are explained below. other contracts. Where IFRS stipulated separation of the effective interest method or at fair value in other the embedded leasing arrangement, the components of comprehensive income or in profit or loss. Classification Leased assets where substantially all risks and rewards the contract were recognized and measured separately. is determined by the business model and the characincidental to ownership were transferred (finance leases) teristics of the cash flows. The possible classifications were capitalized at the lower of their fair value and the Financial instruments are as follows: present value of the minimum lease payments at the Financial instruments are contracts that give rise to a date of addition. They were depreciated over their useful ­financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or Under the “hold” business model, financial instruments lives. If subsequent transfer of title to the leased asset ­equity instrument of another entity. Firstly, these include are held until maturity. They are measured at amortized was uncertain, it was depreciated over the shorter of its primary financial instruments such as trade receivables cost if the cash flows are solely for payments of principal estimated useful life and the lease term. and payables or financial receivables and liabilities. and interest. The Group does not use the option for mea­Secondly, they also include derivative financial instrusurement at fair value through profit and loss. Financial In the previous year, the future lease payments were ments used to hedge the risks of changes in exchange instruments not recognized at fair value through profit recognized as financial liabilities. Liabilities under finance rates, raw material prices and interest rates. or loss are reduced by expected credit losses. Both hisleases were recognized at the fair value of the leased torical loss experience and future expected losses are asset at commencement date or the present value of Financial instruments are recognized as soon as the used to calculate expected credit losses. A three-stage the minimum lease payments, whichever was lower. The LANXESS Group becomes the contracting party to them. assessment is applied to the expected credit loss. In minimum lease payments were divided into financing Financial assets are derecognized when the contractual the first stage, the expected credit loss over the next costs and the portion representing repayment of the rights to receive payments expire or the financial assets twelve months is assessed and the expected loss is principal. In the case of leasing contracts that do not are transferred together with all significant risks and recognized. If the credit risk increases over the term of include the transfer of substantially all risks and rewards rewards. Financial liabilities are derecognized when the the financial instrument, the potential credit loss over incidental to ownership (operating leases), the lease contractual obligations are met or canceled, or when the entire term of the financial instrument is assessed payments were recognized as expense. they expire. and the expected loss is increased on the basis of this 146 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information measurement (second stage). In the event of a default, Financial instruments that are not measured at amortized Equity instruments are recognized at fair value. For subthe expected ­default amount is recognized (third stage) cost or at fair value in other comprehensive income are sequent measurement, it is determined irrevocably at the and an e ­ xpected loss is also taken into account for any recognized at fair value in profit or loss. Gains or losses level of the individual equity instrument whether gains or residual amount of the financial instrument. The effecfrom subsequent measurement are recognized in the losses and the gains on disposal are recognized through tive interest method is then only applied to the residual income statement. other comprehensive income or through profit or loss. amount. For trade receivables and contract assets, the simplified model for the entire term is used to calculate Trade receivables and other financial receivables are This does not include equity investments, which are the expected risk of default, and the expected loss over initially recognized at fair value under the “hold” business accounted for using the equity method, or entities in the entire term of the financial instrument is measured model and subsequently accounted for at amortized cost which LANXESS holds 100% of the shares, which and recognized. Expected losses on trade receivables using the effective interest method. The expected loss is are not fully consolidated for lack of materiality. Investand contract assets are recognized in other o ­ perating calculated using the simplified model for the entire term ments in companies accounted for using the equity ­expenses, taking into account reversals from prior on the basis of a past due matrix and taking into account ­method are recognized at the amounts corresponding ­periods. For all other financial instruments not recognized historical loss experience and future expected losses. to LANXESS’s shares in their equity in accordance with at fair value through profit or loss, the expected loss is Both expected and incurred losses are recognized in IAS 28. ­Equity investments in which LANXESS holds recognized under “Other financial result.” profit or loss through separate allowance accounts. 100% of the shares, which are not fully consolidated for lack of materiality, are recognized at amortized cost. Under the “hold and sell” business model, an entity Other current and non-current financial receivables Where objective evidence exists that such assets may ­intends to resell the financial instrument during its term that are accounted for under the “hold” business model be impaired, an impairment loss is recognized on the after a certain holding period. Such financial instruments are i­nitially recognized at fair value and subsequently basis of an impairment test. are measured at fair value. Gains or losses on subsequent ­accounted for at amortized cost using the effective intermeasurement are recognized in other comprehensive est ­method. These include financial assets whose cash Primary financial liabilities are initially recognized at fair income if the cash flows are solely for payments of prinflows are solely for payments of principal and interest, convalue less any transaction costs. In subsequent periods, cipal and interest. In the event of impairment charges, tract assets and other financial receivables. The e­ xpected they are measured at amortized cost using the effective the corresponding effects are reclassified from other loss is c­ alculated according to the counterparty’s future interest method. LANXESS does not utilize the option comprehensive income to profit or loss. expected loss. Other current and non-current financial of designating financial instruments as at fair value and receivables that are accounted for under the “hold to recognizing them in profit or loss on initial recognition. collect” business model are measured at fair value. ­Depending on whether they can be assigned to the “hold and sell” business model, the gain or loss on subsequent measurement is recognized through other comprehensive income or otherwise through profit or loss. 147 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Derivative financial instruments and as interest income or expense at the same time as the The fair value of financial assets is determined from their hedging transactions income from the hedged transaction is recognized in market price on the closing date, disregarding trans­ The LANXESS Group recognizes derivative financial profit or loss. action costs. instruments as assets or liabilities at their fair value on the closing date. Changes in fair or market value are Contracts concluded for the purpose of receiving or The fair value of loans and liabilities to banks is calculated recognized in profit or loss. Where foreign currency de­d elivering non-financial items based on expected on the basis of discounted future payments of principal rivatives or forward commodity contracts used to hedge ­purchases, sales or utilization and held for this purpose and interest. future cash flows from pending business or forecast are recognized not as financial derivatives but as pending trans­actions qualify for hedge accounting under the reletrans­actions. If the contracts contain embedded deri­ The bonds are traded in an active, liquid market. Their fair vant financial reporting standard, the changes in value or vatives, the derivatives are accounted for separately from values are the prices determined and published by the hedging costs of such instruments are recognized sepathe host contract, provided that the economic characmarket. If no liquid market price is available for a bond, rately in other comprehensive income until the underlying teristics and risks of the embedded derivative are not its fair value is determined on the basis of observable transactions are realized. The amounts r­ ecognized here closely related to those of the host contract. inputs, using a risk-related discount rate. for currency derivatives are sub­sequently reclassified to other operating income or cost of sales, as approDetermination of fair value The fair value of trade payables and other primary priate, when the hedged transaction is recognized in The key methods and assumptions used in measuring ­financial liabilities due within one year is normally their profit or loss. For forward commodity contracts, the the fair value of financial instruments are outlined below: carrying amount. The fair value of other liabilities is decarrying amount of the hedged products on acquisition termined by discounting to present value where feasible. is ­adjusted by the amounts recognized in other comTrade receivables, other receivables and cash and cash prehensive ­income and recognized in the cost of sales equivalents are generally due within one year. Their The fair values of receivables and liabilities relating to on processing of the same. Any portion of the change ­carrying amount is therefore their fair value. Receivables leases are the present values of the net lease payments in fair or market value of such derivatives deemed to be due in more than one year are discounted using current calculated using the market rate for comparable lease ineffective with regard to the hedged risk is recognized interest rates to determine their fair value. agreements. directly in profit or loss. Changes in the fair or market value and hedging costs of interest rate derivatives used Contract assets are recognized at their carrying amounts. The derivative financial instruments used by LANXESS to hedge long-term liabilities with variable interest rates – If they contain significant financing components, they are are primarily traded in an active, liquid market. The fair provided such derivatives qualify for cash flow hedge discounted using current interest rates. The fair values values as of the end of the reporting period pertain prinaccounting – are recognized in other comprehensive accordingly correspond to the carrying amounts. cipally to forward exchange contracts and, to a small income and subsequently reclassified to profit or loss extent, to forward commodity contracts. If information 148 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information on hedging costs is available, the fair values are derived Inventories Given the production and distribution circumstances from their trading or listed prices using the forward-to-forInventories encompass assets held for sale in the ordiof the LANXESS Group, work in process and finished ward method. If information on hedging costs is not availnary course of business (finished goods and merchangoods are grouped together. able in a market, the fair values are calculated using the dise), assets in the process of being manufactured for spot-to-spot method, and hedging costs, including the sale (work in process) and assets used in the production Provisions forward component, are separated. Where no market process (raw materials and supplies). They are valued Provisions are recognized and measured in accordance price is available, values are determined using recognized by the weighted-average method and recognized at the with IAS 37 and, where appropriate, IAS 19 and IFRS 2, ­capital market pricing methods based on observable lower of cost and their respective net realizable value, using the best estimates of the amounts of the obligamarket data. In determining the fair values, adjustments which is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course tions. Non-current portions of material provisions due in for LANXESS’s own credit risk and counterparty credit of business less the estimated remaining production more than one year are discounted to present value if risk are made on the basis of the respective net positions. costs and selling expenses. the extent and timing of the obligation can be assessed with reasonable certainty. The change in the provision Cash and cash equivalents The cost of production comprises the direct cost of resulting from approaching the due date (interest effect) Cash and cash equivalents represent financial instru­materials, direct manufacturing expenses and approis expensed in the other financial result. ments that are allocated to the “hold to collect” business priate allocations of fixed and variable material and model and recognized at amortized cost. The risk of ­manufacturing overheads at normal capacity utilization, If the projected obligation declines as a result of a change default relating to cash and cash equivalents is calculated when attributable to production. in the estimate, the provision is reversed by the corres­ taking into account the counterparty’s future expected ponding amount and the effect is recognized in the loss applying the three-stage model and recognized It also includes expenses for company pension plans, income or expense item(s) in which the provision was under “Other financial result.” Cash and cash equivasocial services and voluntary social benefits that can be originally recognized. lents comprise checks, cash and balances with banks. allocated to production. Administrative costs are included Securities with maturities of up to three months from where they are attributable to production. Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benthe date of acquisition are recognized in cash and cash efits are established for defined benefit pension plans. equivalents due to their high liquidity. Borrowing costs incurred in the course of production The provision is measured according to the actuarial are not included in the acquisition or production cost of present value of the obligation, calculated using the proinventories as the products are not manufactured within jected unit credit method. This takes into account not long-term production processes. only the known pensions and pension entitlements as 149 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information of the closing date, but also expected future salary and Restructuring provisions are established if there is a Liabilities benefit increases. Remeasurements of the net defined ­legal or constructive obligation on the basis of a detailed Other current liabilities are recognized at repayment or benefit liability are fully recognized in other comprehen­restructuring plan adopted by authorized management, settlement amounts. Other non-current liabilities are sive income in the period in which they occur. They are and the employees affected or their representatives have recognized at amortized cost. not reclassified to profit or loss in a subsequent period. been informed. Such provisions contain the expenses that are directly attributable to the restructuring and that Grants received from third parties for the acquisition Personnel-related provisions mainly include those for are necessary to implement these measures and do not or construction of property, plant and equipment are annual bonus payments, payments under multi-year relate to the future operating business. reflected in other liabilities and released to the respective compensation programs and other personnel costs. functional area of profit or loss over the underlying period The LANXESS Group also records provisions for curor expected useful life of the assets to which they relate. The stock-based employee compensation programs rent or pending legal proceedings where the resulting (Long-Term Stock Performance Plan – LTSP) provide for expenses can be reasonably estimated. These provisions Contract liabilities are also reported in other liabilities and cash settlement. Provisions are established for the obliinclude all estimated fees and legal costs and the cost of represent advance consideration paid by the customer gations entered into under such programs on the basis potential settlements. However, litigation expenses are for outstanding performance obligations. of the proportionate fair value of the rights allocated to only included if it is assumed that they will have to be employees. The fair value is determined using the Monte borne by LANXESS. The amounts of such provisions are Financial reporting in hyperinflationary Carlo method, in which future price developments are based upon information and cost estimates provided by economies simulated and the expected payment is calculated from the Group’s legal advisers. The provisions are regularly A country must be classified as a hyperinflationary econothe value of the rights based on a two-dimensional stanreviewed together with the Group’s legal advisers and my if, in addition to other criteria, the cumulative inflation dard distribution of price developments. The fair value adjusted if necessary. rate over the past three years approaches or exceeds of the rights is reflected in a pro rata provision during 100%. On classification as a hyperinflationary economy, the vesting period. Contingent liabilities non-monetary items in the statement of financial posiContingent liabilities are potential obligations to third partion, components of equity and items in the statement The stock-based compensation program for members of ties or existing commitments, the extent of which cannot of comprehensive income are restated to the current the Supervisory Board provides for variable cash settlebe reasonably estimated or which are unlikely to lead to price level using a suitable price index. Restatements ment, provided that LANXESS stock has outperformed an outflow of resources. They are not recognized in the to the current price level that are attributable to prior a defined index during their term of office. Provisions are statement of financial position unless they have been reporting periods lead to a difference between the priorestablished for the expected obligations. entered into in connection with a business combination. year equity and the opening balance of equity of the 150 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information reporting period. These equity differences are shown in The assets and liabilities in question are each reported in operations. The figures for discontinued operations are other comprehensive income in the currency translation a separate line item in the statement of financial position. reported in the line “Adjustments in accordance with adjustments from the translation of operations outside Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment IFRS 5.” They include the reclassification of the carrythe eurozone. The changes are recognized in the reheld for sale are not subject to any further amortization ing amounts for discontinued operations at the start of porting period of the first assessment of the country as or depreciation, and are recognized at the lower of carthe fiscal year and the reclassification of the carrying a hyperinflationary economy. Changes relating to the rying amount at the time of classification as held for sale amounts of the non-current assets held for sale as of the current reporting period are recognized as monetary and fair value less costs to sell. Intra-Group receivables reclassification date according to IFRS 5. The ­expenses gains or losses under “Other financial result.” and liabilities are eliminated in full. The previous year’s and income in the income statement attributable to figures are not restated. discontinued operations for the previous year are also In the statement of financial position, this applies in parrecognized here. ticular to non-monetary assets and liabilities that are The presentation of the income statement focuses on recognized at amortized cost and therefore not at the earnings from continuing operations. Earnings from disSales and other revenues current price level. These are essentially intangible ascontinued operations are shown in the line “Income after Sales in the course of ordinary activities are recognized in sets, property, plant and equipment, inventories and income taxes from discontinued operations.” Intra-Group revenue in accordance with the rules of IFRS 15. In paradvance consideration paid and received. The restatetransactions that continue with the discontinued operticular, these are sales of internally generated chemical ment of prices is calculated from the date of the asset’s ation after its deconsolidation or with third parties are products or from tolling agreements for such products. historical acquisition or production to the end of the recognized under continuing operations. The eliminaIn addition, research and development work, salesand reporting period. Equity components, except retained tion entries as part of the consolidation of expense and product-related services and other long-term services earnings, are restated to the current price level from income are assigned fully to discontinued operations. are also recognized in revenue. Services that do not the date of contribution. Statement of comprehensive The prior-year period in the income statement is adjustrelate to ordinary activities and that are temporary are income items are restated from the dates when the items ed accordingly. The gain or loss on deconsolidation is reported in other operating income. of income and expenses were initially recorded in the recognized under discontinued operations. In the case financial statements. of non-current assets held for sale, the earnings are alRevenue is recognized depending on the transfer of conlocated to continuing operations. trol over products or services to the customer. Control Non-current assets and liabilities held can be transferred either at a point in time or over time. for sale and discontinued operations The notes to items of the statement of financial position Control has been transferred when the customer has Material assets are recognized as held for sale if they provide details of the reconciliation from values at the obtained the ability to direct the use of, and obtain the can be sold in their current condition and a sale is highly start of the year to values at the end of the year. The remaining benefits from, the asset. There are typically probable. Such assets may be individual non-current presentation of the reconciliations focuses on continuing no rights of return. assets, groups of assets (disposal groups) or complete business entities. A disposal group may also include liabilities if these are to be divested together with the assets as part of the transaction. 151 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Depending on the terms and conditions of delivery, Under the business model of manufacturing customerUnder the business model sale of products including rev­enue from the sale of chemical products is typically specific products on the basis of long-term supply agreeorganizing freight services, control transfers to the cusrecognized when the customer or a third party commisments with a contractually defined minimum purchase tomer on the basis of the agreed terms and conditions sioned by the customer receives the products. At this requirement, within the meaning of the rules of IFRS 15, of delivery, essentially at the end of the freight service. time, the risks and rewards have been transferred to the LANXESS Group has no alternative use for the prodThus, revenue is measured and recognized at the invoice the customer, the customer has physically received the ucts manufactured under these contracts. Moreover, amount after deducting transfer taxes and sales deducgoods and, normally, there are no longer any outstanding it has a contractually enforceable right to payment for tions. The freight service is not treated as a separate obligations preventing the customer’s acceptance of the the minimum amount under the purchase requirement. performance obligation. product. The time at which the right to receive payment Revenue for finished goods and work in progress, and and the time when legal title passes are governed by for advance consideration paid by the customer, is Tolling agreements for chemical products, research and individual regulations and are referenced in determinrecognized over the manufacturing period. Revenue development work, salesand product-related services ing the timing of revenue. Revenue is measured at the for finished goods is measured based on the volumes and other long-term services are recognized in revenue invoice amount after deducting transfer taxes and sales produced for the fiscal year. For finished products, the over the performance period and at the invoice amount deductions. total revenue expected in the future from the sale of after deducting transfer taxes and sales deductions. minimum amounts over the full term of the contract is Under the business model of manufacturing products estimated and allocated to the individual production Customer rebates that are not attributable to the business on the basis of long-term sales contracts with contractuunits. Rebates and material rights to procure expected models of manufacturing products or customer-specific ally defined minimum purchase requirements, revenue additional purchase quantities are taken into account products on the basis of long-term sales contracts with is recognized when the customer receives the goods. in the total revenue from the sale. Revenue for work in contractually defined minimum purchase requirements Revenue is measured by estimating the total revenue progress is measured based on the production costs are recognized in the period in which the revenues are expected in the future from the sale of minimum amounts incurred, which are calculated using the input method realized. over the full term of the contract and allocated to the inditaking into account a pro rata margin for the end product vidual deliveries. Rebates and material rights to procure (see “Inventories” section in this section for explanations Research and development expenses expected additional purchase quantities are taken into of the calculation of production costs). Contract assets According to IAS 38, research costs cannot be capitalaccount in the total revenue from the sale. Differences are recognized for the corresponding receivables until ized, whereas development costs must be capitalized from the invoice price arising as a result of average pricthe products are delivered. The relevant inventories are if, and only if, specific narrowly defined conditions are ing are recognized as contract assets or liabilities that derecognized when revenue is recognized. When the fulfilled. Development costs must be capitalized if it is are reversed over the term of the contract. products are delivered, the contract assets are reversed sufficiently certain that the development activity will genand trade receivables are recognized. erate future economic benefits which will also cover the associated development costs. However, since the development and optimization of products and processes frequently involves uncertainty with regard to the ability to realize future economic benefits, the conditions for capitalization of development costs are generally not met. 152 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Income taxes The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at Statement of cash flows This item comprises the income taxes paid or accrued each closing date and only the amount likely to be realizThe statement of cash flows shows how cash inflows in the individual countries, plus deferred taxes. Income able due to future taxable income is recognized. ­Deferred and outflows during the reporting year affected the taxes are computed on the basis of local tax rates. tax assets from loss carryforwards are recognized if it is cash and cash equivalents of the LANXESS Group. probable that the carryforwards can be utilized. Cash flows are classified by operating, investing and Income tax receivables and liabilities relate to both financing a­ ctivities in accordance with IAS 7. The liquidity the respective fiscal year and previous years. They Deferred tax assets and liabilities are netted if they relate reported in the statement of cash flows comprises cash are assessed on the basis of the applicable legislation, to income taxes levied by the same tax authorities. and cash equivalents. taking into account present legal practice judgments and ­prevailing opinion. Uncertain income tax items are Business acquisitions and divestments The cash flows of continuing operations are reported recognized provided that payment or reimbursement is Business acquisitions are accounted for using the acquiseparately from the cash flows of discontinued operconsidered probable. They are measured ­individually sition method. At the time of initial control, the acquired ations. The cash flows of discontinued operations are at the most probable amount or the expected value, assets and liabilities are measured at fair value. The shown combined in one line per area. The previous year’s depending on which measurement provides the best ­incidental acquisition costs associated with the business figures are restated accordingly. estimate of the uncertain tax item in question. acquisition are recognized as expense of the period in which they are incurred. The cash flows from operating activities are calculated In accordance with IAS 12, deferred taxes are calculated using the indirect method. This involves eliminating the for temporary differences between the carrying amounts Divestments of shares in subsidiaries resulting in the loss translation effects, the effects of the initial application of of assets or liabilities in the statement of financial position of control are recognized in profit or loss. In the case financial reporting standards and the effects of changes and the tax base and for differences arising from conof successive share disposals without loss of control, in the consolidated group from the changes recognized solidation measures or realizable tax loss carryforwards. the decline in the majority share is recognized in other in the items in the statement of financial position. ThereThe calculations are based on tax planning calculations comprehensive income and results in an increase in fore, the cash flows calculated by the indirect method and customary and realizable tax strategies. Deferred non-controlling interests in equity. If significant influence cannot be directly derived from the statement of financial taxes are calculated at the rates which are expected to continues to be exerted after loss of control, an interest position. apply in the individual countries at the time of realization, in an associate or an investment accounted for using taking into account the period for which deferred taxes the equity method is recognized. As soon as there is no Disbursements for the acquisition of property, plant and may be used and any constraints on the utilization of longer a significant influence on financial and business equipment are included in the cash flows for investing loss carryforwards. These are based on the statutory policy, the remaining interest is classified as a financial activities after deducting any third-party subsidies. Investregulations in force, or already enacted in relation to asset and recognized at fair value in other comprehensive ments involving leases, along with capitalized borrowing future periods, as of the closing date. income or in profit or loss. costs, are not included. Comparison therefore should not be made between these items and the capital expenditures shown in the schedule of changes in property, plant and equipment. 153 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Since January 1, 2019, lessees have recognized all Interest and dividends received are also included in inCash-generating units to which goodwill is allocated leases as a right-of-use asset and a lease liability in vesting cash flows, while interest and dividends paid are are tested annually for impairment – or more frequently the statement of financial position on the basis of the reflected in financing cash flows. if events or changes in circumstances indicate a pospresent value of the lease payments. Disbursements sible impairment. The carrying amount of each cashmade under leases where LANXESS is the lessee are Global impairment testing procedure gener­ating unit, including the goodwill allocated to it, recognized as cash outflows for financing activities, while and impact is compared with its recoverable amount. The cash-­ cash inflows under finance leases where LANXESS is In the LANXESS Group, the impairment testing of generating units Advanced Industrial Intermediates and the lessor are recognized as cash inflows from investing non-current assets starts with an analysis to determine ­Antioxidants & Accelerators form a group for the impairactivities. ­Payments for short-term leases and leases for whether impairment charges need to be recognized or ment testing of the goodwill of the Advanced Industrial low-value assets are included in cash flows from operatpreviously recognized impairment charges reversed. If Intermediates business unit. ing activities. In the previous year, all payments relating there are indications that this is the case, the carrying to operating leases where LANXESS was the lessee amount of each cash-generating unit is compared with In the reporting year, the Additives business unit was were recognized in cash flows from operating activities. its recoverable amount. In the LANXESS Group these split into the Lubricant Additives Business and ­Polymer analyses are performed at least once a year. ­A dditives business units. In the previous year, the Cash flows relating to the financing of pension obligations sale of the investment in ARLANXEO disposed of the where future pension payments will be made directly out For impairment testing of assets, the LANXESS Group Tire & ­Specialty Rubbers (Butyl Rubber and Performance of external plan assets are allocated to cash flows for defines its business units as cash-generating units, with Butadiene Rubbers) and High Performance Elastomers operating activities. Cash flows relating to the financing of the exception of the Advanced Industrial Intermediates (High Performance Elastomers and Keltan Elastomers) pension obligations where LANXESS only has a claim to business unit, which is broken down into the cash-­ business units. The goodwill associated with the Tire & reimbursement of future pension payments (contractual generating units Advanced Industrial Intermediates and Specialty Rubbers business unit was tested at the level trust arrangement – CTA) are allocated to cash flows for Antioxidants & Accelerators. of the group of the two Butyl Rubber and Performance investing activities. ­Butadiene Rubbers business units and was fully disIf there is reason to suspect impairment of non-­current posed of as of December 31, 2018, as a result of the Purchase prices paid or received in connection with assets below the level of the cash-generating units, deconsolidation. acquisitions or divestments of subsidiaries or other busi­impairment testing is performed at this level and ness entities are included in the investing cash flows of ­impairment charges or reversals of impairment charges The recoverable amount is the higher of the asset’s fair continuing operations after deducting cash and cash are recognized in profit or loss where necessary. value less costs of disposal and the value in use. If the equivalents acquired or divested. These also include carrying amount of a cash-generating unit exceeds the purchase price payments for discontinued operations. recoverable amount, an impairment charge is recognized 154 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information in certain circumstances. The fair value less costs of factors are reflected in the expected net cash flows. Since the introduction of IFRS 16, the residual carrying disposal – which represents the best estimate of the The ­estimates are based on management’s past expeamounts of the respective cash-generating unit include potential sale proceeds at the time of the respective rience, taking ­account of internal and external economic the right-of-use assets from leases as part of property, impairment test – is the amount obtainable from the sale and industry-specific sources of information. Capacity plant and equipment. However, lease liabilities as finanof a cash-generating unit in an arm’s-length transaction expansions, reorganization projects and the resulting cial liabilities are not included. When deriving the net between knowledgeable, willing parties, less the costs synergies, provided these can also be used by a third cash flows, cash flows are increased by depreciation of disposal. The value in use is defined as the present party, are ­reflected in future net cash flows through esof right-of-use assets and decreased by replacement value of future cash flows based on the continuing use timates. Deter­mination of the value in use is based on a investments in right-of-use assets and lease payments of the asset and its retirement at the end of its useful corresponding forecast of future net cash flows. Howfor short-term leases and leases of low-value assets. The life. The first step in assessing whether to recognize or ever, cash inflows and outflows relating to expansion treatment of finance leases has not changed compared reverse an impairment charge is to determine the fair projects that have not yet commenced, restructuring with the approach under IAS 17. value less costs of disposal. If this is lower or higher than that is planned but has not yet been approved, and the the ­carrying amount of the cash-generating unit, the associated synergies are not taken into account. Group If a decline in value is determined, an impairment charge is value in use is then determined. The fair value less costs functional area costs are included if a potential acquirer first recognized for any goodwill assigned to the r­ espective of disposal is generally calculated using a net present would have to bear them. The forecasts used to calculate cash-generating unit. Any remaining impairment amount value method which is allocated to Level 3 of the fair the fair value less costs of disposal and to determine the is allocated among the other non-current assets of the value hierarchy (see under “Fair value measurement” value in use cover a five-year period. The perpetual ancash-generating unit in proportion to the carrying amounts in Note [37]). nuity calculation is generally based on the last year in the on which the impairment test was based. The recoverable planning period and does not reflect growth rates. Where amount of any non-current assets below the level of the Determination of the recoverable amount based on necessary, adjustments are made to reflect the so-called cash-generating unit is assessed and the loss is allocated, the fair value less costs of disposal generally relies on steady state of the perpetual annuity. Future net cash but only up to the recoverable amount of these assets. Any a forecast of future net cash flows. This is based on the flows are discounted using the weighted average cost of further impairment charge that would have been allocated planning approved by the management of LANXESS AG, capital, which is derived according to IAS 36 from capital to these assets is allocated proportionately to the other which contains estimates of expected market conditions market models, taking into account the capital structure assets in the cash-generating unit. and other factors such as future raw material prices, and business risks specific to the chemical industry, and ­energy costs, functional costs, exchange rates and is extrapolated from external market information. Impairment charges are fully recognized in the income capital expenditures. The interactions between these statement under other operating expenses and reflected in the segment reporting in the expenses of the respective segments. 155 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information If the impairment test on the cash-generating units Assumptions and estimates that could materially impact business units, this goodwill was allocated to the Polymer ­indicates a need to reverse impairment charges recogthe measurement of the LANXESS Group’s assets and Additives business unit in the current fiscal year. nized on assets in previous years because the reasons liabilities are explained below. for the impairment no longer exist or have changed, the The impairment tests of the cash-generating units ­impairment charge is reversed only up to the amount that At least once a year, the LANXESS Group conducts imshowed no need for the recognition of impairment would have existed after depreciation or amortization if pairment tests on its individual cash-generating units or charges in fiscal years 2018 and 2019. the ­impairment had not been recognized. Impairment groups of cash-generating units to which goodwill has charges on goodwill are not reversed. Reversals of been allocated. Impairment tests are also conducted if The annual impairment test for the goodwill items is ­impairment charges are fully recognized in the income there is an indication of a possible impairment (for further performed on the basis of fair value less costs of disposal. statement under other operating income and reflected information see the section headed “Global impairment The goodwill items are carried in local currency. The in the segment reporting in the income of the respective testing procedure and impact”). To determine fair value principal goodwill items are explained below. segments. less costs of disposal, the impairment tests of assets and goodwill were based on net present value methods, Material goodwill of €209 million is attributable to the The results of the global impairment tests in fiscal which are allocated to Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. Lubricant Additives Business business unit and €325 milyears 2018 and 2019 are outlined in the following lion to the Polymer Additives business unit. These two section. Management’s assumptions and estimates used for the business units were created by the split of the Additives impairment test conducted on assets in fiscal year 2019 business unit in fiscal year 2019 and are allocated to could differ from the actual values in subsequent periods, the Specialty Additives segment. In the previous year, ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTIES AND necessitating subsequent valuation adjustments. Manthe goodwill of the Additives business unit amounted THE EXERCISE OF DISCRETION agement’s expectations of future net cash flows therefore to €524 million. The change compared to the previous have an indirect impact on the valuation of goodwill and year is due to currency effects. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in other assets. The annual impairment tests are based on accordance with IFRS entails the selection of accounta discount rate after taxes of 6.1% (previous year: 6.7%). Other material goodwill is attributable to the Urethane ing policies and valuation principles and the use of forIn the previous year, there was an impairment test as of Systems business unit in the amount of €151 million (preward-looking assumptions and estimates that may affect the closing date based on a discount rate after taxes of vious year: €149 million) and to the Material Protection the measurement of assets and liabilities, income and 6.7% for the former Additives business unit in the SpeProducts business unit in the amount of €140 million expenses, and contingent liabilities. cialty Additives segment. This impairment test as of the (previous year: €137 million). The changes are due to closing date in the previous year was triggered by the currency effects. As in the previous year, goodwill of All assumptions and estimates used in the consolidated acquisition of goodwill of €12 million with the U.S. phos€40 million is attributable to other business units, which financial statements are based on management’s expecphorus additives business of the Belgian chemicals group are not described for reasons of materiality. tations. Information that could alter these estimates is Solvay, including its U.S. production site in Charleston. reviewed continually and may result in adjustments to the As part of the split of the Additives business unit into carrying amounts of the respective assets and liabilities. the Lubricant Additives Business and Polymer Additives 156 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Information on calculating the net cash flows can be For the impairment tests of material goodwill, higher a cross-disciplinary team of experts was tasked with, found in this section and the previous section. The EBITDA values than in the last planning period were among other things, safeguarding supply chains and, ­Lubricant Additives Business and Polymer Additives busiassumed for the steady state in the current fiscal year for if necessary, adjusting internal processes. The necesness units primarily manufacture additives for the conthe Lubricant Additives Business and Polymer Additives sary steps with regard to the Regulation concerning the struction, electrical, primary metal and food-­processing business units in the perpetual annuity calculation. In the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction industries. Urethane Systems produces elastomers on previous year, a lower EBITDA value than in the previous of Chemicals (REACH) are also being prepared. To ena urethane basis, which are used in the automotive, planning period was assumed for the Additives business sure standard delivery times even in the event of Great ­electrical/electronics, construction and various other inunit in the perpetual annuity calculation. A higher EBITDA Britain leaving without a deal, a number of preparatory dustries. The Material Protection P­ roducts business unit value than in the last planning period was assumed for measures have already been implemented, including manufactures material protection p ­ roducts, active ingrethe steady state in the perpetual annuity calculation for stocking up inventories and ensuring the continuous dients and biocidal formulations for the wood, beverage the Urethane Systems business unit in the previous year. sharing of information with customers and suppliers. In bottling, paint and varnish, and various other industries. In the Material Protection Products business unit, there addition, LANXESS has made preparations to be able The estimates of future market developments on which is a lower EBITDA value than in the previous planning to transfer existing British registrations to LANXESS detailed planning is based are dependent on the respecperiod in the perpetual annuity calculation. companies within the European Union and to ensure tive customer industries and draw on manage­ment’s compliance with regulatory requirements within Great past experience, taking account of internal and external The impairment test performed on goodwill items in Britain through grandfathering provisions and notificaeconomic and industry-specific sources of information. fiscal years 2018 and 2019 did not indicate any need for tion and registration processes. Thanks to the thorough recognition of impairment charges. Neither a one-perpreparation and the fact that a small proportion of total Average annual sales growth of 3% was assumed for centage-point increase in the discount rate nor a 10% sales are made in Great Britain, a no-deal departure is the Lubricant Additives business unit and 4% for the reduction in expected future net cash flows would have not expected to have any significant, negative impact Polymer Additives business unit. In the previous year, led to the recognition of an impairment charge on goodon business performance. As of the closing date, a conaverage annual sales growth of 4% was planned for will items. clusive assessment of the political framework and the the Additives business unit, which consisted of the two associated implications of Great Britain’s departure from aforementioned business units. Great Britain’s exit from the European Union on Januthe European Union is not possible. ary 31, 2020, will be followed by a transition period until The Urethane Systems business unit planned average December 31, 2020, in which economic and trading Furthermore, there has been an investigation of the imannual sales growth of 4% (previous year: 7%), and the relations between the European Union and Great ­Britain pact of the ongoing trade conflict between China and Material Protection Products business unit planned 5%, are not expected to change. If no agreement on the the U.S. on LANXESS. The assessment found that only the same as in the previous year. ­future of these relations is reached before the end of isolated products in the LANXESS portfolio are affected, the transition period, and no extension is requested, it is and that there is only a low level of goods flows between possible that Great Britain will leave without a deal. The China and the U.S. Therefore, the direct consequences impact of this scenario on the business was examined as of the conflict are not expected to have a significantly part of risk and opportunity management. In response, negative impact on our operations. 157 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information In lease accounting, estimates were made in particular Defined benefit pension plans also necessitate actuarial There is also uncertainty surrounding the assessment of when determining the term of leases, taking account of computations and measurements. In the reporting year, certain tax situations by the tax authorities. Although the information available on the closing date that created the method for rounding the pension rate was changed LANXESS Group believes it has presented all tax-relevant an economic incentive for the lessee to exercise or not in order to more precisely determine the defined benefit information correctly and in compliance with the law, it is exercise the options to extend or terminate the lease. obligation. The section on provisions for pensions and possible that the tax authorities may occasionally reach If implicit discount rates cannot be identified in the other post-employment benefits contains information different conclusions. Provisions have been established ­underlying lease, estimates are also made in order to on the assumptions on which the actuarial calculations where changes in tax assessments are probable. In addetermine appropriate incremental borrowing rates. The and estimates were based (see Note [14]). dition, charges from tax risks from previous years are latter are derived using yields with matching maturities not considered to be likely. When assessing uncertain on government bonds for the country in question in the Further, the LANXESS Group is affected by legal distax positions, it is assumed that the tax authorities have respective currency and adding credit risk premiums, putes. As an international chemicals group, LANXESS full knowledge of all related information when making and in some cases derived on a straight-line basis with is exposed to administrative or court proceedings in their examinations. In the event of unfavorable deve­l­ regard to maturity ranges. the normal course of business and may be again in the opments, LANXESS could be faced with additional future. Administrative and court proceedings generally charges in the low-to mid-double-digit millions of euros. The recognition and measurement of provisions are involve complex technical and/or legal issues and are The calculations are principally based on experience of also affected by assumptions as to the probability of therefore subject to a number of imponderables. The the outcome of previous tax audits and their impact on utilization, timing, the underlying discount rate and the outcomes of any current or future proceedings cannot the subsequent periods and the applicable legislation, absolute level of risk. For the 2019 consolidated financial be predicted with certainty. It is therefore possible that taking into account present legal practice and prevailing statements, the LANXESS Group performed sensitivilegal judgments could give rise to expenses that are not opinion. This could result in deviations from the current ty analyses on provisions, as required by IFRS. These covered, or not fully covered, by recognized provisions or estimates in the future. involved calculating the impact of isolated variations in equivalent insurance and that could materially affect the the parameters used, especially the forecast probability business operations, revenues, earnings or cash flows In the context of business acquisitions, the application of occurrence, discount rate and absolute level of risk. of the LANXESS Group. of the acquisition method requires certain estimates The outcome of these sensitivity analyses shows that and assessments as of the acquisition date. This relates variations in the assumptions described above would not The establishment of provisions for environmental proin particular to the determination of the fair value, the have a material impact on the level of other provisions tection and remediation measures also involves uncer­estimation of useful lives of acquired intangible assets reported in the consolidated financial statements of the tainty and requires calculations and estimates of future and property, plant and equipment, and the determinaLANXESS Group. For further information on the sensitivcosts. Information about this can be found in the section tion of the fair values of assumed liabilities. The meaity analyses relating to provisions for pensions and other headed “Other non-current and current provisions” (see surement is essentially based on future cash inflows and post-employment benefits, see Note [14]. Note [15]). outflows. Deviations between the actual cash inflows and outflows and those assumed at the acquisition date can 158 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information significantly influence future net income. As a rule, the costs, the probability of collecting receivables and o ­ ther COMPANIES CONSOLIDATED purchase price allocation is performed in consultation assets, the valuation of inventories and the ability to with external experts. In the case of lower-value acqui­realize tax claims and deferred tax assets recognized The consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS sitions, the purchase price allocation is mostly based for temporary differences and tax loss carryforwards. Group include the parent company LANXESS AG and on own estimates and measurements. The estimates all domestic and foreign affiliates. and measurements are based on knowledge available on and immediately after the acquisition date. They can EMEA (excl. Germany North America Latin America Asia-Pacific Total be adjusted within one year of the date of acquisition to Germany) reflect new information and findings. Fully consolidated companies (incl. parent company) In some cases, estimates were made to calculate the Jan. 1, 2019 31 9 9 6 26 81 values recognized for discontinued operations. These Additions – 1 – – – 1 estimates are based on the information available at the Retirements (1) – – – – (1) Mergers – – (2) – (1) (3) closing date, so changes may arise as a result of new Changes in scope of consolidation – 1 – – – 1 information or final sale agreements. Dec. 31, 2019 30 11 7 6 25 79 When measuring revenue under the business model of Associates and joint operations Jan. 1, 2019 – 2 1 – – 3 long-term sales contracts with a contractually defined Changes – – – – – 0 minimum purchase requirement, the total revenue exDec. 31, 2019 0 2 1 0 0 3 pected in the future from sale of the minimum amount is estimated for the full term of the contract and allocated Non-consolidated companies to the individual deliveries, or in the case of the proJan. 1, 2019 2 3 1 3 2 11 Additions – 1 – – – 1 duction of customer-specific products to the individual Retirements – – (1) – – (1) production units. Estimates are based on the current Changes in scope of consolidation – (1) – – – (1) planning for forecast future sales prices and quantities. Dec. 31, 2019 2 3 0 3 2 10 In particular, sales prices can change over the term of a Total contract as a result of mechanisms for adjusting prices 01.01.2019 33 14 11 9 28 95 (formula prices for production factors, bulk prices, rebate Additions – 2 – – – 2 agreements), hence deviations from current estimates Retirements (1) – (1) – – (2) may arise in the future. Mergers – – (2) – (1) (3) Changes in scope of consolidation – – – – – 0 Dec. 31, 2019 32 16 8 9 27 92 Other significant estimates and discretion are used to assess the useful lives of intangible assets and ­property, plant and equipment, the capitalization of development 159 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information In the reporting period, Achte LXS GmbH, Cologne, DuBay Polymer GmbH, Hamm, Germany, is included in production sites in Germany. Due to its status as a Germany, was established and LANXESS Beteiligungsthe consolidated financial statements as a joint ­operation ­personally liable partner, LANXESS may be required to gesellschaft mbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, in accordance with IFRS 11 on a pro rata basis because inject further capital in the future. Transactions with this was established and fully consolidated. Furthermore, the partners exercise joint control and purchase most company are outlined in Note [34]. In the statement of the companies LANXESS Services Switzerland GmbH, of its output together. LANXESS’s share in its capital financial position as of December 31, 2019, the shares Frauenfeld, Switzerland, and LANXESS Energy LLC, is 50%. The purpose of the company is to produce were classified as held for sale and recognized accordWilmington, New Castle, U.S., were liquidated. poly­butylene terephthalate base resins and blends for ingly. In the previous year, the investment was recognized the joint owners and their affiliated companies. This using the equity method. In addition, LANXESS Holding Company US Inc., ­business relationship does not involve any material risks ­W ilmington, New Castle, U.S., was merged into for LANXESS. Cash transfers from companies in Argentina, Brazil, LANXESS Solutions US Inc., Wilmington, New C ­ astle, China, India, Republic of Korea, Russia, South Africa U.S.; LANXESS Sybron Chemicals Inc., BirmingRubicon LLC, Salt Lake City, U.S., is included in the and Taiwan are subject to restrictions as a result of regham, U.S., was merged into LANXESS Corporation, consolidated financial statements as a joint operation ulated capital markets. These affect approximately 38% ­Pittsburgh, U.S.; and LANXESS Solutions Singapore Pte. in accordance with IFRS 11 on a pro rata basis because (previous year: 5%) of the LANXESS Group’s cash and Ltd., Singapore, Singapore, was merged into LANXESS the partners exercise joint control and purchase all of cash equivalents. Pte. Ltd., Singapore, Singapore. its output. LANXESS’s share in its capital is 50%. The purpose of the company is primarily to produce aniline, Non-consolidated companies are accounted for at fair CheMondis GmbH, Cologne, Germany, was newly condiphenylamines, methylene diphenyl isocyanates and value. These companies are immaterial to the LANXESS solidated. This had no material impact on LANXESS polyols for the joint owners and their affiliated companies. Group’s earnings, asset and financial position, since Group’s earnings, asset and financial position. This business relationship does not involve any material ­together they account for less than 0.1% of Group sales risks for LANXESS. and less than 0.1% of Group equity. Europigments, S.L., Barcelona, Spain, LANXESS Chrome Mining (Pty) Ltd., Modderfontein, South Africa, and Rhein Further, Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, GerAdditions from acquisition in the Chemie (Qingdao) Co., Ltd., Qingdao, China, are promany, is an associate accounted for in the consolidated previous year duction companies in which LANXESS has a stake of financial statements. LANXESS’s share in its capital is In the previous year, LANXESS acquired the U.S. phos52%, 74% and 90%, respectively. These companies are 40%. Given its ability to contribute to material aspects phorus additives business from the Belgian ­chemicals fully consolidated because LANXESS holds the ­majority of financial and business policy decisions, LANXESS is group Solvay including its U.S. production site in of the voting rights and therefore exercises control. The able to exert a significant influence. Currenta GmbH & Charleston on February 7, 2018. The site manufactures non-controlling interests in these companies have a negCo. OHG principally provides site services in the areas phosphorus additives and numerous derived products ligible influence on the activities and cash flows of the of energy, infrastructure and logistics for LANXESS’s such as flame retardant additives and intermediates for LANXESS Group. 160 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information agrochemicals. The production facility augmented the Assets held for sale The company was classified as a disposal group and global production network for phosphorusand brorecognized in the statement of financial position as of mine-based flame retardants, especially on the U.S. Sale of the 40% interest in the chemical ­December 31, 2019, as held for sale. Before reclassi­fi ­ market. The business was integrated into the Polymer park operator Currenta cation, write-downs on intangible assets and ­property, Additives business unit in the Specialty Additives segBy agreement dated August 6, 2019, it was resolved plant and equipment of €20 million and impairment ment. The purchase price of €54 million was paid out to sell the 40% interest in the chemical park operator charges on inventories and trade receivables of of existing liquidity. Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, to €5 ­million were recognized. These were recognized investment funds managed by Macquarie Infrastructure as exceptional items in other operating expenses. The Divestments and Real Assets (MIRA). The chemical park business was assets were measured at fair value less costs to sell. The By agreement dated November 8, 2019, the business allocated to the reconciliation segment. This transaction expected selling price was considered to be the fair value. with tin-based organometallics in the Advanced Interis expected to be completed at the end of April 2020. mediates segment was sold to PMC Vlissingen, B.V., The assets held for sale comprise impaired property, Netherlands, a subsidiary of PMC Group, U.S. The primaThe carrying amount of the investment in Currenta plant and equipment and intangible assets of €0 million, ry objects of the sale were intangible assets and inventoGmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, of €0 million impaired inventories and trade receivables of €0 million, ries of LANXESS Organometallics GmbH, ­Bergkamen, is recognized in the statement of financial position as of cash and cash equivalents and other current assets of Germany. The contract parties also concluded a tolling December 31, 2019, as held for sale. €2 million, and provisions and other current liabilities agreement as part of the sale. The transaction was comof €3 million. pleted as of December 30, 2019. Sale of the business with gallium-based organometallics The currency translation adjustment in other ­equity The total consideration received for the sale of the busiBy agreement dated November 28, 2019, LANXESS ­c omponents to be allocated to the company as of ness was €20 million. In return, assets of €13 million agreed to sell its business with gallium-based organo­December 31, 2019, amounts to €1 million. were transferred. In addition, the remaining property, metallics in the Advanced Intermediates segment to First plant and equipment were written down by €15 million, Rare Materials Co. Ltd., Heyun Town, China, a subsidiary and a provision for anticipated losses of €4 million was of Vital Materials, China. The object of the transaction recognized as a result of the tolling agreement. The inwas the sale of the 100% interest in the subsidiary come and expenses were recognized as an exceptional LANXESS Electronic Materials L.L.C., Pyeongtaek, item in other operating income. Republic of Korea. The transaction was completed on January 31, 2020. 161 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Discontinued operations discontinued operation and reported accordingly only The carrying amounts of the assets and liabilities relating from December 1, 2019. The sale was completed on to discontinued operations are shown in the following Leather business unit January 10, 2020. The proceeds from the transaction table: In the context of further realignment, LANXESS initiated amounted to €80 million. the sale of the Leather business unit in the Performance Carrying Amounts of Reclassified Assets and Chemicals segment in fiscal year 2019. The individuOn November 15, 2019, a contract for the sale of the Liabilities (Leather Business Unit) al chrome chemicals, chrome ore and organic leather chrome ore business was concluded with the compa€ million Dec. 31, 2019 chemicals businesses are integrated in this business ny Chrome Production Holdings Proprietary Limited, Property, plant and equipment and unit. As no market participants or potential buyers have ­Johannesburg, South Africa, a subsidiary of Clover intangible assets 88 Inventories and trade receivables 111 integrated their businesses in the same way, projects ­Alloys, South Africa. The contract covers the sale of the Other assets 4 were actively initiated to sell the businesses separately. 74% interest in the subsidiary LANXESS Chrome Mining Total assets 203 The individual businesses are being sold at different (Pty) Ltd., Modderfontein, South Africa. The business is Provisions 47 times and recognized as discontinued operations in acaccounted for as a discontinued operation and reported Trade payables 36 cordance with IFRS 5 at different times. The recognition accordingly from December 31, 2019. The transaction is Other liabilities 15 Total liabilities 98 as discontinued operations results from the managestill subject to the approval of the responsible authorities. ment’s expectation that the sale of each business would The planned transaction is expected to be completed be completed within twelve months. Individual assets by the end of fiscal year 2020. The intangible assets and property, plant and equipment and liabilities remain in the LANXESS Group and are of the chrome chemicals business were not subject to recognized in continuing operations. The organic leather chemicals business is at an any further amortization or depreciation from Decem­advanced stage in the offer and sale process. The busiber 1, 2019. For the chrome ore and organic leather The contract for the sale of the chrome chemicals ness is ­accounted for as a discontinued operation and chemicals businesses, amortization and depreciation business was concluded on August 12, 2019, with the reported accordingly from December 31, 2019. The were recognized until December 31, 2019. company K2019342391 (South Africa) Proprietary LANXESS management expects the sale to be comLimited, South Africa, a subsidiary of Brother Enterprispleted by the end of fiscal year 2020. es, China. The transaction comprises the shares in the subsidiary LANXESS CISA (Pty) Ltd., Newcastle, South With the exception of the special provisions of IFRS 5, the Africa. Because of uncertainty over the final completion discontinued operations are recognized and measured of the transaction, the business was accounted for as a according to the same financial reporting standards and interpretations as continuing operations. 162 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information In detail, earnings from discontinued operations are as The discontinued operations of the Leather business The carrying amounts of the assets and liabilities of follows: unit generated EBITDA pre exceptionals of €0 million ­ARLANXEO disposed of are shown in the following table: (previous year: €30 million). This includes exceptional Income Statement from Discontinued Operations expense items of €6 million that impacted EBITDA (preCarrying Amounts of Assets and Liabilities (Leather Business Unit) vious year: €1 million). Capital expenditures amounted Disposed of (ARLANXEO) € million 2018 2019 to €18 million (previous year: €16 million). ­Depreciation € million Dec. 31, 2018 Sales 373 329 and amortization were recognized at €18 million Property, plant and equipment and Cost of sales (277) (260) ­(previous year: €16 million). The number of employintangible assets 1,834 Gross profit 96 69 Inventories and trade receivables 1,035 ees allocable to discontinued operations was 1,175 as Other functional costs (83) (112) Other assets 379 of ­December 31, 2019 (previous year: 1,189), and the Total assets 3,248 Operating result (EBIT) 13 (43) Financial result (4) (3) ­annual average was 1,176 (previous year: 1,198). Provisions 309 Income before income taxes 9 (46) Trade payables 331 Income taxes (19) (4) ARLANXEO Other liabilities 263 Income after income taxes (10) (50) Total liabilities 903 As part of its realignment, on April 1, 2016, LANXESS and Saudi Aramco formed a strategic alliance for the The “Other functional costs” line includes write-downs synthetic rubber business named ARLANXEO in which The presentation of the LANXESS Group’s income statefor the planned sale of the chrome ore business of each party held a 50% interest. From April 1, 2018, ment focuses on the calculation of earnings from conti­ €19 million. Measurement was at fair value less costs ­A RLANXEO was accounted for as a discontinued nuing operations. Earnings from discontinued operations to sell. The currently expected selling price was taken operation according to IFRS 5 and reported accordare only shown in one line, which is explained in more as fair value. ingly. LANXESS sold its 50% interest in ARLANXEO detail below. The intangible assets and property, plant to the Saudi Aramco subsidiary Aramco Overseas and equipment of ARLANXEO were not subject to any The cash flows of continuing operations are shown sep­Holdings Coöperatief U.A., The Hague, Netherlands, further amortization or depreciation from April 1, 2018. arately from the cash flows of discontinued operations in and derecognized its investment in ARLANXEO on Intra-Group deliveries and services, which are continued the cash flow statement. The cash flows of discontinued ­December 31, 2018. The purchase price for the d ­ isposal either with ARLANXEO or with third parties following operations are shown combined in one line per area. of the investment in ARLANXEO to Saudi Aramco was the deconsolidation of ARLANXEO, were shown in €1,427 million. ­continuing operations. The elimination entries as part of The currency translation adjustment recognized in other the consolidation of expense and income were assigned equity components allocable to discontinued operations With the exception of the special provisions of IFRS 5, the fully to discontinued operations. as of December 31, 2019, amounts to €15 million, and discontinued operations were recognized and measured the amounts recognized cumulatively in other reserves according to the same financial reporting standards and for the remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability interpretations as continuing operations. include losses of €11 million. 163 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information In detail, earnings from discontinued operations were Other information on companies Company Name and Domicile as follows: consolidated Interest held The following table lists the affiliated companies in acin % Income Statement from Discontinued Operations cordance with Section 313, Paragraph 2 of the German Fully consolidated companies (ARLANXEO) Commercial Code: LANXESS Chrome Mining (Pty) Ltd., Modderfontein, South Africa 74 € million 2018 LANXESS Epierre SAS, Epierre, France 100 Sales 3,180 Company Name and Domicile LANXESS Holding Switzerland AG, Cost of sales (2,560) Frauenfeld, Switzerland 100 Interest held Gross profit 620 LANXESS Holding UK Unlimited, in % Other functional costs (234) Manchester, Great Britain 100 Fully consolidated companies LANXESS Investments Netherlands B.V., Operating result (EBIT) 386 Financial result (34) Amsterdam, Netherlands 100 Germany LANXESS Kimya Ticaret Limited Şirketi, Income before income taxes 352 LANXESS AG, Cologne – Istanbul, Turkey 100 Income taxes (101) Bond-Laminates GmbH, Brilon 100 LANXESS Limited, Newbury, Great Britain 100 Income after income taxes 251 CheMondis GmbH, Cologne 100 LANXESS Manufacturing Netherlands B.V., IAB Ionenaustauscher GmbH Bitterfeld, Greppin 100 Amsterdam, Netherlands 100 The cash flows of continuing operations were shown IMD Natural Solutions GmbH, Dortmund 100 LANXESS N.V., Antwerp, Belgium 100 LANXESS Accounting GmbH, Cologne 100 LANXESS S.A.S., Courbevoie, France 100 separately from the cash flows of ARLANXEO in the LANXESS Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH & Co. LANXESS S.r.l., Milan, Italy 100 cash flow statement. The cash flows of ARLANXEO were OHG, Leverkusen 100 LANXESS Sales Netherlands B.V., shown combined in one line per area. LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne 100 Amsterdam, ­Netherlands 100 LANXESS Distribution GmbH, Leverkusen 100 LANXESS Solutions Italy S.r.L., Latina, Italy 100 LANXESS Organometallics GmbH, Bergkamen 100 LANXESS Solutions UK Ltd., Saltigo GmbH, Leverkusen 100 Manchester, Great Britain 100 LANXESS Switzerland GmbH, EMEA (excluding Germany) Frauenfeld, Switzerland 100 Anderol B.V., Venlo, Netherlands 100 LANXESS Urethanes UK Ltd., Antec International Ltd., Sudbury, Suffolk, Baxenden NR Accrington, Great Britain 100 Great Britain 100 OOO LANXESS, Moscow, Russia 100 Chemtura France S.A.S., OOO LANXESS Lipetsk, Lipetsk, Russia 100 Fitz-James, France 100 Sybron Chemical Industries Nederland B.V., Europigments, S.L., Barcelona, Spain 52 Ede, ­Netherlands 100 Great Lakes Chemical, Netherlands, B.V., Sybron Chemicals International Holdings Ltd., Amsterdam, Netherlands 100 Newbury, Great Britain 100 Great Lakes Holding S.A.S., Fitz-James, France 100 LANXESS (Pty) Ltd., Modderfontein, South Africa 100 North America LANXESS Central Eastern Europe s.r.o., Assured Insurance Company, Montpelier, U.S. 100 Bratislava, Slovakia 100 Great Lakes Chemical Corporation, LANXESS CISA (Pty) Ltd., Newcastle, South Africa 100 Wilmington, New Castle, U.S. 100 LANXESS Chemicals, S.L., Barcelona, Spain 100 LANXESS Canada Co./Cie, Elmira, Canada 100 LANXESS Corporation, Pittsburgh, U.S. 100 164 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Company Name and Domicile Company Name and Domicile Company Name and Domicile Interest held Interest held Interest held in % in % in % Fully consolidated companies Fully consolidated companies Non-consolidated immaterial subsidiaries LANXESS Services US LLC, LANXESS Electronic Materials L.L.C., Wilmington, New Castle, U.S. 100 Gyeonggi-do, Republic of Korea 100 Germany LANXESS Solutions US Inc., LANXESS Hong Kong Limited, Achte LXS GmbH, Cologne 100 Wilmington, New Castle, U.S. 100 Hong Kong, Hong Kong 100 LANXESS Middle East GmbH, Cologne 100 Sybron Chemical Holdings Inc., LANXESS India Private Ltd., Thane, India 100 Siebte LXS GmbH, Leverkusen 100 Birmingham, U.S. 100 LANXESS K.K., Tokyo, Japan 100 LANXESS Korea Limited, EMEA (excluding Germany) Latin America Seoul, Republic of Korea 100 Gulf Stabilizers Industries Sales FZCO, Chemtura Corporation Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V., LANXESS Pte. Ltd., Singapore, Singapore 100 Dubai, UAE 52 Mexico City, Mexico 100 LANXESS Pty Ltd., Granville, Australia 100 W. Hawley & Son Ltd., Newbury, Great Britain 100 LANXESS Indústria de Poliuretanos e LANXESS Shanghai Pigments Co., Ltd., Lubrificantes Ltda., Rio Claro, Brazil 100 Shanghai, China 100 Latin America LANXESS Indústria de Produtos Quimicos e LANXESS Solutions Australia Pty. Ltd., Comercial Andinas Ltda., Plásticos Ltda., São Paulo, Brazil 100 West Gosford, Australia 100 Santiago de Chile, Chile 100 LANXESS S.A. de C.V., Mexico City, Mexico 100 LANXESS Solutions India Private Ltd., Crompton Servicios, S.A. de C.V., LANXESS S.A., Buenos Aires, Argentina 100 Thane, India 100 Mexico City, Mexico 100 Rhein Chemie Uruguay S.A., Colonia, Uruguay 100 LANXESS Solutions Japan K.K., Tokyo, Japan 100 LANXESS Solutions Korea Inc., Asia-Pacific Asia-Pacific Pyeongtaek, Republic of Korea 100 LANXESS Thai Co., Ltd., Bangkok, Thailand 100 Chemtura Chemicals Nanjing Co. Ltd., LANXESS Specialty Chemicals Co., Ltd., PCTS Specialty Chemicals Malaysia (M) Sdn. Nanjing, China 100 Shanghai, China 100 Bhd., Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 100 Chemtura China Holding Co. Ltd., LANXESS Taiwan Ltd., Kaohsiung, Taiwan 100 Shanghai, China 100 Rhein Chemie (Qingdao) Co., Ltd., Other non-consolidated immaterial LANXESS (Changzhou) Co., Ltd., Qingdao, China 90 companies Changzhou, China 100 LANXESS (Liyang) Polyols Co., Ltd., Joint operations Latin America Liyang, China 100 Hidrax Ltda., Taboão da Serra, Brazil 39 LANXESS (Ningbo) Pigments Co., Ltd., Germany Ningbo City, China 100 DuBay Polymer GmbH, Hamm 50 LANXESS (Wuxi) High Performance Composite Materials Company Limited, Wuxi, China 100 North America LANXESS Additives Hong Kong Ltd., Rubicon LLC, Salt Lake City, U.S. 50 Hong Kong, Hong Kong 100 LANXESS Additives Taiwan Ltd., Associate Kaohsiung, Taiwan 100 LANXESS Advanced Materials (Nantong) Co. Germany Ltd., N ­ antong, China 100 Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen 40 LANXESS Chemical (China) Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China 100 165 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information NOTES TO THE STATEMENT OF ­FINANCIAL POSITION 1 | Intangible Assets Changes in intangible assets were as follows: Changes in Intangible Assets in 2018 Acquired Other Advance Total € million goodwill intangible assets payments Cost of acquisition or generation, Dec. 31, 2017 881 1,196 49 2,126 Adjustments in accordance with IFRS 5 (70) (119) (2) (191) Acquisitions 12 13 – 25 Capital expenditures – 21 40 61 Disposals – (3) – (3) Reclassifications – 13 (13) 0 Adjustments in accordance with IAS 29 – 2 – 2 Exchange differences 34 26 0 60 Cost of acquisition or generation, Dec. 31, 2018 857 1,149 74 2,080 Accumulated amortization and write-downs, Dec. 31, 2017 (11) (331) 0 (342) Adjustments in accordance with IFRS 5 4 106 – 110 Amortization in 2018 – (84) 0 (84) of which write-downs – (1) – (1) Reversals of impairment charges – 0 – 0 Disposals – 3 – 3 Reclassifications – 0 0 0 Adjustments in accordance with IAS 29 – (1) – (1) Exchange differences 0 (2) – (2) Accumulated amortization and write-downs, Dec. 31, 2018 (7) (309) 0 (316) Carrying amounts, Dec. 31, 2018 850 840 74 1,764 Prior-year figures restated 166 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information The adjustments in accordance with IFRS 5 result from Changes in Intangible Assets in 2019 the reporting of the Leather business unit as a disconAcquired Other Advance Total tinued operation. In the previous year, the adjustments € million goodwill intangible assets payments in accordance with IFRS 5 related to the reporting of Cost of acquisition or generation, Dec. 31, 2018 857 1,149 74 2,080 Adjustments in accordance with IFRS 5 – (15) (4) (19) ARLANXEO as a discontinued operation. The depreciCapital expenditures – 16 50 66 ation and amortization allocable to the Leather business Disposals – (11) 3 (8) unit are also recognized here. Reclassifications – 32 (32) 0 Adjustments in accordance with IAS 29 – 0 – 0 Other intangible assets include customer lists, trademark Exchange differences 16 19 0 35 Cost of acquisition or generation, rights, software and other rights. Dec. 31, 2019 873 1,190 91 2,154 Accumulated amortization and write-downs, Dec. 31, 2018 (7) (309) 0 (316) Adjustments in accordance with IFRS 5 – 10 0 10 Amortization in 2019 – (87) 0 (87) of which write-downs – 0 0 0 Reversals of impairment charges – 0 – 0 Disposals – 7 0 7 Reclassifications – 0 0 0 Adjustments in accordance with IAS 29 – 0 – 0 Exchange differences (1) (2) – (3) Accumulated amortization and write-downs, Dec. 31, 2019 (8) (381) 0 (389) Carrying amounts, Dec. 31, 2019 865 809 91 1,765 167 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information 2 | Property, Plant and Equipment Changes in property, plant and equipment were as follows: Changes in Property, Plant and Equipment in 2018 Land and Technical Other fixtures, Advance Total buildings equipment and fittings and payments and machinery equipment assets under € million construction Cost of acquisition or construction, Dec. 31, 2017 2,049 8,293 372 490 11,204 Adjustments in accordance with IFRS 5 (801) (3,005) (87) (149) (4,042) Acquisitions 9 14 1 0 24 Capital expenditures 8 77 19 352 456 Disposals (3) (50) (18) (2) (73) Reclassifications 37 188 16 (241) 0 Adjustments in accordance with IAS 29 6 3 1 0 10 Exchange differences (7) 0 (3) 0 (10) Cost of acquisition or construction, Dec. 31, 2018 1,298 5,520 301 450 7,569 Accumulated depreciation and ­write-downs, Dec. 31, 2017 (1,090) (5,773) (280) (2) (7,145) Adjustments in accordance with IFRS 5 358 1,979 67 0 2,404 Depreciation and write-downs in 2018 (40) (259) (32) (1) (332) of which write-downs (5) (7) (1) (1) (14) Reversals of impairment charges 0 1 – 0 1 Disposals 3 50 18 0 71 Reclassifications 0 0 0 0 0 Adjustments in accordance with IAS 29 (1) (2) (1) – (4) Exchange differences 4 7 2 0 13 Accumulated depreciation and write-downs, Dec. 31, 2018 (766) (3,997) (226) (3) (4,992) Carrying amounts, Dec. 31, 2018 532 1,523 75 447 2,577 Prior-year figures restated 168 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information The write-downs on land and buildings, technical Changes in Property, Plant and Equipment in 2019 equipment and machinery, and other fixtures, ­fittings Land and Technical Other fixtures, Advance Total and equipment primarily relate to decreases in ­value buildings equipment and fittings and payments and machinery equipment assets under in ­c onnection with the sale of the business with € million construction gallium-­based organometallics of €20 million and the Cost of acquisition or construction, Dec. 31, 2018 1,298 5,520 301 450 7,569 sale of the business with tin-based organometallics of­ Adjustments in accordance with IFRS 16 108 10 17 0 135 €15 million (see “Companies Consolidated”). In addiAdjustments in accordance with IFRS 5 (79) (163) (12) (12) (266) Capital expenditures 27 126 28 331 512 tion, write-downs were recognized due to other value-­ Disposals (6) (105) (16) (6) (133) decreasing events. Reclassifications 37 224 17 (278) 0 Adjustments in accordance with IAS 29 2 2 0 1 5 In the previous year, capitalized property, plant and equipExchange differences 5 15 1 2 23 ment included assets with the following gross and net Cost of acquisition or construction, Dec. 31, 2019 1,392 5,629 336 488 7,845 values held under finance leases: Accumulated depreciation and ­write-downs, Dec. 31, 2018 (766) (3,997) (226) (3) (4,992) Assets Held Under Finance Leases Adjustments in accordance with IFRS 5 35 124 10 0 169 Depreciation in 2019 (65) (312) (39) (1) (417) Dec. 31, 2018 of which write-downs (5) (37) (1) (1) (44) Gross carryNet ­c arrying Reversals of impairment charges 1 0 0 – 1 ing amount amount € million Disposals 5 105 15 0 125 Buildings 2 1 Reclassifications 0 0 0 0 0 Technical equipment and machinery 13 6 Adjustments in accordance with IAS 29 (1) (1) 0 – (2) Fittings and equipment 20 10 Exchange differences (1) (5) 0 1 (5) 35 17 Accumulated depreciation and write-downs, Dec. 31, 2019 (792) (4,086) (240) (3) (5,121) Carrying amounts, Dec. 31, 2019 600 1,543 96 485 2,724 Directly attributable borrowing costs of €3 million (previous year: €3 million) were capitalized. An annual average cost of debt for the LANXESS Group of 2.0% (previous The adjustments in accordance with IFRS 5 result from The adjustments in accordance with IFRS 16 relate to year: 2.6%) was used for capitalization. the reporting of the Leather business unit as a disconthe recognition of right-of-use assets from leases in continued operation. In the previous year, the adjustments nection with the initial application of the new standard in accordance with IFRS 5 related to the reporting of IFRS 16 as of the transition date of January 1, 2019. ARLANXEO as a discontinued operation. The depreciPlease refer to Note [36] for information on leases. ation and amortization allocable to the Leather business unit are also recognized here. 169 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information 3 | Investments Accounted for Using the As of December 31, 2019, the carrying amount of the Derivative Financial Instruments Equity Method investment in Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Dec. 31, 2018 Germany, of €0 million was recognized as held for sale Notional Positive Negative As in the previous year, Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, and no longer accounted for using the equity method € million amount fair values fair values Leverkusen, Germany, was accounted for using the (see “Companies consolidated” section). Current forward ­equity method. exchange contracts 1,139 4 (25) 4 | Investments in Other Affiliated Current forward The following tables show the main items of the income Companies commodity contracts 5 0 0 Non-current forward statement, statement of comprehensive income and exchange contracts 68 0 (3) statement of financial position of that company in the This item contains interests in other affiliated companies Non-current embedded previous year: totaling €1 million (previous year: €2 million). derivatives not designated as hedging instruments – – 0 1,212 4 (28) Data from the Income Statement and 5 | Derivative Financial Instruments Statement of Comprehensive Income € million 2018 The derivative financial instruments held by the Derivative Financial Instruments Sales 1,432 LANXESS Group comprise forward exchange, forward Dec. 31, 2019 Operating result (EBIT) 128 commodity and forward interest rate contracts as well Income after income taxes 82 Notional Positive Negative as embedded derivatives separated from contracts € million Other comprehensive income, net of income tax (17) amount fair values fair values not designated as hedging instruments. At LANXESS, Current forward Total comprehensive income 65 ­derivative financial instruments are used to hedge items exchange contracts 1,431 5 (17) of the statement of financial position and to hedge future Current forward commodity contracts 3 0 0 sales and raw material purchases. As of the closing date, Data from the Statement of Financial Position Non-current forward derivative assets are capitalized in the consolidated finanexchange contracts 118 1 (2) € million Dec. 31, 2018 cial statements for fiscal year 2019 at a total fair value Non-current embedded Non-current assets 887 derivatives not designated of €6 million (previous year: €4 million). Instruments as hedging instruments – – – Current assets 481 with a negative fair value totaling €19 million (previous 1,552 6 (19) Total assets 1,368 Non-current liabilities 1,099 year: €28 million) are recognized as derivative liabilities. Current liabilities 347 Total liabilities 1,446 The remarks below relate exclusively to transactions Equity (78) that qualify for hedge accounting and are recognized Adjustment of LANXESS’s interest and equity valuation 37 accordingly: Pro rata loss not recognized in consolidated financial statements 41 Forward exchange hedges Investments accounted for Currency hedges are used for the future revenue of comusing the equity method 0 panies of the LANXESS Group when the currency in which the planned revenue is denominated differs from 170 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information the company’s functional currency and significant forForward Exchange, Forward Interest Rate and Forward Commodity Hedges 2018 eign currency positions are expected. Set hedging r­ atios Nominal Carrying amount Line item in stateChange in value of Change in value have been defined for subsequent years. The hedges are amount ment of financial hedged item1) of hedging due to mature in the respective planning months. The € million Asset Liability position instrument1) hedges could become ineffective as a result of revenue Forward exchange possibly deferred to other periods. There are currently contracts Current and non-current no cases of changes in the timing of revenue in excess EUR/JPY 27 – (1) derivative liabilities 2 (2) of the hedged volume. Current and noncurrent derivative EUR/USD 306 1 (13) assets/liabilities 25 (25) Forward commodity contracts Current and nonHedges on the prices of raw materials can be used for current derivative future purchases of raw materials by the companies of USD/BRL 60 0 (5) assets/liabilities 4 (4) the LANXESS Group where procurement volumes are Forward commodity Current derivative contracts 5 – (1) liabilities 1 (1) planned on the basis of existing procurement agree398 1 (20) 32 (32) ments. The hedges are forward commodity contracts 1) The changes in value are changes in the hedged component in the period. and based on a monthly planned procurement volume. Production facility shutdowns could reduce procurement volumes and cause the hedges to become ineffective. Forward Exchange, Forward Interest Rate and Forward Commodity Hedges 2019 No relevant production facility shutdowns are currently Nominal Carrying amount Line item in stateChange in value of Change in value of known. amount ment of financial hedged item1) hedging € million Asset Liability position instrument1) Forward interest rate contracts Forward exchange Interest rate risks for future refinancing of the LANXESS contracts Current and nonGroup can be hedged with interest rate swaps. For this current derivative purpose, the hedging instruments are concluded with EUR/JPY 38 0 (1) assets/liabilities 0 0 matching maturities on the basis of a planned ­refinancing Current and noncurrent derivative requirement. The hedges can become ineffective if the EUR/USD 307 1 (8) assets/liabilities (5) 5 refinancing date is moved. The forward interest rate Current and noncontracts were in place in fiscal year 2017 and were current derivative USD/BRL 77 1 (2) assets/liabilities (5) 5 recognized in other comprehensive income on the issue Forward commodity Current derivative of a new bond in May 2018. The amounts recognized contracts 3 0 0 assets/liabilities 0 0 in other comprehensive income are reversed in profit or 425 2 (11) (10) 10 loss over the term of the bond. 1) The changes in value are changes in the hedged component in the period. 171 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Maturities and Average Prices 2018 2019 ≥ 2020 € million Nominal amount Average rate1) Nominal amount Average rate1) Forward exchange contracts EUR/JPY Euro 17 130 10 128 EUR/USD Euro 269 1.21 37 1.21 USD/BRL Euro 40 3.54 20 3.55 Forward commodity contracts Euro 5 561.93 – – 331 67 1) A  verage hedging rate corresponds to the fixed side of the interest rate swap for forward interest rate contracts and the fixed side of the contract for forward commodity contracts. Maturities and Average Prices 2019 2020 ≥ 2021 € million Nominal amount Average rate 1) Nominal amount Average rate1) Forward exchange contracts EUR/JPY Euro 22 125 16 124 EUR/USD Euro 233 1.16 74 1.18 USD/BRL Euro 49 3.98 28 4.29 Forward commodity contracts Euro 3 567.74 – – 307 118 1) A  verage hedging rate corresponds to the fixed side of the interest rate swap for forward interest rate contracts and the fixed side of the contract for forward commodity contracts. As in the previous year, the hedged cash flows for the forward exchange hedges will be realized within the next three years. The hedged cash flows of the forward commodity contracts relate to the raw material n-paraffin and, as in the previous year, will be realized within the next year. 172 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Hedge Accounting Reconciliation Other Comprehensive Income 2018 The LANXESS Group expects that, of the unrealized Cash flow hedges Cost of hedging Sum losses on currency hedges recognized in other comother comprehensive income as of the reporting date, €5 million Currency Forward Forward prehensive will be reclassified from equity to profit or loss in fiscal hedging commodity interest rate ForwardSpotincome € million contracts contracts contracts Total to-Forward to-Spot Total year 2020 and €1 million in fiscal year 2021 (previous January 1 19 0 0 19 (2) (3) (5) 14 year: unrealized losses of €10 million in fiscal year 2019 Adjustments according to IFRS 5 (7) – – (7) 1 2 3 (4) and €2 million in fiscal year 2020). Changes other comprehensive income (16) 0 – (16) 0 (4) (4) (20) Information on long-term embedded derivatives not Reclassification in profit designated as hedging instruments and the maturity or loss due to recognition of underlying transaction (2) – 0 (2) – – – (2) structure of derivative assets and liabilities is given in December 31 (6) 0 0 (6) (1) (5) (6) (12) Note [37]. Hedge Accounting Reconciliation Other Comprehensive Income 2019 Cash flow hedges Cost of hedging Sum other comCurrency Forward Forward prehensive hedging commodity interest rate ForwardSpotincome € million contracts contracts contracts Total to-Forward to-Spot Total January 1 (6) 0 0 (6) (1) (5) (6) (12) Adjustments according to IFRS 5 – – – – – – – – Changes other comprehensive income 18 0 0 18 0 7 7 25 Reclassification in profit or loss due to recognition of underlying transaction (19) – 0 (19) – – – (19) December 31 (7) 0 0 (7) (1) 2 1 (6) 173 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information 6 | Other Non-Current and Current assets relate to revenue recognized at the average production date. When the customer-specific products ­Financial Assets ­contract price for the manufacture of customer-specific manufactured in the previous year are delivered, the products with contractually defined minimum purchase contract assets are reclassified as trade receivables. requirements as of the production date that are not In addition, the reclassifications to trade receivables Other Financial Assets ­expected to be delivered to the customer until the next include the recognition of the values for the quantities Dec. 31, 2018 fiscal year. The year-on-year increase mainly results from delivered in the reporting period from the business model € million Non-current Current Total preproductions for new contracts. The miscellaneous of manufacturing products on the basis of long-term Financial assets – 542 542 financial receivables primarily include investments in supply agreements with a contractually defined miniContract assets 17 44 61 High-Tech Gründerfonds, loan receivables and other mum purchase requirement, which are included in the Other financial receivables 8 12 20 financial receivables. The latter are reduced by expected opening balance. 25 598 623 credit losses in the amount of €1 million (previous year: €2 million). 7 | Non-Current and Current Income Tax Receivables Other Financial Assets Change in contract assets The non-current income tax receivables of €89 million Dec. 31, 2019 € million 2018 2019 (previous year: €14 million) essentially comprise uncer€ million Non-current Current Total January 1 56 61 Adjustments in accordance with IFRS 5 (4) – tain tax positions. Financial assets – 780 780 Contract assets 18 76 94 Cumulative catch-up adjustments to revenues of the reporting period (3) 2 The current income tax receivables of €110 million (preOther financial receivables 11 8 19 Cumulative catch-up adjustments to revenues of previous reporting periods 7 3 vious year: €55 million) mainly include tax prepayments 29 864 893 Additions 45 74 and receivables relating to disputed tax issues where (Reversals of) impairment losses 0 0 reimbursement is considered probable. Financial assets essentially comprise invested cash Reclassifications to trade receivables (40) (46) Exchange differences 0 0 funds and securities that can be sold at any time. The December 31 61 94 change compared with the previous year is mainly due to increased investment of cash funds. The non-current contract assets relate to revenue measured at the averThe additions and reclassifications to trade receivables age contract price for the manufacture of products with mainly relate to the business model of manufacturing contractually defined minimum purchase requirements. customer-specific products on the basis of long-term Differences between average pricing and the invoice supply agreements with a contractually defined minimum prices are shown as contract assets and reversed over purchase requirement. The additions comprise revethe remaining term of the contract. The current contract nue recognized in the reporting period already as of the 174 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information 8 | Other Non-Current Assets Due to inflation adjustments in accordance with IAS 29, pertained to the investment in Currenta GmbH & Co. inventories increased by less than €1 million. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, and €765 million (previous The other non-current assets amounting to €132 million year: €899 million) pertained to other customers. The (previous year: €117 million) mainly include receivables The changes in write-downs of inventories were as decline in trade receivables results from adjustments relating to pension obligations, periodic accruals and follows: driven by raw material prices in the fourth quarter of other reimbursement claims. 2019 as well as the reporting of the Leather business Write-Downs of Inventories unit as a discontinued operation. Other non-current assets are carried at amortized cost € million 2018 2019 less any write-downs. No write-downs were made in Necessary loss allowances of €12 million were recogJanuary 1 (97) (93) fiscal years 2018 or 2019. Adjustments in accordance with nized at the end of the reporting period (previous year: IFRS 5 27 6 €15 million). The underlying gross receivables amount 9 | Inventories Additions charged as expenses (41) (29) to €12 million (previous year: €15 million). The loss alReversals/utilization 18 26 lowance for trade receivables and the maturity structure Exchange differences 0 0 The inventories of the LANXESS Group comprise: December 31 (93) (90) classes for the loss allowance in fiscal years 2018 and 2019 are shown under “Credit risk management” in Prior-year figures restated Inventories Note [37]. € million Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2019 Raw materials and supplies 286 264 The adjustments in accordance with IFRS 5 result from 11 | Other Current Assets Work in process, finished the reporting of the Leather business unit as a discongoods and m­ erchandise 1,061 931 tinued operation. In the previous year, the adjustments Other current assets totaling €186 million (previous 1,347 1,195 in accordance with IFRS 5 related to the reporting of year: €197 million) are stated at amortized cost less any ARLANXEO as a discontinued operation. The writewrite-downs. They principally comprise m ­ iscellaneous downs allocable to the Leather business unit are also claims for tax refunds amounting to €129 million Inventories of €107 million (previous year: €174 million) recognized here. ­(previous year: €138 million), mainly pertaining to sales are recognized at net realizable value. The decline in intaxes, and other reimbursement claims from goods ventories compared to the previous year results from the 10 | Trade Receivables and service transactions totaling €36 million (previous reporting of the Leather business unit as a discontinued year: €39 million). As of December 31, 2019, writeoperation as well as lower quantities. All trade receivables – totaling €769 million (previous downs of €3 million were included (previous year: year: €903 million) – are due within one year. Of the €1 million). trade receivables, €4 million (previous year: €4 million) 175 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information 12 | A  ssets and Liabilities Held for Authorized capital Stockholders’ Meeting again resolves to authorize the Sale and Discontinued Operations Authorized capital was composed as follows as of Board of ­Management to implement capital measures December 31, 2019: under exclusion of stockholders’ subscription rights. In the current fiscal year, there are assets held for sale Authorized Capital I and III have not yet been utilized. resulting from the planned sale of the 40% interest in Pursuant to Section 4, Paragraph 3 of LANXESS AG’s Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, and articles of association, the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting Conditional capital the planned sale of the 100% interest in the ­subsidiary on May 15, 2018, authorized the Board of Management Conditional capital was composed as follows as of LANXESS Electronic Materials L.L.C., Pyeongtaek, until May 14, 2023, with the approval of the ­Supervisory December 31, 2019: ­Republic of Korea. In addition, the Leather business Board, to increase the capital stock on one or more ocunit is recognized as a discontinued operation in the casions by issuing new no-par bearer shares against The Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of LANXESS AG on reporting year. Detailed information on this is presented cash or contributions in kind up to a total amount of May 15, 2018, authorized the Board of Management in the “Companies Consolidated” section. €18,304,587 (Authorized Capital I). Furthermore, pursuuntil May 14, 2023, with the approval of the Supervisory ant to Section 4, Paragraph 4 of LANXESS AG’s articles Board, to issue – in one or more installments – warrant 13 | Equity of association, the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on bonds and/or convertible bonds, profit-participation May 26, 2017, authorized the Board of Management rights and/or income bonds or a combination of these Capital stock until May 25, 2022, with the approval of the Supervisory instruments (collectively referred to as “bonds”) – as The capital stock of LANXESS AG amounted to Board, to increase the company’s capital stock on one either registered or bearer bonds – with a total nominal €87,447,852 as of December 31, 2019, and is comor more occasions by issuing new bearer shares against value of up to €1,000,000,000, with or without limited posed of 87,447,852 no-par bearer shares. On the basis cash or contributions in kind up to a total amount of maturity, and to grant option rights to, or impose exerof a Board of Management resolution dated July 9, 2019, €9,152,293 (Authorized Capital III). Stockholders are cise obligations on, the holders or creditors of warrant the company, after implementing a stock repurchase, generally entitled to subscription rights when Authobonds, profit-participation rights with warrants or income resolved to reduce the capital stock by way of simplirized Capital I and III are utilized. However, these rights bonds with warrants, and/or to grant conversion rights fied capital reduction in accordance with Section 71, can be excluded in certain cases which are defined in to, or impose conversion obligations on, the holders or Paragraph 1, No. 8, Sentence 6 of the German Stock Section 4, Paragraphs 3 and 4 of the articles of associcreditors of convertible bonds, convertible profit-particCorporation Act by €4,075,084 from €91,522,936 to ation of LANXESS AG. By way of self-commitment, the ipation rights or convertible income bonds in respect €87,447,852 by withdrawing 4,075,084 no-par ­bearer Board of Management undertakes to perform capital of bearer shares of the company representing a total shares with a notional share in the capital stock of €1.00 measures with stockholders’ subscription rights dispro rata increase of up to €9,152,293 in the company’s per share. All shares carry the same rights and obligaapplied up to a maximum total amount of 20% of the capital stock on the terms to be defined for these bonds. tions. One vote is granted per share, and profit is discompany’s current capital stock. This restriction applies Pursuant to Section 4, Paragraph 5 of the articles of tributed per share. when issuing new shares utilizing authorized capital, association, the capital stock of LANXESS AG is thus utilizing treasury shares or issuing bonds with warrants conditionally increased by up to €9,152,293 (conditional or conversion rights/obligations on the basis of which capital). The Board of Management is authorized, with shares must be issued, with stockholders’ subscription the approval of the Supervisory Board, to exclude subrights disapplied in each case. The Board of Management scription rights in certain cases which are detailed in the will be bound by this declaration until a future Annual authorization. The Board of Management will consider 176 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information other capital measures with stockholders’ subscripCorporation Act to acquire shares in the company reprefor the purpose of withdrawing them and reducing the tion rights disapplied in its decision to disapply stocksenting up to 10% of the capital stock until May 19, 2021, ­company’s capital stock. On July 9, 2019, the Board of holders’ subscription rights when issuing convertible and to utilize them for any purpose permitted by law. Management ­resolved to withdraw all repurchased shares bonds and/or bonds with warrants, profit participation Subsidiaries of the company or third parties acting for in line with the stock repurchase authorization in accorrights and/or income bonds (or combinations of these the account of the company or its subsidiaries were also dance with Section 71, Paragraph 1, No. 8, Sentence 6 instruments). By way of self-commitment, the Board of permitted to utilize this authorization. At the discretion of of the German Stock Corporation Act. The shares were Management undertakes to perform capital measures the Board of Management, such shares were able to be withdrawn on July 12, 2019, without a further resolution with s­ tockholders’ subscription rights disapplied up to acquired either on the market or via a public tender offer. by the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting. The company’s a maximum total amount of 20% of the company’s curThe Board of Management was authorized to use them capital stock was accordingly reduced to €87,447,852. rent capital stock. This restriction applies when issuing for any purpose permitted by law, especially the purposes On May 23, 2019, the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting new shares utilizing authorized capital, utilizing treasury specifically listed in the authorization. of LANXESS AG resolved, with effect after a time deshares or issuing bonds with warrants or conversion lay, to suspend the stock repurchase authorization of rights/obligations on the basis of which shares must be The Board of Management of the company resolved on May 20, 2016, and issue a new authorization for the purissued, with stockholders’ subscription rights disapplied January 10, 2019, to exercise its stock repurchase authochase and utilization of treasury shares. The suspension in each case. The Board of Management will be bound rization and to buy treasury shares at a purchase price of and the new authorization took effect on August 13, 2019, by this declaration until a future Annual Stockholders’ up to €200 million (not including incidental expenses) on i.e. at the beginning of the day that lay two months after Meeting again resolves to authorize the Board of Manthe stock exchange. In the period from January 14, 2019, the day on which the last notification relating to the stock agement to implement capital measures under exclusion to June 12, 2019, the company then purchased a total repurchase program announced on January 10, 2019, of stockholders’ subscription rights. The authorization of 4,075,084 no-par bearer shares of the company with announcing its completion, was published via a European to issue bonds has not yet been utilized. a pro rata amount of €1.00 per share. The amount of media pool. The new authorization allows the Board of capital stock attributable to these shares is €4,075,084. Management to acquire shares in the company representShare buyback and withdrawal This equates to 4.453% of the company’s capital stock ing up to 10% of the capital stock until May 22, 2024, At the beginning of fiscal year 2019, neither the company of €91,522,936 at that time. The purchases were made and to utilize them for any purpose permitted by law. This nor dependent or majority-owned entities, or third parties exclusively via the stock market by a bank commissioned authorization may also be utilized by subsidiaries of the acting for the account of the company or for the account by the company. They were carried out in electronic tradcompany or by third parties on behalf of the company or of dependent or majority-owned entities, held shares in ing on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange on 94 Xetra trading its subsidiaries. At the discretion of the Board of Managethe company. On the basis of the resolution of the Annual days. The weighted average price amounts to €49.0787 ment, such shares may be acquired either on the market Stockholders’ Meeting of LANXESS AG of May 20, 2016, per repurchased share. The total price for the repurchased or via a public tender offer. The Board of Management the Board of Management was authorized in accordance shares, not including incidental expenses, amounted to is authorized to use them for any purpose permitted with Section 71, Paragraph 1, No. 8 of the German Stock €199,999,958.47. The treasury shares were acquired by law, especially the purposes specifically listed in the 177 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information authorization. No treasury shares were purchased on Other equity components 14 | P  rovisions for Pensions and the basis of this new authorization in fiscal year 2019. The other equity components mainly comprise exchange Other Post-Employment Benefits At the end of fiscal year 2019, neither the company nor differences from the translation of operations outside the dependent or majority-owned entities, or third parties eurozone, remeasurements of derivatives for purposes Most employees in the LANXESS Group are entitled to acting for the account of the company or for the account of cash flow hedge accounting and the corresponding retirement benefits on the basis of contractual agreeof a dependent or majority-owned entity, held shares in hedging costs. ments or statutory regulations. These are provided the company. through defined contribution or defined benefit plans. Capital management Capital reserves The main purpose of capital management in the Defined contribution plans The capital reserves of LANXESS AG amounted to LANXESS Group is to maintain the long-term viability In the case of defined contribution plans, the company €1,229,727,364 as of December 31, 2019 (previous of the business operations and achieve an attractive pays contributions into separate pension funds. These year: €1,225,652,280). An amount of €4,075,084, equal return on capital compared with the chemical industry contributions are included in the functional cost items as to the reduction of the capital stock in connection with average. LANXESS’s financial policy defines an additional expenses for the respective year, and thus in the operatthe stock repurchase, was added to the capital reserves condition for capital management, which is to maintain ing result. Once the contributions have been paid, the in accordance with Section 237, Paragraph 5 of the an investment-grade rating. To achieve this goal, the company has no further payment obligations. Payments German Stock Corporation Act in the reporting year. Group has to meet indicators set by the rating agencies. to defined contribution plans in fiscal year 2019 totaled Most of these are derived from the statement of finan€43 million (previous year: €43 million). Other reserves cial position, the income statement or the statement of The €38 million increase in other reserves to €1,429 milcash flows. Details can be found in the section headed­­ Multi-employer plans lion is attributable to the increase in retained earnings “Value management and control system” in the combined The pension plan in Germany financed through Bayer-­ from €1,232 million to €1,270 million. management report for fiscal year 2019. Capital mana­ Pensionskasse is also accounted for in the ­consolidated gement in the LANXESS Group entails decisions by the financial statements as a defined contribution plan. The Retained earnings comprise prior years’ undistributed relevant internal bodies on the capital structure shown in above amounts include contributions of €23 million income of companies included in the consolidated finanthe statement of financial position, the appropriateness (previous year: €23 million) to Bayer-Pensionskasse. cial statements. They also contain remeasurements of of the company’s equity, the use of the distributable profContributions of about the same amount are expected the net defined benefit liability from post-employment it, the amount of the dividend, the financing of capital for fiscal year 2020. benefit plans and the related tax effects. In addition, reexpenditures, and thus on issuances or repayments of tained earnings are reduced by the portion of the stock debt. The articles of association of LANXESS AG do not Bayer-Pensionskasse is a legally independent private inrepurchase price exceeding the nominal value by and contain any specific capital requirements. surance company and is therefore subject to the German the costs of the stock repurchase. Insurance Supervision Act. Since the obligations of the 178 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information participating entities are not confined to payment of the LANXESS’s share of the total contributions to Bayer-­ is funded on the basis of life insurance policies. The contributions for the respective fiscal year, Bayer-PenPensionskasse is 15% (previous year: 15%). Bayer-­ employer’s obligation is fulfilled by the payment of the sionskasse constitutes a defined benefit multi-employer Pensionskasse has been closed to new members since contribution to the covering life insurance policies. The plan and therefore would generally have to be accounted January 1, 2005. covering life insurance policies are carried as plan assets for pro rata as a defined benefit plan. via a CTA. Defined benefit plans Bayer-Pensionskasse is financed not on the principle of The global post-employment benefit obligations are In the U.S. and Great Britain, the defined benefit obligacoverage for individual benefit entitlements, but on the calculated at regular intervals – at least every three tions comprise, in particular, lifelong pension benefits, actuarial equivalence principle, based on totals for the years – by an independent actuary using the projected which are payable in the event of disability or death or whole plan. This means that the sum of existing plan unit credit method. Comprehensive actuarial valuations when the employee reaches retirement age. The level of assets and the present value of future contributions must are generally undertaken annually for all major post-emthese benefits is determined from the total annual penbe at least equal to the present value of the future benefits ployment benefit plans. sion increments earned during the period of employment, payable under the plan. The LANXESS Group is theredepending on the employee’s individual salary and the fore exposed to the actuarial risks of the other entities Contractually based defined benefit pension plans exist actual date of retirement. The existing defined benefit participating in Bayer-Pensionskasse. Thus no consistent primarily in Germany, the U.S. and Great Britain. pension plans are closed to new members. In some of the or reliable basis exists for allocating the benefit obligation, closed pension plans, no new pension entitlements are plan assets and costs that would enable LANXESS to The defined benefit pension obligations in Germany accrued and the employees are transferred to a defined account for Bayer-Pensionskasse as a defined benefit mainly relate to lifelong benefits payable in the event contribution plan. plan in accordance with IAS 19. As contributions are of death or disability or when the employee reaches rebased on future coverage of the total obligation, all partirement age. Benefits are determined on the basis of Only limited defined benefit pension obligations exist ticipating entities pay contributions at the same rates the total annual pension increments earned during the on the basis of statutory regulations. These principally based on the employee income levels on which social period of employment and vary according to employees’ comprise obligations to make a lump-sum payment if security contributions are payable. Bayer-Pensionskasse individual salaries. Additional pension entitlements exist employment is terminated. The amount of this payment is therefore accounted for as a defined contribution plan that are related to salary components set aside by emmainly depends on years of service and final salary. and not as a defined benefit plan. ployees and are payable when they reach retirement age. Alongside direct commitments, the pension adjustment The other post-employment benefit obligations primarily There are no minimum funding requirements, nor is obligation assumed by Bayer-Pensionskasse is accountrelate to the reimbursement of retirees’ healthcare costs there any information that could be used to estimate ed for in a separate defined benefit plan in accordance in North and South America. The other post-employthe future contributions on the basis of current under-or with Section 16 of the German Occupational Pensions ment benefit obligations in Germany comprise other overfunding. The statutes do not provide for the sharing Improvement Act (BetrAVG). A new pension plan was long-term benefits payable to employees and benefits of any surplus or shortfall in the event that Bayer-Pensionagreed for employees joining from fiscal year 2017 in ­payable upon termination of employment. These are skasse is wound up or LANXESS ceases to participate. the form of a congruently defined benefit scheme which mainly early-retirement benefits and collectively agreed 179 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information salary components granted in the form of pension beneensure the timely availability of pension assets. At the In the reporting year, total expenses of €62 million (prefits. They are included in pension provisions as they are regional level, the strategy is generally directly coordivious year: €67 million) for defined benefit plans were by nature pension entitlements. nated and monitored by representatives of LANXESS recognized in profit or loss and are split between the via the relevant committees of the pension funds or of operating result and the financial result as follows: Financing of the defined benefit pension obligations LANXESS Pension Trust e.V., taking regulatory requireis achieved both internally through provisions and exments into account. On the basis of local regulations, the Expenses for Defined Benefit Plans ternally through legally independent pension funds. pension assets in Great Britain are managed by external Pension plans Other The pension obligations in Germany are partly covered trustees in close coordination with LANXESS. post­employment on a voluntary basis via LANXESS Pension Trust e.V., benefit plans ­L everkusen, Germany. The allocation of funds to Funding surpluses from defined benefit plans are rec€ million 2018 2019 2018 2019 LANXESS ­Pension Trust e.V. is dependent on future ognized as receivables relating to pension obligations to Operating result Current service cost 37 38 2 3 decisions by the company. In the U.S. and Great Britain, the extent that they can be used to reduce future contriPast service cost 2 0 – – it is mandatory to primarily finance pension obligations butions, taking into account the asset ceiling. Defined Gains from settlements – (3) – 0 through pension funds. Allocations to pension funds in benefit pension plans with asset ceilings exist primarily Administration the U.S. and Great Britain are determined by the regulain the U.S. and Great Britain. The respective calculations expenses/taxes 2 1 0 0 tory environments and the need to comply with funding are based on actuarial valuations. Minimum funding Actuarial gains/losses from changes in financial regulations. Contributions are paid mainly by the emrequirements for defined benefit plans may exist in Great ­assumptions – – 0 1 ployer. The investment strategy is determined principally Britain as well as in other countries. These depend on Financial result by the LANXESS Corporate Pension Committee and is the local regulatory framework and are recognized as Net interest 20 18 4 4 Amounts recognized designed to protect the capital, optimally manage risks, additional pension provisions. in profit or loss 61 54 6 8 take into account changes in pension obligations and Prior-year figures restated 180 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information The gains from settlements resulted from settlement The table shows the amounts recognized in other The change in the net defined benefit liability for payments in the U.S. of €13 million made for vested ­comprehensive income rather than profit or loss in the post-employment benefit plans is shown in the followentitlements of €16 million. The difference of €3 million reporting year: ing table: is recognized as gain from settlements. Amounts Recognized in Other Comprehensive Income Changes in Net Defined Benefit Liability Administration expenses in the operating result conPension plans Other Pension plans Other tain expenses from the investment of assets that are not post­employment post­employment directly attributable to the earning of income on plan benefit plans benefit plans assets. The costs of managing the plan assets that are € million 2018 2019 2018 2019 € million 2018 2019 2018 2019 directly attributable to the earning of income on plan Return on plan assets Net defined benefit excluding amounts liability, January 1 1,256 890 177 118 assets are recognized in other comprehensive income. included in interest (56) 156 (2) 4 Adjustments in Actuarial gains/losses accordance with IFRS 5 (206) (18) (39) – The actuarial gains and losses relate to other non-current from c­ hanges in demoAmounts recognized in graphic assumptions (2) 9 0 4 profit or loss 61 54 6 8 employee benefits or termination benefits that are inActuarial gains/losses Amounts recognized in cluded in pension provisions because they are by nature from changes in financial other comprehensive retirement benefits. ­assumptions 29 (265) 5 (11) income 28 117 (6) 9 Actuarial gains/losses Employer contributions (216) (18) (1) (1) from ­experience adjustBenefits paid (35) (43) (20) (15) The net interest is the balance of the interest expense ments 2 (6) 2 0 Other addition 0 1 – – from compounding the defined benefit obligation, the Changes in effects of the Exchange differences 2 (4) 1 2 asset ceiling (1) (11) 1 (6) interest expense from changes in the effects of the asset Net defined benefit Amounts recognized in ceiling, and interest income from plan assets. other comprehensive liability, December 31 890 979 118 121 income (28) (117) 6 (9) Amounts recognized in the statement of financial position Receivables from pension obligations (75) (78) – – Provisions for pensions and other post-­ employment benefits 965 1,057 118 121 Net defined benefit liability, December 31 890 979 118 121 Prior-year figures restated 181 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information In the reporting year, the adjustments in accordance The defined benefit obligation developed as follows: In the reporting year, the adjustments in accordance with IFRS 5 resulted from the recognition of the Leather with IFRS 5 resulted from the recognition of the Leather business unit as a discontinued operation in the amount Changes in Defined Benefit Obligation business unit as a discontinued operation in the amount of of minus €17 million and from the planned sale of the minus €17 million and from the planned sale of the busiPension plans Other ­business with gallium-based organometallics in the post­employment ness with gallium-based organometallics in the amount amount of minus €1 million. In the previous year, the benefit plans of minus €1 million. In the previous year, adjustments in adjustments in accordance with IFRS 5 for pension plans € million 2018 2019 2018 2019 accordance with IFRS 5 for pension plans resulted from resulted from the recognition of ARLANXEO as a disconDefined benefit the recognition of ARLANXEO as a discontinued operaobligation tinued operation in the amount of minus €208 million tion in the amount of minus €941 million and the recogDefined benefit and the recognition of the costs for defined benefit plans ­obligation, January 1 3,104 2,162 192 135 nition of the costs for defined benefit plans of the Leather of the Leather business unit as a discontinued operation Adjustments in business unit as a discontinued operation in the amount ­accordance with IFRS 5 (939) (18) (39) 0 in the amount of €2 million. In the previous year, the of €2 million. In the previous year, the adjustments in Current service cost 37 38 2 3 adjustments in a­ ccordance with IFRS 5 for other post-­ ­accordance with IFRS 5 for other post-employment benefit Interest expense 48 52 5 4 employment benefit plans resulted from the recognition Actuarial gains/losses plans resulted from the recognition of ARLANXEO as a of ARLANXEO as a discontinued operation. from changes in demodiscontinued operation. graphic assumptions 2 (9) 0 (4) Actuarial gains/losses The expected cash outflows for employer contributions from changes in financial Of the defined benefit obligation for pensions, Germany and benefit payments in fiscal year 2020 are €19 million assumptions (29) 265 (5) 12 accounts for 72% (previous year: 71%), Great Britain for and €58 million, respectively, based on year-end 2019 Actuarial ­gains/­losses 12% (previous year: 12%) and the U.S. for 11% (previous from experience exchange rates. In the previous year, the expected cash ­adjustments (2) 6 (2) 0 year: 11%). outflows for employer contributions and benefit payments Past service cost 2 0 0 – in fiscal year 2019 were €16 million and €56 million, Settlements 0 (16) – 0 The other post-employment benefit obligations comrespectively, based on exchange rates at year end 2018. Employee contribution 0 1 0 0 prise €103 million (previous year: €98 million) for the Benefits paid (67) (79) (21) (17) ­reimbursement of health care costs and €32 million (preOther additions 0 1 – – The components of the reconciliation of the net recogAdministration vious year: €37 million) for miscellaneous other benefit nized liability are explained in the following tables, which expenses/taxes 0 (1) 0 0 commitments. show the development of the defined benefit obligation, Exchange differences 6 20 3 2 Defined benefit oblithe external plan assets and the effects of the asset ceiling Actuarial gains and losses from changes in demographic gation, December 31 2,162 2,422 135 135 and explain the major changes. assumptions resulted from the updating of demographic Prior-year figures restated assumptions in the U.S. and Great Britain. In the U.S., actuarial gains resulted from the application of the newly published and adopted MP2019 mortality improvement tables, which assume lower future mortality improvement 182 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information than in 2018. In Great Britain, actuarial gains resulted The settlements relate to the disposal of vested entitleIn the reporting year, the adjustments in accordance from the application of the newly published and adopted ments in the U.S. of €16 million in return for settlement with IFRS 5 resulted from the recognition of the Leather CMI 2018 mortality improvement tables. payments of €13 million. The difference of €3 million is business unit as a discontinued operation in the amount recognized as gain from settlements. of €0 million and from the planned sale of the business In the previous year, actuarial gains and losses of €13 milwith gallium-based organometallics in the amount lion from changes in demographic assumptions essent­ The exchange differences pertaining to defined benefit of €0 million. In the previous year, the adjustments in ially arose in Germany as a result of the application of the obligations mainly resulted from changes in the exchange accordance with IFRS 5 resulted from the recognition of newly published and adopted Heubeck 2018 G mortality rates for the U.S. dollar and the British pound. ARLANXEO as a discontinued operation in the amount tables. This was offset by the reduction in defined benefit of minus €754 million and the recognition of the costs obligations due to the application of the newly published The change in external plan assets is shown in the folfor defined benefit plans of the Leather business unit as and adopted CMI 2017 mortality improvement tables lowing table: a discontinued operation in the amount of €0 million. in Great Britain, which assume lower future mortality improvement than in 2016. Furthermore, actuarial losses Changes in External Plan Assets Of the plan assets, Germany accounts for 52% (previous arose in the previous year from changes in the estimated year: 51%), Great Britain for 27% (previous year: 27%) Pension plans Other conversion factors for the Great Lakes Plan. post­employment and the U.S. for 14% (previous year: 16%). benefit plans Remeasurements of the defined benefit liability due to € million 2018 2019 2018 2019 Employer contributions are used both for external funding changes in actuarial gains and losses resulting from Plan assets at fair of pension obligations where LANXESS is eligible for value changes in financial assumptions are mainly attributable reimbursements of pension payments and for external Plan assets, January 1 1,874 1,278 29 30 to changes in the discount rates for defined benefit obliAdjustments in accorfunding of pension obligations where subsequent pension gations in the main countries of relevance for LANXESS. dance with IFRS 5 (754) 0 – 0 payments will be made directly out of external plan assets. Interest income 28 34 1 1 Return on plan assets In the previous year, the past service cost for pension The settlements relate to the disposal of vested entitleexcluding amounts obligations resulted primarily from effects in Great Britain included in interest (56) 156 (2) 4 ments in the U.S. of €16 million in return for settlement arising from the Barber judgment on minimum pension Losses from settlements – (13) – – payments of €13 million. The difference of €3 million benefits guaranteed by law. Employer contributions 216 18 1 1 was recognized as gain from settlements. Employee contributions 0 1 0 0 Benefits paid (32) (36) (1) (2) Administration External funding where subsequent pension payments are expenses/taxes (2) (2) 0 0 made directly out of external plan assets totaled €18 milExchange differences 4 24 2 0 lion (previous year: €16 million). External funding where Plan assets, LANXESS can assert reimbursement claims mainly perDecember 31 1,278 1,460 30 34 tains to LANXESS Pension Trust e. V. No payments were 183 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information made in the reporting year. Additional funding of €200 milIn the previous year, the adjustments in accordance with The following weighted discount rates were used to lion was provided to LANXESS P ­ ension Trust e.V. in the IFRS 5 resulted from the reporting of ARLANXEO as a ­calculate the defined benefit obligation and determine previous year. discontinued operation. the pension expense: The exchange differences pertaining to plan assets mainly The fair value of plan assets comprises: Discount Rates as of December 31 resulted from changes in the exchange rates for the U.S. Pension plans Other dollar and the British pound. Breakdown of Plan Assets as of December 31 post­employment benefit plans in Mio. € 2018 2019 Changes in the effects of the asset ceiling are shown in % 2018 2019 2018 2019 Cash and cash equivalents 224 67 the following table: of which quoted in an active market 224 67 Discount rate 2.41 1.64 3.88 3.33 Germany 2.00 1.30 0.36 0.39 Equity instruments 138 395 U.S. 4.25 3.20 4.25 3.20 Changes in Effects of Asset Ceilings and Minimum of which quoted in an active market 138 395 Great Britain 2.75 1.90 – – Funding Requirements for Defined Benefit Plans  Government bonds 391 234 of which quoted in an active market 391 234 Effects of the Minimum funding Corporate bonds 446 567 asset ceiling requirements of which quoted in an active market 446 567 The following weighted measurement assumptions were € million 2018 2019 2018 2019 Investment funds 30 30 used for the other parameters: January 1 19 19 21 0 of which quoted in an active market 21 14 Adjustments in accorReal estate 5 17 Valuation Assumptions as of December 31 dance with IFRS 5 – – (21) – of which quoted in an active market 5 17 Interest expense 0 1 – – Insurance contracts 56 67 Pension plans Other Additions (deductions) – 17 – – of which quoted in an active market – – post­employment Exchange differences 0 0 – – Other 18 117 benefit plans December 31 19 37 0 0 of which quoted in an active market 18 117 % 2018 2019 2018 2019 1,308 1,494 Expected salary increases 2.3 2.3 2.6 2.6 Changes in the effects of the asset ceiling mainly relate Expected benefit to the British defined benefit pension plans and the North The plan assets do not include any real estate used by the increases 1.7 1.7 – – American defined benefit obligations for other post-emcompany. Financial instruments owned by the company Expected increases in medical costs – – 7.0 7.0 ployment benefits. As of December 31, 2019, asset ceilaccount for approximately 3% (previous year: 3%) of the Expected long-term ings amounted to €17 million (previous year: €6 milplan assets. Index products could conceivably include increases in medical lion) for defined benefit pension plans and €20 million LANXESS securities. costs – – 5.2 5.2 (previous year: €13 million) for other post-employment benefits. In fiscal year 2019, as in the previous year, there were no effects from minimum funding requirements. 184 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information The assumptions are weighted on the basis of the deA change in the principal valuation parameters would of insurees. A 10% reduction would increase the average fined benefit obligation at year end. The discount rates result in the following percentage changes in the defined life expectancy of employees of retirement age in the used for Germany, the U.S. and Great Britain are derived benefit obligation: countries of importance for LANXESS by about one year. from high-quality fixed-interest corporate bonds with the same maturities. The rounding method for deterSensitivities of Defined Benefit Obligations Sensitivity is calculated by altering one parameter while mining the discount rates for defined benefit plans has as of December 31 leaving all the others unchanged. The method used is changed compared with the previous year in the principal Pension plans Other the same as for the actuarial valuation of benefit obligacountries. In fiscal year 2019, the effect of this change post­employment tions. However, sensitivity calculations depend on interest benefit plans reduced the defined benefit obligation in Germany by rate effects and the absolute change in the parameter. % 2018 2019 2018 2019 €17 million, increased the defined benefit obligation in Moreover, it is unlikely in practice that only one paramDiscount rate the U.S. by €2 million, and increased the defined benefit eter would change, so the change in a parameter could +0.5%-pt. (8.1) (8.3) (3.7) (4.7) obligation in Great Britain by €5 million. – 0.5%-pt. 9.2 9.6 4.0 5.2 correlate with other assumptions. Where the expected Expected salary development of the parameter used in the sensitivity The long-term cost increase for medical care is expected increases calculation was based on a different variation in the pa+0.25%-pt. 0.4 0.2 0.3 0.5 to take place within 8 years (previous year: 9 years). rameter, the stated change in the benefit obligation was – 0.25%-pt. (0.4) (0.2) (0.2) (0.5) Expected benefit approximated using the straight-line method. The Heubeck mortality tables 2018 G form the bio­ increases metric basis for the computation of pension obligations +0.25%-pt. 4.3 4.7 – – The weighted average duration of defined benefit penin Germany. Current national biometric assumptions – 0.25%-pt. (4.0) (4.5) – – sion obligations was 19 years (previous year: 18 years). Mortality are used to compute benefit obligations at other Group This figure was based on weighted average durations of – 10% 2.9 3.8 1.8 2.0 companies. Expected increases in 20 years (previous year: 19 years) for Germany, 11 years medical costs (previous year: 9 years) for the U.S. and 18 years (pre+1%-pt. – – 3.8 5.3 vious year: 18 years) for Great Britain. The weighted – 1%-pt. – – (3.4) (4.3) average duration of the defined benefit obligations for other post-employment benefits was 11 years (previous year: 9 years). The sensitivity of the mortality rates was calculated for the countries with significant pension obligations. A reduction in mortality increases the individual life expectancy 185 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information The funded status is reported in the following table as 15 | Other Non-Current and the underfunding or overfunding of the defined benefit Current Provisions obligation after deduction of plan assets, without taking into account changes in the effects of the asset ceiling As of December 31, 2019, the LANXESS Group had €338 million (previous year: €337 million). The maturity or minimum funding requirements: other current provisions of €409 million (previous structure of other provisions is shown in the following year: €465 million) and other non-current provisions of table: Funded Status as of December 31 Other Provisions Pension plans Other post­employment Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2019 benefit plans Up to 1 Over 5 Up to 1 Over 5 € million 2018 2019 2018 2019 € million year 1–5 years years Total year 1–5 years years Total Funded status Personnel 188 29 34 251 155 33 31 219 Defined benefit obligaEnvironmental protection 31 49 118 198 32 42 117 191 tion for funded plans 1,628 1,816 22 22 Trade-related commitments 86 1 0 87 92 5 0 97 External plan assets (1,278) (1,460) (30) (34) Restructuring 23 24 5 52 23 16 5 44 Underfunding of Miscellaneous 137 24 53 214 107 26 63 196 funded plans 350 356 (8) (12) 465 127 210 802 409 122 216 747 Defined benefit obligation for unfunded plans 534 606 113 113 Funded status, December 31 884 962 105 101 The total of other provisions decreased from €802 million to €747 million in the reporting year. The changes in other provisions were as follows: Changes in Other Provisions in 2019 Jan. 1, AdjustAdditions Interest UtilizaReversals Exchange Dec. 31, 2019 ments in effect tion differ­ 2019 accordance ences € million with IFRS 5 Personnel 251 (11) 156 0 (168) (10) 1 219 Environmental protection 198 (6) 7 5 (15) (4) 6 191 Trade-related commitments 87 (3) 68 – (49) (6) 0 97 Restructuring 52 – 16 – (19) (6) 1 44 Miscellaneous 214 (5) 42 2 (41) (17) 1 196 802 (25) 289 7 (292) (43) 9 747 186 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Personnel-related provisions the rights from the outstanding tranches is February 1 paid out. An additional €0.03/$0.03 is paid out for each Personnel-related provisions include particularly provieach year. Participation in the programs is conditional percent up to a performance of 100 percentage points. sions established for annual performance-related comupon each manager making a personal investment in If the stock outperforms the index by between 100 and pensation and multi-year compensation programs. LANXESS stock, depending on his/her base salary. If 115 percentage points, a further €0.06/$0.06 will be LANXESS stock outperforms the index, a payment of paid per percentage point, resulting in a maximum posMulti-year compensation programs at least €0.75 per right is made. For each percentage sible payment of €2.00/$2.00. point by which the stock outperforms the index, €0.125 Stock-based compensation is paid in addition. The maximum possible payment per Obligations arising from the stock-based compensaLANXESS AG offers a stock-based compensation right, however, is €2.00. tion are valued on the basis of the following principal ­p rogram to members of the Management Board parameters: and top-level managers. The program provides for LTSP 2018–2021 was introduced in Germany and the cash settlement. The three present Long-Term Stock U.S. in fiscal year 2018. The tranche has a total term of Principal Parameters as of December 31 ­Performance Plans (LTSP) were introduced in fiscal years four years and exclusively comprises the vesting period. % 2018 2019 2010, 2014 and 2018. Under the LTSP 2010–2013 proThe issue date for the rights granted and still outstanding Expected share price volatility 27.0 28.0 gram introduced in fiscal year 2010, rights were granted is January 1 of each year. For each year during the term Expected dividend payment 2.0 2.0 for the years 2010–2013. Awards are based on the perof the LTSP plan, the basic price of the company’s stock Expected volatility of formance of LANXESS stock relative to the Dow Jones is calculated from the average closing prices for the stock Dow Jones STOXX 600 Chemicals SM 18.0 16.0 Correlation between LANXESS stock and STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM Index. The LTSP 2014–2017 in Xetra trading on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. To Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM 72.0 72.0 program introduced in fiscal year 2014 is largely identical calculate the average, for each tranche year the closing Expected volatility of to the LTSP 2010–2013. The main difference is that prices of the last ten trading days in the calendar month MSCI World Chemicals Index 13.0 13.0 Correlation between LANXESS stock awards are based on the performance of LANXESS stock of December of the previous year and the closing pricand MSCI World Chemicals Index 63.0 65.0 relative to the MSCI World Chemicals Index. The total es for the first ten trading days of the calendar month term of all tranches in both programs is generally seven of January of the current tranche year are calculated. years. In fiscal year 2016, the exercise periods for the The value of a stock performance right is dependent The relevant risk-free interest rate in the reporting year 2012 and 2013 tranches of the LTSP 2010–2013 comon the average performance of LANXESS stock relative was minus 0.54% (previous year: minus 0.44%). pensation program were extended by two years each, to the MSCI World Chemicals Index during the vesting so the full term of these two tranches is now nine years. period. The performance relative to the index is calcuThe expected volatilities are based on the historical volThe vesting period is four years for each tranche. The lated individually for each of the four years of the vesting atility of LANXESS stock and the Dow Jones STOXX base price of the stock and the benchmark index for the period. The values for the four fiscal years falling in the 600 ChemicalsSM Index or the MSCI World Chemicals LTSP programs are calculated using a volume-weighted respective tranche are then added together and averIndex in the past four years. average of the closing prices on the first ten trading days aged. Rights are exercised automatically at the end of in January of the year of issue of the tranche. The date the vesting period. If the stock outperforms the index by of issue of the rights granted and still outstanding and 85 percentage points or more, at least €0.50/$0.50 is 187 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information The following table provides information on the tranches Due to the performance of the LANXESS share relative outstanding: to the benchmark and to the granting, settlement or forfeiture of rights, net expense in fiscal year 2019 was Long-Term Stock Performance Plan €26 million (previous year: €4 million). A provision of €31 million existed as of December 31, 2019 (previous LTSP 2010 – 2013 LTSP 2014 – 2017 LTSP 2018 – 2021 year: €23 million). In the current fiscal year, as in the Tranche Tranche Tranche Tranche Tranche Tranche Tranche prior year, the rights exercisable as of the closing date 2012 2013 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 had no intrinsic value. Duration 9 years 9 years 7 years 7 years 7 years 4 years 4 years Vesting period 4 years 4 years 4 years 4 years 4 years 4 years 4 years Environmental provisions Lock-up period for personal Dec. 31, Dec. 31, Dec. 31, Dec. 31, Dec. 31, Dec. 31, Dec. 31, investment shares 2017 2017 2019 2020 2021 2021 2022 The LANXESS Group’s activities are subject to extensive Initial ­L ANXESS legal requirements in the jurisdictions in which it does share price 44.54 € 63.25 € 35.04 € 38.39 € 64.84 € 66.90 €1) 42.57 € business. Compliance with environmental laws may reInitial Dow Jones STOXX 600 533.45 665.98 quire LANXESS to remove or mitigate the effects of the Chemicals SM price points points – – – – – Initial MSCI World 254.06 233.45 276.04 337.09 280.46 release or disposal of chemical substances at various Chemicals Index price – – points points points points points sites. Under some of these laws, a current or previous Fair value per right as of 0.73 € / site owner or plant operator may be held liable for the December 31, 2018 0.03 € 0.02 € 1.62 € 0.86 € 0.22 € 0.73 $1) – Fair value per right as of 1.09 € / 1.31 € / costs of removing hazardous substances from the soil December 31, 2019 0.04 € 0.04 € 0.00 € 1.89 € 0.54 € 1.09 $1) 1.31 $ or groundwater on its property or neighboring areas, Change in number of or rendering them harmless, without regard to whether outstanding rights the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence Outstanding rights as of January 1, 2019 7,194,747 7,815,808 8,549,467 9,651,994 10,258,995 13,565,4351) – of the contaminants, and often regardless of whether Adjustments in accordance with the practices that resulted in the contamination were IFRS 5 116,382 128,820 144,749 158,364 159,537 196,320 – legal at the time they occurred. As many of LANXESS’s Rights granted – – – – – – 14,572,597 production sites have a long history of industrial use, it is Rights exercised – – 8,107,727 – – – – Rights compensated 209,870 223,704 62,790 324,100 321,290 305,228 292,927 not always possible to accurately predict the effects such Rights forfeited 218,670 216,596 234,201 304,576 346,082 396,739 78,305 situations may have on the LANXESS Group in the future. Outstanding rights as of December 31, 2019 6,649,825 7,246,688 0 8,864,954 9,432,086 0 14,201,365 1) Prior-year figures restated The adjustments in accordance with IFRS 5 result from LANXESS shares were trading at €59.82 at year the reporting of the Leather business unit as a disconend 2019. The Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM tinued operation. benchmark index stood at 1,029.61 points, while the MSCI World Chemicals Index was 329.34 points. 188 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Since LANXESS is a chemical company, the possibility environmental remediation costs are stated at the present Provisions for trade-related commitments therefore cannot be excluded that soil or groundwater value of the expected commitments where environmental The provisions essentially relate to energy and waste discontamination may have occurred at its locations in the assessments or clean-ups are probable, the costs can posal services not yet invoiced and outstanding invoices past. Claims in this regard could be brought by gover­ be reasonably estimated and no future economic benefit for performance completed to date. They also comprise nment agencies, private organizations or individuals. is expected to arise from these measures. Costs are provisions for impending losses and onerous contracts. Such claims would then relate to the remediation of sites estimated based on significant factors such as previous or areas of land owned by the LANXESS Group where experience in similar cases, environmental assessments, Provisions for restructuring products were manufactured by third parties under concurrent cost levels and new circumstances affecting Provisions for restructuring totaled €44 million (previtract manufacturing agreements or where waste from costs, our understanding of current environmental laws ous year: €52 million) on December 31, 2019, comproduction facilities operated by the LANXESS Group and regulations, the number of other potentially responprising €20 million (previous year: €12 million) for huwas treated, stored or disposed of. sible parties at each site and the identity and financial man resources measures, €16 million (previous year: position of such parties in light of the joint and several €19 million) for environmental protection measures and Potential liabilities exist with respect to various sites u ­ nder nature of the liability, and the remediation methods likely €8 million (previous year: €21 million) for demolitions legislation such as the U.S. environment law commonly to be employed. necessary for fulfilling environmental obligations and known as “Superfund.” At locations in the U.S., numerous other expenses. companies, including LANXESS, have been notified that It is difficult to estimate the future costs of environmental the U.S. authorities or private individuals consider such protection and remediation because of many uncertainMiscellaneous provisions companies to be potentially responsible parties under ties concerning the legal requirements and the informaThe miscellaneous provisions principally comprise pro­Superfund or related laws. At some sites, LANXESS tion available about conditions in the various countries visions for onerous contracts and for other obligations. may be the sole responsible party. Remediation meaand at specific sites. Subject to these factors, but taking sures have already been initiated at most of the sites into consideration experience gained to date with matconcerned. ters of a similar nature, we believe our provisions to be adequate based upon currently available information. The existing provisions for environmental remediation However, the possibility that additional costs could be incosts relate primarily to the rehabilitation of contamcurred beyond the amounts accrued cannot be excluded. inated sites, re-cultivation of landfills, and redevelopLANXESS nevertheless estimates that such additional ment and water protection measures. The provisions for costs, should they occur, would not materially impact the Group’s earnings, asset and financial position. 189 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information 16 | Other Non-Current and Current In the LANXESS Group, the following bonds were outFinancial Liabilities standing on December 31, 2019: The following tables show the structure and maturities Bonds of other financial liabilities: Issuance Nominal Carrying Interest Maturity amount amount rate € million € million % Other Financial Liabilities as of December 31, 2018 April 2012 100 100 3.500 April 2022 Current Non-current April 2012 100 99 3.950 April 2027 € million 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 > 2023 Total November November 2012 500 498 2.625 2022 Bonds – – 497 597 – 1,575 2,669 October October Liabilities to banks 29 – – – – – 0 2016 500 498 0.250 2021 Liabilities under finance leases 5 3 3 2 2 2 12 October October Other primary financial liabilities 25 0 0 0 0 5 5 2016 500 494 1.000 2026 59 3 500 599 2 1,582 2,686 December December 2016 500 490 4.500 2076 May 2018 500 494 1.125 May 2025 Other Financial Liabilities as of December 31, 2019 Current Non-current € million 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 > 2024 Total The weighted average interest rate for the LANXESS Bonds – 498 598 – – 1,577 2,673 Group’s financial liabilities denominated in euros and Liabilities to banks 0 – – – – – 0 other currencies was 2.0% at the end of fiscal year 2019 Lease liabilities 41 33 26 10 6 25 100 and thus on the previous year’s level. Other primary financial liabilities 25 0 0 1 0 3 4 66 531 624 11 6 1,605 2,777 Lease payments of €173 million (previous year: €21 million), including €32 million (previous year: €4 million) in interest, are to be made to the respective lessors in future years. The increase in lease liabilities results primarily from the initial application of IFRS 16. 190 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Other primary financial liabilities include accrued interest The non-current income tax liabilities essentially comOther Current Liabilities of €25 million (previous year: €25 million) on financial prise uncertain tax positions for ongoing tax proceedings. Dec. 31, Dec. 31, liabilities, which primarily relate to bonds. The current income tax liabilities include provisions for € million 2018 2019 disputed tax issues from tax proceedings whose utilizaOther tax liabilities 45 43 Information on the fair values of financial liabilities and tion within the next year is considered probable. Contract liabilities 25 17 Social security liabilities 12 13 the contractually agreed payments, especially interest Payroll liabilities 14 12 payments, is given in Note [37]. 18 | O  ther Non-Current and Miscellaneous liabilities 35 26 Current Liabilities 131 111 17 | Non-Current and Current Income Tax Liabilities At year end the other non-current liabilities comprised: Other tax liabilities include not only Group companies’ The non-current and current income tax liabilities Other Non-Current Liabilities own tax liabilities, but also taxes withheld for payment comprised: to the authorities on behalf of third parties. Dec. 31, Dec. 31, € million 2018 2019 Income Tax Liabilities Asset subsidies granted by third Contract liabilities are recognized in accordance with parties 42 32 IFRS 15 for advance payments received for which Dec. 31, 2018 Contract liabilities 14 12 ­performance has not yet been rendered. € million Non-current Current Total Social security liabilities 3 5 Provisions 117 41 158 Miscellaneous liabilities 21 18 Payables – 3 3 80 67 Social security liabilities include, in particular, social 117 44 161 insurance contributions that had not been paid by the closing date. The asset subsidies granted by third parties include Income Tax Liabilities government grants that are contingent upon the mainThe miscellaneous liabilities principally comprise tenance of employment or the use of assets for the com­accruals for outstanding invoices relating to the reporting Dec. 31, 2019 pany’s own production purposes over defined periods period. In the previous year, the corresponding liabilities € million Non-current Current Total of time. to Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, Provisions 95 119 214 Payables – 3 3 were less than €1 million. 95 122 217 191 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Contract Liabilities Trade payables of €113 million (previous year: €117 milType of Revenues € million 2018 2019 lion) relate to the investment in Currenta GmbH & € million 2018 2019 January 1 40 39 Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, and its affiliated comSales of goods 6,756 6,708 Adjustments in accordance with IFRS 5 (10) – panies, while trade payables of €543 million (previous Services 68 94 Cumulative catch-up adjustments to year: €678 million) relate to other suppliers. The year-on6,824 6,802 revenues of the reporting period 9 3 year decline resulted from effects of raw material prices Prior-year figures restated Cumulative catch-up adjustments to revenues of previous reporting periods (4) (4) in the fourth quarter of 2019 as well as the reporting of Additions 32 22 the Leather business unit as a discontinued operation. Revenue Recognition Revenue recognized that was included in the beginning balance (28) (31) 20 | F  urther Information on Liabilities € million 2018 2019 Exchange differences 0 0 Point in time 6,517 6,443 December 31 39 29 Over time 307 359 €1,614 million of total liabilities (previous year: €1,587 mil6,824 6,802 lion) have maturities of more than five years. Prior-year figures restated The additions mainly relate to advance payments from customers for outstanding performance obligations. NOTES TO THE INCOME The sales recognized over time relate to the business The revenue recognized from the opening balance STATEMENT model of manufacturing customer-specific products on mainly relates to prior-year payments from customers the basis of long-term sales contracts with contractually and the recognition of the values for the quantities 21 | Sales defined minimum purchase requirements of €265 million ­delivered in the reporting period from the business (previous year: €239 million) and to services rendered model of ­manufacturing products on the basis of longSales, which amounted to €6,802 million (previous year: over time of €94 million (previous year: €68 million). term ­supply agreements with a contractually defined €6,824 million), mainly comprise sales of internally generminimum ­purchase requirement, which are included in ated chemical products less discounts and rebates. The For information on the effects of changes in contract the opening balance. services relate to salesand product-related services, assets and contract liabilities on sales, please refer to the tolling agreements and other long-term services. A breakrespective reconciliations in Notes [6] and [18]. 19 | Trade Payables down of sales and the change in sales by segment and region is given in the segment information (see Note [39]). Under the business models of manufacturing products Trade accounts are payable mainly to third parties. As in or customer-specific products on the basis of longthe previous year, the entire amount totaling €656 million term sales contracts with contractually defined mini(previous year: €795 million) is due within one year. mum purchase requirements, there were unfulfilled 192 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information performance obligations totaling €2,304 million as of 23 | Selling Expenses 25 | General Administration Expenses December 31, 2019 (previous year: €1,907 million). The associated sales are expected to be as follows: The general administration expenses, amounting to Selling Expenses €274 million (previous year: €295 million), comprise Maturity Structure of Revenues € million 2018 2019 costs not directly related to operational business proMarketing costs 465 504 cesses and the costs for the country organizations. € million 2018 2019 Outward freight charges Up to 1 year 618 662 and other selling expenses 294 308 1 to 2 years 360 491 759 812 26 | Other Operating Income 2 to 3 years 260 366 Prior-year figures restated 3 to 4 years 185 182 Other Operating Income 4 to 5 years 101 175 More than 5 years 383 428 € million 2018 2019 The selling expenses mainly comprise those for the inter1,907 2,304 nal and external marketing and sales organization, freight Income from non-core business 58 43 Exceptional items 16 8 charges, warehousing, packaging and the provision of Income from the reversal of provisions 4 7 advice to customers. Gains from the disposal of 22 | Cost of Sales non-current assets 1 2 24 | R  esearch and Development Miscellaneous operating income 35 35 114 95 Cost of Sales Expenses Prior-year figures restated € million 2018 2019 The research and development expenses of €114 million Expenses for raw materials (previous year: €109 million) mainly include the costs and merchandise 3,013 2,901 Direct manufacturing incurred to gain new scientific and technical knowledge, The exceptional items mostly contain compensation and other production costs 2,073 2,142 expenses relating to the search for alternative products payments in connection with restructuring measures to 5,086 5,043 and production processes, and costs for applying the adapt the production network as well as income from the Prior-year figures restated results of research. reversal of provisions recognized as exceptional items in previous years. Based on economic relevance, they The manufacturing costs include, among other costs, comprise €5 million (previous year: €13 million) allothose for personnel, depreciation, amortization, writecated to the cost of sales and €3 million (previous year: downs, energy, and goods and services procured. The €3 million) allocated to general administration expenses. other production costs mainly comprise inventory valuation effects and inventory discrepancies. 193 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information 27 | Other Operating Expenses Exceptional items in the previous year related to costs 28 | Financial Result of €30 million for the strategic alignment, which also included exceptional items in connection with the integraThe financial result breaks down as follows: Other Operating Expenses tion of the U.S. chemical group Chemtura. Furthermore, € million 2018 2019 there were exceptional items for restructuring measures Financial Result Exceptional items 106 158 of €16 million to optimize the production network. This Expenses for non-core business 58 42 € million 2018 2019 especially affected the Inorganic Pigments business unit’s Expenses for hedging with Income from investments accounted derivative financial instruments 3 27 Jinshan site in China (Performance Chemicals segment) ­ sing the equity method for u 0 0 Loss allowance on trade receivables and the Polymer Additives business unit’s Reynosa site Interest income 6 22 and other current assets 3 4 Interest expense (75) (76) in Mexico (Specialty Additives segment). There were Losses from the disposal Net interest expense (69) (54) of non-current assets 0 1 also exceptional items of €60 million for digitalization, Interest expense from compounding Miscellaneous operating expenses 28 15 costs for mergers and acquisitions, and other measures. interest-bearing provisions (30) (29) 198 247 Net exchange gain/loss (16) 2 Of the exceptional items of €158 million (previous year: Miscellaneous financial expense and Prior-year figures restated income (1) 0 €106 million), €68 million (previous year: €27 million) Dividends and income from In fiscal year 2019, the exceptional items include costs was allocable to the cost of sales in line with its economother affiliated companies 6 20 for the strategic realignment of €76 million. These ic relevance, while €6 million (previous year: €1 milOther financial income and expense (41) (7) mostly relate to the sale of the business with tin-based lion) was allocable to selling expenses and €84 million Financial result (110) (61) organometallics at the site in Bergkamen, Germany, in (previous year: €78 million) to general administration December 2019 and to the sale of the business with expenses. Prior-year figures restated gallium-based organometallics in Pyeongtaek, Republic of Korea. Furthermore, there were exceptional items The change in interest income is primarily due to the for restructuring measures of €6 million to adapt the interest on income tax receivables. Interest expense production network. This especially affected the Inorincludes in particular payments of bond interest adganic Pigments business unit’s Jinshan site in China justed for capitalized borrowing costs of €3 million (Performance Chemicals segment). There were also (previous year: €3 million) and interest on income tax exceptional items of €25 million for strategic IT projects liabilities. Interest expense also includes the interest and of €51 million for digitalization, costs for mergers portion of the lease payments under leases, amounting and acquisitions, and other measures. to €5 million (previous year: €2 million). The change 194 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information in the net exchange result depends in particular on the (previous year: €24 million) less than the expected tax The deferred tax assets and liabilities are allocable to development of the currency hedges. Other financial expense of €112 million (previous year: €123 million). the various items of the statement of financial position expenses and income include income of €1 million as follows: (previous year: expense of €1 million) from loss allowIn calculating the expected tax expense for the LANXESS ances for financial assets. This item also includes the Group, the aggregated income tax rate of 32.3% (previous Deferred Taxes monetary loss of €3 million (previous year: €1 million) year: 32.3%) for the German tax entity was applied. This Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2019 from restating the price level in the context of financial comprises a corporation tax rate of 15.0%, plus a solidarity Deferred Deferred Deferred Deferred reporting in hyperinflationary economies. The increase surcharge (5.5% of corporation tax) and trade tax. tax tax tax tax in dividends and other income from affiliated companies € million assets ­liabilities assets ­liabilities primarily resulted from the higher profit transfer from The reconciliation of the expected tax result to the actual Intangible assets 7 172 6 163 Property, plant and ­Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany. tax result is as follows: equipment 4 152 4 186 Inventories 23 11 29 16 29 | Income Taxes Reconciliation to Actual Tax Result Receivables and other assets 55 44 78 54 € million 2018 2019 Pension provisions 279 – 288 1 This item comprises the income taxes paid or accrued Income before income taxes 381 346 Other provisions 77 1 87 – in the individual countries, plus deferred taxes. Income Aggregated income tax rate Liabilities 23 17 42 3 taxes are computed on the basis of local tax rates. of ­L ANXESS AG 32.3% 32.3% Loss carryforwards 127 – 104 – Expected tax result (123) (112) 595 397 638 423 Tax difference due to differences The breakdown of income taxes by origin is as follows: between local tax rates and the of which non-current 417 337 402 363 hypothetical tax rate 18 21 Set-off (308) (308) (314) (314) Income Taxes by Origin Reduction in taxes due to tax-free 287 89 324 109 income and reduction of tax bases 1 11 € million 2018 2019 Increase in taxes due to Current taxes (81) (118) non-tax-deductible expenses (7) (15) Deferred taxes resulting from unrecognized deferred taxes on tax The deferred taxes on receivables and other assets intemporary differences (17) 34 losses and temporary differences (28) (47) clude €27 million of deferred tax assets on the differOther tax effects 40 37 statutory changes in tax rates (2) 1 ence between the carrying amount of the investment loss carryforwards 1 (22) Actual tax result (99) (105) Effective tax rate 26.0% 30.3% in Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, Income taxes (99) (105) recognized in the consolidated statement of financial Prior-year figures restated Prior-year figures restated position and the carrying amount of the investment recognized in the parent company’s tax accounts (“outside The actual tax expense for fiscal year 2019 was €105 milAs in the previous year, the other tax effects of €37 milbasis differences”), the realization of which is expected lion (previous year: €99 million). This was €7 million lion (previous year: €40 million) primarily include the when the sale is completed. reversal of impairment on deferred taxes and taxes for previous years. 195 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information The change in deferred taxes is calculated as follows: losses were incurred in fiscal year 2019 or the previous As of December 31, 2019, 87,447,852 shares were outyear. This amount includes deferred taxes of €1 million standing. Since there are currently no equity instruments Changes in Deferred Taxes on loss carryforwards. Based on tax planning calculations in issue that could dilute earnings per share, basic and and strategies, LANXESS assumes that it will generate diluted earnings per share are identical. Further informa€ million 2018 2019 sufficient taxable income in the future to realize the detion on equity instruments that could dilute earnings per Deferred taxes, January 1 329 198 Adjustments in accordance with IFRS 5 (129) 4 ferred tax assets. share in the future is contained in Note [13]. Tax income/expense recognized in the income statement (18) 13 Based on tax planning calculations and strategies, Earnings per Share Deferred taxes recognized in other comprehensive income 21 7 deferred tax assets of €104 million (previous year: 2018 2019 Change % Exchange differences (5) (7) €127 million) were recognized on the €400 million (preNet income (€ million) 431 205 (52.4) Deferred taxes, December 31 198 215 vious year: €511 million) in tax loss carryforwards that from continuing Prior-year figures restated represent income likely to be realized in the future. This operations 282 240 (14.9) amount included deferred taxes of €14 million (previous from discontinued operations 149 (35) < (100) The adjustments in accordance with IFRS 5 result from year: €15 million) on loss carryforwards with an unlimited Weighted average the reporting of the Leather business unit as a discontincarryforward period. number of shares ued operation. In this context, only the deferred taxes that outstanding 91,522,936 88,334,641 (3.5) Earnings per share in will be disposed of when the interest is sold were reclassiDeferred taxes were not recognized for €917 million € (­undiluted/diluted) 4.71 2.32 (50.7) fied. In the previous year, the adjustments in accordance (previous year: €813 million) of tax loss carryforwards. from continuing with IFRS 5 related to the reporting of ARLANXEO as Of this amount, €119 million (previous year: €124 miloperations 3.08 2.72 (11.7) from discontinued a discontinued operation. The deferred taxes allocable lion) can theoretically be used over more than five years. operations 1.63 (0.40) < (100) to the share disposals of the Leather business unit are Further, deferred tax assets were not recognized in fiscal Prior-year figures restated also recognized here. year 2019 for tax-deductible temporary differences of €191 million (previous year: €225 million). Accordingly, The deferred taxes recognized in other comprehensive deferred taxes on loss carryforwards of €231 million LANXESS AG reported a distributable profit of €279 milincome comprised €11 million (previous year: €11 mil(previous year: €216 million) and deferred tax assets lion for fiscal year 2019 (previous year: €127 million). The lion) relating to remeasurements of the net defined benon tax-deductible temporary differences of €49 million dividend payment made to stockholders of LANXESS AG efit liability for post-employment benefit plans and minus (previous year: €56 million) were not recognized. for fiscal year 2018 during the reporting year amounted €4 million (previous year: €10 million) relating to financial to €0.90 per share (previous year: €0.80 per share). instruments. In addition, other comprehensive income 30 | Earnings and Dividend per Share contains current taxes of €3 million (previous year: less than €1 million). Earnings per share for fiscal year 2019 amount to €2.32, consisting of €2.72 from continuing operations Deferred tax assets of €16 million (previous year: and minus €0.40 from discontinued operations. These €30 million), which exceed the reversal of taxable temvalues were calculated based on the weighted average porary differences, relate to tax jurisdictions in which number of shares outstanding in the reporting period. 196 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information 31 | Personnel Expenses OTHER INFORMATION As in the previous year, contingent liabilities to third parties amounted to less than €1 million as of DecemThe breakdown of personnel expenses is as follows: 32 | Employees ber 31, 2019. There are no contingent liabilities relating to the investment in Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Personnel Expenses The average number of employees in the LANXESS Leverkusen, Germany. As a personally liable partner Group in 2019 was 14,285 (previous year: 14,243). in Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, € million 2018 2019 The year-on-year increase in the workforce mainly reLANXESS may be required to inject further capital into Wages and salaries 1,009 1,080 Social security contributions 151 162 sults from organic growth in Germany. It is countered by this company. Retirement benefit expenses 86 90 effects from site closures in China and Brazil. Social assistance benefits 12 13 In addition, other financial commitments also resulted 1,258 1,345 Employees by Function from operating leases in the previous year. As explained Prior-year figures restated in the description of accounting policies and valuation 2018 2019 principles in the “Leases (IAS 17)” section, operating Production 10,287 10,264 Total personnel expenses rose in fiscal year 2019. This Administration 1,838 1,848 leases were those which – unlike finance leases – did not was largely due to salary adjustments and a slight inMarketing 1,617 1,658 transfer substantially all risks and rewards incidental to crease in the workforce. The site closure in Brazil had Research 501 515 the ownership of the leased assets to the lessee. In the 14,243 14,285 an opposite effect. The personnel expenses shown here LANXESS Group, operating leases were mainly used do not contain the interest expenses for compounding Prior-year figures restated for operational reasons and not as a means of financing. personnel-related provisions, especially pension proThe introduction of IFRS 16 on January 1, 2019, means visions, which is reflected in the financial result (see that all leases are now recognized in property, plant and Note [28]). 33 | Contingent Liabilities and equipment as right-of-use assets. Please see Note [36] Other Financial Commitments for further information. Contingent liabilities result from guarantees and similar Under IAS 17 in the previous year, the expected non-disinstruments assumed on behalf of third parties. They repcounted future lease and rental payments relating to resent potential future commitments in cases where the operating leases totaled €176 million. occurrence of certain events would create an obligation that was uncertain as of the closing date. An obligation to perform under such contingent liabilities arises in the event of delayed settlement or insolvency of the debtor. 197 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information The maturities of the respective payment obligations Description of the master agreement obligations under purchase agreements of €9 milwere as follows: Under the master agreement that was concluded lion (previous year: €9 million) existed as a result of between Bayer AG and LANXESS AG together with these transactions. The LANXESS Group also generMaturity Structure of Lease and Rental Payments the Spin-Off and Takeover Agreement, Bayer AG and ated sales of €29 ­million (previous year: €22 million) LANXESS AG agreed, among other things, on commitfrom trans­actions with ­Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG € million Dec. 31, 2018 ments regarding mutual indemnification for liabilities in and its affiliated companies. There were also trade Up to 1 year 38 1 to 2 years 31 line with the respective asset allocation and on special receivables of €4 million (previous year: €4 million) 2 to 3 years 25 arrangements allocating responsibility to deal with claims and other receivables of €1 million ­( previous year: 3 to 4 years 20 in the areas of product liability, environmental contamina€0 million) from ­Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG and its 4 to 5 years 17 tion and antitrust violations. The master agreement also affiliated companies. Contingent liabilities relating to More than 5 years 45 contains arrangements for the allocation of tax effects ­Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG are outlined in the previous 176 relating to the spin-off and to the preceding measures section. to create the subgroup that was subsequently spun off. Of the expected lease and rental payments, €3 million In addition, members of the Board of Management and was attributable to the Leather business unit as a dis34 | Related Parties the Supervisory Board as well as their close family memcontinued operation. Of these payments, €1 million is bers were identified as related parties. As in the previous due within one year, €1 million within one to two years, In the course of its operations, the LANXESS Group year, there were no business transactions subject to and €1 million within two to three years. sources materials, inventories and services from a large reporting requirements in fiscal year 2019. Information number of business partners around the world. These on the compensation of the Board of Management and Payments under operating leases in fiscal year 2018 include companies in which LANXESS AG has a direct or Supervisory Board can be found in the next section. amounted to €44 million. Future lease and rental payindirect interest (see “Companies consolidated” section). ments related to the Group’s headquarters in Cologne Transactions with these companies are carried out on in particular. Other significant agreements related to the an arm’s-length basis. global leasing of land, office buildings and warehouses. In addition, rail tankers and tank containers are leased Transactions with Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Lever­ for transporting raw materials and goods. kusen, Germany, and its affiliated companies mainly comprised the purchase of site services in the fields of Financial commitments resulting from orders already utilities, infrastructure and logistics totaling €423 million placed under purchase agreements relating to planned (previous year: €426 million). As of December 31, 2019, or ongoing capital expenditure projects in the area of trade payables of €113 million (previous year: €117 million), property, plant and equipment and intangible assets other liabilities of €0 million (previous year: €0 million), totaled €137 million (previous year: €144 million). All lease liabilities of €6 million (previous year: payment of these payments are due in fiscal year 2020. obligations under operating leases of €7 million) and 198 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information 35 | Compensation of the In addition, service costs of €1,599 thousand (previous The members of the Supervisory Board received total Board of Management and year: €1,541 thousand) relating to defined benefit pencompensation of €1,864 thousand in fiscal year 2019 the Supervisory Board sion plans were incurred in fiscal year 2019 for members (previous year: €1,981 thousand). This compensation is of the Board of Management as part of their compen­ paid at the start of the following year. The provisions recFor fiscal year 2019, total compensation of €11,790 thousation package. The present value of the ­defined benefit ognized for stock-based compensation for Supervisory sand (previous year: €12,183 thousand) was paid obligation as of December 31, 2019, was €26,899 thouBoard members as of December 31, 2019, amounted to the members of the Board of Management of sand (previous year: €19,977 thousand). to €1,670 thousand (previous year: €1,310 thousand). LANXESS AG, comprising €7,101 thousand (previous year: €8,597 thousand) in short-term compensation In accordance with IAS 24, the total net expense for In addition, the employee representatives on the Super(annual base salary, Annual Performance Payment (APP), the compensation of the members of the Board of Manvisory Board who are on LANXESS’s payroll received benefits in kind and other), minus €34 thousand (previagement in fiscal year 2019 was €15,872 thousand remuneration under their employment contracts. The ous year: €0 thousand) in adjustments for previous years, (previous year: €11,783 thousand). The balances outamounts of these salaries represented appropriate comand other long-term compensation components totaling standing to members of the Board of Management as of pensation for the employees’ functions and tasks within €2,688 thousand (previous year: €1,726 thousand) as December 31, 2019, totaled €12,757 thousand (previthe Group. part of the Long-Term Performance Bonus (LTPB). The ous year: €10,879 thousand), comprising provisions of total also includes compensation paid under the stock€3,483 thousand (previous year: €4,225 thousand) for Details of the compensation system for members of based Long-Term Stock Performance Plan (LTSP). A total the APP, €3,555 thousand (previous year: €3,053 thouthe Supervisory Board and an individual breakdown of of 2,035,000 (previous year: 1,860,000) compensation sand) for the LTPB and €5,719 thousand (previous year: the amounts paid are contained in the section headed rights were granted to the members of the Board of Man€3,601 thousand) for stock-based compensation. “Compensation report” in the combined management agement in fiscal year 2019. The fair value of these rights report for fiscal year 2019. at the grant date was €2,035 thousand (previous year: Payments totaling €7,070 thousand (previous year: €1,860 thousand). Personnel expenses for stock-based €473 thousand) and relating to pension benefits were No loans were granted to members of the Board of compensation amounted to €4,518 thousand in fiscal made to former members of the Board of Management Manage­­ment or the Supervisory Board in fiscal year 2019 year 2019 (previous year: income of €81 thousand). in fiscal year 2019, of which €6,459 thousand (previous or the previous year. year: €0 thousand) related to one-time capital payments. Details of the compensation system for members of the The total pension obligation toward former members of Board of Management and an individual breakdown the Board of Management as of December 31, 2019, was of the compensation are given in the “Compensation €34,629 thousand (previous year: €35,261 thousand). ­report” section of the combined management report for fiscal year 2019. 199 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information 36 | Leases materials and goods. The right-of-use assets recognized Of the €49 million in depreciation and amortization recin this context developed as follows compared with the ognized in fiscal year 2019, €42 million is attributable The LANXESS Group rents land, office buildings and finance lease assets recognized in accordance with to the introduction of IFRS 16 and €7 million to leases warehouses for its business activities. In addition, rail IAS 17 in the previous year: that were to be classified as finance leases under IAS 17. tankers and tank containers are leased to transport raw The leases in the LANXESS Group may contain options Change in Right-of-Use Assets from Leases 2019 to extend or terminate the lease in order to ensure the greatest possible operational flexibility. Leases are negoLand and buildings Technical Other fixtures, Total equipment and fittings and tiated individually and contain differing terms and condi€ million machinery equipment tions. Extension options are included in the calculation Cost of acquisition or construction, of the lease liability if they are reasonably certain to be Dec. 31, 2018 2 13 20 35 exercised. Potential future lease payments from extension Adjustments in accordance with IFRS 16 108 10 17 135 Adjustments in accordance with IFRS 5 (3) 0 (1) (4) options whose exercise is not reasonably certain amount Additions 14 19 14 47 to €225 million. These primarily relate to the global leasRetirements (1) 0 0 (1) ing of office buildings and land. For leases of indefinite Exchange differences 1 0 0 1 duration (“evergreen leases”), the next extension option Cost of acquisition or construction, Dec. 31, 2019 121 42 50 213 was accounted for in each instance. Accumulated depreciation and write-downs, Dec. 31, 2018 (1) (7) (10) (18) Adjustments in accordance with IFRS 5 1 – 0 1 There were no sale and leaseback transactions in fiscal Depreciation and write-downs in 2019 (28) (10) (11) (49) year 2019. There were also no material leases that were of which write-downs (1) 0 0 (1) already agreed but not set to commence until later fiscal Retirements 1 0 0 1 years. Exchange differences 0 0 0 0 Accumulated depreciation and write-downs, Dec. 31, 2019 (27) (17) (21) (65) Carrying amounts, Dec. 31, 2019 94 25 29 148 The interest expense for lease liabilities recognized in In fiscal year 2019, expenses for short-term leases the income statement amounted to €5 million in the amounted to €6 million and expenses for leases for reporting year. The expected future payments for lease low-value assets amounted to €3 million. This essentially liabilities total €173 million. Information on agreed unequals the payments made for these leases. Expenses discounted cash flows and the division of these cash for leases for which the lease term ends within twelve flows into payments of principal and interest is given in months of the date of initial application of IFRS 16 are Note [37]. Disclosures regarding the remaining terms and included in the expenses for short-term leases. maturities of the lease liabilities are made in Note [16]. 200 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information 37 | Financial Instruments Raw material price risks The following tables show the contractually agreed (unA hypothetical increase or reduction in the hedged comdiscounted) cash flows for primary financial liabilities, The “Opportunity and risk report” in the combined modity prices of 10% as of the reporting date would the interest components thereof and derivative financial management report outlines the LANXESS Group’s risk have increased or decreased other operating income instruments: management system, including its objectives, methods by €0 million (previous year: €0 million) as a result of and processes, and the material financial risks such as changes in the fair value of hedging instruments. currency, interest rate, counterparty, liquidity and raw material price risks. December 31, 2018 The risk that the fair value or the future cash flows of a € million 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 >2023 financial instrument could change due to fluctuations in Bonds (55) (55) (555) (654) (37) (2,834)1) market prices is described below for the three market of which interest (55) (55) (55) (54) (37) (1,234)1) risks: Liabilities to banks (29) – – – – – of which interest – – – – – – Trade payables (795) – – – – – Currency risks of which interest – – – – – – A hypothetical appreciation of 5% in the exchange rate of Liabilities under finance leases (6) (4) (4) (3) (2) (2) the euro against the hedged currencies as of the reportof which interest (1) (1) (1) (1) – – ing date would have altered the fair value of derivatives Other primary financial liabilities (25) – – – – (5) by €11 million (previous year: €11 million). This would of which interest (25) – – – – – Derivative liabilities mainly have affected other comprehensive income by Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting decreasing the reported loss correspondingly. This efDisbursements (264) (41) (3) – – – fect mainly relates to the U.S. dollar. A corresponding Receipts 244 37 3 – – – depreciation of the euro would have had basically the Other hedging instruments opposite effect. Disbursements (549) – – – – – Receipts 542 – – – – – Derivative assets Interest rate risks Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting Financial liabilities with variable interest rates are covered Disbursements (41) (7) – – – – by investments with short-term fixed interest rates from Receipts 41 7 – – – – available liquidity, so the LANXESS Group’s net interest Other hedging instruments Disbursements (241) – – – – – position will improve slightly if interest rates rise. A genReceipts 244 – – – – – eral change of one percentage point in interest rates as of December 31, 2019, would have altered Group net 1) P  rior-year figures restated income by €6 million (previous year: €5 million). 201 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information December 31, 2019 The contractually agreed payments for other primary € million 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 >2024 financial liabilities due within one year from the reporting Bonds (55) (555) (654) (37) (37) (2,797) date included accrued interest of €25 million (previous of which interest (55) (55) (54) (37) (37) (1,197) year: €25 million) that mainly related to bonds. Liabilities to banks 0 – – – – – of which interest 0 – – – – – Carrying amounts, measurement and fair Trade payables (656) – – – – – values of financial instruments of which interest – – – – – – Lease liabilities (45) (35) (28) (11) (7) (47) The following tables show the carrying amounts of the of which interest (4) (2) (2) (1) (1) (22) individual classes of financial assets and liabilities and Other primary financial liabilities (25) – – (1) – (3) their fair values. The basis of measurement is also shown: of which interest (25) – – – – – Derivative liabilities Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting Disbursements (208) (62) – – – – Receipts 195 58 – – – – Other hedging instruments Disbursements (399) – – – – – Receipts 394 – – – – – Derivative assets Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting Disbursements (43) (24) (2) – – – Receipts 46 24 2 – – – Other hedging instruments Disbursements (241) – – – – – Receipts 244 – – – – – 202 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Carrying Amounts, Measurement and Fair Values of Financial Instruments as of December 31, 2018 IFRS 9 Carrying Measurement according to IFRS 9 Measurement Fair value measurement­ amount ­according to Dec. 31, 2018 category Dec. 31, 2018 IAS 17 Amortized Fair value (other Fair value cost comprehensive (profit or loss) € million income) Financial assets Trade receivables AC 903 903 – – – 903 Other financial receivables Financial assets – at cost AC 493 493 – – – 493 Financial assets – at fair value through profit or loss FV P&L 49 – – 49 – 49 Other financial receivables – at cost AC 14 14 – – – 14 Other financial receivables – at fair value through profit or loss FV P&L 6 – – 6 – 6 Other financial receivables – at fair value through other comprehensive income (debt instruments) FV OCI 0 – 0 – – 0 Contract assets AC 61 61 – – – 61 Cash and cash equivalents AC 797 797 – – – 797 Equity instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income FV OCI 0 – 0 – – 0 Derivative assets Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting – 1 – 1 – – 1 Other hedging instruments FV P&L 3 – – 3 – 3 Embedded derivatives FV P&L – – – – – – Financial liabilities Bonds AC (2,669) (2,669) – – – (2,750) Liabilities to banks AC (29) (29) – – – (30) Trade payables AC (795) (795) – – – (795) Liabilities under finance leases – (17) – – – (17) (19) Other primary financial liabilities AC (30) (30) – – – (30) Derivative liabilities Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting – (20) – (20) – – (20) Other hedging instruments FV P&L (8) – – (8) – (8) Embedded derivatives FV P&L 0 – – 0 – 0 AC Financial Assets/Liabilities at Amortized Cost FV OCI Financial Assets at Fair Value Other Comprehensive Income FV P&L Financial Assets/Liabilities at Fair Value Profit and Loss 203 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Carrying Amounts, Measurement and Fair Values of Financial Instruments as of December 31, 2019 IFRS 9 Carrying Measurement according to IFRS 9 Measurement Fair value measurement­ amount ­according to Dec. 31, 2019 category Dec. 31, 2019 IFRS 16 Amortized cost Fair value (other Fair value comprehensive (profit or loss) € million income) Financial assets Trade receivables AC 769 769 – – – 769 Other financial receivables Financial assets – at cost AC 780 780 – – – 780 Financial assets – at fair value through profit or loss FV P&L 0 – – 0 – 0 Other financial receivables – at cost AC 13 13 – – – 13 Other financial receivables – at fair value through profit or loss FV P&L 6 – – 6 – 6 Other financial receivables – at fair value through other comprehensive income (debt instruments) FV OCI 0 – 0 – – 0 Contract assets AC 94 94 – – – 94 Cash and cash equivalents AC 296 296 – – – 296 Equity instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income FV OCI 0 – 0 – – 0 Derivative assets Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting – 2 – 2 – – 2 Other hedging instruments FV P&L 4 – – 4 – 4 Embedded derivatives FV P&L – – – – – – Financial liabilities Bonds AC (2,673) (2,673) – – – (2,864) Liabilities to banks AC 0 0 – – – 0 Trade payables AC (656) (656) – – – (656) Lease liabilities – (141) – – – (141) (141) Other primary financial liabilities AC (29) (29) – – – (29) Derivative liabilities Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting – (11) – (11) – – (11) Other hedging instruments FV P&L (8) – – (8) – (8) Embedded derivatives FV P&L 0 – – 0 – 0 AC Financial Assets/Liabilities at Amortized Cost FV OCI Financial Assets at Fair Value Other Comprehensive Income FV P&L Financial Assets/Liabilities at Fair Value Profit and Loss 204 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Fair value measurement of the bonds is allocated to Fair value measurement Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value ­Level 1 of the hierarchy outlined in the following “Fair The measurement of fair value is based on a hierarchy Dec. 31, 2018 value measurement” section. However, two bonds with reflecting the significance of the measurement inputs. € million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 a fair value of €236 million (previous year: €229 million) The fair value measurement hierarchy for an asset or Non-current assets are allocated to Level 2 of the hierarchy. The fair value liability comprises three levels: Investments in other of liabilities allocated to Level 2 is calculated using disaffiliated companies 0 – 0 counted cash flows, taking observed market interest Level 1 Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets Non-current derivative assets – 0 – rates into account. for identical assets or liabilities on the meaOther non-current surement date financial assets – 1 6 Carrying Amounts by Measurement Category Current assets Financial assets 49 – – Level 2 Inputs other than quoted prices included within Dec. 31, Dec. 31, Current derivative assets – 4 – € million 2018 2019 Level 1 that are observable for the asset or Other current Financial assets measured at liability, either directly or indirectly financial assets – – – amortized cost 2,268 1,952 Non-current liabilities Financial assets measured at fair Non-current Level 3 Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability value through other comprehensive derivative liabilities – 3 0 income (debt instruments) 0 0 Current liabilities Equity instruments measured The following tables show the volumes of assets and Current derivative liabilities – 25 – at fair value through liabilities that were measured at fair value on a recurring other comprehensive income 0 0 Financial assets required to be basis as of the end of the reporting period and the levels measured at fair value through of the fair value hierarchy into which the measurement profit or loss 58 10 inputs were categorized. Reclassification between the Financial assets 2,326 1,962 Financial liabilities measured at levels is reviewed as of each reporting date. There were amortized cost (3,523) (3,358) no reclassifications in fiscal years 2018 or 2019. Financial liabilities required to be measured at fair value through profit or loss (9) (8) Financial liabilities (3,532) (3,366) 205 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value To avoid value fluctuations in profit or loss, the investment are the development of the underlying commodity price, Dec. 31, 2019 in BioAmber Inc., Minneapolis, U.S., recognized in other the exchange rate and their correlation. As of Decemequity investments under Level 1 in the previous year, ber 31, 2019, the derivative was assigned to discontin€ million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Non-current assets was measured at fair value through other comprehensive ued operations and reported accordingly. The embedded Investments in other income at €0 million. The company is in liquidation and derivative had a negative fair value of €4 million on initial affiliated companies – – 0 its stock exchange listing ended in December 2019. As measurement, of which less than €1 million (previous Non-current of December 31, 2019, the investment with a fair value year: less than €1 million) was amortized in the reporting derivative assets – 1 – Other non-current of €0 million is allocated to Level 3. period. Starting with a carrying amount of the liability of financial assets – 1 5 less than €1 million as of January 1, 2019, total reversals Current assets Other non-current financial assets assigned to Level 3 of write-downs of less than €1 million were recognized Financial assets 0 – – include investments in High-Tech Gründerfonds, which in earnings from discontinued operations, with the reCurrent derivative assets – 5 – are measured based on the amount of the equity intersult that a liability of less than €1 million is recognized Other current financial assets – – – ests held. Due to returns from equity interests held of in discontinued operations as of the reporting date of Non-current liabilities less than €1 million in fiscal year 2019, the fair values December 31, 2019. Relative changes of 5% in relevant Non-current of €6 million in the previous year declined to €5 million. exchange rates, commodity prices and forecast volumes derivative liabilities – 2 – Current liabilities result in total fluctuations of less than €1 million. Current derivative liabilities – 17 – Financial assets comprise securities that can be sold at any time. Credit risk management On initial recognition of financial assets measured at Other equity investments of €0 million, which are asThe non-current derivative liability allocated to Level 3 in amortized cost or fair value through other comprehensive signed to Level 3 of the measurement hierarchy, include the previous year relates to a derivative not designated income, the Group calculates a loss allowance on the baunlisted equity instruments for which the amount of the as a hedging instrument from a right of use contract, sis of probabilities of default. During the fiscal year, factors equity interests held is used as the most reliable estimate which due to its economic characteristics is not closely are observed that could indicate a significant increase in of fair value. There are currently no plans to dispose of related to the host contract. It is measured by way of an the risk of default. In order to assess whether there has these investments. option pricing model, the principal parameters of which been a significant increase in the risk of default, the risk 206 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information of default at the end of the reporting period is compared If contractual payments are more than 30 days past due, to the risk of default on initial recognition. The indicators the loss allowance is based on the expected defaults for used include internal and external ­credit r­ atings, internal the entire term. An event of default occurs when conand external probabilities of default, m ­ aterial changes tractual payments are more than 180 days past due. in business, financial and economic ­circumstances and These are then written down to the expected repayment material changes in operating earnings. amount. Legal action is initiated over impaired assets in order to achieve full or partial repayment. Receivables are For cash and cash equivalents and other financial written down in full if insolvency proceedings are opened. ­receivables, expected defaults for the next twelve months are used to calculate loss allowances providNo increased risk of default was ascertained for the finaned there is no increased risk of default on contractual cial assets listed. Thus, their risk of default was calculated payments. based on the next twelve months: Carrying Amounts and Loss Allowances Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2019 Gross Loss Net Gross Loss Net carrying allowances carrying carrying allowances carrying € million amount amount amount amount Cash and cash equivalents 797 0 797 296 0 296 Other financial receivables 509 (2) 507 794 (1) 793 207 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information As in the previous year, no cash and cash equivalents or 120 days past due and by 100% if more than 180 days Loss allowances for contract assets are calculated based other financial receivables were impaired due to actual past due, if default is probable. Receivables are written on the counterparty’s individual probability of default defaults in fiscal year 2019. down in full if insolvency proceedings are opened. Furapplying the simplified model for the entire term. thermore, loss allowances are calculated based on a past The simplified model based on the lifetime expected due matrix that takes into account historical loss rates for The outstanding contractual payments that were written credit losses is applied to trade receivables. These are certain maturity structure classes and future probabilidown in fiscal year 2019 and for which legal action was calculated in a multi-stage process that analyses the ties of default on the basis of credit default swaps. The initiated amount to €5 million (previous year: €5 million). economic circumstances, maturity structure and risk maturity structure of unimpaired trade ­receivables and The following tables show the development of loss alclasses and then recognizes impairments if necessary. their respective probabilities of default for each maturity lowances for all financial assets from their opening value Trade receivables are written down by 50% if more than class are as follows: to the end of the reporting period for fiscal years 2018 and 2019: Aging Structure and Loss Allowances (Simplified Model) Dec. 31, 2018 Not 1–30 days 31–60 days 61–90 days >90 days Total € million past due past due past due past due past due Net carrying amount of trade receivables 802 86 7 1 7 903 Default rates calculated 0.0% 0.1% 0.4% 1.3% 2.6% Aging Structure and Loss Allowances (Simplified Model) Dec. 31, 2019 Not 1–30 days 31–60 days 61–90 days >90 days Total € million past due past due past due past due past due Net carrying amount of trade receivables 671 83 10 2 3 769 Default rates calculated 0.0% 0.1% 0.7% 1.9% 3.0% The total carrying amounts and loss allowances for trade receivables and contract assets are as follows: Carrying Amounts and Loss Allowancess Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2019 Gross Loss Net Gross Loss Net carrying allowances carrying carrying allowances carrying € million amount amount amount amount Trade receivables 918 (15) 903 781 (12) 769 Contract assets 61 0 61 94 0 94 208 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Reconciliation Loss Allowance 2018 Expected loss allowance for Expected loss allowance Expected loss allowance Total cash and cash equivalents and for trade receivables and for credit-impaired assets other financial receivables1) contract assets at acquisition Lifetime – € million 12 months simplified model January 1 1 17 1 19 Adjustments in accordance with IFRS 5 – (3) – (3) Newly acquired financial assets 1 5 – 6 Release 0 (3) 0 (3) Financial assets derecognized in the period – sale, repayment, modification 0 (1) 0 (1) Change of model or risk parameters – 0 – 0 Currency or other differences – (1) 0 (1) December 31 2 14 1 17 1) Cash and cash equivalents and other financial assets are not presented separately for reasons of materiality. Prior-year figures restated Reconciliation Loss Allowance 2019 Expected loss allowance for Expected loss allowance Expected loss allowance for Total cash and cash equivalents and for trade receivables and credit-impaired assets other financial receivables1) contract assets at acquisition Lifetime – € million 12 months simplified model January 1 2 14 1 17 Adjustments in accordance with IFRS 5 – (4) – (4) Newly acquired financial assets – 5 – 5 Release 0 (2) 0 (2) Financial assets derecognized in the period – sale, repayment, modification (1) (2) 0 (3) Change of model or risk parameters – 0 – 0 Currency or other differences 0 0 0 0 December 31 1 11 1 13 1) Cash and cash equivalents and other financial assets are not presented separately for reasons of materiality. 209 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information In the reporting year, €3 million (previous year: €0 milOffsetting of financial assets and lion) of the adjustments in accordance with IFRS 5 refinancial liabilities lated to the reporting of the Leather business unit as a Offsetting was not used for the financial assets and discontinued operation and the sale of the subsidiary ­financial liabilities recognized in the statement of financial LANXESS Electronic Materials L.L.C., Pyeongtaek, position. The following tables show how legally enforce­Republic of Korea, the receivables of which amounting to able netting arrangements impact, or could impact, the €1 million were written down in full. In the previous year, Group’s financial position: this line included the recognition of the loss allowance of €3 million resulting from the reporting of ARLANXEO as Offsetting of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities as of December 31, 2018 a discontinued operation. Information on this is presented Carrying amount Related amounts not offset in the Net amount in the “Companies Consolidated” section. of financial statement of financial position instruments € million Financial instruments Financial collateral The expected credit losses for cash and cash equivalents and other financial receivables essentially result Financial assets from money market and financial investments. The Trade receivables 903 (3) 0 900 Derivative assets 4 (4) – 0 investments are not classified as receivables at risk of default as the counterparties have an investment grade Financial liabilities rating according to international agencies and are thereTrade payables (795) 3 0 (792) fore a low credit risk. The acquired, impaired financial Derivative liabilities (28) 4 – (24) ­assets i­nclude trade receivables from the acquisition of ­Chemtura in fiscal year 2017. Offsetting of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities as of December 31, 2019 The change in the expected credit losses for trade reCarrying amount Related amounts not offset in the Net amount ceivables and contract assets results from ordinary operof financial statement of financial position instruments ations. Due to a large and diversified customer structure, € million Financial instruments Financial collateral there is no material credit risk for trade receivables. Financial assets Trade receivables 769 (2) 0 767 Derivative assets 6 (4) – 2 Financial liabilities Trade payables (656) 2 0 (654) Derivative liabilities (19) 4 – (15) 210 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Either contracting party may offset on a net basis the Collateralization of financial liabilities resulted in cash inflows of €68 million (previous year: positive and negative fair values arising from past-due There were no financial liabilities collateralized by mortcash outflows of €179 million). Taking into account the derivative asset or liability contracts with the same gages or other property claims in fiscal year 2019 or change in other assets and liabilities of minus €123 milcounterparty. the previous year. lion (previous year: minus €84 million), cash inflows provided by operating activities from continuing operations Net results by measurement category Mezzanine financing amounted to €634 million in the reporting year (previous Mezzanine instruments such as profit participation year: €441 million). Cash provided by operating activities The following tables provide an overview of the net rerights, convertible bonds or warrant bonds have not from discontinued operations amounted to €9 million sults based on the measurement categories according been ­issued. Information on the possible issuance of (previous year: €145 million). to IFRS 9: such instruments is given in Note [13]. Net cash used in investing activities 38 | N  otes to the Statement of Purchases of intangible assets, property, plant and Net Results by Measurement Category Cash Flows equipment led to cash outflows of €508 million in € million 2018 2019 fiscal year 2019 (previous year: €482 million). Cash Financial assets measured at Explanation of the method used to inflows from the sale of the business with tin-based amortized cost 18 2 calculate and present cash flows organometallics in the Advanced Intermediates segFinancial assets and liabilities required to be measured at fair value through For a general explanation and information on ­changes ment to PMC ­Vlissingen, B.V., Netherlands, amounted profit or loss (36) 6 due to the initial application of IFRS 16, please see to €20 million. Cash inflows from interest and divi­dends Equity instruments measured at fair the comments on the statement of cash flows in the received amounted to €26 million (previous year: value through other comprehensive income (1) 0 section headed “Accounting Policies and Valuation €15 million). They primarily consisted of inflows from Financial liabilities measured at Principles.” the profit transfer of €21 million from the investment amortized cost (62) (62) in Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany. (81) (54) Net cash provided by operating activities There were no cash outflows (previous year: €200 milThe net cash flows from operating activities are deterlion) for external funding of pension obligations (CTA) Net gains and losses principally comprise interest income mined by deducting the financial result, depreciation, in fiscal year 2019. The net cash outflow for investing and expense and realized and unrealized exchange gains amortization, write-downs, reversals of impairment activities was €697 million (previous year: cash inflow and losses. Total interest revenue for financial assets that charges and non-cash items from income before in€80 million) from continuing operations. Discontinued are measured at amortized cost amounts to €5 million come taxes. A further adjustment is made for the change operations resulted in cash outflows from investing ac(previous year: €5 million); the total interest expense in other assets and liabilities. Income before income tivities of €15 million (previous year: €184 million). for financial liabilities that are not measured at fair value taxes, which is the starting point for the statement of through profit or loss is €67 million (previous year: €69 cash flows, amounted to €346 million (previous year: million). €381 million). It contains depreciation, amortization, write-downs and reversals of write-downs of €503 milIn addition, fees of €5 million were incurred in fiscal lion (previous year: €415 million). Income taxes paid in year 2019 (previous year: €5 million) in connection with fiscal year 2019 amounted to €193 million (previous financial instruments. year: €154 million). The change in net working capital 211 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Net cash used in financing activities The net repayment of borrowings of €86 million (previous year: €9 million) was attributable to financial liabilities as follows: Reconciliation of Borrowings 2018 Dec. 31, AdjustCash Non-cash changes Dec. 31, 2017 ments ­changes 2018 Acqui­sitions Divest­ments Lease Exchange Interest effect Accrued interaccording ­liabilities new diffe­rences from comest and other to IFRS 5 € million ­additions pounding changes Bonds 2,674 – (8) – – – – 3 – 2,669 Liabilities to banks 89 (69) 9 – – – – – – 29 Liabilities under finance leases 61 (46) (10) – – 10 – 2 – 17 Other primary financial liabilities 51 – – – – – – – (21) 30 2,875 (115) (9) – – 10 – 5 (21) 2,745 Reconciliation of Borrowings 2019 Dec. 31, AdjustAdjustCash Non-cash changes Dec. 31, 2018 ments ments ­changes 2019 according according Acqui­sitions Divest­ments Lease Exchange Interest effect Accrued interto IFRS 16 to IFRS 5 ­liabilities new diffe­rences from comest and other € million ­additions pounding changes Bonds 2,669 – – – – – – – 4 – 2,673 Liabilities to banks 29 – – (29) – – – 0 – – 0 Lease liabilities 17 133 (4) (56) – – 47 (1) 5 – 141 Other primary financial liabilities 30 – – (1) – – – 0 – – 29 2,745 133 (4) (86) – – 47 (1) 9 – 2,843 212 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Interest payments and other financial disbursements actherefore a net cash outflow of €431 million (previous Cash and cash equivalents counted for cash outflows of €66 million (previous year: year: €160 million) for financing activities from continuing Cash and cash equivalents, which comprise cash, checks €77 million). In fiscal year 2019, cash outflows for divioperations. Discontinued operations resulted in a net and bank balances, amounted to €296 million (previous dend payments amounted to €79 million (previous year: cash outflow of €2 million (previous year: €57 million). year: €797 million). In accordance with IAS 7, this item €74 million), €79 million of which to the stockholders of also includes securities with maturities of up to three LANXESS AG (previous year: €73 million). There was months from the date of acquisition. 39 | Segment Reporting Key Data by Segment Advanced Specialty ­Additives Performance Engineering Materials Reconciliation LANXESS ­Intermediates Chemicals € million 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 External sales 2,207 2,249 1,980 1,965 976 1,052 1,576 1,450 85 86 6,824 6,802 Inter-segment sales 55 55 10 5 1 0 0 0 (66) (60) 0 0 Segment/Group sales 2,262 2,304 1,990 1,970 977 1,052 1,576 1,450 19 26 6,824 6,802 Segment result/ EBITDA pre exceptionals 359 389 343 353 156 192 267 238 (139) (153) 986 1,019 Exceptional items ­ affecting EBITDA 0 (13) (3) (16) (2) (2) (1) 0 (74) (78) (80) (109) Segment assets 1,543 1,519 2,706 2,739 978 1,004 1,269 1,287 189 225 6,685 6,774 Segment acquisitions – – 54 – – – – – – – 54 – Segment capital e ­ xpenditures 168 204 144 128 63 64 77 111 49 71 501 578 Depreciation and a­ mortization 125 147 136 157 58 66 59 65 23 25 401 460 Write-downs 2 38 1 2 10 1 2 1 0 2 15 44 Reversals of impairment charges – – 1 1 – – 0 – – – 1 1 Segment liabilities 752 747 624 546 359 350 383 346 692 773 2,810 2,762 Employees (December 31) 3,687 3,708 2,953 2,942 2,557 2,409 2,105 2,203 2,950 3,042 14,252 14,304 Employees (average for the year) 3,701 3,707 2,993 2,950 2,583 2,443 2,055 2,176 2,911 3,009 14,243 14,285 Prior-year figures restated 213 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Key Data by Region Segments Activities EMEA (excludGermany North America Latin America Asia-Pacific LANXESS Advanced The Advanced Intermediates segment comprises ing Germany) Intermediates operational business units that manufacture basic and fine chemicals using primarily continuous € million 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 production processes. The business units also External sales by manufacture precursors and intermediates for market 2,167 2,128 1,386 1,251 1,494 1,554 346 331 1,431 1,538 6,824 6,802 each other. The product portfolio includes highNon-current grade intermediates for use by the agrochemicals region assets 574 635 1,256 1,431 2,053 2,099 66 69 329 310 4,278 4,544 and coatings industries, for example; fine chemAcquisitions – – – – 54 – – – – – 54 – icals as precursors and intermediates for the pharmaceuticals, agrochemicals and specialty Capital expenchemicals industries; customer-specific specialditures 68 83 275 331 117 120 13 10 28 34 501 578 ties; organometallics; and rubber chemicals. Employees Specialty The Specialty Additives segment comprises oper(December 31) 1,792 1,806 7,352 7,558 2,044 2,031 704 716 2,360 2,193 14,252 14,304 Additives ational business units that manufacture additives Prior-year figures restated in chemical production processes. The product portfolio includes additives for the rubber, plastic and paint industries, construction and electrical industry, such as lubricants, flame retardants, Segment reporting no longer part of the reportable Performance Chemicals plasticizers and bromine derivatives for a variety The valuation principles applied in segment reporting segment. Information on discontinued operations is inof applications. correspond to the uniform accounting policies and cluded in the “Companies Consolidated” section. Performance The Performance Chemicals segment comprises Chemicals operational business units that manufacture provaluation principles used for the consolidated financial cess and functional chemicals as well as specialty statements prepared in accordance with IFRS. On December 31, 2019, the LANXESS Group comprised products using chemical production processes. The product portfolio includes material protection the following reporting segments: products; inorganic pigments for the coloring of The Leather business unit has been classified as disconconcrete, emulsion paints and other coatings; tinued operations since December 2019 and is therefore reverse osmosis membrane elements and ion exchange resins for water treatment; and disin­ fectant and hygiene solutions. Engineering The Engineering Materials segment combines Materials ­operational business units which ­manufacture high-tech plastics and high-performance composites using mainly continuous production processes. The production includes technical plastics, glass fibers and fiber composites as well as elastomers on a urethane basis for applications in the automotive and electrical/electronics industries, the construction industry, medicine, and the sports and leisure sectors. 214 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information The reconciliation eliminates inter-segment sales and The reporting regions are those into which LANXESS’s or the proceeds from the disposal of assets, certain IT reflects assets, liabilities and results not allocable to the activities are organized: EMEA (Europe [excluding Gerexpenses, restructuring expenses and income from the core segments including, in particular, those pertaining many], Middle East, Africa), Germany, North America, reversal of provisions established in this context and to the Corporate Center. Due to the recognition of the Latin America and Asia-Pacific. Regional sales are cal­reductions in earnings resulting from portfolio adjustLeather business unit as a discontinued operation, the culated according to the recipient’s place of business. In ments or purchase price allocations. components remaining in the LANXESS Group were fiscal year 2019, no individual customer of the LANXESS reclassified from the Performance Chemicals segment Group accounted for 10% or more of Group sales. The segment sales include sales recognized over time to the reconciliation, and the previous year’s figures were of €359 million (previous year: €307 million), of which adjusted accordingly. The earnings indicator used for internal management €306 million (previous year: €252 million) relate to the purposes in the LANXESS Group is the operating result Advanced Intermediates segment, €0 million (previous The reconciliation also includes the investment in Curbefore depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) pre exyear: €2 million) to the Specialty Additives segment, renta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, which ceptionals (see the section headed “Value management €4 million (previous year: €10 million) to the Perforis classified as held for sale and recognized accordingly and control system” in the combined management report mance Chemicals segment, €17 million (previous year: from December 31, 2019. See the “Companies Consolfor fiscal year 2019). This is disclosed as the “segment €16 million) to the Engineering Materials segment, and idated” section for further information and Note [3] for result.” The starting point for calculating EBITDA pre €32 million (previous year: €27 million) to the reconcilfurther information on the previous year. exceptionals is the operating result (EBIT), which comiation. All other sales are recognized at a point in time. prises gross profit, selling expenses, general adminisPlease see Note [21] for further information. The transfer prices used for inter-segment business tration expenses, research and development expenses transactions are calculated using the OECD rules as and other operating income and expenses. EBIT and In view of the Group’s central financial management, if they had been agreed upon between independent EBITDA are alternative key financial ratios not defined interest income and expense and income tax income third parties in comparable circumstances (arm’s-length according to the International Financial Reporting Stanand expense are not reported at segment level. principle). dards (IFRS). These are viewed as supplementary and not a substitute to the data prepared according to IFRS. As in the previous year, the negative exceptional items The majority of employees reflected in the reconciliaEBITDA pre exceptionals is calculated from EBIT before that impacted EBITDA of €117 million in fiscal year 2019 tion provide services for more than one segment. They depreciation/reversals of property, plant and equipment, primarily related to expenses in connection with the strainclude technical service staff. amortization and impairments of intangible assets, disretegic realignment of the LANXESS Group and digitaligarding exceptional items. The latter are effects that, by zation projects. They are offset by positive exceptional nature or extent, have a significant impact on the earnitems of €8 million, which mainly relate to compensation ings position, but for which inclusion in the evaluation payments in connection with restructuring measures to of business performance over several reporting periods optimize the production network as well as income from does not seem to be appropriate. Exceptional items may the reversal of provisions recognized as exceptional items include write-downs, reversals of impairment charges in previous years. 215 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information The segment acquisitions in the previous year includ€90 million) (see Notes [26] and [27]). These include Reconciliation of Segment Liabilities ed the acquired net assets including goodwill as of the exceptional items of minus €109 million (previous year: Dec. 31, Dec. 31, acquisition date. minus €80 million) that affect EBITDA, write-downs of € million 2018 2019 minus €41 million (previous year: minus €10 million), and Total segment liabilities 2,118 1,989 Capital expenditures made by the segments comprise reversals of impairment charges of €0 million (previous Adjustments to discontinued operations 81 98 additions to intangible assets, property, plant and year: €0 million). Other financial liabilities 2,745 2,843 equipment. Derivative liabilities 28 19 Information on equity-method income is contained in Income tax liabilities 161 217 All depreciation, amortization and write-downs were Note [3]. This relates to the provision of site services by Deferred tax liabilities 89 109 recognized directly in profit or loss. Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, and Other 692 773 Group liabilities 5,914 6,048 is not allocated among the segments. Reconciliation of Segment Sales Prior-year figures restated Reconciliation of Segment Assets € million 2018 2019 The segment liabilities mainly comprise provisions, trade Total segment sales 6,805 6,776 Dec. 31, Dec. 31, Other 85 86 € million 2018 2019 payables and other liabilities. The reconciliation (“Other” Consolidation (66) (60) Total segment assets 6,496 6,549 line) of segment liabilities primarily contains pension and Group sales 6,824 6,802 Adjustments to discontinued other provisions that are attributable to the Corporate operations 222 203 Prior-year figures restated Center. They do not include income tax liabilities in parCash and cash equivalents 797 296 Deferred tax assets 287 324 ticular, as well as derivative and other financial liabilities. Reconciliation of Segment Results Income tax receivables 69 199 Derivative assets 4 6 40 | Audit Fees € million 2018 2019 Other financial assets 623 893 Total segment results 1,125 1,172 Other 189 225 In fiscal year 2019, total audit fees of €2,917 thousand Depreciation and amortization (416) (504) Group assets 8,687 8,695 (previous year: €2,438 thousand) for the auditor of Reversals of impairment charges 1 1 Prior-year figures restated the consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Exceptional items affecting EBITDA (80) (109) Other financial income and expense (41) (7) Group were recognized as expenses. The total amount Net interest expense (69) (54) The segment assets mainly comprise intangible assets, includes €2,497 thousand (previous year: €1,789 thouIncome from investments accounted for property, plant and equipment including right-of-use sand) relating to the auditing of financial statements. using the equity method 0 0 Other (139) (153) ­assets from leases, inventories and trade receivables. The fiscal year was influenced by audit services in Income before income taxes 381 346 They do not include items such as cash and cash equivconnection with the preparation for the introduction of alents and deferred taxes. accounting-related IT systems. The fees were mainly Prior-year figures restated paid for the audit of LANXESS AG’s annual financial The reconciliation of segment results to income before statements and of the consolidated financial statements income taxes contains total exceptional items comprising including the early warning system and for the review net charges of €150 million (previous year: charges of of the condensed consolidated interim financial statements. €273 thousand (previous year: €478 thousand) 216 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information related to other audit-related services, primarily services ›› Bond-Laminates GmbH, Brilon China. A contract manufacturing agreement was also in connection with sustainability reporting and services ›› CheMondis GmbH, Cologne concluded with Brother Enterprises, under which for audit c­ ertificates. In addition, the previous year also ›› IAB Ionenaustauscher GmbH, Greppin LANXESS expects to manufacture chrome tanning salts included confirmation services in connection with the ›› IMD Natural Solutions GmbH, Dortmund from sodium dichromate exclusively for Brother Entersale of ­A RLANXEO. €127 thousand (previous year: ›› LANXESS Accounting GmbH, Cologne prises at the site in Merebank, South Africa, until 2024. €171 thousand) related to other services and €20 thou›› LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne sand (­previous year: €0 thousand) to tax services. Other ›› LANXESS Distribution GmbH, Leverkusen On January 31, 2020, LANXESS also sold its business services mainly comprised project-related consulting ›› LANXESS Organometallics GmbH, Bergkamen with gallium-based organometallics at the site in Pyeongservices. The fees for financial statements audit services ›› Saltigo GmbH, Leverkusen taek, Republic of Korea, to First Rare Materials Co. Ltd., comprise all fees, including incidental expenses, paid ›› Siebte LXS GmbH, Leverkusen Heyun Town, China, a subsidiary of Vital Materials, China. or to be paid for the audits of the consolidated financial ›› Achte LXS GmbH, Cologne statements of the LANXESS Group and the financial On February 3, 2020, LANXESS completed the acstatements of LANXESS AG and its German subsidiaries. In addition, the following German subsidiary made use of quisition of the Brazilian biocide manufacturer Itibanyl disclosure exemptions pursuant to Section 264b in con­Produtos Especiais Ltda. (IPEL), Jarinu, Brazil. This acqui41 | D  eclaration of Compliance junction with Section 264, Paragraph 3 of the German sition enhances LANXESS’s position as one of the world’s Pursuant to Section 161 of the Commercial Code (HGB) in fiscal year 2019: leading manufacturers of biocidal active ingredients and Stock Corporation Act formulations. In addition to around 100 employees and ›› LANXESS Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH & Co. OHG, the production facility, LANXESS has also taken over The Declaration of Compliance with the German CorpoLeverkusen the Brazilian company’s laboratory facilities. In fiscal year rate Governance Code has been issued by the Board of 2019, IPEL generated sales of a lower eight-figure sum Management and Supervisory Board pursuant to SecOutside Germany, LANXESS Limited (registration no. in euros. The agreed purchase price is of a similar size. tion 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) 03498959), Newbury, Great Britain, utilized the exempand made available to stockholders on the LANXESS tion from the auditing of its annual financial statements We expect the coronavirus epidemic to have a negative website. as permitted by Section 479A of the Companies Act impact on our business. The further course of the epi2006. As required by law, LANXESS AG, as the pardemic represents an uncertainty factor that could not be 42 | Utilization of Disclosure Exemptions ent company, guaranteed all outstanding liabilities as conclusively assessed before the preparation of these of ­December 31, 2019, with respect to Section 479C financial statements. In fiscal year 2019, the following German subsidiaries of the Companies Act 2006. made use of disclosure exemptions pursuant to SecNo other events of particular significance took place after tion 264, Paragraph 3 of the German Commercial Code 43 | E  vents after the Reporting Period December 31, 2019, that could be expected to have a (HGB): material effect on the earnings, asset and financial posiOn January 10, 2020, LANXESS sold its chrome chemtion of the LANXESS Group or LANXESS AG. icals business at the site in Newcastle, South Africa, to the company K2019342391 (South Africa) Proprietary Limited, South Africa, a subsidiary of Brother Enterprises, 217 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Responsibility Statement To the best of our knowledge, and in accordance with the applicable financial reporting principles, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the earnings, asset and financial position of the Group, and the combined management report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the LANXESS Group and LANXESS AG, together with a description of the principal opportunities and risks associated with the expected development of the LANXESS Group and LANXESS AG. Cologne, February 27, 2020 LANXESS Aktiengesellschaft The Board of Management Matthias Zachert Dr. Anno Borkowsky Dr. Stephanie Coßmann Dr. Hubert Fink Michael Pontzen 218 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Independent Auditor’s Report “To LANXESS Aktiengesellschaft, Cologne In our opinion, on the basis of the knowledge obtained Basis for the Audit Opinions in the audit, We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE statements and of the group management report in ­CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL ›› the accompanying consolidated financial statements accordance with § 317 HGB and the EU Audit Regu­STATEMENTS AND OF THE GROUP comply, in all material respects, with the IFRSs as lation (No. 537/2014, referred to subsequently as “EU MANAGEMENT REPORT adopted by the EU, and the ­additional r­ equirements ­Audit Regulation”) in compliance with German Generally of German commercial law ­pursuant to§ 315e ­Accepted Standards for Financial Statement Audits proAudit Opinions Abs. [paragraph] 1 HGB and, in ­compliance with mulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer [Institute of We have audited the consolidated financial statements these requirements, give a true and fair view of Public Auditors in Germany] (IDW). Our responsibilities of LANXESS Aktiengesellschaft, Cologne, and its subthe assets, liabilities, and financial position of the under those requirements and principles are further sidiaries (the Group), which comprise the consolidatGroup as at December 31, 2019, and of its financial described in the “Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit ed statement of financial position as at December 31, performance for the financial year from January 1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements and of the 2019, and the consolidated statement of comprehento December 31, 2019, and Group Management Report” section of our auditor’s sive income, consolidated statement of profit or loss, ›› the accompanying group management report as a report. We are independent of the group entities in acconsolidated statement of changes in equity and conwhole provides an appropriate view of the Group’s cordance with the requirements of European law and solidated statement of cash flows for the financial year position. In all material respects, this group manGerman ­commercial and professional law, and we have from January 1 to December 31, 2019, and notes to agement report is consistent with the consolidated fulfilled our other German professional responsibilities the consolidated financial statements, including a sumfinancial statements, complies with German legal in accordance with these requirements. In addition, in mary of significant accounting policies. In addition, we requirements and appropriately presents the opporaccordance with Article 10 (2) point (f) of the EU A ­ udit have audited the group management report of LANXESS tunities and risks of future development. Our audit Regulation, we declare that we have not provided non-­ ­Aktiengesellschaft, which is combined with the Company’s opinion on the group management report does not audit services prohibited under Article 5 (1) of the EU management report, for the financial year from January 1 cover the content of the statement on corporate Audit Regulation. We believe that the audit evidence we to December 31, 2019. In accordance with the German governance referred to above. have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a legal requirements, we have not audited the content of basis for our audit opinions on the consolidated financial the group statement on corporate governance pursuant Pursuant to § 322 Abs. 3 Satz [sentence] 1 HGB, we statements and on the group management report. to § [Article] 289f HGB [Handelsgesetzbuch: German declare that our audit has not led to any reservations Commercial Code] and § 315d HGB. relating to the legal compliance of the consolidated f­inancial statements and of the group management report. 219 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Key Audit Matters in the Audit of the The Company allocates goodwill to the respective 2 As part of our audit, we reviewed the methodology ­Consolidated Financial Statements cash-generating units. Goodwill is tested for impairment employed for the purposes of performing the impairment Key audit matters are those matters that, in our proonce a year, unless events or a change in circumstances test, among other things. We assessed the approprifessional judgment, were of most significance in our indicates any sooner that goodwill may be impaired. The ateness of the future cash inflows used in the measureaudit of the consolidated financial statements for the carrying amount of the relevant cash-generating units, ment, among other things by comparing this data with financial year from January 1 to December 31, 2019. including goodwill, is compared with the corresponding the current budgets in the five-year plan approved by These matters were addressed in the context of our audit recoverable amount in the context of the impairment management, and reconciling it against general and of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and test. The recoverable amount is always calculated on the sector-specific market expectations. We also assessed in forming our audit opinion thereon; we do not provide basis of fair value less costs to sell. The present value of whether the basis for including the costs of Group funca separate audit opinion on these matters. the future cash flows from the respective cash-generattions was accurate. With the knowledge that even relaing units normally serves as the basis of measurement. tively small changes in the discount rate applied can have In our view, the matters of most significance in our audit Present values are calculated using discounted cash flow material effects on the value of the entity calculated in were as follows: models. The discounted cash flow models are based on this way, we also included in our review the parameters cash flow projections, which in turn are based on the used to determine the discount rate applied, including 1 Goodwill Impairment five-year plan approved by management and applicathe weighted average cost of capital, and evaluated the 2 Pension provisions ble at the time the impairment test is carried out. The measurement model. Furthermore, we reviewed the future net cash flows are discounted using a weighted sensitivity analysis carried out by the Company and adOur presentation of these key audit matters has been cost of capital. The impairment test determined that no ditionally performed our own sensitivity analysis for the structured in each case as follows: impairment losses had to be recognized. cash-generating units and, taking into account the information available, determined that the carrying amounts 1 Matter and issue This matter was of particular significance to our audit, of the cash-generating units, including the allocated 2 Audit approach and findings because the result of this measurement depends to a goodwill, were adequately covered by the discounted 3 Reference to further information large extent on the Company’s management’s assessfuture cash flows. Overall, the measurement inputs and ment of future cash inflows, the discount rate used, the assumptions used by management are in line with our Hereinafter we present the key audit matters: growth rates assumed, and other assumptions made expectations and are also within the ranges considered and is therefore subject to considerable uncertainty. by us to be reasonable. 1 Goodwill Impairment 1 Goodwill of €865 million (10% of consolidated total assets or 33% of Group equity) is reported under the “Goodwill” balance sheet item in the Company’s consolidated financial statements. 220 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information 3 The Company’s disclosures on goodwill are contained bonds with matching currencies and terms which are the changes in the obligation and the cost components in the sections entitled “Intangible as-sets,” “Method and consistent with the expected maturities of the obligations. in accordance with actuarial expert reports in the light impact of the global impairment tests,” and “Judgments This usually requires the data to be extrapolated, since of changes occurring in the valuation parameters and and estimates” in the notes to the consolidated financial no sufficiently long-term corporate bonds exist. The plan the numerical data, and verified their plausibility. For the statements. assets are measured at fair value. purposes of our audit of the fair value of plan assets, we obtained bank confirmations. 2 Pension provisions From our point of view, these matters were of particu1 Pension provisions amounting to €1.178 million are lar importance in the context of our audit because the Based on our audit procedures, we satisfied ourselves reported in the consolidated financial statements of the recognition and measurement of this item – which is that the estimates and assumption made by management Company under the balance sheet item “Provisions for significant in terms of its amount – are based to a large were justified and adequately documented. pensions and similar obligations.” The pension provisions extent on estimates and assumptions made by the comcomprise mainly obligations from defined benefit pension pany’s management. 3 The disclosures on the provisions for pensions can plans plan assets. be found in the section entitled “Pension provisions 2 Our audit included evaluating the actuarial expert and similar obligations” in the notes to the consolidated Obligations under defined benefit plans are measured reports obtained and the professional qualifications ­financial statements. using the projected unit credit method. This requires asof the external experts. We also examined the specifsumptions to be made in particular about long-term rates ic features of the actuarial calculations and reviewed of growth in salaries and pensions, average life expecthe numerical data, the actuarial parameters and the tancy, and staff turnover. Furthermore, the ­discount rate valuation methods on which the valuations were based applied as of the balance sheet date must be determined for compliance with standards and appropriateness, in by reference to market yields on high-quality corporate addition to other procedures. In addition, we analyzed 221 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Other Information Responsibilities of the Executive ­Directors Furthermore, the executive directors are responsible for The executive directors are responsible for the other and the Supervisory Board for the the preparation of the group management report that, information. The other information comprises the state­Consolidated Financial Statements and as a whole, provides an appropriate view of the Group’s ment on corporate governance pursuant to § 289f HGB the Group Management Report position and is, in all material respects, consistent with and § 315d HGB. The executive directors are responsible for the preparathe consolidated financial statements, complies with tion of the consolidated financial statements that comply, German legal requirements, and appropriately presThe other information comprises further the remaining in all material respects, with IFRSs as adopted by the ents the opportunities and risks of future development. parts of the annual report – excluding cross-references to EU and the additional requirements of German comIn addition, the executive directors are responsible for external information – with the exception of the audited mercial law pursuant to § 315e Abs. 1 HGB and that such arrangements and measures (systems) as they consolidated financial statements, the audited group the consolidated financial statements, in compliance have considered necessary to enable the preparation of management report and our auditor’s report, and the with these requirements, give a true and fair view of the a group management report that is in accordance with separate non-financial report pursuant to § 289b Abs. assets, liabilities, financial position, and financial perforthe applicable German legal requirements, and to be 3 HGB and § 315b Abs. 3 HGB. mance of the Group. In addition the executive directors able to provide sufficient appropriate evidence for the are responsible for such internal control as they have assertions in the group management report. Our audit opinions on the consolidated financial statedetermined necessary to enable the preparation of conments and on the group management report do not solidated financial statements that are free from material The supervisory board is responsible for overseeing the cover the other information, and consequently we do not misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Group’s financial reporting process for the preparation of express an audit opinion or any other form of assurance the consolidated financial statements and of the group conclusion thereon. In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the management report. executive directors are responsible for assessing the In connection with our audit, our responsibility is to read Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. They the other information and, in so doing, to consider whethalso have the responsibility for disclosing, as applicable, er the other information matters related to going concern. In addition, they are responsible for financial reporting based on the going ›› is materially inconsistent with the consolidated concern basis of accounting unless there is an intention financial statements, with the group management to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or there is report or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or no realistic alternative but to do so. ›› otherwise appears to be materially misstated. 222 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of We exercise professional judgment and maintain profes›› Conclude on the appropriateness of the ­executive the Consolidated Financial Statements and sional skepticism throughout the audit. We also: directors’ use of the going concern basis of of the Group Management Report accounting and, based on the audit evidence Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about ›› Identify and assess the risks of material misstate­obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole ment of the consolidated financial statements and related to events or conditions that may cast are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud of the group management report, whether due to significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue or error, and whether the group management report as fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures as a going concern. If we conclude that a material a whole provides an appropriate view of the Group’s responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention position and, in all material respects, is consistent with that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis in the auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements and the knowledge for our audit opinions. The risk of not detecting a the consolidated financial statements and in the obtained in the audit, complies with the German legal material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher group management report or, if such disclosures requirements and appropriately presents the opportunithan for one resulting from error, as fraud may are inadequate, to modify our respective audit ties and risks of future development, as well as to issue involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, opinions. Our conclusions are based on the audit an auditor’s report that includes our audit opinions on ­misrepresentations, or the override of internal evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s the consolidated financial statements and on the group control. report. However, future events or conditions may management report. ›› Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant cause the Group to cease to be able to continue as to the audit of the consolidated financial statements a going concern. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is and of arrangements and measures (systems) ›› Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance ­relevant to the audit of the group management content of the consolidated financial statements, with § 317 HGB and the EU Audit Regulation and in report in order to design audit procedures that including the disclosures, and whether the consoli­ compliance with German Generally Accepted Standards are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for dated financial statements present the underlying for Financial Statement Audits promulgated by the Institut the purpose of expressing an audit opinion on the transactions and events in a manner that the conder Wirtschaftsprüfer (IDW) will always detect a material ­effectiveness of these systems. solidated financial statements give a true and fair misstatement. Misstatements can arise from fraud or ›› Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and error and are considered material if, individually or in used by the executive directors and the reasonablefinancial performance of the Group in compliance the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to ness of estimates made by the executive directors with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and the additional influence the economic decisions of users taken on the and related disclosures. requirements of German commercial law pursuant basis of these consolidated financial statements and this to § 315e Abs. 1 HGB. group management report. 223 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information ›› Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence We communicate with those charged with governance OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY regarding the financial information of the entities regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and REQUIREMENTS or business activities within the Group to express timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including audit opinions on the consolidated financial stateany significant deficiencies in internal control that we Further Information pursuant to Article 10 of ments and on the group management report. We identify during our audit. the EU Audit Regulation are responsible for the direction, supervision and We were elected as group auditor by the annual general performance of the group audit. We remain solely We also provide those charged with governance with meeting on May 23, 2019. We were engaged by the responsible for our audit opinions. a statement that we have complied with the relevant supervisory board on August 2, 2019. We have been ›› Evaluate the consistency of the group management ­independence requirements, and communicate with the group auditor of the LANXESS Aktiengesellschaft, report with the consolidated financial statements, them all relationships and other matters that may ­Cologne, without interruption since the financial year its conformity with German law, and the view of the ­reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, 2005. Group’s position it provides. and where applicable, the related safeguards. ›› Perform audit procedures on the prospective We declare that the audit opinions expressed in this information presented by the executive directors From the matters communicated with those charged with auditor’s report are consistent with the additional report in the group management report. On the basis governance, we determine those matters that were of to the audit committee pursuant to Article 11 of the EU of sufficient appropriate audit evidence we evalmost significance in the audit of the consolidated finanAudit Regulation (long-form audit report). uate, in particular, the significant assumptions cial statements of the current period and are therefore used by the executive directors as a basis for the the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our GERMAN PUBLIC A ­ UDITOR prospective ­information, and evaluate the proper auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public ­RESPONSIBLE FOR THE derivation of the prospective information from these disclosure about the matter. ­ENGAGEMENT assumptions. We do not express a separate audit opinion on the prospective information and on the The German Public Auditor responsible for the engage­assumptions used as a basis. There is a s­ ubstantial ment is Jörg Sechser.” unavoidable risk that future events will differ ­materially from the prospective information. Cologne, 28 February 2020 PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Jörg Sechser ppa. Martin Krug German Public Auditor German Public Auditor 224 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS FURTHER INFORMATION 226 About this Report 229 Non-financial Group Report: Independent Assurance Report 231 Environmental and Safety Performance Data: Independent Assurance Report 233 GRI Content Index 239 Sustainability Initiatives and Indices 240 Financial Calendar/Contacts CONTENTS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information About This Report REPORTING METHODOLOGY ✓ standard ISAE 3000 (revised) by PricewaterhouseCoo✓ Within the non-financial report, we generally use the NFB pers GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft on behalf NFB international standards of the Global Reporting Initiative This report combines financial and sustainability reportof the Supervisory Board. The audit report can be found (GRI) as the framework for the materiality analysis and ing by the LANXESS Group. It is aligned to national and on page 229 of this report. The reporting year is 2019. reporting on management approaches and on general international standards for financial and sustainability reThe report covers the Group companies that are also and topic-specific disclosures. Information on our busiporting, especially the International Financial Reporting included in the consolidated financial statements. Unless ness model can be found in the combined management Standards (IFRS), German accounting standards (DRS) indicated otherwise, the disclosures apply to the entire ­report of the LANXESS Group and LANXESS AG on and the principles of the U.N. Global Compact. This report Group. References to disclosures not included in the page 72 of this Annual Report. Information on environwas also created in compliance with the GRI standards combined management report of the LANXESS Group mental protection provisions can be found in Note [15] to (“core” option). and LANXESS AG or in the consolidated financial statethe consolidated financial statements for fiscal year 2019. ments represent further information and do not form part This report contains information according to the transof the non-financial Group report. parency requirements of the U.K. Modern Slavery Act. The complete “Slavery and human trafficking statement” can be viewed on the British LANXESS website in the Index to the Non-financial Statement The complete “Slavery and human Corporate Responsibility section under Commitment to Topics NFR issues Page trafficking statement” human rights. can be viewed on the Corporate Governance Human rights 22 et seq. British LANXESS webAnti-corruption 23 et seq. site in the Corporate Responsibility section Reporting is performed annually. The last report for fiscal Resilient Sourcing Establishment of a systematic sustainability risk analysis Environmental issues 39 under Commitment to year 2018 was published in March 2019. to evaluate all suppliers Human rights 22 et seq. human rights. Environmental issues 39 Identification and reduction of sustainability risks in the supply chain Human rights 22 et seq. Safe and Sustainable Sites Uniform standards and processes worldwide Environmental issues 20 et seq. ✓ NON-FINANCIAL REPORTING Global process safety Environmental issues 40 et seq. NFB Corporate citizenship Social issues 45 et seq. In the Corporate Responsibility section from page 10 Climate Action and Energy Emissions Environmental issues 46 et seq. Efficiency Energy efficiency Environmental issues 49 et seq. of this Annual Report, we fulfill our obligation to issue a Energized Employees and Employee retention Employee issues 29 non-financial Group report. The non-financial disclosures Performing Teams Employee development Employee issues 26 et seq. required in accordance with Sections 315b and 315c Occupational safety Employee issues 35 et seq. in conjunction with Sections 289c to 289e HGB and Employee welfare/work-life balance Employee issues 34 shown separately in the layout were prepared by the Board of Management and reviewed by the Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG. The non-financial report and the associated data collection processes have undergone a review with limited assurance in line with the auditing 226 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information DATA COLLECTION We use electronic data capture systems for the ­systematic global recording of key performance indicators (KPIs) The reporting year is 2019. In compiling the data, we in the areas of safety and environmental protection. applied the principles of balance, comparability, accuThe two performance indicators we use to measure racy, timeliness, clarity and reliability. The report ­covers occupational safety – the lost time injury ­frequency rate the Group companies that are also included in the con(LTIFR, known as MAQ in Germany) and the recordable solidated financial statements. We expect the sale of all incident rate (RIR) – apply to all sites. Environmental operations of the Leather business unit to be completed protection data are gathered only at those production by the end of 2020. In our financial reporting, we theresites in which the company has a holding of more than fore recognize Leather as a discontinued operation in 50%. With regard to the collection of emissions data, accordance with IFRS 5 as of December 31, 2019 (see we have taken into account the recommendations of page 73). However, as LANXESS had corporate responthe Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol) and the sibility for all activities of the business unit for the whole International Energy Agency (IEA). To ensure the quality of fiscal year 2019, data from Leather continue to be of data, P ­ ricewaterhouseCoopers has audited selected included in our sustainability indicators. key figures with limited assurance. These are identified accordingly in the report. For disclosure of HR key figures, LANXESS uses a global reporting system that contains the key e ­ mployee data for the entire Group. KEY REPORT CONTENT The content of the report for fiscal year 2019 is based on a materiality analysis performed in the fourth quarter of 2017. All key issues identified are described in detail in this report. The following table identifies the boundaries (GRI 103-1) between the key issues and the GRI standards that they cover. 227 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Boundaries Key issues Within the organization Outside the organization Management approach (GRI 103-2, 103-3)/ associated GRI standard (2016)1) Advanced Intermediates/­Speciality Additives/ Suppliers Customers Society Performance ­Chemicals/Engineering Materials Good Corporate Governance X X X X Management approach: p. 19–24, 60–64 GRI 205: Anti-corruption GRI 206: Anticompetitive Behavior GRI 307: Environmental Compliance GRI 406: Non-discrimination GRI 408: Child Labor GRI 409: Forced Labor GRI 410: Security Practices GRI 411: Indigenous Rights GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment GRI 415: Public Policy GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling GRI 418: Customer Privacy GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance Energized Employees and ­Performing X X Management approach: p. 17–18, 20–21, 24–38 Teams GRI 202: Market Presence GRI 401: Employment GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety GRI 404: Training and Education GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Resilient Sourcing X X Management approach: p. 16, 21–22, 39, 79–80 GRI 204: Procurement Practices GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment Safe and Sustainable Sites X X Management approach: p. 16, 20–21, 40–46 GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste GRI 413: Local Communities Climate Action and Energy Efficiency X X X X Management approach: p. 17, 20–21, 46–50 GRI 302: Energy GRI 305: Emissions Sustainable Product Portfolio X X X Management approach: p. 18, 51–52 GRI 301: Materials GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling Business-Driven Innovation X X Management approach: p. 19, 53, 81 Valuing Customer Relationships X X Management approach: p. 13, 19, 54 1) 2016, if not stated otherwise. 228 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Non-financial Group Report: Independent Assurance Report INDEPENDENT PRACTITIONER’S This responsibility of Company’s executive directors Wirtschaftsprüferpraxis – IDW QS 1) – and ­accordingly ­REPORT ON A LIMITED ASSURANCE ­includes the selection and application of appropriate maintains a comprehensive system of quality control inENGAGEMENT ON NON-FINANCIAL methods of non-financial reporting as well as ­making cluding documented policies and procedures regarding REPORTING1) assumptions and estimates related to individual compliance with ethical requirements, professional stan­non-­financial disclosures which are reasonable in the dards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. “To LANXESS AG, Cologne circumstances. Furthermore, the executive directors are responsible for such internal control as they have Practitioner�s Responsibility We have performed a limited assurance engagement considered neces-sary to enable the preparation of a Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance on the separate non-financial group report pursuant to Non-financial Report that is free from material misstateconclusion on the Non-financial Report based on the § (Article) 315b Abs. (paragraph) 3 HGB (“Handels­ ment whether due to fraud or error. assurance engagement we have performed. geset zbuch”: “German Commercial Code”) of LANXESS AG, Cologne, (hereinafter the “Company”) Independence and Quality Control of Within the scope of our engagement, we did not perform for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2019 the Audit Firm an audit on external sources of information or expert (hereinafter the “Non-financial Report”). We have complied with the German professional proviopinions, referred to in the Non-financial Report. sions regarding independence as well as other ethical Responsibilities of the Executive Directors requirements. We conducted our assurance engagement in accordance The executive directors of the Company are responsiwith the International Standard on Assurance Engageble for the preparation of the Non-financial Report in Our audit firm applies the national legal requirements ments (ISAE) 3000 (Revised): Assurance Engagements accordance with §§ 315c in conjunction with 289c to and professional standards – in particular the Profesother than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial 289e HGB. sional Code for German Public Auditors and German ­Information, issued by the IAASB. This Standard requires Chartered Auditors (“Berufssatzung für Wirtschaftsthat we plan and perform the assurance engagement to prüfer und ver­eidigte Buchprüfer“: “BS WP/vBP”) as allow us to conclude with limited assurance that nothing well as the ­Standard on Quality Control 1 published has come to our attention that causes us to believe that by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (Institute of ­Public the Company’s Non-financial Re-port for the period from Auditors in Germany; IDW): Requirements to ­quality con1 January 2019 to 31 December 2019 has not been trol for audit firms (IDW Qualitätssicherungs­standard 1: prepared, in all material aspects, in accordance with ­A nforderungen an die Qualitätssicherung in der §§ 315c in conjunction with 289c to 289e HGB. 1) PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH has performed a limited assurance engagement on the German version of the separate non-financial group report and issued an independent ­assurance report in German language, which is authoritative. The following text is a translation of the independent assurance report. 229 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information In a limited assurance engagement the assurance proceAssurance Conclusion dures are less in extent than for a reasonable assurance Based on the assurance procedures performed and engagement, and therefore a substantially lower level assurance evidence obtained, nothing has come to our of assurance is obtained. The assurance procedures attention that causes us to believe that the Company’s selected depend on the practitioner’s judgment. Non-financial Report for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2019 has not been prepared, in all material Within the scope of our assurance engagement, we aspects, in accordance with §§ 315c in conjunction with performed amongst others the following assurance 289c to 289e HGB. procedures and further activities: Intended Use of the Assurance Report ›› Obtaining an understanding of the structure of the We issue this report on the basis of the engagement sustainability organization and of the stakeholder agreed with the Company. The assurance engagement engagement has been performed for purposes of the Company and ›› Inquiries of relevant personnel involved in the the report is solely intended to inform the Company about preparation of the Non-financial Report regarding the results of the limited assurance engagement. The the preparation process, the internal control report is not intended for any third parties to base any system relating to this process and selected (financial) decision thereon. Our responsibility lies only disclosures in the Non-financial Report with the Company. We do not assume any responsibility ›› Identification of the likely risks of material towards third parties. misstatement of the Non-financial Report ›› Analytical evaluation of selected disclosures in the Cologne, 28 February 2020 Non-financial Report ›› Comparison of selected disclosures with PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH corresponding data in the consolidated financial Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft statements and in the group management report ›› Evaluation of the presentation of the non-financial Hendrik Fink ppa. Juliane v. Clausbruch” information German public auditor 230 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Environmental and Safety Performance Data: Independent Assurance Report ­INDEPENDENT PRACTITIONER’S This responsibility of Company’s executive directors system of quality control including documented p ­ olicies ­REPORT ON A LIMITED ASSURANCE includes the selection and application of appropriate and procedures regarding compliance with ethical ENGAGEMENT ON SUSTAINABILITY methods to prepare the “Environmental and Safety requirements, professional standards and applicable INFORMATION1) ­Performance Data” table as well as making assumplegal and regulatory requirements. tions and estimates related to individual sustainability “To LANXESS AG, Cologne disclosures, which are reasonable in the circumstances. Practitioner�s Responsibility Furthermore, the executive directors are responsible for Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance We have performed a limited assurance engagement such internal control as they have considered necessary ­c onclusion on the sustainability information in the on data in the “Environmental and Safety Performance to enable the preparation of the “Environmental and ­“Environmental and Safety Performance Data” table Data” table included in the “Safe and sustainable sites” Safety Performance Data” table that is free from material based on the assurance engagement we have performed. section of the “Corporate Responsibility” chapter in the misstatement whether due to fraud or error. Annual Report 2019 of LANXESS AG, Cologne (hereWe conducted our assurance engagement in accorinafter: “the Company”), for the period from 1 January Independence and Quality Control of dance with the International Standard on Assurance to 31 December 2019. the Audit Firm ­Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised): Assurance EngageWe have complied with the German professional proviments other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Responsibilities of the Executive Directors sions regarding independence as well as other ethical Information, issued by the IAASB. This Standard requires The executive directors of the Company are responsirequirements. that we plan and perform the assurance engagement to ble for the preparation of the the “Environmental and allow us to conclude with limited assurance that nothing Safety Performance Data” table in accordance with Our audit firm applies the national legal requirements and has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the the principles stated in the Sustainability Reporting professional standards – in particular the P ­ rofessional disclosures in the “Environmental and Safety Performance ­Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (herein­after: Code for German Public Auditors and German Chartered Data” table for the period from 1 January to 31 December “GRI-Criteria”). Auditors (“Berufssatzung für Wirtschaftsprüfer und verei2019 have not been prepared, in all material aspects, in digte Buchprüfer“: “BS WP/vBP”) as well as the ­Standard accordance with the relevant GRI-Criteria. on Quality Control 1 published by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (Institute of Public Auditors in ­Germany; In a limited assurance engagement, the assurance proceIDW): Requirements to quality control for audit firms dures are less in extent than for a reasonable assurance (IDW Qualitätssicherungsstandard 1: Anforderungen an engagement and therefore a substantially lower level die Qualitätssicherung in der Wirtschaftsprüferpraxis – of assurance is obtained. The assurance procedures IDW QS 1) – and accordingly maintains a comprehensive selected depend on the practitioner’s judgment. 1) PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH has performed a limited assurance engagement on the German version of the “Environmental and Safety Performance Data” table included in the “Safe and sustainable sites” section of the “Corporate Responsibility” chapter in the Annual Report 2019 of LANXESS AG and issued an independent assurance report in German language, which is authoritative. The following text is a translation of the independent assurance report. 231 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Within the scope of our assurance engagement, we Intended Use of the Assurance Report performed amongst others the following assurance We issue this report on the basis of the engagement procedures and further activities: agreed with the Company. The assurance engagement has been performed for purposes of the Company and ›› Inquiries of personnel involved in the preparation the report is solely intended to inform the Company as for reporting the environmental and safety to the results of the assurance engagement. The report performance data regarding the preparation is not intended to provide third parties with support in process, the underlying internal control system making (financial) decisions. Our responsibility lies solely and the environmental and safety data toward the Company. We do not assume any responsi›› Identification of potential risks of material bility towards third parties. misstatements based on the GRI criteria ›› Analytical procedures on the environmental and Cologne, 28 February 2020 safety data ›› Assessment of the presentation of the environPricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH mental and safety data in the “Environmental and Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Safety Performance Data” table Hendrik Fink ppa. Juliane v. Clausbruch“ Assurance Conclusion Wirtschaftsprüfer Based on the assurance procedures performed and (German Public Auditor) assurance evidence obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the disclosures in the “Environmental and Safety Performance Data” table of the Company for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2019 have not been prepared, in all material aspects, in accordance with the relevant GRI-Criteria. 232 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information GRI Content Index GRI disclosure Location Comments and online annexes UNGC GRI disclosure Location Comments and online annexes UNGC GRI 101: Foundation 2016 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms p. 19–24 10 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 of behavior ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE GOVERNANCE 102-01 Name of the organization LANXESS AG 102-18 Governance structure p. 60–63 10 102-02 Activities, brands, products, p. 75–76 lanxess.com/en/ and services Products-and-Solutions STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-03 Location of headquarters Cologne, Germany 102-40 List of stakeholder groups p. 13–14 lanxess.com/en/Responsibility/ 102-04 Location of operations p. 75–76, lanxess.com/en/Company/Locations Approach/Stakeholder-Dialogue 88–89 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements p. 38 3 102-05 Ownership and legal form p. 57, 73 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders p. 13–14 lanxess.com/en/Responsibility/ 102-06 Markets served p. 80, 82–83, Approach/Stakeholder-Dialogue 88–89 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement p. 13–14, lanxess.com/en/Responsibility/ 102-07 Scale of the organization p. 3, 44, 104 28–29, 36–37, Approach/Stakeholder-Dialogue 102-08 Information on employees and other p. 32 6 51–54 workers 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised p. 13–14, lanxess.com/en/Responsibility/ 102-09 Supply chain p. 39, 79–80 51–54 Approach/Stakeholder-Dialogue 102-10 Significant changes to the organization p. 73–74, and its supply chain 160–165 REPORTING PRACTICE 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach p. 53, 81, 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated p. 164–165 120–122 financial statements 102-12 External initiatives p. 11–14, https://bildung.lanxess.de/ 102-46 Defining report content and topic p. 14–15 lanxess.com/en/Responsibility/ 21–22, 30, Boundaries Approach/Material-Topics 43, 48, 49, 102-47 List of material topics p. 14, 228 239 102-48 Restatements of information p. 227 102-13 Membership of associations p. 39, 51–52, 102-49 Changes in reporting p. 159–164, 239 227 102-50 Reporting period p. 227 STRATEGY 102-51 Date of most recent report p. 226 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker p. 4 102-52 Reporting cycle p. 226 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities p. 6–9, 11–13, lanxess.com/en/Responsibility 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding p. 241 47, 118–133 the report 233 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information GRI disclosure Location Comments and online annexes UNGC GRI disclosure Location Comments and online annexes UNGC 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with p. 226 the GRI Standards GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 102-55 GRI content index p. 233–238 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services p. 45–46 lanxess.com/en/Responsibility/ 102-56 External assurance p. 229–232 supported Societal-Added-Value GRI 200: ECONOMIC STANDARD GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers p. 79–80 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its p. 23–24, GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 Boundary 72–133, 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to p. 23–24 10 134–217, 228 corruption 103-2 The management approach and its p. 6–9, 228, 205-2 Communication and training about p. 23–24 10 components anti-corruption policies and procedures 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 6–9, 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and p. 24 10 56–58, 228, actions taken GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior 2016 201-1 Direct economic value generated and p. 45, 103, 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavThe company was not involved in any distributed 136, 197, 212 ior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices legal actions regarding anti-competitive 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and p. 178–186 behavior or violations of antitrust law other retirement plans in 2019. GRI 202: Market Presence 2016 GRI 300: ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by An employee’s individual income is gender compared to local minimum based on his or her responsibilities GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 wage and performance. As well as collec103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its p. 39–50, lanxess.com/en/Responsibility/ tive agreements that are the basis for Boundary 228 References/Certifications the compensation of non-managerial 103-2 The management approach and its p. 14–18, staff in Germany and many other components 20–22, countries, legal requirements such 39–50, 228 as minimum wage levels are also 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 9, 14–18, important in ensuring fair compen20–22, sation. In Germany, for example, we 39–50, 228 obtain temporary employees only from agencies that are covered by the GRI 301: Materials 2016 collective agreement for temporary employment. In addition, the chem301-1 Materials used by weight or volume p. 39, 79–80 7, 8 ical industry pays industry-specific supplements. GRI 302: Energy 2016 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired p. 28 302-1 Energy consumption within the p. 44 7, 8 from the local community ­organization 302-2 Energy consumption outside the p. 44 7, 8 organization 302-3 Energy intensity p. 49–50 8 234 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information GRI disclosure Location Comments and online annexes UNGC GRI disclosure Location Comments and online annexes UNGC 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption p. 49–50 7, 8, 9 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of p. 49–50, 53 https://new-mobility.lanxess.com/ GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016 products and services 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental Should material cases occur, these 7, 8 laws and regulations would have to be reported in the GRI 303: Water and Efflluents 2018 audited financial statements. 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared p. 41–42 lanxess.com/en/Responsibility/ 7, 8, 9 resource Material-Topics/Safe-andGRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 sustainable-sites 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using p. 39 8 environmental criteria lanxess.com/en/Responsibility/ 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the p. 39 8 Material-Topics/Business-Drivensupply chain and actions taken Innovation 303-2 Management of water discharge-related p. 41–42 7, 8 GRI 400: SOCIAL STANDARDS impacts 303-3 Water withdrawal p. 41–42, 44 7, 8 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 303-4 Water discharge p. 41–42, 44 7, 8 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its p. 20–23, 303-5 Water consumption p. 41–42, 44 7, 8 Boundary 24–39, 45–46, GRI 305: Emissions 2016 51–52, 228 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions p. 44, 48 7, 8 103-2 The management approach and its p. 14–18, lanxess.com/en/Responsibility/ 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG p. 44, 48 7, 8 components 20–23, References/Certifications emissions 24–39, 45–46, 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions p. 49 7, 8 51–52, 228 305-4 GHG emissions intensity p. 48 8 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 9, 14–18, lanxess.com/en/Responsibility/ 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions p. 48 lanxess.com/en/Responsibility/ 8, 9 20–23, Material-Topics/EnergizedMaterial-Topics/Business-Driven24–39, employees-and-performing-teams Innovation 45–46, 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting p. 44 7 51–52, 228 substances (ODS) 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NO X), sulfur oxides p. 44, 49 7, 8 GRI 401: Employment 2016 (SO X), and other significant air emissions 401-1 New employee hires and employee p. 26, 29–30 6 turnover GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees p. 32–35 6 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method p. 42–44 7, 8 that are not provided to temporary or 306-2 Significant spills Of a total of 15 relevant incidents, 7, 8 part-time employees seven related to facilities acquired 401-3 Parental leave p. 34–35 in the last years. At the site in ­Charleston, U.S., substances were released during unloading on two ­occasions: The release of chlorine while unloading a tanker resulted in the evacuation of the site, and the release of phosphorous from a container caused a fire. At the site in Trafford Park, Great Britain, the release of thermal oil in a boiler house likewise caused a fire. 235 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information GRI disclosure Location Comments and online annexes UNGC GRI disclosure Location Comments and online annexes UNGC 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in Protecting the health and safety of our GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 2016 formal agreements with trade unions employees is a regular aspect of the 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding In accordance with the German 3 dialog between employee and emoperational changes Works Constitution Act, LANXESS is ployer representatives in all countries obliged to inform the Works Council where collective agreements apply. fully and in good time of any planned In Germany, and going above and beoperational changes that could result yond legal requirements, agreements in material disadvantage to all or exist with employee representatives substantial parts of the workforce. as well as for occupational health The Economics Committee is also management and company integration informed on a regular basis about the management. The operational teams company’s economic affairs. We fully are managed by steering committees comply with our legal obligations with made up equally of employer and respect to the responsible bodies. Simemployee representatives. ilar requirements applicable in other countries are always complied with. GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 404-1 Average hours of training per year per p. 26–28 6 employee GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills p. 26–28, 38 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint Protecting the health and safety of our and transition assistance programs management-worker health and safety employees is a regular aspect of the 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving At present, all managers worldwide 6 committees dialog between employee and emregular performance and career r­ eceive an annual, system-based ployer representatives in all countries development reviews performance assessment and where collective agreements apply. ­development planning. As part of In Germany, and going above and beour corporate culture, all managers yond legal requirements, agreements and employees are called upon to exist with employee representatives give each other regular feedback, as well as for occupational health e.g. in regular review meetings. The management and company integration system-based solution is available management. The operational teams to all managers as well as selectare managed by steering committees ed non-management employees. made up equally of employer and ­Individual targets were also agreed employee representatives. with a majority of employees. 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, p. 37, 44 occupational diseases,lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 236 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information GRI disclosure Location Comments and online annexes UNGC GRI disclosure Location Comments and online annexes UNGC GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 GRI 410: Security Practices 2016 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and p. 30–32, 6 410-1 Security personnel trained in human LANXESS does not employ its own 1, 2 employees 62–63, rights policies or procedures security personnel at its sites but 65–66 procures security services from 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of For non-managerial employees, 6 specialized external providers. They, women to men collective agreements mean there like all our suppliers, are subject to are no notable differences between our Supplier Code of Conduct, which the salaries of female and male also covers human rights. In addition, employees. Managers’ compensation professional security providers is based on their responsibilities and contracted by LANXESS are subject to performance and also on aspects the relevant security legislation in each such as industry and managerial country. In South Africa, for example, experience. security personnel undergo regular training, which is documented and GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 complies with the requirements of the Private Security Industry Regulatory 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and p. 22–23 6 Authority of South Africa (PSIRA). corrective actions taken GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples 2016 GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of Our employees and external third 1, 2 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the p. 38 3 indigenous peoples parties can use the Integrity Line to right to freedom of association and report grievances concerning the collective bargaining may be at risk violation of indigenous rights. In fiscal year 2019, we received no reports or GRI 408: Child Labor 2016 other indications of cases involving 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant p. 21–23 1, 2, 5 the violation of indigenous rights. risk for incidents of child labor GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant p. 21–23 1, 2, 4 risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor 237 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information GRI disclosure Location Comments and online annexes UNGC GRI disclosure Location Comments and online annexes UNGC GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016 GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 412-1 Operations that have been subject p. 22–23 1, 2 417-1 Requirements for product and service p. 51–52 to human rights reviews or impact information and labeling assessments 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning Our employees and external third 412-2 Employee training on human rights p. 22–23 1, 2 product and service information and parties can use the Integrity Line policies or procedures labeling to report grievances concerning 412-3 Significant investment agreements and p. 22–23 1, 2 non-compliance with regulations and contracts that include human rights voluntary codes concerning product clauses or that underwent human rights and service information. We received screening no indications of corresponding noncompliance for fiscal year 2019. GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 413-1 Operations with local community p. 45–46, 52 lanxess.com/en/Responsibility/ GRI 418: Customer Privacy engagement, impact assessment, and Societal-Added-Value 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning Our employees and external third development program breaches of customer privacy and losses parties can use the Integrity Line 413-2 Operations with significant actual and p. 13, 40–44, of customer data to report complaints regarding potential negative impacts on local 50 customer data privacy. In fiscal year communities 2019, we received no reports or other indications of complaints regarding GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using p. 39 1, 2 social criteria 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply p. 39 1, 2 GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance chain and actions taken 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and Should material cases occur, these r­ egulations in the social and economic would have to be reported in the area audited financial statements. GRI 415: Public Policy 2016 415-1 Political contributions p. 23 lanxess.com/en/Responsibility/ 10 Approach/Stakeholder-Dialogue GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety p. 39, 51–52 lanxess.com/en/Responsibility/ impacts of product and service Societal-Added-Value/Productcategories Portfolio-Assessment 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning Our employees and external third the health and safety impacts of ­parties can use the Integrity Line products and services to r­ eport grievances concerning non-compliance with regulations ­concerning health and safety. We ­received no indications of corres­ ponding non-compliance for fiscal year 2019. 238 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information We Support WE SUPPORT unglobalcompact.org responsible-care.de chemiehochdrei.de wbcsd.org cdp.net tfs-initiative.com sustainabledevelopment.un.org LANXESS Stock in Sustainability Indices sustainability-indices.com ftse.com/products/indices/FTSE4Good 239 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Contents To our Stockholders Strategy Corporate Responsibility LANXESS on the Capital Market Corporate Governance Management Report Financial Statements Further Information Financial Calendar 2020 MAY AUG NOV MAY 6 AUGUST 13 NOVEMBER 5 Quarterly Statement Half-Year Financial Report Quarterly Statement Q1 2020 H1 2020 Q3 2020 Conference Call Conference Call Conference Call MAY 13 Annual Stockholders’ Meeting Cologne JAN FEB MAR APR JUN JUL SEP OCT DEC 240 Annual Report 2019 | LANXESS Geschäftsbericht Contacts & Masthead MASTHEAD CONTACTS LANXESS AG Corporate Communications Kennedyplatz 1 Christiane Minderjahn 50569 Cologne, Germany Tel. +49 (0) 221 8885 2674 Tel. +49 (0) 221 8885 0 mediarelations@lanxess.com www.lanxess.com Investor Relations Consultancy: André Simon Kirchhoff Consult AG, Hamburg, Germany Tel. +49 (0) 221 8885 3494 ir@lanxess.com Design and production: Kirchhoff Consult AG, Hamburg, Germany Date of publication: March 11, 2020 This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements based future results, financial situation, development or performance of on current assumptions and forecasts made by LANXESS AG the company and the estimates given here. The company assumes management. Various known and unknown risks, uncertainties and no liability whatsoever to update these forward-looking statements other factors could lead to material differences between the actual or to conform them to future events or developments. PUBLISHER LANXESS AG 50569 Cologne www.lanxess.com
