COP 2019 ENSURING SUSTAINABILITY ALL ALONG CEO STATEMENT 14.12.2020 António Gutierres Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. Secretary-General, 2019 was an important year for Sprinklr given We recognize that a key requirement for that our Sustainability Management System participation in the Global Compact is submitting was fully implemented and proved very an annual Communication on Progress (COP). We successful. We obtained international commit to yearly communicate the initiatives we recognition, such as an Ecovadis Gold have implemented according to the Global Standard, which brings us closer to all our Compact COP policy, which includes: stakeholders and to our main cause: A statement signed by the Chief Executive addressing sustainability in all we do. expressing continuous support for the Global Moreover, 2019 was the year we introduced Compact and renewing our ongoing greater digitalization into our internal commitment to the initiative and its systems, such as in HR, enabling our processes principles. and procedures to be better monitored A description of the practical actions we and run more effectively In a world subject to have undertaken to implement ever increasing international competition. The Ten Principles. Backed by a solid organizational structure and Measurement of outcomes of our initiatives. years of experience, our company continues to I am personally committed to transform itself with a continuous supporting the Global Compact and acknowledge improvement mindset at the heart of all that that we all have a role to play we do. in this initiative. Respecting the Ten Principles of the UNGC and engaging our Sprinklr, by embracing the values of the UNGC stakeholders is very important to us. and displaying a responsible attitude, is ready to respond to the social, environmental and Sincerely yours, economic challenges of today's world. Ragy ThomasCEO CONTENT COMPANY OVERVIEW 150 STAKEHOLDERS & BILLION SUSTAINABILITY 10 UN PRINCIPLES: IMPLEMENTATION & RESULTS 3 COMPANY OVERVIEW Every day, thousands of the world's largest companies use Sprinklr to market, advertise, research, care, and engage consumers across 23 social channels, 11 messaging channels, chat, SMS, and email. Sprinklr is the only platform for all digital customer experiences. Purpose-built to break down silos. BOARD OF DIRECTORS 4 PRODUCTS & SERVICES Customers use Sprinklr to generate 100's of millions of dollars in value – across 45 common use cases that are pre-configured, easily enabled and come with built-in value realization dashboards to track progress towards their goals. Our foremost goal through our suite of professional services is to ensure that customers consistently find a return on your investment and reach new levels of success as a business. We apply the right mix of advisory and hands-on support across people and process optimization to make sure that they are successful in their digital transformation journeys. 5 STAKEHOLDERS People Communities and Society Expectations: Sprinklr employees want to work in the best Expectations: Civil society and local communities expect from Sprinklr possible working conditions, to have the opportunity to a positive socio-economic impact from the Group’s operations, job evolve and grow inside the company, and to be recognized creation, new technologies and the use of digital solutions to drive for their achievements. progress while preserving the environment. Challenges: Wellbeing@Work, Employee engagement, Brand Challenges: Savings, Performance, License to operate. appeal. Value created by Sprinklr: Reduce and offset environmental impacts, Value created by Sprinklr: Generate employees’ satisfaction, Generate sustainable profits on operations to support innovation, Have Develop knowledge and skills, Focus on Talent Management, a positive and long-term impact on local economies, Power social Encourage social collaboration, Instill Sprinklr culture. progress and digital inclusion. Clients and partners Suppliers Investors and Analysts Expectations: Against a backdrop of dramatic Expectations: Sprinklr has developed a Expectations: Sprinklr investors expect technological and social change, Sprinklr's clients strong ecosystem of suppliers to help it profitability, clarity and transparency. They expect to benefit from the right digital tools and build new services and reach new markets. need to be informed about the Group expertise to meet their own challenges and to Sprinklr suppliers expect a long-term strategy and how Sprinklr will allocate its develop their own businesses. They expect contractual relationship from Sprinklr, based resources. Sprinklr to be a dependable, resourceful and on trust, fairness and shared ethical values. Challenges: Integrated thinking, committed partner on their digital Challenges: Collaboration, Knowledge Transparency, Credibility. transformation journey. sharing, Efficiency. Value created by Sprinklr: Develop longChallenges: Customer satisfaction, Client trust, Value created by Sprinklr: Guarantee high term relationships with investors, Disclose Anticipation of future clients’ needs. quality of services, Create synergies within publicly sustainability KPIs, Better integrate Value created by Sprinklr: Accelerate leadership, Sprinklr ecosystem, Minimize risks within non-financial and long-term factors. Develop market share, Build competitive the supply chain. advantages, Power innovative mindsets and capabilities. Maintain mutual trust with our business partners. 6 SUSTAINABILITY Supporting the transition to Being a responsible Generating value with coBeing an ethical and fair a low-carbon economy, employer, innovation and sustainable player within its sphere of Sprinklr is expected to Sprinklr has the business solutions, influence, improve the efficiency and responsibility Sprinklr is expected to Sprinklr takes responsibility resilience of its operations and ambition to support a design and deliver end-tofor securing strong and mitigate the risks arising diverse, talented and end solutions with its corporate governance and from natural disasters. motivated workforce, and partners’ ecosystem, applies worldwide ethical to provide its employees meeting the challenges of standards shared along the with the skills they need for its customers, including whole value chain. digital transformation. their security and data protection concerns. 7 ENVIRONMENT UN PRINCIPLES At Sprinklr, we are aware of the global challenges the environment is continuously facing and want Principle 7Businesses should support a to take an active role in assuring the impact of precautionary approach to environmental challenges; our activities is controlled, prevented and Principle 8undertake initiatives to promote greater measured in order to continuously improve. In this sense, we have developed this policy on environmental responsibility; and Environment and Sustainable Procurement to Principle 9encourage the development and diffusion establish a common understanding of our of environmentally friendly technologies principles, commitment and responsibilities. SDGs: 7, 12 & 13 To manage energy consumption, we commit to: To manage water impacts, we commit to: Measure, record, and report on significant energy • Identify the sources of water. consumption, using methods well defined in • Measure, record and report on our significant uses of water. internationally agreed standards. • Implement resource efficiency measures to reduce Realize energy savings wherever possible in the the production of water, considering best practice organization, including purchasing of energy efficient indicators and other benchmarks. goods and development of energy efficient products and services. Promote and train all employees on energy To promote social responsibility in our value chain, we recognize consumption best practices. our accountability in: • Integrating ethical, social, environmental and gender equality To manage climate change impacts and CO2 criteria, and health and safety, in our purchasing, distribution and emissions, we commit to: contracting policies and practices to improve consistency with • Identify the sources of CO2 emissions and define the social responsibility objectives. boundaries (scope) of our responsibility. • Encouraging other organizations to adopt similar policies, • Measure, record, and report on significant CO2 without indulging in anticompetitive behavior in so doing. emissions, using methods well defined in internationally • Carrying out appropriate due diligence and monitoring of the agreed standards. organizations with which we have relationships, with a view to • Implement optimized measures to progressively reduce and min preventing compromise of the organization's commitments to imize CO2 emissions within our control and social responsibility. encourage similar actions within our sphere of influence. • Promoting fair and practical treatment of the costs and benefits of implementing socially responsible practices throughout the To manage waste impacts, we commit to: value chain, including, where possible, enhancing the capacity of • Identify the sources of waste. organizations in the value chain to meet socially responsible • Measure, record and report on our significant uses of objectives. waste. • Implement resource efficiency measures to reduce the This includes adequate purchasing practices, such as ensuring that production of waste considering best practice indicators and fair prices are paid and that there are adequate delivery times and other benchmarks. stable contracts. • Use recycled materials and reuse waste as much as possible. • Promote sustainable procurement. • Promote sustainable consumption. 8 ENVIRONMENT RESULTS POLICIES & PROCEDURES CSR Statement Global Code of Conduct Risk Management Environment and Sustainable Procurement Policy Supplier Code of Conduct Ethical Philosophy 9 PEOPLE UN PRINCIPLES We believe that our workforce is vital to the Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association success of our business. We acknowledge that we and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; all spend a great deal of our lives at work, therefore our teams should be happy and fulfilled Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory in their working lives. labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. SDGs: 4 & 5 Health and Safety: Working Conditions: · Risk Assessment of Health and Safety in all offices (labor · Interactive communication sessions with employees with regards risks). to working conditions (e.g. seminar, working groups). · Provision of protective equipment to all impacted · Company-wide promotion of employee initiatives regarding employees, if applicable. working conditions, including encouraging employees to request · Formal targets to reduce occupational injury and illness changes to their working environment. rates. · Official measures to compensate atypical working hours. · Provide the possibility to create joint labor management · Official measures to promote work and life balance. and health and safety committees · Additional rest periods or vacations, above legal requirements . · Training / Newsletters to all employees on health and · Company-specific health care programs for employees. safety risks and good working practices. · Transparency (process and criteria communicated to all · Mandatory health check-ups for all employees. employees) on our remuneration system. · Regular inspections and/or audits to ensure safety of · Policy to have fixed salaries systematically above minimum legal equipment and facilities. requirements (when applicable). · Company Chart or code of conduct on personal usage of IT by Discrimination & Harassment employees. · Proactive measures to prevent discrimination during · Transparency to employees on security and monitoring devices. recruitment phase, such as not being required to specify gender, race, religion or age. Social Dialogue · Awareness training / newsletters to prevent · Public commitment to promote and facilitate structured labor discrimination and/or harassment. relations. · Auditing of internal controls to prevent discrimination · Local employee representative bodies. and/or harassment. · Provision of working conditions and infrastructure to Training & Career Management: accommodate employees with disabilities (e.g. work stations), · Transparent recruitment process (communicated clearly and if applicable. formally to all candidates). · Whistle-blower procedure on discrimination and · Regular assessment (at least once a year) of individual harassment. performance. · Measures to promote wage equality in the workplace · Setting of individual development and career plans for all (e.g. equal pay for equal work). employees. · Measures to promote gender and racial equality in the · Official measures promoting career mobility. workplace, such as being an equal opportunities employer. · Priority given to internal recruitment. · Provision of skills development training. · Official measures to anticipate or reduce layoffs and associated negative impacts (e.g. financial compensation, outplacement service). 10 PEOPLE UN PRINCIPLES Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. SDGs: 4 & 5 RESULTS POLICIES & PROCEDURES Global Family Leave Global Referral Policy Internal Mobility Guideline Ethical Trading Policy Security Manual CSR Statement Global Code of Conduct Risk Management Training Policy Guideline Internal audit & Controls Ethical Philosophy Working from Home Policy 11 ECONOMY It is our policy to conduct all of our business in an UN PRINCIPLES honest and ethical manner. We take a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption and Principle 10: Businesses should work against are committed to acting professionally, fairly and with integrity in all our corruption in all its forms, including extortion and business dealings and relationships, bribery. wherever we operate. Further, we actively implement SDGs: 8 & 10 and enforce effective systems to counter bribery and corruption. We will uphold all laws relevant to countering bribery and corruption in all the jurisdictions in which we operate. Corruption & Bribery Respect Intellectual & Property Rights · Signature acknowledgement of anti-corruption policy · Conducting investigations on third parties' patents/ required for all employees. trademarks at initial stages of R&D. · Specific approval procedure for sensitive transactions (e.g. · Conducting investigations on third parties patents/ gifts, travel). trademarks at all stages of product development. – Specific procedures for retaining and using third-party · Systematic intellectual property audit to prevent/ identify intermediaries (i.e. due diligence, certifications). potential infringements. · Measures to prevent counterfeiting of other products. · Structured mechanisms to deal with policy violations. · Secure communication channel for employees to seek advice Consumer / Client data protection and confidentiality or voice concerns. · Measures to limit types of data collected and stored. · Training program on anti-corruption principles. · Measures to protect customer/client data from unauthorized · Internal audit on compliance, based on our anti-corruption access or disclosure. and bribery policy and controls. · Measures to consult customers/clients on personal/confidential data. · Internal data protection audits. Anticompetitive Practices · Web-based or in-person training program on data protection · Acknowledgement of anti-competitive practices policy and confidentiality. required for all concerned employees. · Process to safely destroy confidential data of · Structured mechanisms to deal with policy violations i.e. client/customers. potential sanctions. · Secure communication channels for employees to seek advice or voice concerns. · Training program / newsletter on anti-competitive practices. · Internal audit on compliance, based on our anti-competitive practices policy. 12 ECONOMY RESULTS POLICIES & PROCEDURES Ethical Trading Policy Security Manual CSR Statement Global Code of Conduct IT Acceptable Use Obligation Data Security Risk Management Social Media Anticorruption & Bribery Global Travel & Expense Reimbursement Guideline internal audit & Controls Ethical Philosophy 13
