The better shopping experience Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 1 Content Creating the better shopping experience About HL Display..................................................................................................... 2 Creating the better shopping experience................................................................. 3 Our customer promise ............................................................................................ 4 Message from the CEO............................................................................................ 5 The changing face of grocery retail.......................................................................... 6 HL Strategy.............................................................................................................. 7 HL helps customers around the world to create attractive, Highlights 2019........................................................................................................ 8 profitable and more sustainable in-store environments Managing Corporate Responsibility at HL.............................................................. 10 Stakeholder engagement........................................................................................11 that strengthen the consumer’s shopping experience. Materiality review and Corporate Responsibility focus areas ................................. 12 Helping customers to reduce waste....................................................................... 14 Creating the best workplace.................................................................................. 18 Continuous improvement in operations.................................................................. 24 Ensuring responsibility throughout the supply chain............................................... 30 About the report..................................................................................................... 34 About HL Display HL is an international supplier of store Headquartered in Stockholm, Sweden, suppliers. Our four production facilities solutions for improved customer expethe Group serves more than 70 markets are located in Sweden, Poland, the rience, profitability and sustainability. via a mix of HL sales companies coverUK and China and handle a variety of Markets covered via Our offer includes products within store ing 26 of these, and the remainder via industrial processes, including plastics HL sales companies communication and merchandising distributor partners located across the and metal fabrication, printing and HL Partners solutions as well as lighting systems, globe. assembly. secondary displays and bespoke store Our biggest markets are the UK, HL has 1,045 employees and net solutions and services. Sweden and France, and we cater to sales of 1,594 MSEK. HL is a wholly HL solutions are installed in over 295,000 stores around the world. customers mainly in retail food, retail non-food, as well as branded goods owned subsidiary of the listed Swedish investment company Ratos. What kind of company we want to be / We strive to be European leaders with / De-centralised ownership of commercial global reach results combined with group scale in purchasing, development, design and 2019 key figures / Staying close to customers we build market manufacturing leadership organically, and through acquisitions, and continue to drive profitable growth / A company that professionals are proud to Stores Markets Employees MSEK be a part of / An industry-leading portfolio of retail 295,000 70+ 1,045 1,594 proof solutions that solve our customers' challenges 2 Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 3 Our / Grow sales Message customer from the Over 70% of shopping decisions are made in stores. Improving product presentation and reducing real or perceived out-of-stock increases promise sales. / Inspire shoppers CEO With experience from working with the world’s leading retailers and brands HL has learned how With passion for retail development to create solutions that drive differentiation, inspire Since HL was founded in 1954 the company has developed, grown and expanded thanks to our team being in tune with and pride in execution, we partner shoppers and make the shopping trip worthwhile. the ever-changing world around them and the evolving needs of our customers. As we look back upon 2019 it has been a with our customers to: / Drive automation great year for the business, and an inspiring year in terms of HL merchandising solutions help to automate setting direction for the future. repetitive tasks, freeing up store employees to spend time where it really matters engaging with Our focus to build an engaged HL team across the world shoppers. continues. Trainings in health and safety, diligent focus on our Code of Conduct and Corporate Policies, expansion /R  educe waste of tools for coaching and career development, and active Waste is both costly and, to a large degree, avoidefforts to drive equal opportunities continue to drive coheChoice, helping retailers and brands on their way to a more able. Efforts to reduce food and packaging waste sion and foster collaboration. The result, when combined sustainable store. We are also adding a circular offer, helping as well as to reduce the usage of virgin plastic all with implementing our other strategic business priorities, is customers to return worn-out solutions and allow HL to give carry great societal and financial benefits. strong improvement in profitable growth and at the same time these a second life through recycling materials and bring new increased employee satisfaction and engagement for the third products back into their stores. We are also growing our sales year running. and expanding our offer in products designed to reduce food and packaging waste. Making sustainability a way of operatAs we entered 2020 this momentum served as an important ing is one of our key corporate priorities and a source of pride foundation to manage the impact of COVID-19. Health and for our team. safety of our team members being our #1 priority, our Crisis Policy has helped us to navigate as one team the obstacles To further drive this agenda, we have in April 2020 submitted and challenges posed by the pandemic thus far. While we are our commitment to the Science Based Targets initiative. With still in the midst of this at the time of writing, we maintain our a clear roadmap to decrease our climate footprint in line with customer promise to continue safely serving our customers in our commitment, we take responsibility for our development, retail so they can remain in operation and service shoppers, and also support our customers on their journey to create a in a safe way. more sustainable store. Striving towards our vision of delivering a better shopping It is with pride and determination that we look forward to experience across the world leads us towards opportunities, meeting our commitments as part of the Science Based and also constantly requires raising the bar on efficiency in Targets initiative. And I am pleased to confirm our continued operations and finding new ways to do more, while wasting support for the UN Global Compact and renew our ongoing less. This year we conducted a climate footprint assesscommitment to the initiative and its ten principles. ment together with IVL (Swedish Environmental Research Institute) and this assessment will be the jump-off point for our forward-looking priority to ensure that a better shopping Stockholm, May 5, 2020 experience is also a more sustainable one. We have also advanced our efforts to find alternatives to virgin plastics. Working alongside KTH Royal School of Technology in Stockholm we now offer 37% of our assortment in recycled or biobased plastics, a range aptly named HL Sustainable Choice. Nina Jönsson, In 2020 we aim to sell 200 MSEK worth of HL Sustainable President and CEO, HL Display 4 Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 5 HL Mission Make retail an experience, not just a transaction HL Vision To be the preferred partner in the The industry leading the development changing face of innovative & sustainable solutions for a better shopping of grocery retail experience around the world. Megatrends shaping gain importance in driving traffic to highlighted in more stores, and retailthe retail landscape stores as well as basket size. Furtherers are investing in tools to improve Megatrends are changing shoppers’ exmore, advanced data analytics allow traceability of products to respond to pectations around convenience, experifor personalised offers and overall more shoppers’ growing need for informaHL Strategy ence, service and sustainability. Shifts customised shopping experiences. tion and transparency. Some retailers within demographics and lifestyle, such and brands go a step further, informing /L eaders in / Best  in class as urbanisation, an increasing number To offset these investments, many shoppers of the carbon emissions of innovation & sustainability cost efficiency of single households and a growing but retailers look to automate repetitive their purchases and providing lowOur passion for grocery retail transAs European leader HL drives scale aging population lead consumers to tasks related to merchandising and er-impact alternatives to help shoppers lates into an industry-leading portfolio that benefits us and our customers. re-prioritise their time. Furthermore, stock-keeping, enabled by technological to make more sustainable choices. of retail proof solutions that solve our Continuous improvements in proconcerns regarding sustainability and advancements. This not only leads to customers' challenges. HL innovates duction, sourcing and logistics make climate change are urging them to more optimised store operations but Impact on HL’s operations to create shopping experiences that cost a competitive advantage. We reduce their environmental footprint. also has implications on the required The evolving retail landscape presents are truly better. Inspiring shoppers, strike a healthy balance between qualifications and competencies of HL with several opportunities. HL growing sales and reducing cost, and standardisation and uniqueness, and Catering to evolving expectations store staff. offers a number of solutions to make helping make stores more sustainable driving digitisation to reduce cost and Retailers and brand suppliers are stores a joy to shop but also easier to (… and our own operations too). increase speed. expected to play a key role in the quest Improving sustainability manage for store staff. A key initiative for more convenient, inspiring and With sustainability concerns top of to help create more sustainable stores /E asy to /C apabilities to sustainable experiences. The merging mind, retailers and brand suppliers has been the replacement of virgin do business with drive growth of online and offline channels allows are focusing on a number of areas to plastic with alternative materials. This We partner with customers to grow By continuously developing our consumers to shop whenever and improve their environmental footprint presents a major opportunity, but suptheir businesses. Our unrivalled marpeople, organisation and processes wherever they want and puts increasing and help shoppers to live more sustainply shortages, especially for recycled ket presence and differentiated serwe are able to drive scalability. This pressure on physical stores to make the ably. A key concern is the reduction plastic, might pose a considerable risk vice offering makes the entire process means HL’s entities are able to grow shopping trip worthwhile. To address of food and packaging waste, which in the future. from finding information and ordering, sales with cost efficient commercial these shifts, retailers are strengthening retailers are addressing by offering an to design, delivery and installation, folmarket coverage, the innovations we their investments in brick-and-mortar increasing assortment of loose merlowed by after-sales-service a source launch are adding on top of existing stores; in-store cafés and restaurants chandising products and taking steps of pride for us and true value for our sales, and businesses we integrate alincreasingly blur the lines between to reduce the use of virgin plastic in the customers. low us to accelerate profitable growth. grocery retail and restaurants, and packaging of their products. Organic, categories such as fruit & vegetables natural and locally sourced items are 6 Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 7 +20% 90% 70% Highlights 2019 46% Our vision is to be the leader in innovative and sustainable solutions for a better shopping experience around the world. In 2019, our commitment to make sustainability a part of our daily operations grew stronger. +20% 4% –15% Helping customers Continuous development to reduce waste in operations 46% 200 Clients achieving signifAhead of target in Environmental footprint Improved capacity for usicant waste reduction offering bio and study to form a baseline ing sustainable materials with our solutions recycled alternatives for improvement To meet the demands of HL solutions offer our cus37% By the end of 2019, 37% MSEK In 2019, HL carried out an our evolving market, HL is tomers the ability to significantly reduce their waste as seen in, for example, UK +20% of HL's assortment was offered as a Sustainable Choice, i.e. solutions made 78% extensive carbon footprint study to gain knowledge on our environmental impact. continuously investing significant resources in equipment and innovations to enable 90% supermarket Thornton's Budgens. Food waste was +20% from bio-based or recycled plastics. This was 4 per+37% Sustainable Choice continuously growing This study will set the baseline and guide our actions production of high-quality products made of bio-based Increasing renewable energy usage in factories reduced by 15% when mercentage points ahead of During 2019, we have set an to reduce our environmental or recycled plastic. In 2019, 45.5 percent (2018: 43.7 percent) of all energy used chandising solution SigmaTM the target HL set for 2019. ambitious target for Susimpact in 2020 and beyond. in HL’s operations came from renewable sources. 20%was installed in the fresh tainable Choice solutions to produce section. –15% reach 200 MSEK in sales. Creating the –15% 70% Ensuring responsibility 46% best workplace throughout the supply 90% chain 70% New policy strengthening diversity In 2019, we updated our Focus on equal opportunities An increasing share of 46% New e-learning system to provide trainings In 2019, HL increased availaMore effective supplier management A new and more systematic Deepening employees’ understanding of the Code of Conduct Corporate Responsibility 78% 90% employees, 78 percent, bility of trainings by launchway of screening our suppliIn 2019, we launched an Policy, with particular focus experience that they are ing a new e-learning system. ers was introduced in 2019. e-learning module to deepen on strengthening diversity given the same opporSeven trainings were made It will help us to both identify our employees understandand non-discrimination. tunities for competence available as e-learnings, and risks in the supply chain, but ing of our Code of Conduct Purchasing Policy setting development and career the tool will be developed also to engage with our supthrough practical exercises the baseline for supplier expectations 4% advancement as others further during 2020. pliers and find better ways of on ethical dilemmas. All 70% of important suppliers have signed the Purchasing in the workplace (2018: doing business. employees are to carry out Policy. Our target is to increase this number to 90 percent 76 percent). the training in 2020. by the end of 2020. 90% 70% 46% Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 46% 8 9 Stakeholder engagement Managing corporate responsibility at HL Employees: Shoppers: Our commitment to creating better shopping HL’s 1,045 employees are located across 26 countries and are fundamental in everything we do. We therefore continue to invest in developing the best As shopper lifestyles are evolving, so are their needs and expectations. experiences is also a commitment to sustainability. possible workplace, and in having an ongoing and transparent dialogue Understanding and adapting to those around opportunities, challenges and expectations – a key prerequisite changes by delivering convenient, inWe aspire to be the leader in our industry. for creating a motivational work environment where all employees feel spiring and more sustainable shopping encouraged to develop. experiences is vital to our customers’ success and therefore, to HL. We engage through: Some of the topics raised: We engage through: / Performance appraisals /H  ealth & safety / Feedback via our customers /H  ighLight employee /D  iversity & equal opportunities / Shopper insight research engagement survey /L  earning & development /C  EO awards /W  ork-life balance Some of the topics raised: /D  ay-to-day coaching / More sustainable stores and dialogue / Better shopping experiences Corporate Responsibility Policy and rights, labour, environment and anti-corHL’s commitments ruption have been an integral part of our HL’s operations are built upon the compastrategy, culture and day-to-day operaCustomers: Suppliers: Academia: ny’s values, vision and mission. We outline tions. our approach to corporate responsibility HL caters to customers within food HL’s suppliers play a key role in our abilIt is HL’s ambition to continuously exin our Corporate Responsibility Policy Management of corporate and non-food retail, as well as branded ity to deliver innovative and sustainable pand our assortment of more sustaina(Link), Code of Conduct and Purchasing responsibility goods suppliers. As retail is evolving solutions for better shopping experiencble merchandising solutions made from Policy. The Corporate Responsibility PolHL’s Group Marketing Director has the fast, driven by shopper expectations es around the world. Development and recycled or renewable materials. We are icy is discussed and approved annually by overall responsibility for the Group’s stakeand technological progress, HL is helpavailability of quality materials – includcollaborating with academia to develop HL’s Board of Directors and it lays out the holder engagement. The Group Manageing customers create inspiring in-store ing alternatives to virgin plastic – or our design and production capabilities in company’s corporate responsibility ambiment Team has the overall responsibility environments that are both profitable finished goods are at the core of HL’s this area and to ensure that we offer the tions. The Corporate Responsibility Policy for HL’s sustainability efforts, while local and sustainable. offer to our customers. broadest assortment of more sustainawas renewed and re-launched in 2019. entities have a high degree of responsibility ble solutions in the industry. for sustainability work on a daily basis, Since 2010, HL has been a member of particularly in regard to the environment We engage through: We engage through: We engage through: the United Nations Global Compact. The and health and safety at the production / Net Promoter Survey / Regular meetings and dialogue / Active cooperation and partnerships principle of the Global Compact on human facilities. Corporate responsibility perforin selected markets / Supplier audits in research projects mance is evaluated and reported to the / Regular meetings Group Management Team following a / Trade fairs Some of the topics raised: Some of the topics raised: defined reporting frequency. / Social selling and advertising /D  evelopment and sufficient availability / Alternatives to virgin plastic of more sustainable materials /W  ays of reducing our environmental Some of the topics raised: /E  thics and ways of doing business footprint /R  esponsibility throughout /V  alue creation the supply chain “ T  o be a leader is the result of being in tune with, and /R  eduction of food, plastic and packaging waste learning from, our stakeholders. This dialogue is /L  ong-lasting quality products on-going and illustrates the core of our development. Peder Clason, HL Group Marketing Director 10 Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 11 Materiality review and focus areas To identify the areas HL should focus on in our sustainability efforts, we regularly review our materiality analysis. In 2017, HL categorised and prioritised PP LIER S PR OD Based in the analysis, HL focuses its SU UC our impact on sustainable developON corporate responsibility efforts on four TI ment following a materiality review. The areas: following year, the analysis was updated The better / Helping customers to reduce waste DESIGN Helping customers Creating the TRANSPORT reflecting changes in our vision and shopping / Creating the best workplace strategy. Further updates have been experience / D  riving continuous improvement in to reduce waste best workplace made to reflect our ambitions in 2019. operations Stakeholder interest has been considSH O / We offer products that are resource efficient in terms / We create a workplace where people live our values PP ER S / Ensuring responsibility throughout the of manufacturing, transportation, installation and ered throughout the analysis. S OM ER / We ensure the same quality of employee experience CUST supply chain usage in stores to all employees / We increasingly focus on end-of-life treatment of / We develop and strive to maximise employee products engagement / We commit to providing our customers with / We give our employees equal opportunities information about our products’ environmental / We ensure safe work environments for our In 2019, HL reviewed the UN Sustainable Development Goals and impact employees / We aim to continuously expand our Sustainable identified the ones on which we have the biggest impact throughout Choice offer / We attract and retain talent our business and sustainability efforts. Three development goals were Target 2020: To grow our HL Sustainable Choice Target 2020: An engagement score above 4 in HL’s annual Employee engagement survey (on a scale 0-5). selected as the most important ones to address: offer to deliver 200 MSEK in sales during 2020. Driving continuous Ensuring responsibility improvement in operations throughout the supply chain Goal 8. Goal 10. Goal 12. Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainReduced inequality within Ensure sustainable consumption / W  e aim to recycle 100 percent of our production / We aim for all important suppliers serving HL to sign able economic growth, full and productive and among countries and production patterns waste and use recycled plastics when quality and our Purchasing Policy employment and decent work for all supply chain so permit / W  e secure freedom of association, antiHow do we impact this goal? How do we impact this goal? How do we impact this goal? / We strive to use electricity from renewable sources discrimination, anti-corruption and workplace safety Efficient production processes including /  / Recruitment and HR practices including gender / Our solutions enable our customers to rewaste management and use of recycled and split, diversity, promotions, salary, and more duce waste and their environmental footprint / We decrease our water consumption year by year through a continuous pursuit of the objectives set biomaterials / Renewed Corporate Responsibility Policy / We have launched HL Sustainable Choice to out in our policies / We aim to have all our factories certified according Our Code of Conduct and Purchasing Policy /  with increased focus on diversity offer alternatives to virgin plastic / We ensure that all our employees sign and adhere to ISO 14001 and ISO 9001 standards set the standard for doing business, for to our Code of Conduct ourselves and our suppliers Read more about our efforts under “Creating Read more about our efforts under “Helping / We are actively working to reduce the carbon Health & safety of our employees /  the best workplace” and “Ensuring responsicustomers to reduce waste” and “Driving footprint of our operations bility throughout the supply chain” continuous improvement in operations” Read more about our efforts under “Driving Target 2020: In March 2020, we submitted our Target 2020: For 90 percent of our important continuous improvement in operations” commitment to the Science Based Targets initiative suppliers to have signed our Purchasing Policy. and “Ensuring responsibility throughout the supply chain” to guide our future work in reducing HL's carbon footprint. During 2020, we will define a clear action plan on how to reach our reduction targets. 12 Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 13 S LIER PR PP OD SU UC TION The better DESIGN shopping experience TRANSPORT Helping customers to reduce waste SH O PP ER S S ER OM CUST HL provides solutions to retailers and branded goods suppliers to create shopping experiences Our ambitions that are better for profit and planet. / We offer products that are resource efficient in terms of manufacturing, transportation, installation and usage in stores / We increasingly focus on end-of-life treatment of products / We commit to providing our customers with information about our products’ environmental impact / We aim to continuously expand our Our solutions support clients to Sustainable Choice offer develop more sustainable stores A better shopping experience is also a Target 2020: more sustainable shopping experience. “ T  he shelf life and quality of the products To grow our HL Sustainable Choice offer to deliver 200 MSEK in sales Helping customers to develop longare much greater because of better air term sustainable businesses is a priority during 2020. and to provide them with innovative circulation. Sigma™ has also created this ways of reducing their environmenlovely wow factor among customers. As tal footprint we execute on several fronts. This includes for example a result, we’ve increased sales by 30 solutions that showcase abundance percent and reduced waste to zero.” while reducing food waste. HL is also Luke Coathup, store owner, The Green Grocers, UK. saving materials in a myriad of ways; from bulk bin solutions encouraging shoppers to bring their own containers produce without the need for large Thorton's Budgens reported a rise in to stores thereby reducing packaging on-shelf inventory. The shelving and sales of 9 percent while food waste has waste, to changing the materials HL racking units are made of anodised alubeen reduced by 15 percent. products are made from through the minium that will never rust, peel, chip increased use of bio-based or recycled or flake. Aluminium is one of the best Packaging-free merchandising materials. As this work evolves, the conductors of temperature, drawing Across multiple markets and categories, aim is to encourage and enable a more out and dissipating heat quicker than the bulk merchandising trend continues circular flow of materials and solutions steel, which ensures effective cooler to grow rapidly. Through the display “By using dispensers, customers could fill a container with 2kg and to reduce the dependency on virgin fossil-based materials. circulation and maximises refrigeration air flow. As a result of installing Sigand dispensing of loose products, bulk solutions give retailers an opportunity of product which would otherwise equate to multiple maTM our customers are not only seeing to create differentiation, reduce waste, plastic packets of products from a regular supermarket. Helping customers a reduction of food waste but also an and drive higher margins. Simultaneousto reduce food waste increase in sales. An example is UK suly, they provide shoppers with a more Customers are reacting really well to the concept and Sigma™ is a modular merchandising permarket Thornton's Budgens which authentic experience and greater options; love the interactive nature of pulling levers to dispense their system tailored to create stunning has called out waste reduction as one they can pick their favourites and buy visual displays and abundant presentaof their key priorities. After installing exactly the amount they need, all while food into their own reusable containers.” tions to showcase a greater variety of SigmaTM in the fresh produce section, avoiding unnecessary packaging. Tom Pell, Co-founder, The Clean Kilo, UK 14 Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 15 Helping customers to reduce waste Case: Ben & Jerry's choice: HL Sustainable Choice To help reduce their environmental impact whilst boosting sales, Ben & Jerry’s commissioned HL to design a sustainable shelving solution for their much-loved ice cream. A tidy, well-merchandised shelf helps shoppers choose and, thus, helps drive +20% sales. But to achieve this in freezers can be a challenge. This is why Ben & Jerry's “ W  e need to stop approached HL to develop a solution our dependency that not only helps to maintain attractiveon fossil-based ly merchandised shelves but also would reduce their environmental impact. A resources. By making specially designed freezer tray made the new bioplastic from bioplastic was the solution. Zero waste stores, where all products renewable resources, such as sugarcane trays from renewable are merchandised in bulk, is a massive trend in countries such as the UK. and corn, mean avoiding fossil-based plastic altogether. Bio-based plastics play a vital role in a resources, we are HL provides one of the biggest zero 37% sustainable circular economy since they use renewable raw materials. taking steps in that waste stores in the UK, the multiple One challenge associated with recydirection.” award-winning The Clean Kilo, with cled materials is securing the supply During concept development, the HL ics that reflect the look and feel of this dispensers for various foods. It is of recycled plastics, as the demand is Charlotta Milleding, Ben & Jerry’s Category design team considered all factors popular brand. Made of bioplastic madifficult to calculate the exact reduction greater than the currently available such as the need to withstand freezer terial from renewable sources, the new & Channel Development Manager. of plastic use as a consequence of bulk supply. Furthermore, for HL solutions A Sustainable Choice was available for 37% of the assortment. This is 4 percentage temperatures. Product stacking and trays help shoppers find and pick out merchandising, but if one item sold is that require transparency, such as bins points ahead of target. re-merchandising was also required to their favourite ice cream flavour while attributed to one piece of plastic, The for packaging-free merchandising, only be as efficient as possible in minimising keeping shelves organised. Across Clean Kilo has saved 123,632 pieces of plastic in one store only. limited volume of recycled materials can be used to maintain the same level Royal Institute of Technology conducted –15%manual labour and keeping the display looking neat. The final solution needed Sweden alone, 1,000 stores have been equipped, with more countries in scope of quality. Quality can also be a chalresearch to find the right bioplastic to to be presented with the same aesthetfor the future. Growing demand for lenge when replacing virgin plastic with produce high-quality products. sustainable materials bio-based material as it often requires As people become more aware of the the development of new tools to ensure Starting with datastrips and shelf environmental impact of their conproduct quality. talkers, HL’s aim in 2019 was to offer sumption, the shift towards more suscustomers a Sustainable Choice for one tainable materials is largely a consumHL taking a leap with third of the assortment. HL has been er-driven trend. Therefore, reducing Sustainable Choice able to exceed this target, offering a Increasing the focus on plastic usage and waste is a top priority In 2018, HL launched Sustainable Sustainable Choice for 37 percent of the assortment by the end of 2019. For end-of-life treatment need to focus on the end-of-life treatment for a growing number of retailers and Choice a range of merchandising solubrands. Alternative materials, such as tions made from bio-based or recycled 2020, the target is to grow our HL To stay at the forefront requires longmajor source of HL’s climate impact and of our products. This means providing bio-based and recycled plastics, play materials developed in collaboration Sustainable Choice offer to deliver 200 term solutions to drive sustainable is the second largest source of greenhouse our customers information on end-ofan important role in developing a more with academic research institutions. IVL MSEK in sales. To further support the business. Improving the end-of-life emissions during a product’s life cycle, life treatment but also, in the long-term, sustainable business; recycled plastics (Swedish Environmental Research Instimove towards alternative materials, treatment of sold products is an area the first being the use of raw materials (to creating innovative business models and cut the environmental footprint by retute) provided in-depth insights on enviHL is now producing selected products HL is focusing on increasingly. Based on read more, please see page 24). To drive involving external partners in piloting ducing the usage of virgin plastic signifronmental impact throughout the entire exclusively from recycled plastic, such the carbon footprint study conducted in development toward more circularity, new ways of operating in order to close icantly. Bio-based plastics made from life-cycle of certain products and KTH as certain dividers and bulk bins. 2019, products’ end-of-life treatment is a and to close the loop of materials, we the loop. 16 Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 17 S LIER PR PP OD SU UC TION The better Creating the DESIGN shopping experience TRANSPORT best workplace SH O PP ER S CUST OM ER S We aim to provide an inclusive and safe workplace where employees value their work, perform well and are given equal opportunities to develop. HL continuously invests in Our ambitions developing the best workplace. / We create a workplace where people live our values / We ensure the same quality of employee experience to all employees / We develop and strive to maximise employee engagement / We give our employees equal opportunities Our most important asset discrimination and harassment. This subjective decision making regard/ We ensure safe work environments for our employees HL has 1,045 employees operating in is clearly outlined in our Corporate ing individual career opportunities 26 countries in Europe, the Middle Responsibility Policy, which was upand development. / We attract and retain talent East, and Asia. Many different prodated in 2019 with a widened diversity fessional groups work at HL, such as perspective. Moving away from being / H  L’s Compensation & Benefits PoliTarget 2020: sales representatives, factory workers, mainly focusing on gender diversity, cy helps managers to make neutral To have an engagement score designers, procurement specialists, facthe HL Code of Conduct now stresses decisions about pay raises, based above 4 in HL’s annual Employee tory managers, warehouse employees the complexity of diversity issues and on qualifications and performance. engagement survey (on a scale 0-5). and more, and they all play different the importance of creating an inclusive but equally important roles. Our emworkplace where everyone can thrive. / W  e conduct an annual measureployees are our most important asset ment on employees’ perception of and their competence, performance and Equal opportunities being treated equally in the workwellbeing are fundamental for HL to in career development place. Should the results indicate continuously develop and improve our We strive to give all employees equal that a particular department, counbusiness. HL is committed to providing opportunities for professional develtry or area has an unacceptably low an inclusive workplace that attracts opment, trainings and promotions. All score, we act accordingly. new talent and has a high retention employees with comparable qualificarate. tions and work tasks should have the According to HL’s annual employee same working conditions. Salary is to survey, 78 percent of employees Diversity is key be based upon the level of difficulty experience that they are given the Employees by employment contract As HL is a multicultural company with and achievement. In order to provide same opportunities for competence Women Men Total world-wide operations, a diverse orequal opportunities in career developdevelopment and career advancement Permanent employees 436 518 954 ganisation is necessary for a successful ment, HL has a systematic approach in as others in the workplace (2018: 76 Temporary employees 52 39 91 and innovative business. Therefore, it decision making for employee developpercent). In 2020, HL will continue to Total 488 557 1,045 is essential for HL to provide equal opment and promotion. For example: work towards improving this share. portunities to all employees regardless of gender, religion, ethnic background, / In 2019, we initiated an internal Nordic Rest of Europe Asia Total sexual orientation, family situation talent review process where manWomen Men Women Men Women Men or age group. We are committed to agement teams evaluate their team Permanent employees 72 140 317 331 47 47 954 Temporary employees 4 6 45 30 3 3 91 maintain and are actively working to members’ career potential and perdevelop, an inclusive workplace where formance according to set criteria. Total 76 146 362 361 50 50 1,045 zero-tolerance applies to all forms of This process reduces the risk of 18 Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 19 Creating the best workplace Systematic work to increase In 2019, HL invested in a digital soluThe survey covers four areas: Effigender balance tion to support the manager-employee ciency, Leadership, Engagement and HL’s overall gender distribution is 46 exchange and to simplify the annual Sustainable Work Life. A key part of percent women and 54 percent men performance review process. HL’s aim the HighLight Engagement Survey 78% (2018: 45 percent women, 55 percent is for all employees to have undergone has been to see how sustainable HL’s men, based on permanent employ­ees). an annual performance review process working culture is. There has been There are areas where this split is not and have a workplan in place. All HL steady increase in this area since the of employees believe as balanced; looking at people managemployees had at least one performance survey’s launch in 2016, according to they are given the ers for example, the gender distribution appraisal in 2019 according to HL’s the results. equal opportunities is 30 percent women and 70 percent data tracking. men. In other areas, such as procureThere are no significant differences bement specialists and factory managers, New e-learning increases tween how men and women responded 100% the gender distribution is fairly even availability of trainings to the survey, and while the results can between women and men. AdditionHL works continuously on additional differ across functions and/or locations, ally, HL is proud to have a relatively training for employees to ensure they the overall results show that employees of employees had at even gender balance among production are well-equipped to be successful are satisfied. For example, 79 percent least one performance operators, a profession nor­mally domiat their jobs. For example, product of the employees felt they had a good review nated by men. managers organise local trainings for work-life balance in 2019, compared sales force as well as operations teams. to 76 percent in 2018. Furthermore, HL is actively working to increase Furthermore, global sales trainings 86 percent find their work engaging 86% gender equality in recruitment, with for key account managers and account which corresponds to a score of 4.1 on the goal of seeking the best candidates executives are held biannually. a scale of 0-5 (2018: 82 percent). While for the job and bringing diversity to the survey showed that employees’ of employees find their the team. To ensure an unbiased and In 2019, HL developed an e-learning lowest level of satisfaction is related to work engaging well-founded decision based on merits, system that increases the employees’ workload, 70 percent of all employees HL HR business partners are qualified access to training. Seven trainings on consider their workload to be on an in using tests to evaluate candidates’ topics such as GDPR and Diversity and acceptable level (2018: 67 percent). abilities, behaviour and personality. Inclusion are available for all employFurthermore, recruitment ads aim to be ees. During the coming years, HL will The HighLight survey is closely linked inclusive and encourage applicants of continuously develop the e-learning to the company’s strategy, and the both genders. system with several more trainings. feedback obtained is used to prioritise improvements that strengthen HL’s Attracting and developing talent Furthermore, HL has set up the Group position as an employer. Results are As part of the process, annual perforLeadership Forum, a cross-function meetaggregated on a company-wide level, mance appraisals are conducted at the ing held twice a year. The forum gathers as well as shared with, and owned by, end of each year. During the appraisals, primarily the company’s managers, such each local manager. The results that employees receive constructive feedas regional and factory managers, with around 100 managers receive from back on their work, and clear goals are the purpose of securing alignment and their teams allow them to take measjointly defined by the employee and commitment to the company strategy, as ures to improve their business. their immediate supervisor. Employees well as developing leadership. are also encouraged to provide feedStreamlining processes to ensure back to their managers. Furthermore, Measuring employee engagement best employee experience “ By streamlining our trainings and offering them appraisals include an employee develHL conducts an annual employee Our streamlined HR procedures for digitally, we ensure that all employees are given access opment plan, specifying training needs, engagement survey of all our employees, recruitment, salary processes and future development steps to be taken, called HighLight Engagement Survey. performance management ensure that to quality trainings. At the same time, we save time and and career planning. After six months, HL employees show a high level of enall employees are treated with the same cost, and reduce environmental impact by limiting a mid-year review takes place where gagement; in 2019 the response rate was quality standards. The same applies to the individual goals and development 95 percent, the same level as the previexit interviews that are conducted if an travel.” plans are followed up on. ous year's record-setting high score. employee decides to leave HL. Annika Haaker, HL Group HR Director 20 Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 21 procedures and examining risk factors. Creating Factories in Sundsvall, Gliwice and Suzhou comply with the health and Case: the best workplace safety standard OHSAS 18001, and the Harlow factory is under certification. HL’s Harlow factory working with improving safety every accident is an accident too many 90 percent of all employees have their workplace controlled by a formal joint management-worker health and safety hl’s harlow factory is actively working with In order to provide a safe workplace, it is Exit interviews are important for HL, committee. All employees at HL’s improving safety. At this site 125 employees key to identify risks and raise awareness as they give us an opportunity to gain production facilities undergo health work with multi-materials and technologies among employees, as well as systematimportant feedback and to convey the and safety training, and additional from sheet metal, injection moulding, wood, ically working with incident and accident message that people are truly valued trainings are conducted as required. vacuum forming, heat bending and printing reporting. Should an accident happen, a and respected. In 2019, HL started HR team and facility managers of the to plastic fabrication and assembly. The robust, structured procedure to handle the conducting parts of the exit interviews respective production facilities are factory produces various items for HL, from incident is followed: through digital surveys, along with responsible for carrying out the health bespoke projects like secondary displays / All incidents are recorded more in-depth personal interviews. and safety work. and store signage solutions to standard This has resulted in broader reach, / Immediate containment actions are products such as Facer™. The production higher participation rates and increased HL aims to provide a safe workplace implemented as applicable processes can create safety risks, and transparency. Furthermore, the syswithout any workplace accidents leadtherefore, industry and technology specific / Accidents are investigated tematic way of collecting feedback has ing to absence or sick leave. In 2019, measures are taken to provide a safe work/ Root cause is established improved the possibilities to pinpoint nine such cases were reported (2018: place for all employees. / C orrective and preventive actions are possible underlying trends. 9), making this an area of improveimplemented as applicable ment. In 2020, we will start conducting Ensuring health and two internal audits per year to increase “ Our objective is zero / S afety alerts are issued to relevant safety of employees our systematic health and safety work. accidents. We condepartments if applicable with the purpose to share learnings At HL, health and safety risks are In 2019, no fatal accidents occurred mainly associated with production. (2018: 0). tinue to make good / A ccident statistical analysis is conductEnsuring safe workplaces with a good progress in reducing ed to highlight action areas working environment is key in securing the delivery of high-quality products HL is keen to follow collective agreements in countries where such agreethe number and se/ M onitoring is put into place to measure effectiveness of actions and solutions. HL works in a prevenments are in place. 30 percent (2018: verity of accidents, but tive and systematic way with workplace 29 percent) of HL’s employees are covthere is still work to be “In reporting, investigation is a fundamensafety, by regularly updating safety ered by formal collective agreements. tal part to improve safety. We use the prodone.” cess as a learning opportunity to target resources to prevent future accidents”, Adrian Edwards, Production Director HL Harlow says Adrian Edwards. Adrian Edwards is Production Director at Making sure to learn from experiences at the Creating a culture where people live HL’s values Harlow and has worked in the factory for factory, as well as from HL’s other producalmost 10 years. During this period there tion sites, is highly important to continue To further promote the HL values – Ownership, Speed and or by excelling in teamwork. Anyone can nominate candihas been a continuous effort to improve reducing the numbers of accidents – which One HL team – a CEO award is given out every quarter to an dates, and the nomination process strengthens the feeling of the safety culture at the factory – an effort is also Adrian Edwards' biggest challenge: individual or a team that embodies HL’s values and contribbelonging with colleagues all over the world. The number of that has made significant difference, as utes to a positive company culture, be it through innovation nominations has increased from 148 in 2018 to 157 in 2019. accidents have been reduced by 84 per“It is important that people are at the cent. During 2019, there were 2 accidents centre of safety work. During the year, we CEO award − Who should be awarded? leading to absence at the Harlow produchave for example introduced independent tion site. peer reviews of risk assessments and Ownership Speed One team upgraded our Health and Safety inducSomeone who... Someone who... Someone who... Preventive measures are important, such tion manual to support learning, says ... is proactive, constantly working ... is customer-focused in her/his ... succeeds by making others succeed, as inspections from health and safety Adrian Edwards. He continues: We aim to deliver a better way of operating way of working acts as a true enabler for others committee members that are conducted at creating a strong safety awareness and ... s ees something that is broken, ... is eager to deliver and displays ... w ins by making things easy for those at the production site, as well as near miss a culture where safety comes first. Every and fixes it, not just walks by a clear sense of urgency around her/him, not only for herself/ reporting and investigations. To enhance accident is simply an accident too many. ... m akes innovation happen ... c ontributes to taking informed himself learning furthermore, all employees particiEverybody has to have a right to go home decisions ... takes extra steps to reach out pate in health and safety training annually. healthy”. ... c arries out implementation and across functional and or geographidoes not stop half way through cal boarders 22 Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 23 S LIER PR PP OD SU UC TION The better Continuous improvement DESIGN shopping experience TRANSPORT in operations SH O PP ER S CUST OM ER S HL strives to improve environmental performance by making continuous efforts to reduce the environmental impact of production and by complying with policies and standards. Our ambitions / We aim to recycle 100 percent of our production waste and use recycled plastics when quality and supply chain so permit / We strive to use electricity from Sustainable operations that is used in the production proHL has production in four factories: renewable sources are essential cess. Water consumption and energy / Sundsvall in Sweden for extrusion / W  e decrease our water consumption As part of HL’s ambition to provide use are other important sources of plastics year by year a better shopping experience, taking of environmental impact linked to / Gliwice in Poland for injection / W  e aim to have all our factories responsibility for the environment our production. The majority of moulding, heat bending and printing certified according to ISO 14001 and through the way we operate, to dethe products in HL’s portfolio are ISO 9001 standards / H  arlow in the UK for metal, injection velop and innovate, is central. Our produced at the company’s own moulding, heat bending and printing / We are actively working to reduce the ambition is to minimise our envifactories. Running our factories in carbon footprint of our operations ronmental impact and make sustain/ S  uzhou in China for extrusion and an efficient and environmentally ability an integral way of operating. injection moulding of plastics responsible way is therefore key in Target 2020: HL’s own environmental impact is reducing the environmental impact In March 2020, we submitted our mainly related to the raw material of our operations. HL’s impact on climate change commitment to the Science Based an extensive carbon footprint Targets initiative to guide our study conducted future work in reducing HL's carbon In 2019, HL has with support from IVL footprint. During 2020, we will define (Swedish Environmental Research Instia clear action plan on how to reach our reduction targets. Impact on climate change 2018, results from tute) carried out a carbon footprint study Scope 1, 2 and 3 divided by activity to understand our operations’ impact on climate change. The study is done in accordance with the GHG Protocol and, Purchased goods and services 73.3% based on data from 2018, shows which of HL’s direct and indirect activities are Upstream transportation and distribution 1.7% the main contributors to our emission of Business travel 0.2% Waste generated in operations <0.1% greenhouse gases. Our main impact on climate change emanates from the use Employee commuting 1.3% of raw material (purchased goods and Outbound transport of goods 4.7% services) at 73.3 percent. Of the materials HL uses in production, plastics have the End-of-life treatment of sold products 5.9% largest adverse impact on climate change Company owned cars <0.1% (43.5 percent) followed by metal (42.2 percent). Purchased electricity 11.2% Purchased heating 1.6% Other major contributors to HL’s impact on climate change are related to Illustration: Based on data from 2018, the total contribution to climate change via emissions use of energy in our production, endfrom HL's organisation was 92,257 tonnes CO₂-equivalents in total. Of that, scope 3 emissions of-life treatment of sold products and amounted to 80,460 tonnes CO₂-equivalents and scope 2 emissions to 11,785 tonnes CO₂equivalents. outbound transport of goods. 24 Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 25 Continuous improvement in operations Moving forward The biggest impact with regards to In 2019, 96.6 percent of our total safe For HL, the carbon footprint study is reducing raw material consumption production waste was recycled (2018: central in in setting the baseline for is linked to our work in enhancing 97.1 percent), while we were able to improving our operations, as well as production processes. By continuously recycle 100 percent of our plastic, metal helping to guide our efforts to reduce streamlining production processes, we and packaging waste. our environmental impact. Therefore, strive to minimise the plastic waste the report includes an analysis of which generated. In 2019, the production HL has started looking into solutions actions will have most effect on reducin our factories created 1,204 tonnes to close the loop for materials used in ing our impact on climate change. of plastic waste (2018: 1,390 tonnes). our production. Continuing with this HL aims to reduce scrap and increase development will be one of our priori87.2 percent of HL’s contribution to capacity for using recycled materials. ties in the coming years. Furthermore, climate change emanates from activities The main challenges related to recycled a number of measures have been introin scope 3 (upstream and downstream materials are securing sufficient supply duced to improve waste management: indirect emissions). The study gives of materials, having the right equipment HL insights into actions that would be in place to process new types of raw / Introduction of fully recycled carton most impactful when fighting climate materials, and to ensure product quality, boxes change and reducing emissions from its for example transparency of products / Replace tape made from plastic with operations. when using recycled raw materials. In tape made of paper order to increase our capacity for using / Improved waste management by The rest of the carbon footprint, recycled materials, we invested in equipbetter segregation 12.8 percent of HL’s impact on climent to be able to grind and mix virgin / Training of production and warehouse mate change, is in scope 2 (indirect and recycled granulates in a controlled operators in waste management emissions from purchased energy) process. Furthermore, we aim to recycle where the major contributor is pur100 percent of our production waste. chased electricity for HL’s factory in Gliwice, Poland. This is explained both by the fossil-based electricity mix in Poland as well as the quanProduction waste management 2019 (metric tonnes) tity consumed. The footprint study 1400 shows that if operations in Poland 1200 would use solar energy, instead of 1000 Polish electricity mix, the potential 800 climate impact could be decreased 600 by almost 92 percent. This would reduce HL’s total impact on climate 400 change by 7.1 percent. 200 0 Plastic Metal Packaging Mixed materials Other safe waste Hazardous waste Our approach: Reduce and re-use total: 96.6% 1,204 tonnes 260 tonnes 111 tonnes 363 tonnes 365 tonnes 7 tonnes HL’s main raw material is plastic, notaRecycled /regranulated inhouse/for own production Recycled externally Recycled for heating Deposit/non-recycled bly PVC. To cut our carbon footprint, of all safe production our focus is to decrease the use of waste was recycled virgin fossil-based materials by efficient Total safe waste (tonnes) design and production processes, reducing and reusing our production waste and strengthening our sourcing 13.3% Recycled /regranulated of recycled materials. Furthermore, inhouse/for own production “ The carbon footprint study is an important milestone for we explore solutions to use alternative materials, like bio-based plastic, and us in our efforts to transform our company to a more invest in innovations to develop our 3.4% 69.0% sustainable one. Through the study we have gained production. In the coming years, we Deposit/non-recycled Recycled externally will also prioritise managing the endimportant insights into setting the baseline for our of-life treatment of our products and climate work and outlining options for our way forward.” closing the loop of materials. 14.3% Recycled for heating Peder Clason, HL Group Marketing Director 26 Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 27 f sa er t Continuous Moving away from improvement Other material fossil-based materials Raw material in operations HL aims to be the leader in our indusand input goods 7.2% PVC try with regards to alternative materiAluminium, steel, wire 37.4% als and solutions, in order to support 14.1% our customers in their transition to more sustainable stores. HL started  Packaging material to use PLA based materials in 2018. PLA is a plastic made from renewable 8.8% materials, such as plant starch coming Other plastic from corn or sugarcane. In 2019, HL took further steps to enable increased 7.2% use of these materials, for example by  ABS developing a new injection moulding 3.4% tool adapted to PLA-materials. In Polystyrene PET 2019, 14,736 tonnes of material were used in HL’s production, whereof 70 5.0% 16.5% percent were plastics. Almost 4% of all plastic used in production was Water usage In order to further reduce the carbon recycled or bio-based. Water usage is part of the production footprint of both inbound and outprocess when cooling extruded and injecbound transport, HL actively collabImprovements in tion-moulded plastic products. In 2019, orates with partners to continuously energy consumption 377,759 m3 of water from municipal identify more efficient ways to distribIn 2019, HL’s direct electricity conwater supplies was used at the company's ute products and to increase filling rate. sumption in production was 25.4 production facilities (2018: 365,631 m3). HL requires all of its transport suppliMWh (2018: 25.6 MWh) and 45.5 In 2020, the Sundsvall factory in Sweden ers to have environmental programmes percent of HL’s energy consumption will have their own well for process in place. Since 2018, EuroVI – Environcame from renewable sources (2018: water consumption, meaning so-called mental class – is required for all new 43.7 percent). While HL’s Sundsvall drinkable water will no longer be used in freight forward suppliers. factory runs entirely on hydro-generthe production process. ated electricity, the factory in Gliwice The company’s fleet of vehicles is a major contributor to HL’s impact Re-structuring logistics HL aims to gradually reduce the emissions on climate change. This is explained by to save emissions from our own vehicle fleet of company the fossil-based electricity used, as well The majority of HL shipments are made cars. We have four different categories of as the quantity consumed. by truck. These shipments include, for vehicles in our fleet, with CO2 emission example, those from our European limits for each category. These limits are Various measures for reducing electricfactories to our European distribution reviewed every 12-18 months to see if they ity consumption are being implemented centres and from these to customers. can be lowered. The upper limit for CO2 Share of green at our factories. These range from heatReady-made goods from Asia and the emissions is currently 125 g/km. energy increased by + 1.7% ing the premises by using waste heat US, as well as tools bought in Asia for from machinery to installing time-conuse in the European factories are priCertified management systems for trolled lighting: marily shipped using sea transport. continuous improvement The company's management systems and / Investment in new energy efficient Some shipping is still air bound and, in policies for quality, work and conduct injection moulding and assembly 2019, HL prioritised the shift to sea transensure minimal waste and the highest Gas consumption technology portation. This reduced HL’s air shipping standards of safety during production. decreased by – 6.0% / Investment in a new energy efficient by approximately 20 percent. As part of a Continuous improvement of operations coating line with less scrap bigger structural change, the distribution and environmental and quality man/ Continuous improvement and centre for the Nordic countries was moved agement in HL’s factories are based on process improvement in factories from Poland to Sweden during 2018. internationally recognised standards. All in order to reduce number of From the end of 2018, all transports to four factories are compliant with the ISO production lines Sweden, Norway and Denmark are sent 9001 quality standard, and three out of / Digitalise workflows and reduce from this new distribution centre. The four are ISO 14001 certified. HL also Water consumption increased by paper consumption + 3.3% reduced transport distances have resulted complies with REACH, the EU’s chemi/ Prolong usage of hydraulic oil by in a reduction in CO2 transport emission cals legislation, and suppliers must sign a introducing filtering by approximately 10 percent. written undertaking regarding REACH. 28 Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 29 S LIER PR PP OD SU UC TION The better Ensuring responsibility DESIGN shopping experience TRANSPORT throughout the supply chain SH O PP ER S CUST OM ER S HL's Code of Conduct demonstrates the company's strong position against corruption, ensuring employees and stakeholders practice honesty, integrity and responsibility. Our ambitions / We aim for all important suppliers serving HL to sign our Purchasing Policy / We secure freedom of association, anti-discrimination, anti-corruption and workplace safety through a continuous pursuit of the objectives set out in our policies Code of Conduct – strong comPurchasing Policy ensuring same HL’s supply chain mitment to anti-corruption and standards from suppliers HL has approximately 1,700 suppliers / We ensure that all our employees sign safeguarding human rights For HL, it is important to ensure in total, out of which approximately and adhere to our Code of Conduct HL supports and respects internationthat all suppliers adhere to the same 1,200 suppliers are supplying our facally proclaimed human rights. Our standards. Our Purchasing Policy tories and 500 are supplying our distriTarget 2020: Code of Conduct clearly defines the outlines HL’s requirements for our bution centres. 230 of our suppliers are In 2020, 90 percent of our important suppliers will have signed our fundamental principles that every comsuppliers. It covers several areas defined as important suppliers, which Purchasing Policy. pany representative and partner should including compliance with ILO stand for about 85 percent of spending. follow. It is based on the ten principles (International Labour Organisation) of the Global Compact and defines conventions and other international HL has the biggest impact in managHL’s zero-tolerance stance on bribery, guidelines related to human rights ing sustainability issues in our supply extortion or corruption and demands and labour. In addition, there are chain by working strategically with strict adherence to regulatory requireclear guidelines for business ethics the 230 suppliers defined as important. ments. All HL employees sign the Code (corruption) and environment. In 2019, 70 percent of HL’s important of Conduct upon joining. suppliers had signed the Purchasing Policy and thereby agreed to meet the In 2019, HL launched a digital comdefined requirements. To reach our Main Requirements Policy of petence development tool, including a HL's Purchasing Policy 2020-target of having 90 percent of the training on our Code of Conduct. The important suppliers sign the policy, our e-learning course is intended to deepen / Human and Labour Rights purchasing team works systematically our employees’ understanding of our to increase the share of suppliers sign/ Business Ethics Code of Conduct through practical ing the policy and review the progress exercises on ethical dilemmas. Fur/ Sustainable Growth quarterly. thermore, it simplifies the process of / Environmental Care reviewing the Code of Conduct annually. All employees are to carry out the / Supply Chain Responsibility training in 2020. In 2019, three violations of the Code of Should non-compliances with the Purchasing Policy be detected, correc70% of important suppliConduct were reported (2018: 0). All tive action and cooperation with the ers have signed the three incidents were related to corruption supplier is always prioritised. UltimatePurchasing Policy and led to disciplinary action (2018: 0). ly, however, failure to comply with the No violations of the Purchasing Policy policy can lead to the contract being were reported in 2019 (2018: 0). terminated. 30 Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 31 Ensuring responsibility throughout the supply chain “We screen our important suppliers to identify risks, but also to engage and find better ways of doing business. It is not only about finding non-conformities but also about building long-term cooperation.” Lennart Johansson, HL Group Supply Chain Director More systematic screening and Audits and site visits stakeholders anonymity when reportengagement with suppliers To ensure that suppliers comply with ing malpractice. The Group Marketing In 2019, HL introduced a more the Purchasing Policy and to engage Director, who is responsible for HL’s systematic process to monitor the suswith important suppliers, HL regusustainability work, and the Group tainability related risks in our supply larly conducts visits and audits. Such HR Director receive the reports made chain, with a focus on our important visits and audits are conducted by HL’s through the whistleblowing system suppliers. When a new supplier is purchasing team and are split into directly, and the principal owner Ratos’ entering into a relationship with HL two parts. First, HL ensures that our representative on the Board of Direcand has signed the Purchasing Policy, suppliers have a complete understandtors receives them simultaneously. The HL’s purchasing team conducts a ing of the Purchasing Policy and apply malpractices that HL wants to bring screening. In 2019, 100% of new our requirements in accordance with attention to include possible non-comsuppliers were screened in-line with the policy. The second part of the audit pliance with local laws or breaches of the purchasing policy. As a first step relates to the production organisation. HL’s Code of Conduct in areas such as in the screening process, the suppliRepresentatives from HL perform human rights, labour and anti-corruper conducts a self-rating based on a review of the site based on several tion. Reports that come through the criteria in our policy. The HL team predefined criteria in order to make whistleblowing channel are centrally reviews the self-rating, conducts a risk sure that the production site is aligned investigated. If the malpractice report assessment and gives the supplier a with HL’s production requirements. 33 proves to be well-founded and correct, score ranging from low to high risk. such formal audits were conducted in it will result in disciplinary and, where If a supplier falls in the mediumor 2019 (2018: 17) and many more visits applicable, legal action. In 2019, no high-risk category, various actions at suppliers’ premises were conducted. reports were made through the whistleare taken depending on the severity of blowing system (2018: 0). the deviations. Systematic work with Whistleblowing a supplier to achieve improvements HL has had an operating whistleblowincludes, for example, CSR-audits, ing function since 2013. Whistleblowre-audits and supplier communication. ing Centre, the whistleblowing channel As part of the more systematic efforts in use, is part of TripleB, an external in screening suppliers, HL has set an Swedish sustainability consultancy. ambition to audit important suppliers The whistleblowing site guarantees once every other year. employees, external partners and other 32 Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 33 About the report This report has been prepared in accordance with GRI HL Display Group, i.e. HL Display Holding AB and all its subStandards Core option. It constitutes HL’s Communication ordinate legal entities. Operations beyond HL’s direct control, on Progress as part of the company’s commitment to the UN such as suppliers, are not included in the report. The presentGlobal Compact. The report covers the global activities of the ed information has not been assured by an external party. General Disclosures Material Topics Disclosure Page reference/URL Comment Disclosure Page reference/URL Comment Organisational 102-1 Name of the Organization 2 Economic Profile 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 2, hl-display.com Anti-corruption 103-1/2/3 Management approach 30-31 2016 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 32 102-3 Location of headquarters 2 102-4 Location of operations 2-3 Environmental 102-5 Ownership and legal form 2 Materials 2016 103-1/2/3 Management approach 24, 27 102-6 Markets served 2-3, hl-display.com 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 27, 28 102-7 Scale of the organization 2 Energy 2016 103-1/2/3 Management approach 24, 25, 28 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 18-22 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 28 102-9 Supply chain 30-32 Water 2018 103-1/2/3 Management approach 24, 25, 28 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply No significant change 303-3 Water withdrawal 28 chain Emissions 2016 103-1/2/3 Management approach 24, 25, 26 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach HL Display works to prevent 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 24, 28 All the carbon footprint emisand minimize risk of sustainabilsions are based on 2018 data ity topics. The company's deci305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 24, 28 All the carbon footprint emissions shall, as far as possible, sions are based on 2018 data be supported by established facts. 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 24, 28 All the carbon footprint emissions are based on 2018 data 102-12 External initiatives UN Global Compact Effluents and 103-1/2/3 Management approach 25, 27 102-13 Membership of associations UN Global Compact, various Waste 2016 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 27 trade organisations in the markets where HL Display operates Social Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 5 Occupational 103-1/2/3 Management approach 18, 19, 22 Ethics and 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour 3, 5, 10, 11, 22, 30, 32 Health and Safety 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management-worker 22 Integrity 2016 health and safety committees Governance 102-18 Governance structure hl-display.com Own disclosure: Number of workplace accidents leading to 22 Stakeholder 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 11 absence or sick leave engagement 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 22 Supplier Social 103-1/2/3 Management approach 30, 31 Assessment 2018 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 32 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 11 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 11 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 12-13 Reporting 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements HL Display Holding AB and all practice subordinate legal entities 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries GRI’s reporting principles have been taken into consideration 102-47 List of material topics 12 102-48 Restatements of information None 102-49 Changes in reporting No significant changes in the reporting 102-50 Reporting period 2019 102-51 Date of most recent report June 2019 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Peder Clason, Group Marketing Director, HL Display 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 34 102-55 GRI content index 34-35 102-56 External assurance The report has not been externally assured. 34 Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 35 © HL Display CORP0429EN103 Edition 1/2020. NORDIC ECOLABEL Exakta AB, 3041 0417 The better shopping experience HL DISPLAY AB Box 1118, Cylindervägen 18, Tel. +46 8 683 73 00 info@hl-display.com 131 26 Nacka Strand Sweden www.hl-display.com 36 Corporate Responsibility Report 2019
