02.12.2020 News En Ru Glossary Sitemap Contact us Search ABOUT US OPERATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INVESTORS & MEDIA CAREERS Main page Investors & Media news NEWS Nordgold Joins the United Nations Global Compact Initiative on Corporate Sustainability RESULTS & REPORTS London, United Kingdom, 13 March 2020 – Nord Gold SE (“Nordgold” or the “Company”), the internationally diversified gold producer, is pleased to announce that it has officially joined the United Nations Global Compact PRESENTATIONS Russia, the world`s largest corporate sustainability initiative. SHAREHOLDER Nordgold has reaffirmed its commitment to abiding by the Global Compact’s CENTRE ten principles in the key areas of human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption, as well as the 17 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. CORPORATE Over 13,000 participants from 160 countries have signed the initiative and GOVERNANCE have committed to adjusting their strategies, policies and procedures in order to create to a more sustainable, ecological, and inclusive future. MEDIA LIBRARY Evgeny Tulubensky, Chief Legal Officer, Corporate and Regulatory Affairs of Nordgold said: GLOSSARY “The core principles of sustainable development are an integral part of CONTACTS Nordgold’s DNA. Our success as a business is reliant on fostering strong relationships with all stakeholders, while reducing our mines’ environmental impact and preserving biodiversity. Joining the initiative will allow Nordgold to promote best industry practices across all our operations, whether that be from our employees or across our supply chain. We are hugely proud to contribute positively to the vital area of sustainability”. About Nordgold Nordgold is an internationally diversified gold producer established in 2007. Nordgold has a proven track record of operational excellence and benefits from a significant international development pipeline. The Company is relentlessly focused on shareholder value, committed to running safe, efficient, profitable operations, which enable it to generate strong cashflows and in turn, continue to invest in its pipeline of new growth opportunities while generating returns for investors. In 2018, Nordgold produced 907 thousand ounces of gold. Nordgold operates 10 mines (5 in Russia, 3 in Burkina Faso and one each in Guinea and Kazakhstan). It has several prospective projects in feasibility study and advanced exploration phases, as well as a diverse portfolio of early-stage exploration projects and licences in Burkina Faso, Russia, French Guiana and Canada. Nordgold employs over 8,000 people. Enquiries Nordgold https://nordgold.com/investors-and-media/news/nordgold-joins-the-un-global-compact/ 1/2 02.12.2020 News Olga Ulyeva olga.ulyeva@nord Head of Media Relations gold.com Powerscourt Tel: +44 (0) 20 Peter Ogden 7250 1446 PRESS RELEASE PDF, 326.50 KB CONTACTS Procurement Department Corporate Communications Human Resources Sustainable Development Full list ABOUT US OPERATIONS SUSTAINABLE INVESTORS & MEDIA FOR SUPPLIERS Go up DEVELOPMENT Mission & Big idea Production News Vision & Values Development and Our approach Results & Reports Exploration projects Our cases Strategy Presentations Reserves and Health and Safety Leadership Shareholder Centre Resources Geography Environment Corporate Governance History Society Media Library Contact us Employees Glossary Reports & Policies Contacts © 2020 Nordgold Accessibility policy Disclaimer Privacy policy Site by CreativePeople https://nordgold.com/investors-and-media/news/nordgold-joins-the-un-global-compact/ 2/2
