2019 Kearney Sustainability Report Photo by Michaela Heselton Kearney, London Our commitment 1 Our business 8 Our people 12 Our planet 16 Our community 19 Appendix 22 UN Global Compact 22 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Content Index 27 Our commitment Letter from leadership Sustainability and social impact are vital for our people—more than 90 percent of our colleagues Our founder, Tom Kearney, established the principle around the world say it is important to them. As such, of “essential rightness” in how we operate, and we are dedicated to creating opportunities for because of that, we have worked to make a positive everyone to engage with sustainability through our impact on the world. Through our client engagements, clients, our local office initiatives, social impact pro bono projects, and other firm initiatives, we work externships, volunteering, and beyond. Not only is to be the difference in the societies in which we live. social impact and sustainability a core component of Our comprehensive approach addresses all areas of our expertise and skill set, it is a central path to joy for sustainability—environmental, social, and economic— our people. and we are proud of what we have achieved in the past year, in line with our ongoing commitment to Our 2020 rebranding reaffirms the importance of the UN Global Compact. We recognize that this is an sustainability in everything we do. We do not believe ongoing journey, currently being reshaped by the our people can apply expertise without empathy. global COVID-19 pandemic. However, we are Exercising this empathy means valuing the environdedicated to pursuing an even bolder ambition ment and communities in which we do work. Our in 2020 and beyond. new brand focuses on our people—not only in how we look, but also in the way we act, by ensuring our We are proud to have been the first global values of generosity and solidarity shine through our management consulting firm to achieve carbon sustainability work. At this historic moment in our firm neutrality in 2010. Ten years on, we are now history, we celebrate our past accomplishments and pledging our commitment to setting and achieving have passion for future progress. science-based emissions reduction targets, which are in line to meet the goals of the Paris Agreement. We are also working toward purchasing 100 percent renewable energy by 2030. Alex Liu Managing Partner and Chairman of the Board, Kearney May 2020 Kearney Sustainability Report | 2019 1 About this report Unless listed otherwise, all data, statistics, and information given are related to Kearney’s worldwide Kearney’s annual sustainability report presents an operations. Kearney made use of strong data overview of our sustainability and corporate social collection controls and verification processes, responsibility for the 2019 calendar year. This report including external validation from partners South Pole is our second in a series of comprehensive annual Group and Atmosfair, that assure the accuracy and sustainability reports. completeness of the information in this report. Kearney has always been dedicated to supporting the We are dedicated to learning more about the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals perspectives of our stakeholders concerning sustainthrough our client engagements, thought leadership, ability at Kearney. As such, we welcome you to and pro bono work. In March 2018, Kearney became a provide us with feedback. Please do so by reaching signatory of the UN Global Compact, a set of 10 out to our Global Director of Social Impact, Pei Yun principles covering the areas of human rights, labor, Teng, at peiyun.teng@kearney.com. environment, and anti-corruption. The report will introduce Kearney’s efforts to show how we strive for a more sustainable world. We aim to create positive social impact not only through our client work, but also through our people and communities. Ultimately, this report will demonstrate our comprehensive approach to sustainability, an important part of our culture at Kearney. Kearney locations Americas Europe Middle East and Africa Asia Pacific Atlanta Amsterdam Milan Abu Dhabi Bangkok Bogotá Berlin Moscow Doha Beijing Boston Brussels Munich Dubai Brisbane Calgary Bucharest Oslo Johannesburg Hong Kong Chicago Copenhagen Paris Riyadh Jakarta Dallas Düsseldorf Prague Kuala Lumpur Detroit Helsinki Rome Melbourne Houston Istanbul Stockholm Mumbai Mexico City Lisbon Vienna New Delhi New York Ljubljana Warsaw Perth San Francisco London Zurich Seoul São Paulo Madrid Shanghai Toronto Singapore Washington, D.C. Sydney Tokyo Kearney Sustainability Report | 2019 2 About Kearney Our primary As a global consulting partnership in more than 40 industries countries, our people make us who we are. We’re Aerospace and Defense individuals who take as much joy from those we work with as the work itself. Driven to be the difference Automotive between a big idea and making it happen, we help our clients break through. Our global team is more Chemicals than 3,600 people strong, with more than 20,000 people in our alumni network. The headquarters and Communications, Media, and origin of the firm are in Chicago. Technology Kearney is a partner-owned firm with more than 300 Consumer and Retail partners across the globe. Managing Partner Alex Liu, together with the rest of the Board of Directors, is Energy responsible for guiding the long-term success and continuity of the firm, shaping its vision and strategy. Financial Services Day-to-day management at a global level is overseen by the Operating Committee (OC) and supported by Health the Managing Partner Leadership Team (MPLT). In addition to the OC and MPLT, leadership teams are Industrial Goods and Services set up for each region, as well as industry and service practices, units, and functions. Infrastructure At Kearney, our focus is on improving our clients, Metals and Mining capabilities, and culture. We want to improve our client stewardship to make real progress in the marketplace Private Equity and with our teams. Our second focus is to improve our capabilities and versatility by updating our practice Public Sector model to require more cross-participation between industries, sectors, services, and solutions. Lastly, we Transportation and Travel are striving to enhance our culture by creating and living a culture that is open, flat, agile, collaborative, and joyful. Kearney’s five core values are: Our primary activities Generosity of spirit to care deeply about each other and our clients Analytics Digital Solidarity to be Leadership, Change, and a winning team Organization Mergers and Acquisitions Passion and presence to be our best self Operations and Performance Procurement Curiosity and drive to Social Impact and Sustainability explore new ground Strategy and Top-Line Transformation Services Boldness to be distinctive and break from the status quo Global Business Policy Council (GBPC) Kearney Sustainability Report | 2019 3 Sustainability highlights “Our success as We seek to make a positive social impact in three primary areas—Kearney’s 3Es: consultants will Economic development. We work to expand depend on the economic opportunities for people around the world. essential rightness Energy and sustainability. We help companies, of the advice we nonprofits, and governments reap the rewards of becoming truly sustainable. give and our capacity Education and workforce. We believe education for convincing those is the path to a better society. in authority that it is good.“ Andrew Thomas Kearney Selected awards Kearney Sustainability Report | 2019 4 >3,600 people 93% say social impact and sustainability is important to them and >60% have participated in social impact and sustainability activities Offices in more than 40 countries, with social impact teams in >30 offices >30 pro bono consulting projects with both local impact organizations and Ashoka Carbon neutral since 2010 60% renewable energy usage in offices, committed to reaching 100% 38% women across the firm in 2019 Kearney Sustainability Report | 2019 5 UN Sustainable Development Kearney has always been dedicated to supporting the UN SDGs through our client engagements, thought Goals (SDGs) leadership, and pro bono work. In March 2018, Kearney became a signatory of the UN Global Compact, a set of 10 principles covering the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. Sustainable Development Goals Selected examples Goal 1 Consulting engagements. We work with diverse businesses, governments, and nonprofits to address global poverty. For example advising a povertyEnd poverty in all its forms everywhere focused global venture fund on its portfolio and business models. Goal 2 Feeding America. We support the US’s largest domestic hunger relief organization, a network of 200 food banks across the country, helping them End hunger, achieve food security and improved find new sources of nutritious food for 46 million people including 12 million nutrition, and promote children and more than seven million seniors in need. sustainable agriculture Goal 3 Using data to predict Ebola’s spread. Alongside the World Economic Forum, we developed models to predict the spread of disease. Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for Enabling rural healthcare. We supported Healing Fields Foundation (India) all ages to build health and hygiene awareness in rural India. Goal 4 Re-imagining the future of work and empowering youth. With Ashoka, we co-led a study with 30+ business and education leaders. Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all Goal 5 Women entrepreneurs. We supported the NYC Small Business Services Department to accelerate programs for developing women entrepreneurs Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls (funding, mentorship and networking, skills development, information, and infrastructure). Goal 6 Access to potable water in Mexico. We worked with Cantaro Azul to empower communities to access and own potable water. Ensure availability and sustainable management of The call for clean water. We led a study on the effects of acid mine drainage water and sanitation for all on South African water sources and proposed solutions for neutralizing, stabilizing, and researching those sources. Goal 7 Kearney Energy Transition Institute. We provide leading insights on global trends in energy transition, technologies, and strategic implications Ensure access to aﬀordable, reliable, sustainable, and for private-sector businesses and public-sector institutions. modern energy for all Goal 8 Revitalizing Fukushima. We partnered with Nishigo Village to create industry segments that led to job creation in post-earthquake Fukushima. Promote sustained, inclusive, and sustainable economic Fruit2Work. We partnered with a fruit box delivery company providing growth, productive employtransitional employment to former offenders. ment, and decent work for all Goal 9 German Sustainability Award (DNP). Kearney is a founding member and methodology and assessment partner for DNP, Europe’s most prestigious Build infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable sustainability award, with more than 7,000 companies, cities, start-ups, industrialization, and foster and research projects participating since 2008. innovation Kearney Sustainability Report | 2019 6 Sustainable Development Goals Selected examples Goal 10 Accelerating Mexico’s growth rate. We sought to increase economic development in Mexico in an initiative with nonprofit Centro Fox. Reduce inequality within and among countries Goal 11 Becoming a leader in energy eﬀiciency. We worked with the NYC Economic Development Corporation to help the city develop a plan for becoming an Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, energy-efficient leader. resilient, and sustainable The “smart city” ecosystem. We produced thought leadership on the rise of “smart cities” and the need for robust digital infrastructure and its implications as an initiative for the UAE. Goal 12 Circular reset. We produced an enhanced CEO agenda offering based on circular economy concepts that attempt to keep materials at their highest Ensure sustainable consumption and value within the supply chain. production patterns Goal 13 Carbon neutrality. Kearney was the first global management consulting firm to become carbon neutral (2010). We have committed to setting and Take urgent action to combat climate change achieving science-based emissions reduction targets, which are in line to and its impacts meet the goals of the Paris Agreement. We are also working toward purchasing 100 percent renewable energy by 2030. Goal 14 Water and energy challenge. We published research on the state of freshwater resources and how to address stressors on this resource at a Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas, and marine local level. resources for sustainable development Goal 15 Deforestation-free supply chain for beef. We applied a methodology for quantifying the impact of sustainability to the beef value chain in a way that Protect, restore, and promote the sustainable use of terrestrial reduced both land usage and cost per pound. ecosystems, halt land degradation, and halt biodiversity loss Goal 16 Reducing unnecessary incarceration in Chicago. We partnered with Civic Consulting Alliance to help Cook County create a more effective system Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable for bond court, which currently leaves many poor people stuck in jail for development, provide access minor crimes until they can post bond. to justice, and build eﬀective, accountable, and inclusive institutions at all levels Goal 17 The World Economic Forum (WEF). As one of the 100 leading global companies selected by the World Economic Forum as a strategic partner, Strengthen the means for implementation and revitalize we support the WEF’s mission to improve the state of the world. the global partnership for sustainable development Kearney Sustainability Report | 2019 7 Our business We make real progress with our client work Sustainability strategy for BASF We worked with leading chemicals company BASF to understand key sustainability trends and scenarios and drive sustainability for value creation and business growth. Our work generated more than 70 trends and more than 200 standards based on research from studies by academia, think tanks, and market analysts. UAE happiness strategy UAE aims to be among the happiest countries in the world. For a leading UAE utilities company, we developed the world’s first stakeholders’ happiness framework. The framework revolved around dimensions such as water preservation, transition to new energy sources, the water-food-energy nexus, and environmental sustainability. To put it into practice, we created a supporting strategy that 1) aligned both the nation’s and the client’s goals, 2) created clear accountability, and 3) built organizational momentum for implementation. Sustainable packaging For a major North American beverage client, we built a five-year sustainability strategy for PET plastic bottles across carbonated and non-carbonated beverages. Our work validated recycled PET (rPET) use for 50 to 100 percent in colored bottles and 25 to 50 percent in clear bottles across 30+ brands, and a supply strategy to ensure rPET availability in a largely competitive market. We also developed a long-term project pipeline of blue-sky initiatives including converting from plastic to aluminum, investing in chemical recycling, increasing bottle bill claim, and promoting active recovery. Kearney Sustainability Report | 2019 8 We also drive impact through Since 2015, Kearney has partnered with the World Economic Forum (WEF) to determine the future of our thought leadership advanced manufacturing and production and The Kearney Energy Transition Institute is a assess the implications resulting from such a rapid nonprofit organization that provides leading insights pace of change for businesses, governments, and on global trends in energy transition, technologies, broader society. In the latest report, Reshaping Global and strategic implications for private-sector Value: Technology, Climate, Trade—Global Value businesses and public-sector institutions. The Chains under Pressure, we collaborated with the UN Institute is dedicated to combining objective technoDevelopment Programme (UNDP) and WEF to explore logical insights with economical perspectives to the role of production during the Fourth Industrial define the consequences in a rapidly changing Revolution, the climate emergency, and other trends energy landscape. It explores how businesses may that restructure the foundations on which global both capture the opportunities that arise and address value chains have been built. the challenges that face them in this complex and often uncertain shift. The Institute has developed deep insights in areas such as solar PV, hydrogen, negative emissions technologies, gas hydrates, carbon capture and storage, wind, smart grids, energy storage, water-energy nexus, and energy poverty and continues to address the most pressing emerging topics such as the impact of digitalization. World Economic Forum— Reimagining the Future of Work and Empowering Youth Today’s education model falls short: we must urgently do more to prepare the next generation to thrive in a changing world and create a better future. In Davos 2019, we hosted a discussion together with LEGO Foundation, Linklaters, Ashoka, Cisco, and Quartz on how businesses envision the future of work, and the implications for young people. This builds on our study with Ashoka, the first of its kind in Asia, interviewing 34 diverse cross-sectoral leaders representing business, education, social entrepreneurs, and young changemakers. They participated in relevant conferences and events as keynote speakers (for example, Fabric of Change). Kearney Sustainability Report | 2019 9 The Global Business Policy Council is a specialized foresight and strategic analysis unit within Kearney. In 2020, the The Council helps CEOs and government leaders anticipate and plan for the future. As one of the Council’s work world’s premier think tanks, it delivers thought leadership and advisory services on some of the will include a focus world’s most crucial social and environmental challenges. For example, Resilience, Replacement, on the business and Renewal outlines the major trends that will dramatically shape the global outlook and operating implications of environment, including global reskilling and climate-resilient infrastructure. In 2020, the climate change. Council’s work will include a focus on the business implications of climate change, including a thematic section in the annual Foreign Direct Investment Confidence Index exploring the impact of climate change on investor decisions, and a dedicated Council Perspective exploring the broader economic impacts of climate change. Kearney Sustainability Report | 2019 10 We hold ourselves to the highest Integrity Helpline. In addition to the Ombuds Program, the firm has contracted an independent standards through policies and company to provide another avenue for advice. The reporting Integrity Helpline is a confidential way to report a concern, to report suspected misconduct, or to Code of Business Conduct. We expect our partners obtain information or advice regarding the applicaand employees to uphold the firm’s core values of tion of laws or the firm’s policies. The Integrity solidarity, generosity, curiosity, passion, and Helpline is operated by The Network, an indepenboldness. To this end, all our employees must certify dent company that helps businesses respond to each year to our Code of Business Conduct, which concerns about integrity and compliance. The line sets forth that all are personally responsible to operates 24/7. exemplify the firm’s core values and behave in a manner that is ethical, lawful, and professional. Our Measurement and reporting. Our corporate social standards are further detailed in other Kearney responsibility (CSR) performance is audited annually policies such as the Equal Employment Opportunity by EcoVadis, covering the themes of environment, & Sexual Harassment policy, the Antibribery policy, labor and human rights, ethics, and sustainable and the Global Sustainability policy (see Appendix procurement, for which we were certified Silver in for more details). June 2019. We also participate annually in the climate change questionnaire of CDP, a global Supplier Code of Conduct. It is crucial that our nonprofit environmental disclosure platform. Our suppliers and vendors recognize the roles they play annual greenhouse gas emissions are measured and in fulfilling our commitment to compliance and audited with the support of Atmosfair and South integrity. Our Supplier Code of Conduct sets forth Pole Group. Kearney’s Managing Partner Leadership the principles and ethical standards that we expect Team and our Board of Directors have regular our suppliers to work toward throughout the course oversight over our sustainability performance. of our business relationship. Kearney can and will consider criteria reflecting these principles as part of any supplier assessment, contract award, or performance appraisal. We have also developed a Supplier Code of Conduct training for all colleagues interacting with suppliers and have trained buyers across key departments. Global Ombuds Program. The Global Ombuds Program is one of several channels by which employees can report concerns. It is an informal, confidential, neutral, and independent resource for all employees to support discussion and resolution of any work-related issue. The Ombuds Program is available to any Kearney employee—regardless of the individual’s department, position, office, or reporting relationship. Employees can contact any Ombudsperson globally. Kearney Sustainability Report | 2019 11 Our people Our people are passionate about Kearney’s managing partner and head of governance committee have ultimate responsibility for promoting social impact and sustainability and implementing sustainability across the firm. This Ninety-three percent of our people globally say that includes regularly reviewing the effectiveness of social impact and sustainability are important to Kearney’s sustainability-related policies, underthem. More than 60 percent of our people have standing sustainability-related opportunities and participated in social impact and sustainability risks, setting clear objectives and targets, monitoring activities. We provide diverse internal and external and measuring performance, communicating the learning and development opportunities, including results, and ensuring resources are made available for social impact externships and sustainability courses implementation. There is board-level oversight, where and trainings. sustainability targets are incorporated into management performance objectives and linked to incentives. Our sustainability efforts are led by a global director of social impact, together with social impact teams across more than 30 offices. Office team—Gurugram, India For more than four years, our India unit has supported social organizations such as India Food Banking Network (IFBN), collaborated with large social platforms such as Ashoka, and contributed to thought leadership in select focus areas. They have worked on 10+ engagements with social entrepreneurs in the fields of education, health, and textiles. Select examples include Ekjut (reducing maternal and neonatal maternity rate in rural India) and Khushi (upliftment of underprivileged children with a focus on remedial intervention within primary schools). The team has also contributed publications on several topics including social innovation in the apparel industry, technology as a catalyst to scale social Internally, the India unit holds fundraising events to innovations, and community health mobilization. support its partner NGOs. Last year their annual They participated in relevant conferences and events offsite auction raised more than $40,000 and has as keynote speakers (for example, Fabric of Change). contributed $140,000 over the past five years. The contributions help provide better education and living conditions for many children. The India unit has also focused on improving office sustainability with various initiatives, including reducing single-use plastic. Kearney Sustainability Report | 2019 12 What social impact teams do Local social impact teams have a variety of responsibilities and can shape their activities to the needs of their communities. Generally, all teams: 1 Diversity and inclusion Engage the community Kearney is an equal opportunity employer and is via client work, committed to nurturing a diverse and inclusive workforce by providing benefits, training, and career pro bono work, development and progression support for our volunteering, employees. Kearney is regularly recognized by and fundraising esteemed organizations and publications for our 2 supportive culture, inclusive programs and networks, and diverse talent. Our culture is strengthened by a breadth of active diversity networks, including our Implement sustainable Proud, Black@Kearney, and Women’s networks, which provide a space for our people to discuss and practices in their celebrate their unique backgrounds and identities. offices such as recycling, utilities We actively measure progress against our D&I goals and aspirations. For example, our representation of reduction, women across the firm was 38 percent in 2019. You and purchasing can find more details on our efforts in the Appendix. ecofriendly supplies 3 Track and communicate their impact both internally and publicly Kearney Sustainability Report | 2019 13 We have many opportunities Kearney is to integrate social impact and sustainability with our careers regularly recognized Kearney’s Social Impact Externship Program pairs by esteemed organizations and colleagues passionate about creating a positive impact with social entrepreneurs, NGOs, or other publications for our innovative impact organizations. Externs can spend up to three months working directly with these supportive culture, organizations, providing an opportunity to contribute professionally to a meaningful cause, build new skills inclusive programs in a dynamic entrepreneurial environment, and gain firsthand experience in the social impact sector. and networks, and diverse talent. Elizabeth Clifton / Libertate Elizabeth Clifton, a manager in our Chicago office, did her externship with Libertate, an organization in Argentina working to advance the economic inclusion of people with disabilities. Elizabeth worked with Libertate to define their vision, mission, and work processes. This has led to improved customer satisfaction, work quality, and communication. “Elizabeth’s support […] was a ‘before and after’ in Libertate. Being part of the [externship program] allowed us to improve our methodology and quality of service this year and we were able to redefine our strategic plan to be more sustainable.” Founder, Libertate Kearney Sustainability Report | 2019 14 Social Impact Catalyst Fund Kearney’s Social Impact Catalyst Fund provides seed funding for employee-led initiatives that create positive impact around the world—from within Kearney to our communities at large. We want to nourish ideas that take on important global and local challenges, create positive impact for local communities, foster global collaboration, and offer personal and professional growth opportunities. Our second round of finalists wrapped up their projects in 2019 and we are eager to launch 2020’s fund. Idea Factory As one of our Catalyst Fund finalists, our Istanbul office launched the Idea Factory, which aims to help integrate Syrian refugee children living in Turkey. There are currently more than four million Syrian refugees in Turkey, and education and integration are crucial issues for refugee children. Idea Factory is a competition event designed to capture impactful ideas from Turkish student clubs and nongovernmental organizations to support these at-risk children. Winning ideas will assist with language barriers, cultural differences, and financial limitations, and Idea Factory aims to provide funding and strategic mentorship throughout the projects. “[Kearney’s] experience in solving One of our 2019 winners was Small Projects Istanbul, the strategic issues faced by an NGO supporting integration of 100 Syrian children, in addition to supporting 50 Syrian families, through businesses and institutions in so comprehensive educational workshops, therapies, many sectors is so important for summer camp activities, and more. our growth and we know it will bring so many positive changes in Small Projects Istanbul.” Programs Manager, Small Projects Istanbul Kearney Sustainability Report | 2019 15 Our planet Our commitment to carbon neutrality and reducing our emissions Kearney was the first management consulting firm to become carbon neutral (2010). We measure our Kearney’s 2019 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, actively work carbon offset across our offices in more than 40 countries to improve our environmental performance, and offset portfolio unavoidable emissions through carbon offsets. Huóshui Grouped Small Hydropower, China As a professional services firm, most of our GHG This project consists of multiple emissions come as a result of air travel, offices, and small-scale hydropower plants hotel accommodations while serving our clients. generating renewable energy for By employing the nonprofit carbon usage monitor, rural Southwest China. It supplies Atmosfair, we track our travel details through use clean hydroelectric power to the statistics and detailed studies. Maintaining this level of local grid, which displaces understanding of our footprint allows us to purchase greenhouse gas emissions, helping carbon credits and track our balance annually. Going to mitigate climate change and forward, we are dedicated to doing even better, as improve local lives. outlined in our Global Sustainability Policy. We are implementing a multiyear sustainability plan to further Envira Amazonia Tropical Forest reduce our energy consumption and associated GHG Conservation, Brazil emissions, boost our reduction and recycling of This project protects 39,300 ha of waste, and optimize our use of technology such as tropical forest from logging and video conferencing to reduce our business travel. encroaching cattle ranches. This preserves the area’s rich biodiversity and mitigates an 2019 GHG emissions by scope average of more than 1.25 million tons of CO2e per year. The project Total of 84,936 tons CO2e also fosters economic opportunities for local communities, promotes Tons CO2e Total (%) environmental stewardship, and provides health services and Scope 1 1,375 1.6% educational courses. Scope 2 3,762 4.4% Scope 3 79,799 94.0% Total 84,936 100.0% Scope 1: Direct emissions from owned or controlled sources Scope 2: Indirect emissions from the generation of purchased electricity, heat, or steam Scope 3: Other indirect emissions (for example, business travel) Source: South Pole Group Kearney Sustainability Report | 2019 16 Our people work hard to improve our sustainability as a firm Our 30+ social impact teams across our global offices work hard to improve the environmental sustainability of our work. Office efforts include reducing utility usage, sourcing reusable and ecofriendly supplies, sourcing local foods, improving recycling efforts, reducing travel-based emissions, and managing office events sustainably. Circular Hub Circular Hub brings together our clients, an ecosystem of partners, and the depth and breadth The world is facing substantial environmental risk of our expertise to deliver environmentally and and a circular economy is emerging as a solution economically viable solutions. The Circular Hub to address waste. Inspired by our client work and consists of four core elements: internal sustainability efforts (for example, the London sustainability initiative), a global team pitched an 1. World Without Waste transformation playbook: innovative idea—Circular Hub—and won the popular a set of proven solutions we have successfully vote at Kearney’s Global Innovator Days! deployed for clients 2. Circular Accelerator: bringing together start-ups and clients to focus on circular economy challenges 3. New business models and circular consortia: bringing in multiple companies to create innovative comprehensive solutions 4. Kearney assets, supported by a broader ecosystem of capabilities internally and through partners Kearney Sustainability Report | 2019 17 We measure office progress each year with the Office Continuing this effort, we are pleased to announce Sustainability Index (OSI). The OSI survey assesses our commitment to setting Science-Based Targets office status on social impact and sustainability (SBTs). Over the next two years, we will work to initiatives, including pro bono involvement, employee determine GHG emission reduction targets that are in participation, events organized, green office practices line with what climate science says is necessary to implemented, and more. meet the goals of the Paris Agreement—to limit global warming to well below 2°C above pre-industrial levels In 2019, we also launched a Sustainability 101 and pursue efforts to limit warming to 1.5°C. training to get our social impact teams up to speed on sustainability at Kearney and what they can do in their offices to make an impact. Currently, more than 60 percent of the energy usage in our offices is renewable. One of our top priorities for the firm in 2020 is increasing the use of renewable energy in our offices. Our goal is to be at 80 percent renewable energy by 2025 and at 100 percent by 2030. Plastic-Free London As a winner of seed funding from our Social Impact Catalyst Fund, our London office is leading the charge to reduce single-use plastic consumption. In less than six months, the team halved consumption of singleuse plastic in the office through: 1. Engaging with our suppliers and reviewing sustainability in our procurement practices (ranging from printing and office supplies to food packaging) 2. Baselining our consumables (what we bring into the office) and launching reusables for use by the office community The team has also launched a series of client and internal sustainability-themed events that have engaged clients and increased awareness among colleagues. The initiative will continue this year in London to drive even more impact and address other sustainability-related challenges (for example, recycling). The work done by the London team has been summarized in a playbook that is being rolled out to the sustainability teams in Kearney offices globally. Kearney Sustainability Report | 2019 18 Our community We create positive impact in our communities on both a global and local level Ashoka partnership Ashoka is the world’s largest network of social entrepreneurs—individuals with expertise to systemically address the world’s biggest challenges and entrepreneurial skills to transform those ideas into national, regional, and global social impact. For more than 35 years, Ashoka has supported more than 3,600 social entrepreneurs in 90 countries with solutions addressing society’s most pressing issues. Kearney’s partnership with Ashoka aims to create and deliver innovative programs across multi-stakeholder groups to scale social innovation and create positive system change. This combines Ashoka’s strengths in social entrepreneurship with Kearney’s track record in being the difference for clients, employees, and society at large. We are proud that our contributions have been recognized with Consulting magazine’s Excellence in Social and Community Investment Award. Ashoka’s Globalizer program Since 2016, our Kearney volunteers have successfully led pro bono projects with more than 25 Ashoka social entrepreneurs through Ashoka’s Globalizer accelerator program. The ambition is to help these social entrepreneurs scale up innovative solutions to social challenges and catalyze system change globally. The diverse projects range across healthcare, agriculture, technology, apparel, education, and youth empowerment. We recently worked with Paradigm Initiative on their scaling and partnership strategy. Paradigm organizes digital skills curriculums of ~15 weeks for young people at five centers in Nigeria, Kenya, and Cameroon to give them better chances for employment. Kearney Sustainability Report | 2019 19 Phoenix: sustainable development in Mexican communities affected by earthquakes Because of the earthquakes that occurred in September 2017, Mexico City and surrounding communities lived a “state of emergency” for at least five weeks. After first-aid efforts, the reconstruction phase started. However, state funds were insufficient, and moreover, affected people were generally the least privileged. The reconstruction is not only rebuilding houses but rebuilding the economic and social lives of many. Through collaboration with Ashoka, a Kearney team received funding from our Catalyst Fund and created Phoenix, a group formed by 10 core Ashoka fellows and organizations. Their mission is to “achieve a holistic and sustainable development in the Mexican communities affected by the earthquakes with the greatest needs, through the implementation of a joint action model.” Kearney guided the group in its formation, first defining a mission and a vision and following up on the group’s progress. As a result, 80 houses have been built “Echale a Tu Casa” with innovative materials, funded 90 percent by private sponsors and 10 percent by the house owners. In addition, “Saber para la Vida,” an economic development organization that fosters women entrepreneurship, has already started identifying strengths and needs. This scalable model should be the pioneer in integrating different NGOs in a single intervention model. Agence du Don en Nature In 2019, our Paris colleagues won second place for the Pro Bono Professional Award of the Year by The Good Lobby for their work with Agence du Don en Nature. Agence du Don en Nature specializes in recovering unsold non-food products from manufacturers and giving them to local charities that target disadvantaged communities. Kearney developed a full impact study to allow Agence du Don en Nature to better understand strategic implications of new text laws—which aim to prohibit new products from being destroyed—being discussed in French Parliament. As a byproduct we also provided lobbying and regulatory targeting advice, which helped Agence du Don en Nature to push for further changes vs. the initial draft of new text laws. Finally, we helped formalize a new strategic plan, with key recommendations to be implemented in the next few years. Kearney Sustainability Report | 2019 20 UNICEF Australia Along with Nigel Andrade being a non-executive director of UNICEF Australia, our Australian colleagues have been collaborating with UNICEF Australia to help drive a program of “innovation for impact.” This has taken the form of design research and innovation workshops to generate innovative ideas for transforming UNICEF’s fundraising model. These workshops were attended by most of UNICEF Australia’s marketing and fundraising team. Kearney consultants and Kearney PCE Labs continue to provide ongoing support following the workshops, including putting in place innovation capabilities to see these ideas through to results in 2020. “To have access to the insights and experience that Kearney brings allows us to accelerate the impact we have in helping vulnerable children. It also ensures that UNICEF Australia has a stronger and a more sustainable foundation to allow it to be successful in the future.” Tony Stuart, CEO, UNICEF Australia German Sustainability Award The German Sustainability Award is accompanied by an annual two-day conference which brings together The German Sustainability Award (DNP) is the about 500 thought leaders and practitioners to leading European award for sustainability, with more exchange their views on all aspects of sustainability. than 7,000 companies, cities, start-ups, and Topics covered have included climate change, research projects participating in the various biodiversity, circular economy, and many more. categories over the past 12 years. The award is a multi-stakeholder initiative promoting the idea of sustainability with the objective to identify and applaud leaders in sustainability and share best practices across leaders in Germany. Stakeholders involved are from the federal government, German businesses, NGOs, and academia. Kearney is proud to be a founding member and methodology partner of the DNP since its foundation in 2008. We have been heavily involved in designing and updating the evaluation methodology and competition process throughout the 12 years of its existence. Broad anchorage into the society is proven by honorary DNP price recipients including Ban Ki-Moon, António Guterres, Hans-Dietrich Genscher, Horst Köhler, Annie Lennox, Prince Charles, Achim Steiner, Queen Silvia of Sweden, Lord Norman Foster, Yusuf Islam (Cat Stevens), Volker Hauff, Jamie Oliver, and others. Kearney Sustainability Report | 2019 21 Appendix UN Global Compact In March 2018, Kearney became We expect our partners and employees to uphold the firm’s core values of solidarity, generosity, curiosity, a signatory of the UN Global passion, and boldness. To this end, all our employees Compact, a set of 10 principles must certify each year to our Code of Business covering the areas of human Conduct, which sets forth that all are personally responsible to exemplify the firm’s core values and rights, labor, environment, and behave in a manner that is ethical, lawful, and anti-corruption. This report serves professional. Recently, we have updated our code in as our annual Communication on two important areas: personal relationships and data privacy. The updates provide clear and realistic Progress (COP) that summarizes provisions around the disclosure of personal romantic our ongoing commitment to the or physical relationships. They also describe the role initiative and its 10 principles. that all of us need to play in protecting personal data, particularly considering the GDPR and other new and upcoming privacy laws. Human rights principles Implementation Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human In the main document, you will find details about our rights; and Global Ombuds Program and Integrity Helpline, which we use to ensure that human rights principles Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in are upheld. human rights abuses Through our social impact efforts, we are committed to assisting organizations outside of our own firm that Assessment, policy, and goals promote human rights, including disaster relief, Kearney is committed to respecting and supporting refugee support, hunger relief, education, and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other international development. Examples of the organizainternational standards. Our internal policies reflect tions we have recently supported include Red Cross, our commitment to acting ethically and with integrity MercyCorps (UAE), Save the Children (Switzerland), in all our business relationships. and Feeding America (US). Kearney is a leading global management consulting Our Catalyst Fund finalist, Idea Factory, also executed firm that focuses on strategic and operational CEO an event promoting human rights. As profiled in the agenda issues facing businesses, governments, main document, their initiative funds projects aimed and institutions around the globe. Our supply chain at integrating Syrian refugee children living in Turkey. involves contractors, professional advisory services, offices supplies and real estate, travel service Measurement of outcomes providers, and IT and telecom equipment. All Kearney employees have certified annually that they have read and understood the Kearney Code of Business Conduct. Kearney has not been involved in any adverse legal cases, rulings, or other events related to human rights in the period. Kearney Sustainability Report | 2019 22 Labor principles Implementation Diversity and inclusion Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of We have had multiple diversity and inclusion association and the effective recognition of the right achievements: to collective bargaining; — We have had client wins where diversity and Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and inclusion were crucial deciding factors. compulsory labor; Clients are increasingly focused on diversity and inclusion and view diverse talent as a strategic Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and and commercial imperative, as well as a differentiator in the market. We are often Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in approached by clients with opportunities to respect of employment and occupation advance thinking on this topic. Assessment, policy, and goals — We have promoted workplace support programs aimed at future leaders and employees returning Diversity and inclusion from parental leave to strengthen our diverse Kearney is an equal opportunity employer and is employee base. We are improving retention committed to nurturing a diverse and inclusive to provide a compelling value proposition workforce by providing benefits, trainings, and career to candidates. progression support for our employees. Kearney is regularly recognized by esteemed organizations and — Success with Flex facilitates part-time options publications for our supportive culture, inclusive and other alternate schedules, such as working programs and networks, and diverse talent. Our fewer days or hours per week. It also supports culture is strengthened by a breadth of active working from home and job-sharing. diversity networks, including our Proud, Black@ Kearney, and Women’s networks, which provide a — Pathway for Parents oﬀers many options to space for our people to discuss and celebrate being help ease the transition for caregivers returning part of an ethnic, cultural, or gender group. to work, including the ability to take a six-month rotation in a family-friendly role, work part-time, Modern Slavery Act or take a partially paid parental leave of absence. Kearney maintains a longstanding commitment to respecting human rights and to continually improve — The WorkSmart program entails the effective our practices. We welcome the transparency that the use of technology, remote working arrangeModern Slavery Act encourages to combat slavery ments, alternate travel schedules, and different and human trafficking. Kearney works hard to ensure work allocations to create more options within there is absolutely no modern slavery or human teams. A team can choose to participate in the trafficking occurring in our supply chains or any part program and develop a charter that balances of our business. Our internal policies reflect our team objectives and the personal goals of team promise to act ethically and with integrity in all our members. Workload management is achieved business relationships. by active dialogue throughout the project. Through our social impact efforts, we are committed — The Board of Directors Sponsorship initiative to assisting organizations outside of our own firm that connects strong contributors on track to be promote human rights and actively work against future firm leaders with a Board of Directors modern slavery and human trafficking. We actively comprised of influential senior sponsors to help collaborate with diverse organizations, including them think through their career paths and serve nonprofits, businesses, and governments, that work as an advocate for their interests—supporting to address these issues. Examples of our client their advancement and development within engagements and pro bono projects include instituthe firm. tionalizing fair-trade practices across supply chains and encouraging transparency and empowerment for the millions working in the informal economy. Kearney Sustainability Report | 2019 23 — We have several inclusion training programs for Modern Slavery Act both senior leaders and the overall employee that Kearney will not tolerate any slavery or human aim to increase awareness of unconscious biases trafficking in its business or supply chain. and foster a sense of belonging in our workforce. Amendments to our Code of Business Conduct now address supply chain issues specifically, stressing — PARC (People Advocating Real Change) the need for those with whom we contract for goods builds awareness of how systemic advantage or services to comply with human rights and impacts behavior and relationships across the employment laws (including equal treatment and diversity spectrum (for example, gender, race, freedom of association rules) and with our values. In ethnicity, sexual orientation). In 2019, we held order to achieve our zero tolerance goals, we started five in-person PARC Leadership Workshops a program of due diligence with respect to our across the globe, followed by 18 in-office PARC first-tier supply chain providers in IT, travel, real “teach out” sessions to engage in courageous estate, employment, and affiliated consultants. conversation, build awareness, and create a more inclusive environment. Further, we now require those key suppliers to commit contractually: 1) not to allow or procure any — Conscious inclusion training raises awareness slavery or human trafficking in their organizations and of what unconscious bias is, its impact, why it supply chains; and 2) to maintain adequate records to happens, and how to recognize and mitigate it allow Kearney to monitor their performance against to build an inclusive work environment. our contracts, values, and international employment and human rights standards. — We have increased the firm’s diversity profile, particularly global gender diversity, led by several Health and safety key initiatives and active employee network Kearney takes its employees’ health and safety very groups. In addition, we have created insights for seriously and has a disciplined approach in place to our clients and the wider business community in increase Kearney’s readiness and response. A dedisupport of inclusion. cated team and processes are in place to provide our employees with worldwide protection in partnership — High-profile awards including the Human Rights with the world’s leading security services firm, iSOS. A Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index (2020), messaging system, Send Word Now (SWN), is in place Working Mother’s Best 100 Companies (2019), to reach our employees in case of emergency. and Future Leader Award from Women Leaders in Consulting (2019) have recognized our Moving into 2020, we are prioritizing CARE, an commitment, but there is much more to be done. initiative to support colleagues’ mental health and well-being, and have already begun to make an — Kearney has officially signed on to the CEO Action impact. As part of the “R U OK” movement, an for Diversity and Inclusion pledge to demonstrate Australian national day for mental health awareness our commitment to deepening conversations and suicide prevention, our Australia team created around diversity and inclusion, and to share best fun activities that encouraged consultants to take a practices and learnings with the broader business break from their busy days and meaningfully connect community. And, we have signed the HRC’s with each other. These included giving a flower and Business Statement for Transgender Equality. note to someone who needs encouragement, going This is part of the firm’s efforts to ensure our to coffee with someone, and more. The event gave transgender and non-binary colleagues are everyone in the unit a dedicated opportunity to have respected in business and in law. open conversations about the ups and downs of life, and for us to support each other more proactively. — Our Social Impact Externships also include organizations doing diversity and inclusion work. Measurement of outcomes See the main document for details on the work Elizabeth Clifton did for Libertate to support All Kearney employees are certified annually on the inclusion of people with disabilities in Argentina. Kearney Code of Business Conduct. — We have recently launched ally programs for both For 2019, our representation of women across the our Women’s and Proud networks. Both groups firm is 38 percent. Nine percent of our Board of developed an ally pledge that colleagues could Directors and 18 percent of our Managing Partner commit to and have been following on with ally Leadership Team are women. programming and training. Kearney Sustainability Report | 2019 24 Environmental principles Implementation Our deep experience in strategy, operations, and Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionsustainability positions us to change how organizaary approach to environmental challenges; tions make an impact on the world. Across all industries, we see our clients facing complex social impact Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater and sustainability challenges, and the changing role environmental responsibility; and of business in society. With our clients, partners such as the World Economic Forum, and through our Principle 9: encourage the development and diffuthought leadership, we are dedicated to solving some sion of environmentally friendly technologies of the world’s most important challenges. For example, our Kearney Energy Transition Institute Assessment, policy, and goals provides leading insights on global trends in energy transition, technologies, and strategic implications for Kearney is proud to be the first management private-sector businesses and public-sector instituconsulting firm to become carbon neutral. Since tions. We have also worked with clients to launch 2007, we have made efforts in our 60+ offices to sustainability initiatives, such as sustainable supply reduce our carbon footprint. Since 2010, we have chain and improving energy efficiency. offset the remainder of our GHG emissions through the purchase of carbon credits. As a professional We have implemented several actions across our own services firm, most of our GHG emissions come as a business, including: result of air travel, offices, and hotel accommodations while serving our clients. By employing the nonprofit — Awareness raising and training of employees on carbon usage monitor, Atmosfair, we can track our climate change and environmental protection travel details through usage statistics and detailed studies. Maintaining this level of understanding of our — Initiatives and programs to reduce waste materials footprint allows us to purchase carbon credits and (for example, recycling) and consumption of track our balance annually. Going forward, we are resources (energy, fossil fuels, water, electricity, dedicated to doing even better by further reducing paper, packaging) our energy consumption and associated GHG emissions, reducing and recycling waste, and taking — Activities aimed at improving the energy efficiency advantage of technology. of products, services, and processes We have committed to setting and achieving — Development and diffusion of environmentally science-based emissions reduction targets, which friendly technologies are in line to meet the goals of the Paris Agreement. We are also working toward purchasing 100 percent As outlined in the main document, we have also renewable energy by 2030. developed two trainings promoting environmental sustainability. Sustainability 101 gives colleagues an We have an IT Sustainability Position and Strategy overview of sustainability at Kearney and provides outlining our continuing goal to make informed, pathways for them to improve the sustainability of intelligent, and impactful decisions regarding the their offices and teams. Supplier Code of Conduct design, operation, and delivery of global IT services training helps buyers incorporate sustainability and technologies. We aim to design and implement principles into their work with our suppliers. technical architecture that uses technologies in alignment with our sustainability goals by increasing See the “Our planet” section of the main document operational efficiencies and reducing power and for more actions, including the initiatives of our HVAC requirements. Plastic-Free London team. Measurement of outcomes Our environmental and CSR performance is audited annually by EcoVadis. Kearney has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings, or other events related to environmental practices in the period. We have trained buyers across key departments on the Supplier Code of Conduct. Kearney Sustainability Report | 2019 25 Anti-corruption principles Measurement of outcomes All Kearney employees have certified annually that Principle 10: Businesses should work against corrupthey have read and understood the Kearney Code of tion in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Business Conduct. We have trained buyers across key departments on the Supplier Code of Conduct. Assessment, policy, and goals Kearney has appointed an external audit company, For more than 90 years, our brand—Kearney—has and its books and accounts are subject to statutory stood for excellence and integrity. And as we go external audit every year. Kearney has not been about our work, each one of us holds this hardinvolved in any legal cases, rulings, or other events earned reputation in our hands. We cannot succeed related to corruption and bribery in the period. without the unconditional trust of our clients, partners, colleagues, and the broader communities in which we live and work. This is something we continue to earn each day. In the main document, you can find details about our Code of Business Conduct and Supplier Code of Conduct, which we use internally and externally to uphold our commitment to compliance and integrity. Implementation All Kearney employees are required to certify annually that they have read and understood the Kearney Code of Business Conduct, and to reaffirm their commitment to our values and principles. US employees also complete a data privacy training module. Furthermore, we conduct additional employee training in higher-risk environments. Kearney has also introduced our Supplier Code of Conduct. We expect each supplier to conduct its business in accordance with the highest ethical standards and to have controls in place that prohibit and detect the misuse of company assets, corruption, bribery, improper gifts, extortion, and embezzlement. Suppliers should similarly strive to prevent and avoid any conflict of interest, money laundering, or anti-competitive practices, and to adhere to industry standards regarding responsible marketing and information security. All suppliers’ business dealings should be fair, legal, and honest. In the main document, you can also find details about our Global Ombuds Program and Integrity Helpline, which we also use to ensure anti-corruption. Kearney Sustainability Report | 2019 26 Appendix Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) content index The Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Standards (or GRI Standards) are designed for organizations to report about their impact on the economy, environment, and/or society; to enhance the global comparability on these impacts; and to show contributions toward the goal of sustainable development. Kearney is on a path of continuous improvement toward sustainability reporting in line with best practices. GRI disclosure Page number and comments 102: General disclosure Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization 0, 1-3 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 3 102-3 Location of headquarters 3 102-4 Location of operations 3 102-5 Ownership and legal form 3 102-6 Markets served 3 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 22 102-12 External initiatives 6-7, 22-26 102-13 Membership of association 8-10, 19-21 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 3 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 1, 3, 6-7, 11, 22-26 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 11, 22-24, 26 Governance 102-18 Governance structure 3, 17-18 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 3 Reporting practice 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 2, 8-10, 27-28 102-47 List of material topics 27-28 102-50 Reporting period 2 102-52 Reporting cycle 2 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 2 102-55 GRI content index 27-28 Kearney Sustainability Report | 2019 27 GRI disclosure Page number and comments Economic 205: Anti-corruption 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 26 103-2 The management approach and its components 26 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 26 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 26 – Kearney has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings, or other events related to corruption and bribery during the reporting period. Environmental 305: Emissions 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 16 103-2 The management approach and its components 16, 18 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 16 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 16 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 16 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 16 Social 404: Training and education 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 11-13, 18, 22-26 103-2 The management approach and its components 11-13, 18, 22-26 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 11-13, 18, 22-26 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance During the reporting period, 100% of our firm and career development reviews employees received at least one performance review, as part of their career development. 405: Diversity and equal opportunity 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 13, 23-24 103-2 The management approach and its components 13, 23-24 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 13, 23-24 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 13, 24 – During the reporting period, Kearney had 38% women across the firm. Nine percent of our Board of Directors and 18% of our Leadership Team are women. 413: Local communities 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 12-15, 19-21 103-2 The management approach and its components 12-15, 19-21 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 12-15, 19-21 Source: Consolidated set of GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards 2019 Kearney Sustainability Report | 2019 28 As a global consulting partnership in more than 40 countries, our people make us who we are. We’re individuals who take as much joy from those we work with as the work itself. Driven to be the difference between a big idea and making it happen, we help our clients break through. kearney.com For more information, permission to reprint or translate this work, and all other correspondence, please email insight@kearney.com. A.T. Kearney Korea LLC is a separate and independent legal entity operating under the Kearney name in Korea. A.T. Kearney operates in India as A.T. Kearney Limited (Branch Office), a branch office of A.T. Kearney Limited, a company organized under the laws of England and Wales. © 2020, A.T. Kearney, Inc. All rights reserved. Kearney Sustainability Report | 2019 29 kearney.com
