2019-20 South Australian Water Corporation Annual Report FOR THE YEAR ENDING 30 JUNE 2020 FOR FURTHER DETAILS CONTACT SA Water Corporation ABN 69 336 525 019 Head office 250 Victoria Square/Tarntanyangga Adelaide SA 5000 Postal address GPO Box 1751 Adelaide SA 5001 Website sawater.com.au Please direct enquiries about this report to our Customer Care Centre on 1300 SA WATER (1300 729 283) or customerservice@sawater.com.au ISSN: 1833-9980 0052R12009 28 September 2020 Letter of Transmittal 28 September 2020 The Honourable David Speirs Minister for Environment and Water Dear Minister On behalf of the Board of SA Water, I am pleased to present the Corporation’s Annual Report for the financial year ending 30 June 2020. The report is submitted for your information and presentation to Parliament, in accordance with requirements of the Public Corporations Act 1993 and the Public Sector Act 2009. This report is verified as accurate for the purposes of annual reporting to the Parliament of South Australia.. Andrew Fletcher AO Chair of the Board 3 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report Contents A message from the Chair 5 Effective governance 56 A message from the Chief Executive 6 Legislation 56 Key regulators 56 About SA Water 8 The Board 56 Our vision 8 Directors’ interests and benefits 56 Our values 8 Board committees 56 Our organisation 8 Organisation structure 57 Our strategy 10 Financial performance 59 Financial performance summary 59 Our services 12 Contributions to government 60 Overview of our networks and assets 12 Capital Expenditure 60 Map of our supply areas 13 Consultants 61 Map of our reservoirs, water treatment plants, 14 borefields and major pipelines Supplementary reporting items 62 Map of our reservoirs, water treatment plants 15 Fraud 62 and supply areas, metropolitan Adelaide Strategies implemented to control and prevent fraud 62 Map of our reservoirs, water treatment plants 16 Public interest disclosure 62 and supply areas, outer metro Summary of complaints 62 Map of our wastewater treatment plants 17 Directions 63 Year in review 18 Appendices 73 Adapting to a changing world 18 Audited financial statements 74 Getting the basics right every time 22 Drinking water quality data 148 Working together 30 United Nations Communication on Progress 178 Leading the way 38 Capable and committed team 47 Keeping it simple 49 Water quality 50 4 A message from the Chair A reliable supply of safe clean drinking This year 150,000 solar photovoltaic panels water and dependable sewerage services were installed at sites across the state are fundamental to our health, public with effective forward planning ensuring amenity and our economy. In addition this and other critical equipment were to delivering our services and investing received ahead of schedule, mitigating in new and upgraded infrastructure, any construction delays from the COVID-19 we have also fulfilled responsibilities in pandemic. the State Emergency Centre during the During the year, the Board commissioned summer’s bushfires and supported the an independent review and comparison South Australian Government response to of SA Water’s water main management COVID-19. A key focus this year has also practices against global best practices, been to implement a heightened cyberthe findings of which have now been attack protection and resilience capability implemented and will lead to a further to combat the ever increasing threat reduction in water main leak and break arising in this area. disruptions to the community. Throughout, the safety and wellbeing of In a time of great our people, customers and the community SA Water has played a pivotal role in implementing the government’s reservoir change and challenge remained a priority. The safety culture in SA Water continues to be strong and it is opening policy and now manages the critical operations to support this initiative. in our community, pleasing to see a downward trend in the The Corporation is also stepping up its all injury frequency rate and high potential country and around the incident frequency rate. commitment to reconciliation, with a new stretch Reconciliation Action Plan world, water services Support for residential, business and developed for 2020-23. commercial customers has been equally remain essential. critical, with many feeling the impact of Recognising the need to respond to This year everyone’s bushfires and the COVID-19 pandemic. economic, social and technological change, the Board has also started work The state government’s announcement ability to adapt has of a significant reduction to water prices on a new business strategy. This will ensure we continue to adapt and prepare for the been tested and from July 2020 will enable a lower cost of living with no reduction to levels of future and meet the expectations of our the Board and I are service. Both residential and business customers. I look forward to sharing our vision and direction in the coming year. customers will benefit from lower water proud to report that prices with 36,145 visitors using the savings Building on our proud history, we remain the Corporation’s estimator on the SA Water website in June 2020. This has been made possible committed to delivering services that underpin a strong future for our business, efforts to maintain in no small part by the efficiencies our customers and the state of South achieved by our people in improving work services and support practices and exploiting new technologies Australia. I would like to acknowledge the efforts customers through together with the Corporation’s very comprehensive submission to the Essential of my fellow Board members and our bushfires and a global Services Commission of South Australia new Chief Executive, David Ryan, for their leadership, commitment and dedication to assist them in preparing their final pandemic has been determinations. to the Corporation. exceptional, thanks Our focus on the wider contribution to the commitment SA Water makes to our state has also been maintained. We have continued to and dedication of invest in renewable energy generation as Andrew Fletcher AO part of our commitment to sustainability our people. and to reducing the cost to produce Chair of the Board and deliver safe clean drinking water. 5 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report A message from the Chief Executive At the end of the 2016-20 regulatory than 5,200 visitors enjoying the rugged period, our team delivered on landscape in the first six months. Around commitments to customers, with a 33,000 people visited Myponga Reservoir consistently strong performance meeting Reserve in 2019-20, with shore-based our service standards and the efficiency fishing introduced in December 2019. targets set for us by the Essential Services Through the cross-government taskforce, Commission of South Australia. we continue to work closely with the Our Plan 2020-24 was submitted to the community and government agencies Essential Services Commission of South on this priority initiative. Australia in early November 2019 and Investment in technology through smart during the next regulatory period we are water and wastewater networks helps proud to deliver customer bill savings, with early leak detection and reduces which is great news for our customers. disruption for customers, and our newly The large and varied investment completed wastewater treatment plant program outlined in the plan will result at Murray Bridge received a national in upgrades to water and sewerage sustainability award recognising Continuity of mains, expansion of our smart networks, excellence in all aspects of the project building new seawater desalination and its cultural, social, environmental essential water and plants to provide water security, and and economic benefits. upgrading Mount Bold Reservoir. wastewater services Through this program of works, we Customers are embracing digital service options with eBilling numbers to our customers will continue to maintain and improve services for our customers while pursuing continuing to increase with 154,054 properties registered to receive eBills, through a period of efficiency in our delivery and operations. This financial year, 40 gigalitres of up from 100,847 in 2018-19, and WebChat introduced for quick, online customer significant change water for metropolitan Adelaide was supplied from the Adelaide Desalination interactions. With teams based right across the state, has been our focus Plant completing stage one of the Water for Fodder program funded by our people are part of the communities they serve, with strong connections in throughout the year. the federal government. The plant’s operation model ensured it easily met regional and remote South Australia. Our community involvement continues the required demand with a seamless to build trusted partnerships. They supply experience for our metropolitan include using recycled water to create customers. an AFL-standard oval at Amata in the An increase in water sales through a Anangu Pitjantjatjara Yankunytjatjara low rain fall summer, reduced electricity Lands of far north South Australia. costs, operational efficiencies, and A focus on diversity and inclusion savings through reduced interest rates continued and we made achievements contributed to our strong financial in celebrating diversity of thought, performance this year, delivering experience and background among a return above budget. our people. This includes the rate of The opening of South Para Reservoir Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Reserve in late 2019 brought a new employment at 2.6 per cent, and two outdoor adventure offering to the internal network groups supporting southern Barossa region with more women and LGBTIQ+ people in our workforce. 6 A message from the Chief Executive Using a harm-based approach, our safety focus continues with emphasis on preventing potential or actual life altering events so our people remain 40 gigalitres safe: everybody, every job, every day. This year our all injury frequency rate reduced by 30 per cent to 19.52, compared to 27.72 in 2018-19 and our high potential incident frequency rate reduced to 1.56, of Water for Fodder was an improvement of more than 50 per supplied from the Adelaide cent on our 2018-19 result of 3.96. Safety and wellbeing are consistently featured Desalination Plant in our team discussions, both what we are doing well and improvement opportunities. Our annual Innovation and Excellence Awards recognised and celebrated the contributions of our people, from opening reservoir reserves and pursuing a zero cost energy future, through to building 33,000 strong and respectful relationships with Aboriginal communities and improved people visited Myponga management of environmental risks. Reservoir Reserve Our commitment as a participant in the United Nations Global Compact is reaffirmed as we continue to work towards delivering services and achieving positive outcomes for our community and the planet. As part of this commitment, we are a signatory to the Australian water industry’s commitment to support the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. 154,054 While during the COVID-19 pandemic properties registered to there may be a greater element of receive eBills uncertainty about the future, our people continue to innovate and adapt to proudly deliver the essential water and wastewater services 1.7 million South Australians rely upon. David Ryan Chief Executive 7 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report About SA Water Our vision World class water services for a better life. Our values As a statutory corporation we report to an independent Board and balance Together we deliver safely and stand the delivery of services in a competitive accountable, genuine and innovative market with our responsibility to provide every day. a financial return to government. Our organisation We are included in the portfolio of the We are South Australia’s leading provider Minister for Environment and Water of water and sewage services for more and work closely with a number of than 1.7 million people. For more than South Australian government agencies 160 years we have been working including: together with South Australians to • Department of the Premier and ensure a reliable supply of safe, clean Cabinet water and a dependable sewerage • Department of Treasury and Finance system. We are committed to ensuring • Department for Environment and our services represent excellent value. Water • SA Health Serving • Environment Protection Authority. South Australia for 164 years Providing services for more than 714,592 1.7 million people customer water connections 8 9 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report Our strategy Our business is Getting the basics right every time Customers expect us to get the basics influenced by local, right: the safety and availability of national and global drinking water and dependability of sewerage services. We are responsive circumstances. Work when things go wrong, fix faults quickly and meet our regulated responsibilities. has commenced on Customers expect our prices to be low our next business and stable. strategy so we remain Working together As a team, our productive, respectful responsive to the relationships with our customers, changing needs regulators and stakeholders are key to delivering services our customers value. and expectations of Understanding and supporting our our customers and customers is vital. stakeholders, now Leading the way We are leaders nationally and globally and into the future. to give our customers confidence that we are innovating to achieve great We actively monitor both economic outcomes for them. We support the and social trends and engage with South Australian community and our stakeholders and customers to economy. understand their needs. By anticipating future directions and changing values, Capable and committed team we are best placed to deliver our vision Our experienced and capable team of world class water services for a better consistently lives our values with actions life. Our strategy sets our path as we and behaviours to safely deliver for our work towards this vision, guiding the customers every day. Our people are decisions we make each day. valued brand ambassadors. Keeping it simple Simple, easy, customer friendly processes are important to create value for our customers. 10 11 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report Our services Each year we supply Every day we are providing essential services and as one of the most efficient We remain focused on meeting our legal and regulatory responsibilities as well as more than 230 billion water utilities in Australia, we are what is most important to our customers. continually improving the way we do litres of water to South this for our customers, to keep prices Of Australia’s water utilities, we have one of the longest water mains supply Australians via our as low and stable as possible over time. To deliver on our commitment network at more than 27,000 kilometres. In addition, we manage more than extensive and largely to efficiency, we strive to make smart, 9,000 kilometres of sewerage mains long-term investments, and the best hidden pipes deep use of new technologies. and a 413 kilometre-long recycled water network. underground across our cities, suburbs Overview of our network and assets and towns. Surface water Ground water 31 Reservoirs & weirs 164 Bores Water treatment 27,178 km Seawater 44 plants Water mains 537 Water storages 714,592 Water connections (inc meters) Water pump stations 268 99 Water quality & treatment stations 9,106 km Sewerage mains Residential Business Wasterwater 537,004 pump stations Sewerage connections 709 28 Wasterwater treatment plants 6,949 413 km Recycled water connections Recycled water mains Irrigation Return to the environment Correct as at 30 June 2020 12 Our services Map of our supply areas NT Qld KALKA KANPI NYAPARI AMATA PUKATJA YUNYARINYI PIPALYATJARA MURPUTJA UMUWA WATINUMA KALTJITI INDULKANA MIMILI (IWANTJA) MARLA OODNADATTA OAK VALLEY MARREE NSW LEIGH CREEK NEPABUNNA PARACHILNA BLINMAN WA YALATA HAWKER SOUTH CREEK COCKBURN CEDUNA QUORN OLARY DAVENPORT SALTIA CREEK MANNA HILL PORT AUGUSTA WOOLUNDUNGA WILLOWIE YUNTA STREAKY BAY IRON KNOB WILMINGTON ORROROO MELROSE BAROOTA OODLA WIRRA WHYALLA PORT PIRIE PETERBOROUGH TEROWIE ELLISTON COWELL LAKE VICTORIA BURRA CLARE CADELL WAIKERIE KADINA WALLAROO PEAK SPRINGS MORGAN RENMARK MOONTA BERRI MOOROOK BARMERA BALAKLAVA GERARD POINT PEARCE PORT WAKEFIELD LOXTON COFFIN BAY PORT VICTORIA BLANCHETOWN PORT LINCOLN SWAN REACH PALMER MANNUM COWIRRA Vic ADELAIDE WAROOKA KANMANTOO MYPOLONGA MURRAY BRIDGE YANKALILLA MOUNT COMPASS TAILEM BEND PARILLA PINNAROO KINGSCOTE WIRRINIA RAUKKAN GERANIUM LAMEROO VICTOR HARBOR MENINGIE PENNESHAW PARNDANA KEITH BORDERTOWN Pipelines (treated water) PADTHAWAY KINGSTON SE Pipelines (raw water) LUCINDALE NARACOORTE ROBE Drinking water supplies MOUNT BURR PENOLA BEACHPORT NANGWARRY KALANTARPEENA Non-drinking water supplies MILLICENT GADOO MOUNT GAMBIER PORT MACDONNELL 13 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report Map of our reservoirs, water treatment plants, borefields and major pipelines LEIGH CREEK PARACHILNA HAWKER NSW QUORN TOD-CEDUNA PIPELINE WILMINGTON (ORROROO) (STREAKY BAY) MELROSE (BAROOTA) (BEETALOO) (BUNDALEER) (POLDA) MORGAN-WHYALLA PIPELINE LAKE ELLISTON VICTORIA CADELL MORGAN WAIKERIE RENMARK WOOLPUNDA MOOROOK BERRI BLANCHETOWN BARMERA GLOSSOP LOXTON (TOD) MANNUMSWAN REACH ADELAIDE PIPELINE SWAN REACH TOWN COFFIN BAY ULEY WANILLA SWAN REACHULEY SOUTH MT PLEASANT STOCKWELL PIPELINE MANNUM Vic LINCOLN BASIN ADELAIDE PALMER COWIRRA ADELAIDE SUMMIT MYPOLONGA (WAROOKA) DESALINATION KANMANTOO MURRAY BRIDGE PLANT MT COMPASS TAILEM BEND PINNAROO PARILLA GERANIUM LAMEROO PENNESHAW MIDDLE RIVER Pipelines (treated water) MURRAY BRIDGETAILEM BENDONKAPARINGA PIPELINE KEITH PIPELINE Pipelines (raw water) BORDERTOWN Borefields PADTHAWAY Borefields with iron removal plant KINGSTON NARACOORTE Reservoirs LUCINDALE ROBE Desalination plant PENOLA Blue Lake BEACHPORT MT BURR NANGWARRY MILLICENT KALANGADOO Water treatment plants TARPEENA MOUNT GAMBIER (Reservoirs and borefields in brackets are offline) PORT MACDONNELL 14 Our services Map of our reservoirs, water treatment plants and supply areas, metropolitan Adelaide NURIOOTPA TANUNDA Water treatment plant supply areas TWO WELLS GAWLER System name Water treatment plant (WTP) BAROSSA BAROSSA Barossa Metro WILLIAMSTOWN Barossa WTP SOUTH PARA WARREN North Metro Anstey Hill / Happy Valley / Barossa / Little Para WTPs / ADP LITTLE PARA LITTLE PARA KERSBROOK MT PLEASANT Anstey Hill Metro Anstey Hill WTP BIRDWOOD HOPE VALLEY ANSTEY HILL PALMER MILLBROOK HOPE VALLEY East Metro KANGAROO CREEK MOUNT TORRENS Anstey Hill / Happy Valley WTPs / ADP ADELAIDE West Metro Anstey Hill / Happy Valley / Hope Valley WTPs / ADP WOODSIDE STIRLING Central Metro SUMMIT STORAGE Happy Valley WTP / ADP HAHNDORF HAPPY VALLEY HAPPY VALLEY South Metro MOUNT BARKER ADELAIDE Happy Valley / Myponga WTPs / ADP DESALINATION PLANT MOUNT BOLD CALLINGTON Myponga Metro Myponga WTP MACCLESFIELD Reservoirs MCLAREN VALE Water treatment plants STRATHALBYN Desalination plant Major towns SELLICKS BEACH MOUNT COMPASS MYPONGA MYPONGA MYPONGA MILANG NORMANVILLE GOOLWA CLAYTON VICTOR HARBOR 15 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report Map of our reservoirs, water treatment plants and supply areas, outer metro MORGAN SADDLEWORTH BALAKLAVA PORT WAKEFIELD KAPUNDA BLANCHETOWN NURIOOTPA SWAN REACH ROSEWORTHY TANUNDA TWO WELLS GAWLER SWAN REACH TOWN BAROSSA SOUTH PARA WARREN KERSBROOK MOUNT PLEASANT TUNGKILLO BIRDWOOD KANGAROO CREEK PALMER Metropolitan LOBETHAL MANNUM Adelaide WOODSIDE COWIRRA SUMMIT HAHNDORF MOUNT BARKER MYPOLONGA KANMANTOO MURRAY BRIDGE STRATHALBYN TAILEM BEND MOUNT COMPASS MYPONGA MILANG YANKALILLA GOOLWA CLAYTON WIRRINA COVE VICTOR HARBOR PORT ELLIOT KINGSCOTE MIDDLE RIVER PENNESHAW PARNDANA a Water treatment plant (WTP) supply areas Morgan WTP Cowirra WTP Myponga WTP Borefields Swan Reach WTP Swan Reach Town WTP Kanmantoo WTP Reservoirs Water treatment plants Mount Pleasant WTP Mypolonga WTP Mount Compass (bores) Desalination plant Morgan-Swan Reach WTP Murray Bridge WTP Tailem Bend WTP Major towns Barossa WTP Palmer WTP Middle River WTP Metro boundary Happy Valley WTP Summit WTP Penneshaw WTP Mannum WTP Wirrina WTP 16 Our services Map of our wastewater treatment plants AMATA (APPROX. 300KM NORTH) LEIGH CREEK YALATA KOONIBBA PORT AUGUSTA WEST PORT AUGUST EAST WHYALLA WRP WHYALLA PORT PIRIE BOLIVAR GUMERACHA BOLIVAR HIGH SALINITY BIRD IN HAND GLENELG HAHNDORF POINT PEARCE ANGASTON HEATHFIELD PORT LINCOLN CHRISTIES BEACH Vic MANNUM MURRAY BRIDGE ALDINGA MYPONGA BEACH MYPONGA NORMANVILLE VICTOR HARBOR WIRRINA Sewage (wastewater) treatment plant operator NARACOORTE SA Water MOUNT BURR NANGWARRY Allwater MILLICENT Trility FINGER POINT 17 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report Year in review Adapting to a Adelaide Hills The Cudlee Creek fire in the Adelaide Water from the Adelaide Hills catchments was managed to avoid poor water changing world Hills caused minor damage to the quality runoff entering our water recycled water system pipework at Bird treatment plants, including installation Bushfire impacts and recovery in Hand and also to electrical wiring of sediment control structures within associated with water tanks in the region. our reservoir reserves. In December 2019 and January 2020 bushfires in the Adelaide Hills and Our response ensured customers had Our team collaborated with the on Kangaroo Island burnt through access to drinking water, including through Department for Environment and Water thousands of hectares of land our Quench Benches which were made to engage with and help the community significantly impacting communities available in Lobethal, Woodside and to prevent soil erosion and loss of seeds as well as our catchments and some Oakbank both during and after the fire. on their properties within the wider of our infrastructure, with our teams catchments. Working closely with the Country Fire responding to keep supply going Service and the Department of Primary through management of the situation Industries and Regions South Australia, on the ground. we also provided water for firefighting and livestock. Customer support With properties and homes destroyed and damaged by fires, our focus was to support and help customers impacted. Rates and water use costs were waived for 12 months for customers who had properties destroyed in the Adelaide Hills and on Kangaroo Island. Customers in the Adelaide Hills, Kangaroo Island, Maitland, Clarendon and Bunbury identified as being in the scar zone of fires, yet who did not lose houses, were given an eight week extension to pay their most recent bill. In addition, these customers were granted a reduction on their water use where there was an increase due to firefighting efforts. Customers who were outside the scar zone, yet still within impacted areas, who used additional water for fire prevention and to stop ash were able to contact us Above: Land around and request a reduction in their water the Lobethal Tank was use and this was applied as for those burnt in the Cudlee Creek bushfire. in the scar zone. Left: The Quench Bench at the Lobethal Oval provided locals with ready access to drinking water. 18 Year in review: Adapting to a changing world Kangaroo Island There was strong community support The Middle River Water Treatment On Kangaroo Island, the Duncan and when we asked all Kangaroo Island Plant was back running at full Ravine bushfires caused significant residents and visitors to limit noncapacity within two weeks following damage to the Middle River reservoir essential drinking water use and restoration of electrical equipment, catchment and water treatment plant. drinking water was made available remote monitoring and network controls, to the community in both Parndana plus communications systems. With the treatment plant damaged and and Kingscote through water bladders Work to rebuild, repair and upgrade temporarily inoperable, we put in place and boxed water. the damaged plant in May and June interim arrangements for continued supply in the Middle River System to We worked closely with members of the 2020 included: 1,500 customers, including in Parndana Australian Defence Force (ADF) deployed • replacing the control room and and Kingscote. Changes included to the Island to support the bushfire perimeter buildings, which had bringing water from the Penneshaw response and recovery. The ADF set up been completely destroyed Desalination Plant and the mainland. a mobile filtration plant which was used • upgrading the main switchboard to fill contingency tanks at Kingscote. enabling it to be powered by a This mobile ADF plant was later moved generator to ensure improved to Penneshaw to help recover storage operation and security of water levels in the Penneshaw system. to our customers on the Island. Clockwise from above: Sediment barriers were set up in the Middle River catchment ahead of heavy rain. Damage at the Middle River Water Treatment Plant. The Middle River catchment was extensively burnt by the Ravine bushfire. David Ryan, Mark Gobbie, Peter Bishop, Joe Cirillo and Colin Bell at the Parndana water collection point. 19 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report Delivering through COVID-19 Arrangements were put in place to maintain continuity of our critical Through the COVID-19 pandemic to functions. This included locating functions date, we have continued delivery of across multiple locations, rotating rosters services while maintaining the safety and ensuring backup capabilities for and wellbeing of our people and the key roles. community. The impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic Everyone from our customer facing continue to be monitored for both our field-based teams, our laboratories, customers and our business and we customer-engaging roles and people have response plans in place. based in our shared offices, adapted to the challenge, ensuring the reliable Healthy sewers and dependable supply of services, delivering for our customers and This year we shared healthy sewers supporting each other. messages to encourage customers to change their flushing behaviour and help With many of our residential and protect both their internal plumbing and business customers experiencing a the mains sewerage system. sudden change in circumstances when COVID-19 restrictions came into place Putting anything other than the three from March 2020, we stepped up our Ps – pee, poo and (toilet) paper – down support efforts. the toilet or sink can contribute to sewage overflows and has the potential to impact Our focus was also on supporting customers. Removing rubbish from the partners and suppliers by driving network to landfill adds hundreds of economic activity. Capital work continued thousands of operational dollars each year. throughout, ensuring initiatives to improve our services progressed and our delivery This message was particularly relevant partners and their supply chains were when impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic kept working. resulted in a shortage of toilet paper and some customers reached for nonChanging our payment terms to one flushable alternatives. business day following approval of an invoice also helped payments move as From March to April 2020, we recorded quickly as possible, contributing to the a 29 per cent increase in the number local economy. of sewer main blockages across South Australia, as more items like wet wipes In response to changes to access and other toilet paper replacements arrangements for remote Aboriginal were flushed down the toilet. communities, including the Anangu Pitjantjatjara Yankunytjatjara Lands, Our healthy sewers stories generated Maralinga Tjarutja Lands and significant community interest reaching communities on Aboriginal Lands more than 1.1 million people in South Trust land, our team incorporated the Australia and around the country. new strict entry requirements into their Top: Open air toolbox operations to protect these communities meetings kept teams connected while while continuing to provide services maintaining physical to our remote location customers. distance. The majority of the Aboriginal Middle: Signs used by our field workers communities we service were designated explained the essential areas under the Biosecurity Act work underway to passers-by. 2015 requiring all travel to, and work undertaken in, these communities to Bottom: Field teams adapted and meet the necessary requirements and supported physical approval from the relevant delegate. distancing measures when interacting with customers. 20 Year in review: Adapting to a changing world Wastewater testing A joint initiative between us and SA Health resulted in wastewater sampling established to help our state’s public health team identify the extent of COVID-19 infection within the community. This new way of monitoring for COVID-19 provided an additional tool for our public health clinicians to detect and manage spread of the virus. By combining the collective knowledge of South Australia’s water and public health experts we created in-house sewage virus detection techniques from sewage samples. Wastewater sampling was undertaken at our Bolivar, Christies Beach, Glenelg, Port Lincoln, Angaston and Finger Point wastewater treatment plants, with plans for more in the future. Above: Some of the unflushables found This work was part of a broader national in our wastewater initiative coordinated by Water Research network, clockwise from top left, Normanville, Australia. Christies Beach and Bolivar. We are now a reference laboratory for testing of COVID-19 in wastewater Left: Our scientists turned their attention to samples from our interstate peers. testing for COVID-19 in wastewater samples. Biogas boost Our Glenelg Wastewater Treatment Plant has historically been a strong performer in targeting power self-sufficiency. In a good month, 275,000-300,000 cubic metres of biogas is generated onsite via digestion and in May 2020, this figure exceeded 355,200 cubic metres. This facilitated a site record of 654 megawatt hours which generated power to meet 89 per cent of the site’s electrical demand. Driving the May results were expired beer generated by oversupply created when the hospitality industry was closed during COVID-19 restrictions. Its methane potential was harvested via anaerobic digestion as a fuel source for the site engines to power the plant and maximise autonomy from the electrical grid. 21 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report Getting the basics right every time Customers expect us Lower prices for customers Providing safe, clean Customers across South Australia will drinking water to get the basics right receive a total annual reduction in bills of Our drinking water supplies are so they can rely on the approximately $186 million in 2020-21. registered with SA Health and we maintain risk management plans for The average residential customer in quality of our water metropolitan Adelaide will benefit from all our supplies. (safety and aesthetics), an estimated annual saving of $200 or 15.9 per cent on their combined water Both our drinking water supplies and Drinking Water Quality Management and the availability and sewerage bills*, with average System have, in 2019-20, been audited residential customers in regional areas of our water supply estimated to save around $185**. and inspected through internal and external audit processes. and dependability of The water savings estimator was made The Drinking Water Quality Act 2011 sewerage services. available at sawater.com.au on 11 June 2020 and in the 20 days through to audit, conducted in November 2019, covered our Drinking Water Quality It is also about being 30 June 2020, 36,145 residential customers Management System (DWQMS) assets used it to estimate how much they may involved in delivering drinking water, responsive to incidents, save on their future water costs each year. as well as associated operational and fixing faults quickly Business customers in the metropolitan maintenance processes and practices. area are also in line for significantly and simply to minimise lower water and sewerage prices, with The audit found our DWQMS is complete, working, actively managed interruptions to service. an estimated average annual combined water and sewerage bill reduction of and current, with no urgent observations or significant non-compliances with the By delivering this we $1,350#, with savings for the average Australian Drinking Water Guidelines. business in regional areas of $1,280##. meet our compliance Water quality reports are provided In the pricing announcement, made to SA Health and are available publicly responsibilities. in June 2020, price movements will be at data.sa.gov.au. limited to changes in the Consumer Price The Australian Water Quality Centre, Index for the remaining three years of accredited by the National Association the regulatory period from 1 July 2021 of Testing Authorities, provides our through to 30 June 2024. laboratory services. Statewide pricing means the majority of Throughout 2019-20, SA Health provided our customers pay the same price per confirmation quarterly that we were kilolitre of water, no matter where they meeting the requirements for the Safe live or the actual cost of supplying that Drinking Water Act 2011. location. Sewerage prices, based on the capital value of a customer’s property See Water Quality on page 50 for further as set by the Valuer-General, are also details. designed so that costs are as consistent as possible across the state. Our pricing continues to compare favourably to our national peers, as measured in the Bureau of Meteorology’s * Estimated saving based on 180kL of water use and National performance report 2018-19: a 2019-20 property value of $483,000 with water used evenly across the year. urban water utilities, which was released ** Estimated saving based on 180kL of water use and in February 2020. Based on 200 kilolitres, a 2019-20 property value of $256,000 with water used evenly across the year. our annual residential water and # Estimated saving based on 1,680kL of water use and sewerage bill is mid-range among 15 a 2019-20 property value of $2,081,000 with water used evenly across the year. similar-sized utilities around the country. ## Estimated saving based on 1,680kL of water use and a 2019-20 property value of $993,000 with water used evenly across the year. 22 Year in review: Getting the basics right every time Sustaining our networks To further improve reliable water To provide a better solution for customers services for customers, we installed who experience repeat issues with sewer An independent review, commissioned 37.1 kilometres of new water mains blockages, we worked with 10 customers by our Board, assessed our water mains comprising 11.8 kilometres in metropolitan across a range of suburbs to use a tree management practices and capabilities Adelaide and 25.3 kilometres in country root foaming treatment. against international leading-practice areas across the state. The treatment uses a herbicide that in 24 areas, determining that seven are leading international practice, 15 are in Although South Australia experienced is pumped into the sewer to prevent step with industry practice and two can its driest year on record in 2019, the the growth of tree roots in the pipes. be improved. number of water main incidents last year The foam has a root growth inhibitor remained steady, with month to month that attaches to organic materials and The review confirmed our water network patterns following a similar seasonal sterilises the soil where the roots enter performance compares favourably on cycle since records began in 1992. the pipes. This non-systemic herbicide both the rate of water main breaks and Across our 27,000 kilometre water does not harm plants or trees near the the amount of leakage against Australian network, 3,721 water main leaks and pipes. The foam only affects the root and international peers, being in the best breaks were reported in 2019-20. material it comes into contact with and performing quartile for both measures. travels just a short distance up the root. In addition to our ongoing water In the Bureau of Meteorology’s National performance report 2018-19: urban water This treatment slows intrusion of tree main replacement program, and as utilities, released in February 2020, our roots into our sewer pipes and the trial recommended by the independent rate of breaks per 100 kilometres of water has helped determine that it can take review, we actioned several initiatives to main was 15, which is below the national up to two years for the roots to return. improve our approach to water main average of 19.9. This is a key measure to Maintenance can now be scheduled management including installing smart assess and compare the performance proactively to improve the dependability sensor technology along mains under of water distribution networks and the of the sewerage services we provide in arterial roads. Bureau analyses the performance of these areas. Changes were made to how we capture 85 water utilities across Australia. Among The customers welcomed the opportunity information about temporary water our peer utilities, more than half recorded to be part of this initiative which supply interruptions. Using our Work an increase in the number of water and supports our healthy sewers approach Order App, field crews now capture sewer main breaks in 2018-19, compared by encouraging customers to flush only the start of a temporary water supply to the previous year. the three Ps: pee, poo and (toilet) paper. interruption and when supply restoration Our valve installation and water Problems caused by tree roots can be has started. This enables quicker main renewal programs, together compounded when the wrong things are customer notifications when restoration with favourable seasonal conditions flushed down the toilet or sink. of their supply has begun. delivered a reduction in the number A new Asset Management Planning of properties experiencing three or Assurance Framework was developed more interruptions during a 12-month and implemented. It covers four lines period. In 2019-20, 2,432 properties of defence – management controls, across the state experienced reoccurring management reviews, and internal and temporary service interruptions, which external audits – across all our asset was slightly above target and equates to management activities. approximately 0.31 per cent of connected Our focus continued on finding ways to water supplies. reduce the average length of temporary Internal sewer overflow figures trended supply interruptions as well as community steadily downward with 161, the lowest impacts such as traffic management. achieved in the past six years. Through our ongoing water main Implementation of our smart sewer replacement and improvement network sensors continue to help detect program, we invested $362.5 million in blockages before they cause an overflow. the water network and infrastructure Targeted sewer cleaning is also part of and $157.3 million in the wastewater our proactive approach. network and infrastructure. Planning also continued for the expansion of our smart water network. 23 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report The anaerobic digester’s 20 tonne steel cover was carefully guided into place with the help of a locally-sourced mobile slew crane. Port Lincoln digester delivers When complete, the new infrastructure Kanpi connects to remote will reduce methane emissions, and desalination plant The $18 million upgrade of the Port improve odour management and the Lincoln Wastewater Treatment Plant In 2019-20, Murputja, Kanpi, Nyapari, long-term operability of the treatment at Billy Lights Point reached a major in the state’s Anangu Pitjantjatjara plant. milestone in February 2020, with the Yankunytjatjara (APY) Lands, began to 20 tonne steel cover for the new Throughout, our lead contractor worked receive safe, clean drinking water treated anaerobic digester craned into place. alongside 25 Port Lincoln businesses through the Murputja Desalination Plant. including 13 local contractors and The digester’s construction included The solar and battery powered 12 local material suppliers. the structure’s round concrete walls 60 kilolitre capacity plant, commissioned and installation of internal stainless The construction of the new digester in July 2019, treats water sourced from steel pipework. is part of a broader upgrade of the local bores, before it is piped through Port Lincoln Wastewater Treatment Plant about 12 kilometres of pipeline into The floating cover sits comfortably and network which is expected to be homes and businesses across Kanpi, in a concrete channel, controlled by complete before the end of 2020. Nyapari and Murputja. guide rails and rollers. It moves up and down depending on capacity within the The construction of additional pipework digester, which is also sealed by water to to bring the water to Kanpi was prevent the escape of biogas generated completed in June 2020. To achieve this during the digestion process. crews had to work a little differently due Biogas is extracted and burnt to provide to various restrictions to prevent the a source of heat for the digester, helping spread of COVID-19 in South Australia’s to hold waste at a constant 38 degrees remote areas. As an essential service, our Celsius to create an optimal environment work continued and on the ground we for the bacteria inside. maintained strict hygiene and physical distancing measures where possible. 24 Year in review: Getting the basics right every time Yankalilla wastewater and Wirrina water networks transferred On 1 July 2019, more than 2,000 property owners within the District Council of Yankalilla became SA Water customers when we took on responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the region’s wastewater network, plus the drinking water supply network servicing the town of Wirrina. The transition to our management delivered reduced sewerage service rates for most residential wastewater customers in the broader council area and lower ongoing water charges for people in Wirrina through our statewide pricing structure. Working closely with the District Council of Yankalilla and residents in the leadAbove: The desalination up to the management change-over plant at Murputja now ensured a smooth transfer. supplies Murputja, Kanpi and Nyapari on Upgrades at the Wirrina Cove reservoir the APY Lands. and treatment plant were undertaken Left: The new pontoon during 2019-20 as part of continued at Wirrina Reservoir. improvements to the Wirrina Cove drinking water network and the quality of water supplied to local customers. The water supplied to Wirrina Cove customers remains safe to drink, and we are committed to improving supply in a timely and cost-efficient way. To engage and educate our customers we: Improving water quality Community updates continue as further • provided the community with aesthetics opportunities to readily access tap investigations and improvement work Customers’ overall satisfaction with water water at major events as well as taste progresses. quality increased steadily this year and a variety of tap waters from across our technical improvements for aesthetic the state drinking water quality included: • developed and delivered school • optimising powdered activated carbon programs and teacher test kits dosing to better manage taste and • installed 18 drinking water fountains odour compounds caused by algae in support of our Bring Your Own • improved management of chlorine Bottle (BYOB) initiative residuals across metropolitan Adelaide, • continued proactive media to in particular those areas supplied by provide messages and engagement the Adelaide Desalination Plant opportunities for customers about • ongoing chloramination of the supply drinking water quality and the benefits to Myponga of drinking tap water. • targeted mains flushing in metropolitan Adelaide to remove pipeline sediment. 25 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report New look bill brings simplicity Our new look bill has a simple layout and In March 2020, our new look bill replaced was developed with customer input. all existing residential and non-residential bills, including eBills, bringing consistency across our entire customer base. The new design was developed through a series of face to face customer workshops and extensive online testing across all our customer groups. With a simple layout, it is now easier for customers to find the information they need. This initiative also reduced printed residential bills from four A4 pages to just two. Protecting the environment In 2019-20, we achieved 98.1 per cent compliance with our legislated environmental responsibilities. This measure tracks formal notifications from regulators of breaches under nine pieces of legislation: 1. Environment Protection and Regulatory performance In 2018-19, we exceeded targets for Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999 standards achieved for 2018-19 phone and complaint responsiveness, 2. Water Act 2007 and the number of complaints In March 2020, the Essential Services decreased for a second year in a row, 3. Natural Resources Management Commission of South Australia (ESCOSA) Act 2004 from 1,763 in 2017-18 to 1,568 in 2018-19. reported on outcomes against our 4. Environment Protection Act 1993 performance standards for 2018-19, A key area of improvement identified 5. Aboriginal Heritage Act 1988 with all 18 service standards achieved, in both ESCOSA’s report and the 6. Heritage Places Act 1993 improving on the previous year’s results. Bureau of Meteorology’s National performance report 2018-19: urban 7. Native Vegetation Act 1991 As shown in ESCOSA’s review of our water utilities (released in February 8. Climate Change and Greenhouse performance, 17 of the 18 service 2020) is the frequency and duration Emissions Reduction Act 2007 standards were met or exceeded of unplanned water interruptions, with 9. Development Act 1993. outright. The remaining service standard around 2,700 reported last year in was within one per cent of the target metropolitan Adelaide at an average A faulty water meter at Beachport and considered to be in the expected duration of 243 minutes. Bore 4 in October 2019 led the performance range. Mitigating Department for Environment and Water In response we have trained more field circumstances for several events that (DEW) to issue a Direction Notice to crew members to operate shut-off missed the target timeframe were repair/replace the meter as a condition valves as part of water main repairs, considered under a best endeavours of our licence to take water through a investigated innovative ways to isolate, review. meter. The meter was replaced and repair and restore the water network, is operational with no further action ESCOSA’s annual Regulatory and optimised resources for repairs in taken by the department. Performance Report details our regional areas. This is supported by our performance against regulatory smart water network technology which In June 2020, DEW issued a formal requirements relating to customer helps us detect water main leaks and warning for failing to submit a meter service, financial assistance provided breaks to enable proactive repair before reading within the timeframe specified to customers, and the reliability of they impact customers and commuters. in the conditions of the water licence. drinking water and sewerage services. No penalty was incurred. For a full copy of the 2018-19 SA Water The targets are based on average Regulatory Performance Report, visit historical performance, and while escosa.sa.gov.au. attainable, are set high to match our customers’ expectations. 26 Year in review: Getting the basics right every time The new spillway at Kangaroo Creek Dam. Cyber security Kangaroo Creek Dam upgrade The Kangaroo Creek upgrade was one reaches finish line of our largest projects in recent decades The risk of a cyber security incident is a having required: real threat to our ability to supply water After nearly four years of construction, services for our customers. In 2019-20 the $94 million safety upgrade of the • about 34,000 cubic metres of we strengthened our data protection Kangaroo Creek Dam in the Adelaide concrete and recovery capabilities by: Hills was completed in November 2019. • more than 500,000 construction • upgrading and extending data hours worked Work began in January 2016 and network security, including in our • more than 1,250 people to work focused on significantly widening and regional centres on the project strengthening the dam’s concrete • improving our detection and desktop spillway. The spillway, which carries water • the removal of 330,000 cubic monitoring capability with a new safely to the River Torrens if the water metres of rock event detection and response tool, level exceeds the dam’s full supply, was • 35 pieces of heavy machinery adding another line of defence to widened by about 45 metres. The project • the removal of 11 tonnes of carp. our virus and malware protection also increased the height of the rock-fill Hydroseeding of the construction site • ensuring up to date software and embankment and reused rock material compound and access road shoulders operating systems are in place with from the blasting activities to raise the was completed in May 2020 closing out a complete upgrade to Windows 10. dam wall by five metres. work for this project. In addition, we benchmark ourselves These works have strengthened the against our peer Australian water utilities dam structure against earthquakes and and other critical infrastructure providers improved its flood protection capacity, such as the electricity industry. Our aligning it with updated safety guidelines performance fares well in the global set by the Australian National Committee independent ratings. on Large Dams. Ongoing and extensive collaboration continues with the Office of Cyber Security within Department of the Premier and Cabinet and the Australian Cyber Security Centre to prepare and respond to the ever changing cyber threat landscape. 27 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report Mount Bold Reservoir emptied Northern Adelaide irrigation Above right: Mount Bold Reservoir was ahead of safety upgrade begins to flow emptied for just the second time. In May 2020, the state’s largest reservoir Construction of the first six gigalitres Above left: The pressure was gradually emptied ahead of a of capacity, including treatment, media filters for the major dam safety upgrade at the Mount underground and above ground storage, Northern Adelaide Bold site, south of Adelaide. Water from and distribution, has been delivered for Irrigation Scheme at Bolivar Wastewater Mount Bold Reservoir supplies Happy the Northern Adelaide Irrigation Scheme. Treatment Plant. Valley Reservoir via the Onkaparinga The scheme, which provides treated River and to minimise waste, water wastewater to horticulture and other continued to be diverted in this way businesses operating on the Northern as Mount Bold was emptied. Adelaide Plains, is funded by the federal Works undertaken in 2019-20 included government through the National Water replacing some of the equipment used Infrastructure Development fund, as well to isolate the dam’s valves and pipework, as contributions from wastewater and and a detailed condition assessment recycled water customers. of parts of the structure that would The federal Department for Health and usually be underwater. This condition Wellbeing gave approval in April 2020 to assessment complements other project use the water for producing commercial planning and investigations. food crops. The water level at Mount Bold was last Contracts to access water through the lowered to near zero per cent of capacity scheme are in place with 23 customers, in 1994, making this only the second time who typically grow tomatoes, capsicums, in the reservoir’s history that it has been cucumbers and other vegetables. emptied. When complete, the scheme will deliver The forthcoming upgrade will keep it in 12 gigalitres of treated wastewater to line with updated safety guidelines set growers every year. by the Australian National Committee on Large Dams. The bulk of the upgrade works are expected to start in 2022-23. 28 Year in review: Getting the basics right every time Supporting national of the Water for Fodder program being The Adelaide Desalination Plant drought relief announced. The plant met the progress produced 40 gigalitres milestones set by the federal government of drinking water. An agreement reached between the while maintaining a seamless supply state and federal governments resulted experience to our metropolitan in additional production of drinking water customers. from the Adelaide Desalination Plant, freeing up the equivalent release from The state and federal government the River Murray to help drought-affected agreement ensured no adverse impact farmers. on flows to South Australia, water prices or Adelaide’s water security. In 2019-20, the Adelaide Desalination Plant produced 40 gigalitres of drinking water for the Water for Fodder program. The Adelaide Desalination Plant operates in a mode known as hot standby, where it is brought online intermittently at high production levels to make sure the vital asset is able to produce the required volumes of drinking water when needed. This innovative approach meant we were able to increase production within days 29 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report Working together Productive, respectful New construction partners Strengthening support announced for women in STEM relationships with our In June 2020 we announced five major The career opportunities and community, regulators companies will work together with us to deliver our $1.6 billion capital program development of South Australian women entering the fields of science, and other stakeholders from July 2020 through to June 2024. technology, engineering and maths are key to delivering Their significant construction expertise will help us improve water and sewerage (STEM) have been boosted by our new three-year partnership with the University services our customers services for South Australians. of Adelaide’s Women in STEM Careers Program (WiSC). value. This includes Major framework agreements were signed with Fulton Hogan Utilities, John Holland The WiSC program provides women ensuring we support and Guidera O’Connor (as a joint venture), studying in the STEM fields with and McConnell Dowell and Diona (as a workshops and networking events our customers when joint venture), which will see packages of designed to improve their leadership something goes work awarded progressively as rigorous performance standards are met. and career development, and provides a platform for future graduate wrong, and protecting To ensure our customers benefit from employment opportunities. and improving the improved service reliability and quality Following our sponsorship in 2019, four we have combined leading construction graduates and undergraduates joined environment now and sector expertise with our design, project the team through the program. for future generations. management and water industry expertise, and our front-end engineering With an ambitious goal to increase the number of female graduates joining our and client organisation partner KBR and business to 60 per cent by 2024, we are Aurecon, who have also signed on for making good progress with more than the next four years. 50 per cent of our STEM undergraduates As part of the agreements, our major being female and 47 per cent of all our framework partners have detailed graduates. their commitments to South Australian industry, Aboriginal business and employment, as well as other social outcomes, and their performance against these commitments will be measured. Investing in water networks has wide reaching and long-term benefits, from the jobs created during construction, to 50% the sustainable prosperity of a business of our STEM able to access fit for purpose water, and the ongoing health and social outcomes undergraduates that clean water and reliable sanitation are female services embed across generations. 30 Year in review: Working together Torrens Park Pump Station The artwork design incorporates Metropolitan Facilities Manager Richard community colour unique elements common to the local Mayger at the mural community including images of the site with General More than 60 litres and 120 spray cans nearby Brown Hill Creek, the native Manager Customers, of colourful paint now decorates our Purple-crowned Lorikeet and parts of the Strategy and Innovation Anna Jackson, artist historic Torrens Park Pump Station thanks pumping infrastructure from inside the Joel Van Moore and to a public art project delivered together station itself. The mural also features a Mayor of the City of with the City of Mitcham. Mitcham Heather young girl on the northern façade as a Holmes-Ross. Situated next to the Torrens Park Railway representation of the bright future of the Station on Belair Road, the station’s three Mitcham area. public-facing walls were given new life by Metropolitan Facilities Manager Richard influential South Australian artist Joel Van Mayger also features on the mural, Moore – also known as Vans the Omega having been a dedicated member of the – with the work completed in July 2019. water industry for more than 45 years. The artwork is part of an initiative to The work contributes to creating visually improve our infrastructure for a vibrant and cultural community, the benefit of the community. helping people experience art in their The site plays an important role in everyday life. It was identified by the delivering clean, safe drinking water Mitcham Art Advisory Group as a to our customers in the Mitcham and project of importance, and we worked Torrens Park area. in partnership with the council to bring new life to the pump station. 31 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report Partnerships bring community benefits In 2019-20, there were 11 recipients of our Community Partnerships Program which offers financial or in-kind support to not-for-profit community organisations to deliver events and projects across regional and metropolitan South Australia. The successful recipients deliver events or programs related to water use for a better life and help us achieve our goal of being a partner organisation within communities. Top: Lincoln Park’s Sonya Little with Derek Vanderzon from our Murray Bridge team with a newly installed refillable horse trough. Middle: Tim Shannon with community members at the Murraylands Migrant Resource Centre water wise garden. Bottom left: Lucindale Area School Principal Adrian Maywald, District Leader South East Chris Tscharke and Lucindale Area School Governing Council Chairperson Georgie McKay with the newly installed access swing. Bottom right: The restored Beltana Weir in the Flinders Ranges. 32 Year in review: Working together Left: The new waterholes are part of Monarto Safari Park’s Wild Africa. Below: Eighteen new drinking water fountains were installed. New waterholes at Monarto Water flows at new community 7. Lyndoch Square safari park fountains 8. Main Street, Orroroo Through our partnership with Zoos SA, Eighteen new free drinking water 9. Memorial Oval, Port Pirie millions of litres of water helped to fill the fountains were installed in 2019-20 10. Moonta Bay foreshore first of eight new waterholes at Monarto bringing the total in operation across 11. Murray Bridge Visitor Information Safari Park’s Wild Africa. the state to 52. Centre The first six clay lined waterholes The fountains are connected to our 12. Naracoorte Swimming Lake were piped with raw River Murray mains supply and include both bottle 13. Recreation Reserve, Kimba water from the Murray Bridge to refill and bubbler options, some also 14. Skate Park, Freeling Onkaparinga Pipeline, providing up to have an in-ground dog bowl. Built-in 15. Tumby Bay foreshore 10 million litres of water per waterhole solar lighting makes them bright and 16. Whispering Wall, Barossa Reservoir for the rare African animals roaming easy to find at night. Reserve the 560-hectare Monarto property. The following fountains were installed Fountains were also installed at the Our partnership supports the park’s in collaboration with local councils: Adelaide Desalination Plant’s Kauwi exciting expansion to become the largest 1. Adelaide Square, Crystal Brook Interpretive Centre, and South Para safari park outside of Africa. 2. Bindarra Reserve, Brighton Reservoir Reserve. 3. Bowker Oval, Somerton Park 4. Christies Beach Surf Club 5. Crown Street Reserve, Dover Gardens 6. Lions Park, Kingston 33 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report Clockwise from left: Our Brand Ambassadors are out and about at community events. Our Miss Isla water infusion station kept the community hydrated at the Superloop Adelaide 500. Misting systems helped keep the crowd cool at the race. Miss Isla was popular at WOMADelaide in March 2020. Our Brand Ambassadors Our Brand Ambassadors, sourced from enthusiasts across the organisation, represent our business at community events, site tours and large scale events such as the Santos Tour Down Under, WOMADelaide and the National Pharmacies Christmas Pageant. Keeping event goers cool and refreshed During the 2019-20 summer, our Brand Ambassadors, Miss Isla and the Quench Benches helped keep event goers cool and hydrated. Supporting our BYOB initiative, Miss Isla promotes a healthy lifestyle and better environmental outcomes by refilling re-usable bottles with safe, clean tap water. The misting lounge adjacent to Miss Isla is greened by hanging plants creating a cool, comfortable space to relax and connect with our Brand Ambassadors. The misting lounge promotes how people can use water efficiently to reduce temperatures, increasing green space and create a better living environment. 34 Year in review: Working together BYOB app maps drinking fountains In December 2019, our BYOB app was made available for download to Apple and Android devices to help South Australians and tourists find a fountain to fill up their reusable bottle. The app shows the location of more than 1,000 drinking fountains across South Australia. Basic information about each fountain’s features include if it has a water bottle refill, dog bowl and tap. Users can rate fountains, helping to alert local councils when one may need some attention, and add new ones that are not yet on the map. Community programs and events In 2019-20 our community and education program provided learning opportunities for students and the community including: • 1,671 people touring the Adelaide Desalination Plant and Kauwi Interpretive Centre, including 14 Cree Indigenous visitors from Canada • 12,286 students and their teachers participating in our Brainwave learning programs • 447 people attending community presentations about water services and touring our treatment plants Little Para natives Our BYOB program encourages people to • our Quench Benches and fountains a budding success drink safe, clean and providing more than 100,000 litres affordable tap water More than 3,300 new native trees and reduce the use of drinking water to about 1.3 million are sprouting at Little Para Reservoir of single-use plastic people at more than 120 public events Reserve as part of our efforts to improve bottles. across the state. the area’s ecosystem. Partnering with the Kersbrook Landcare Nursery in Williamstown, the revegetation project will improve the environment of the reservoir’s reserve while providing a long-term solution to combat the spread of invasive Coolatai grass. The land was previously used as sheep grazing pasture which left the area vulnerable to weeds. The revegetation efforts are also critical to maintaining the health of our catchments including the quality of water supplied to our customers. 35 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report Left: Landscaping at Kadina Depot shows native plants selected to demonstrate different water efficient gardening styles. Right: Irrigated with recycled water, Whyalla’s Bennett Oval was sporting a lush green playing surface for a pre-season AFL fixture. Kadina plantings grow local Recycled water keeps Whyalla’s gardening inspiration oval green More than 300 locally-sourced native A new supply of recycled water from plants are springing to life at our the Whyalla Wastewater Reclamation Kadina Depot as part of a landscaping Plant has helped curate a pristine, AFLproject to enhance the area’s visual standard playing surface for the historic amenity, improve dust suppression and Bennett Oval. demonstrate water-efficient gardening The oval’s redevelopment included an methods that customers can easily extensive irrigation overhaul to connect replicate at home. to our recycled water supply, providing Working together with local Aboriginal a climate-independent water source for business Stone Environmental and the upgraded turf. Northern Yorke’s branch of the Australian Recycled water is distributed to the Plants Society, we designed the garden council’s central pump station, where using 34 species of local native flora it is used to irrigate several other parks which were carefully selected for their and reserves throughout the town. heat tolerance and adaptation to the area’s alkaline soils. With the depot situated in the heart of the town, this project provided an exciting opportunity to showcase gardening with native plants, helping to educate the local community and beautify the surrounding area, as well as, over time, provide shade cover to help reduce urban heat effects. 36 Year in review: Working together The new access platform at the Goolwa Barrage enables visitors to safely walk on both sides of the barrage. Improved public access Results in Katarapko at Goolwa Barrage Delivery of the major infrastructure Visitors to the Lower Lakes Barrages needed to support the Katarapko can now access the Goolwa lock thanks Floodplain Inundation Measures (KatFIM) to a new platform and fencing on the project in the Riverland reached practical eastern side of the lock. completion in May 2020. Members of the public are now able As part of the $155 million (federally to safely walk across both sides of the funded) South Australian Riverland 30 metre-long, six metre-wide structure Floodplain Integrated Infrastructure at the Goolwa Barrage for the first time, Program, the KatFIM project saw providing a unique view directly down us manage the detailed design, the Coorong. construction and commissioning of the capital works on behalf the Located at the end of the River Murray Department for Environment and Water system, the Goolwa Barrage is one of and the Murray-Darling Basin Authority. five important barrages constructed between 1934 and 1940 to reduce salinity Covering 9,000 hectares, the floodplain levels in the lower reaches of the River is located on the Katarapko/Eckert Creek Murray, Lake Alexandrina and Lake and a branch system in the Riverland, Albert, and also to stabilise the river opposite Loxton. level for both upstream pumping and The KatFIM infrastructure enables irrigation. managed inundation events to occur The upgrades at Goolwa Barrages, on the floodplain which closely mimic which also included ongoing natural flood durations and frequencies. rehabilitation works to the nearby In the long-term, this will improve the Sir Richard Peninsula, helped our River resilience of the floodplain environment Murray Operations team win the coveted and restore habitats for biodiversity. Senator JS Collings Trophy early in The major vegetation communities are 2020, which is awarded annually by red gum, black box and lignum and it is the Murray-Darling Basin Authority home to a variety of wildlife and many to the most effectively maintained sites of Aboriginal Cultural Heritage asset in the River Murray system. significance which require protection. We manage structures along the River Murray on behalf of the MurrayDarling Basin Authority, from Lock 9 in Cullulleraine, Victoria, to the Goolwa Barrages, including the Lake Victoria storage in New South Wales. 37 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report Leading the way With a proud history A new Reconciliation Sharing water wisdom Action Plan Our Water Wisdom video series of pioneering and Engaging with Aboriginal communities continued this year with stories shared innovative thinking, from across the state along with our people, we have this year developed by the Adnyamathanha and Ngarrindjeri people. we continue to adopt our next Reconciliation Action Plan This series aims to build understanding inventive approaches to 2020-23 (RAP). To capture thoughts and ideas we held conversations, and appreciation of the significant innovations and technologies related to achieve better outcomes workshops and surveys with our people, water and water management that have remote communities, the broader South been developed and used by Aboriginal for our customers and Australian community, our residential and people for thousands of years. Recording the communities we business Customer Advisory Groups, and our RAP Steering Committee. The process these stories enriches the knowledge and understanding of the broader community work in. was guided by Aboriginal leaders from as well as within our business. across South Australia. In our new RAP The community-directed stories highlight This includes our we will continue to build and maintain: and celebrate the rich understanding of • economic opportunities for Aboriginal contribution to the and Torres Strait Islander businesses water management that was central to life for Aboriginal people, and still exists South Australian and people • stronger Aboriginal and Torres Strait today. The project encourages respectful sharing of traditional and contemporary economy and jobs, Islander communities with improved knowledge and has become an liveability, and sustainability through and being a South water and wastewater services important part of our Reconciliation Action Plan, extending the understanding Australian community • a culturally respectful workplace of Aboriginal knowledge beyond spiritual and South Australian community. connections with water by sharing new partner. We build The plan was endorsed by our Board ways to find, manage and understand confidence with and Reconciliation Australia in May 2020. fresh water opportunities across our state. customers as a leader In 2019-20, key achievements include: Completed videos from the series were • our highest Aboriginal employment in innovation and rate of 2.76 per cent in April 2020, with shared with our people during National Reconciliation Week. technology, including an overall rate of 2.6 per cent for the year contributing to building • a spend of more than $3.2 million cities of the future. with Aboriginal businesses, comprising a direct spend in excess of $500,000 and indirect spend of more than $2.7 million. 38 Year in review: Leading the way Outback footy oval Skills shared build capability powered up Working with members of the Anangu More than 1,300 kilometres north-west community, we continued to deliver of Adelaide in the middle of a vast red a plumbing course that empowers landscape, the green oasis of the Amata community members to fix water leaks Oval was opened in November 2019 and provides education on water and for the local football league and wider sustainability. community to enjoy. Two courses were offered in 2019-20 with The oval in the Anangu Pitjantjatjara more than 85 students and community Yankunytjatjara (APY) Lands is irrigated members participating in the program using recycled water from our nearby to date, which we are now delivering to Clockwise from top left: wastewater treatment plant. communities across the APY Lands. The Amata Oval At the heart of these relationships is the opening in November To celebrate the opening, students from 2019. schools in the region were joined by direct involvement of our frontline people The Quench Bench players from two football teams: the who are driven by a desire to achieve helped keep everyone 2019 premiers the Amata Swans and access and outcomes for Aboriginal refreshed at the people and communities. opening of the Amata Port Adelaide Football Club. Oval. The objective was to provide Amata with During 2019-20, we began delivering our Our plumbing course a cool and functional open space that first Twinning Program in partnership with is empowering APY community members can be maintained in an environmentally two Aboriginal corporations, Tauondi to fix water leaks and sustainable way. College and Neporendi Aboriginal learn about water and Forum. Five of our people partnered sustainability. Each day about 70,000 litres of with these organisations to share skills wastewater is treated at the plant and in governance, strategy, communications, pumped to an underground irrigation marketing and finance. system at the oval. Building relationships with the local community to understand what would be valued was essential to ensuring the infrastructure delivers both public health and liveability outcomes for the people we are serving. 39 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report In this together The 2020 National Reconciliation Week theme, in this together, acknowledged that everyone has a role to play in achieving reconciliation. Using our infrastructure as a canvas for Aboriginal artwork is an effective way to acknowledge the rich culture that Aboriginal people bring to our state. In 2019-20, three art projects were delivered in partnership with Clockwise from left: communities. The Kadina Depot mural was painted by 1. Port Augusta Tamika Gollan (right) with mentoring and Working together with Port Augusta support from Samantha City Council’s Aboriginal Art Program, Gollan (left). Aboriginal artists came together to create Cassandra Brown and a vibrant welcome for visitors to Port Leah Brown working on the Port Augusta Augusta on our pipeline. The artwork pipeline artwork. highlights the local Aboriginal culture Sarah Smith and and the area’s role as a place to gather. Bree Ah Chee and their pillar artwork 2. Kadina in SA Water House. The Kadina Depot wall mural is the centrepiece of the newly landscaped garden, which was created together with a local Aboriginal landscaping business, and features all indigenous plants. Emerging Narungga artist Tamika Gollan delivered her first commercial, largescale artwork. Tamika was mentored by established artist Samantha Gollan who provided guidance through the procurement and other formal processes involved. The centrepiece of the mural is Narungga totem, the butterfish, with sacred fishing spots and techniques passed down through generations, making coastal waters a key part of Narungga identity. 3. Adelaide Two large concrete pillars in the foyer of SA Water House were brought to life with Kaurna artwork and language. Working with Kaurna language expert Jack Buckskin, two of our own people, Bree Ah Chee and Sarah Smith, created artworks that celebrate and acknowledge the importance of bringing the Kaurna language to life, as well our respect for the people on whose land the building sits. 40 Year in review: Leading the way Creating and supporting Building a zero future leaders cost energy future Kaurna Yerta Aboriginal Corporation Our ambitious plan to use renewable (KYAC) sought our support to build a energy and storage to create a zero succession strategy for young Kaurna cost energy future has made significant people to help shape their future. With progress this year with 150,000 solar a shortage of young leaders in many photovoltaic (PV) panels installed across communities, this important work will the state in 2019-20. help KYAC remain relevant and meet With water and wastewater treatment the needs of emerging and future and pumping operations being energy generations and their leaders. intensive, we are one of the biggest Between December 2019 and electricity users in the state. As at March 2020, we worked with KYAC 30 June 2020, the panels installed and Coleman Consultants to host four have the capacity to generate up to community meetings for young Kaurna 57 megawatts and 95 gigawatt hours people, held in the south, north and a year. west of Adelaide as well as the city. Installation has been completed at The forums helped empower young Mount Pleasant, Heathfield, Queensbury Aboriginal people to have a say in their and Port Lincoln with work progressing community and become involved in at 18 sites across the state including policy and decision making for the future. Adelaide, River Murray, the Adelaide Hills and Eyre Peninsula. While this work was interrupted by the Top left: Aunty Lorraine, COVID-19 pandemic, it is set to continue About 500,000 solar PV panels will Basil and Ros Coleman, be installed to generate 242 GWh Jack Buckskin, Sarah in 2020-21. Smith and Jess Davies of electricity per annum and be at the community forum complemented by 34 MWh of battery held at the Kauwi Interpretive Centre. storage, which will provide 70 per cent of our electricity requirements in an average Above: Solar panels were installed at a weather and water consumption year. number of locations While there will be times when we including Morgan (top), Kimba (middle) need to draw electricity from the grid, and Mount Pleasant this project enables us to store and sell (bottom). energy at other times while protecting our business from the volatility of the electricity spot market and therefore keeping operating costs down. 41 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report Left: The new Murray Bridge Wastewater Treatment Plant is a leader in sustainability design. Below: The art installation on the new pump station shares the culture of the Ngarrindjeri people. New wastewater treatment plant sets Australian sustainability record South Australia’s newest wastewater treatment plant, at Murray Bridge, became fully operational in June 2020, bringing leading sustainability design to the facility that will process up to 4.5 million litres of sewage a day. The $52 million project was awarded an ‘excellent’ design rating from the Infrastructure Sustainability Council of Australia, the highest to date for a water or wastewater project in Australia. The rating is based on delivering cultural, social, environmental and economic benefits across the planning, design, construction and operations phases of infrastructure assets. The new plant incorporates an odour control unit which consists of a biotrickling filter and activated carbon tanks, As with the previous facility, the plant A big part of the project’s success was designed to remove 99.95 per cent of continues to recycle 100 per cent of its working with the local community in odour from the plant. It also has an treated wastewater for irrigation use at the lead-up to and during construction, advanced biological treatment process a Department of Defence training area with site tours and tailored education called a moving bed biofilm reactor, and a nearby pastoral property, and the workshops for local school students. which helps to break down sewage on-site solar array will ultimately generate An art installation incorporated into into sludge in a more compact, efficient 150 kilowatt hours a day, helping to the pump station’s design is underway and adaptable way than conventional power the treatment plant. to share the culture of the region’s methods. This plant is one of the first non-industrial wastewater treatment Traditional Owners, the Ngarrindjeri plants in Australia to use this technology. people, with the wider community. 42 Year in review: Leading the way Left: Drone pilots Daniel Haines and Paul Hawthorne at Christies Beach Wastewater Treatment Plant where drones will monitor the ambient temperature around the site’s solar arrays. Grassy woodland restoration at Inspecting and maintaining our Millbrook infrastructure is critical to ensuring reliable services for our customers, A 10-year plan to restore a former yet due to their size or location, pine plantation to a grassy woodland access can be difficult. ecosystem at Millbrook Reservoir is in its fourth year. Using drones for inspections improves safety outcomes, for example by reducing Through the revegetation project, we the need to climb to the top of an are partnering with the Adelaide Botanic elevated water storage tank to complete Gardens’ Seed Conservation Centre, an inspection of these vital assets. Revegetation is Trees for Life’s silver daisy-bush recovery increasing the project, Kersbrook Landcare Group and Using drones also reduces the time biodiversity at Millbrook Reservoir. The University of Adelaide. taken to complete tasks, which in turn, is reducing operational costs. Top: Millbrook in May 2017. Drones bring new Along with asset inspections, our drones Bottom: Millbrook understanding of assets are now capturing aerial and thermal in April 2020. Building on our long history of innovation, photography and videography to provide our seven licensed drone pilots, based greater perspective to large-scale ground in Berri, Port Pirie, Mount Barker and operations, assess environmental health Adelaide, are maturing our capability and evolution over time, and monitor and progressively using the technology the progress of our capital projects. at more of our water and wastewater Our drone pilots combine terrestrial facilities across the state. laser scan data with UAV imagery Drones are enabling a safe working and Pix4D photogrammetry software environment for our people and bringing to provide a full inside-and-out 3D benefits to our customers and the model representation of our assets, community. and harnessing the technology to create Digital Surface Models which help inform engineering projects. 43 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report Left: Sensors installed in the wastewater network are helping reduce customer impacts from sewer blockages. Below: Our industryleading smart water network is improving services for our customers. Bluetooth valves improve Smart tech success Smart water network awarded maintenance in SA’s sewers At the Australian Water Association’s In a South Australian-first process, Following a successful start to a smart 2019 Water Awards in South Australia, our we are improving water services for wastewater network trial in Stonyfell to world-leading smart water technology customers in regional areas with the June 2019, we installed additional types received the Research Innovation Award. use of Bluetooth technology. of innovative technology in more The award recognises the step Used by our major pipelines targeted locations. change in customer experience we maintenance team, the technology In 2019-20, the technology enabled have achieved after rolling out smart connects with a hydraulically actuated, us to address 17 blockages before water and wastewater networks to computer-controlled machine that they could impact customers. This was manage water and sewer mains. remotely opens and closes water main achieved through analysis of data sent By using research to better understand valves, through a process known as from network sensors to our Operations smart technology we are detecting exercising, to keep the supply of Control Centre, providing an advance cracks in our pipes based purely on drinking water to customers flowing. warning and making it easier for us to acoustic noises. The technology is now know where and when to send our a key feature of our water network in Valves are important in controlling the crews to unblock a pipe. the Adelaide central business district. flow of water through the network and This type of technology is groundto our customers, including during any The smart water network uses breaking and we are one of the acoustic sensors, pressure and flow planned shutdown or responsive works, first utilities in Australia to use it in so we need to make sure they are data, high-speed transient pressure a comprehensive whole-of-suburb sensors, smart meters and water quality always working to limit any temporary approach. water supply interruptions. sensors to monitor the underground pipe Similar types of technology are now network for faults. Results are assessed in Applying Bluetooth technology being tested to potentially complement our Operations Control Centre to identify improves pipe operations with the existing smart sensors. any abnormalities in the network, and help of a hand-held mobile device ensure we continue to deliver services and makes exercising water valves for our customers. a low-risk, one-person activity. The trial is now being extended to test valves across the state. 44 Year in review: Leading the way Left: Will Brennan and Annette Warren from our Information Technology team with the Best Resilience Project Award. Right: General Manager Customer Delivery Kerry Rowlands and Account Manager Development Services Debbie Snoswell with our UDIA awards. Network resilience awarded Double success at development Achieving trust At the inaugural iTnews Benchmark industry awards Our new approach to resolving complex Awards in Sydney in early March 2020, In late 2019, we were recognised at customer issues was recognised in our project to centralise SCADA control the Urban Development Institute of August 2019 by the Australian Society won Best Resilience Project. Australia’s SA Awards for Excellence. of Consumer Affairs Professionals, with Our Supervisory Control and Data our Customer Advocacy and Resolution Account Manager of Development Acquisition (SCADA) system is used to team runners up in the Constellation Services Debbie Snoswell received an monitor and control our network and Achievement Award. individual honour winning the Institute’s assets right across the state to deliver Public Sector Award for achievements in The award acknowledges the significant reliable services for customers. This the development industry during her contribution the team has made to winning project used new technology 16-year career with SA Water. improving the status of consumer affairs, and operating opportunities to centralise complaint prevention and handling in Seen as a voice for land development the system on a virtual platform in one our industry. customers, Debbie’s focus is on delivering secure data centre. cost-effective solutions which bring The new approach improves security benefits for both developers and and supports quicker operational SA Water. response and recovery, which was proven Our focus on reconciliation and during our response to the bushfires on gender diversity saw us receive the Kangaroo Island. The robust, resilient and Diversity in Development Award. The cost-effective centralised system enables recognition demonstrates real progress us to monitor, control and upgrade our we have made in both reconciliation critical infrastructure delivering essential and increasing job opportunities for services on demand and with minimal women in the water industry. temporary service interruptions for our customers. 45 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report Air temperature sensors were installed at parks to track the cooling impact of effective watering. Mapping cool, green parks Swan Reach declared top drop SA expertise testing A new program aimed at increasing Water produced from Swan Reach Melbourne water quality liveability through hot, dry summers Water Treatment Plant in the Murraylands In 2019-20, the Australian Water Quality in the urban environment using nano was awarded best tasting tap water in Centre (AWQC), our national laboratory satellite technology saw us partner South Australia at the annual awards service, signed two new contracts in with 19 South Australian councils and run by the Water Industry Operators Melbourne. Fleet Space to track the temperature Association of Australia. In November 2019, the AWQC began at local parks and playgrounds using The awards, held in Murray Bridge in water sampling and field testing services real-time data. early August 2019, saw more than a for Victorian bulk water provider More than 200 air temperature sensors dozen samples from water treatment Melbourne Water. were installed in 2019-20 at public facilities across the state judged on spaces and playgrounds. They have Early in 2020, a three-year contract colour, clarity, odour and mouthfeel. demonstrated temperature differences was secured with Yarra Valley Water, Water at the Swan Reach plant is the largest of Melbourne’s three retail of an average three to seven degrees treated using a disinfection process water companies. AWQC will undertake Celsius between green irrigated sites and called chloramination, an alternative to sampling, laboratory testing, analysis and non-irrigated spaces in the same suburb. chlorine, which results in a less detectable reporting services and expects to collect Available on our website, the data forms taste and odour. Once treated, water more than 7,000 water, wastewater and colour-coded maps indicating where the from Swan Reach is provided to about recycled water samples, and perform temperature is cooler and warmer. 32,000 customers, including towns in the about 60,000 tests each year. In addition to community benefits, Murraylands region, and the Barossa Both are three-year partnerships and there are significant advantages for and Clare Valleys. expand the national service which local councils needing to make costA further 28,000 homes and businesses, AWQC provides the water industry, effective decisions about their irrigation some as far as Yorke Peninsula, are including Tasmanian water utility practices, with more diverse and higher supplied a mix of water from our Swan TasWater and Wannon Water in volume community activation driving Reach and nearby Morgan water south-west Victoria. increased value from the water already treatment plants via a long, mostly invested in maintaining green spaces With laboratory facilities in Adelaide above ground pipeline. like sporting ovals. and Melbourne, the AWQC provides Dry ground can be just as hot as a range of expert services to clients bitumen and artificial grass can be even within Australia and internationally. hotter, so using water efficiently and in a cost-effective way can further reduce the creation of urban heat islands. The data is provided to councils to compare irrigation patterns to any temperature reductions achieved, informing decisions on future park upgrades or investments. 46 Year in review: Capable and committed team Capable and committed team Diversity and inclusion Better life Our experienced Following the discovery of Aboriginal Diversity and inclusion is a source of and capable team organisational strength and we are ancestral remains in Berri in February 2019, a project team with representatives consistently lives our developing a culture that embraces and celebrates diversity in all its forms, from across the business came together values to safely deliver knowing that we best meet the needs and ensured the remains were laid to rest in accordance with the wishes of our customers when our people for our customers reflect the community we serve. of the local community. This project represents reconciliation through genuine every day. Initiatives to foster diversity and inclusion engagement with Aboriginal people and in our business saw us achieve our recognises the team’s efforts to support Safety and wellbeing Diversity Index target during 2019-20. the local Aboriginal community during a As at 30 June 2020, our overall Diversity of our people Index, which is a composite of women period of grieving. With a focus on building the capability in leadership roles, and Aboriginal and Environment of our people to make the best possible Torres Strait Islander employment and decisions in their work environment to The visibility of environmental risks has retention, was 86 per cent, favourable protect them from harm, this year our been increased following their successful to our target of 80 per cent. all injury frequency rate reduced by integration into our risk management platform, called SAAM. Significant work 30 per cent to 19.52, compared to Innovation and excellence was done to review and standardise risk 27.72 in 2018-19. on show descriptions and ratings. The outcome Our key focus in 2019-20 was on Our 2019 Innovation and Excellence is driving responsive and effective risk preventing potential life altering events by Awards recognised our people who management and decision-making sharing lessons learnt from investigations delivered excellence and new thinking processes, and enhances analysis to improve and prevent recurrence. Our to serve our customers. The award and reporting. high potential incident frequency rate winners were: reduced to 1.56, an improvement of more Innovation than 50 per cent on our 2018-19 result Above and beyond A group from across the business came of 3.96. The Land Management and Reservoirs together to develop a way to measure In parallel, a series of wellbeing initiatives team was acknowledged for going the performance of our energy assets, was delivered to build the capability of above and beyond to meet the high supporting our goal to achieve a zero our people and included: expectations of visitors and stakeholders cost energy future by mid-2020. The • an interactive video series to support following the opening of Myponga diverse group with skills and interest in wellbeing and resilience through the Reservoir Reserve for public access in modelling, optimisation, data analytics adoption of self-care strategies based April 2019. The team changed their day and control systems developed, applied on positive psychology principles to day approach to deliver an excellent and tested optimisation methodologies visitor experience. for the Crystal Brook solar PV and • virtual and on-site training battery storage facility. This project has covering COVID-19 support, remote driven new thinking to challenge the working and time management, way we do things. as well as promoting our Employee Assistance Program. 47 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report Inspirational leadership IT Operations Manager Jon Howson was recognised for driving a huge positive culture shift in his team and across our broader information technology function. Jon empowers his people to develop and try new things. Under his leadership, IT has realised significant efficiency gains and reduced costs, while taking on support of new digital capabilities our business is adopting. Safety leadership Our Eastern and Western Eyre Peninsula teams worked together to improve safety, efficiency and customer service by implementing innovative processes to better manage fatigue, share critical heavy fleet, and use contractors to achieve attendance targets which can be challenging to meet across the vast regional area on the peninsula. Together Working with the Anangu Pitjantjatjara Yankunytjatjara (APY) Lands community, a small team developed and delivered a program that teaches basic plumbing Top: The work of and water sustainability practices to teams from across the community members. With the aim of business supported the local Aboriginal reducing high water consumption and community in Berri. transferring skills, the hands-on course Middle: A cross-business met the needs of the community and team developed a linked with accredited training courses way to measure the performance of our on offer through the APY Trade Training energy assets, winning Centre. the Innovation award. Bottom: The Land Management and Reservoirs team, winners of the Above and Beyond award. 48 Year in review: Keeping it simple Keeping it simple Our processes need to support the delivery of outcomes for our customers by making it simple to transact with us. Simple processes help us get the basics right, work together and lead the way. Left: Customers continue to embrace digital services on offer. We do this by Above: The new online map shows customers and the community where we are currently working. innovating for continual Where we’re working With implementation accelerated in improvement, applying In March 2020, we improved transparency order to rapidly expand channel choices for customers, WebChat was up and technologies, using for customers about where we are running within five days. working with an updated online map the right information and reporting functions. Use of WebChat, which is delivered in real-time by our people based in at the right time, Customers can see a wide range of Adelaide, continues to grow with network improvement work underway seeking efficiencies, and faults being repaired, plus easily 1,504 customer interactions since it launched. and optimising how we use our website to let us know of any leaks or issues they spot. People can Customers embrace operate. This includes also subscribe and stay informed about digital services repair work as we action and fix faults. our partners such as By using our in-house ArcGIS mapping Uptake of eBilling continued in 2019-20 Allwater. technology our people designed and and at 30 June, there were 154,054 properties registered to get eBills, up developed the mapping tool that was from 100,847 in 2018-19. Of these, more tested with customers at every step to than 120,000 properties were registered deliver a simple and easy to use online with our online account management report and subscribe service. service, mySAWater. Through to 30 June 2020, the map had Our customers are embracing the digital received more than 41,000 page views services we offer with continued growth with more than 1,000 people subscribing in use of self-service transactions at for a works update. 171,068, up from 150,368 in 2018-19. Real-time chat In October, our new automated In March 2020, as our business connection application process was responded to the changes necessitated made available for customers, increasing by the state’s response to the COVID-19 communication to customers and the pandemic, we delivered WebChat speed of processing these applications. as an additional customer digital communication channel. 49 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report Water quality SA Health statement The total number of incidents notified Water quality incidents were notified by SA Water during the reporting period by SA Water in a timely manner. SA Health and SA Water work was higher compared to 2018-19. The Appropriate remedial actions were cooperatively to ensure the continued majority of this total increase was due implemented and ensured the protection protection of public health in relation to incidents arising from unauthorised of public health was maintained at to the supply of drinking water across activities in 2019-20 at drinking water all times. No incidents required public the state. SA Water complied with all reservoir reserves now open for people to notification during the reporting period. requirements under the Safe Drinking visit. Warmer than average temperatures Water Act 2011 including the notification of incidents under the interagency and periods of above average rainfall Safe drinking water legislation resulted in increased numbers of The Safe Drinking Water Act 2011 Water/Wastewater Incident Notification incidents reported due to detection of provides the regulatory framework and Communication Protocol. cyanobacteria and enteric protozoa in for drinking water providers in South During 2019-20, SA Water collected source water. The number of incidents Australia and is administered primarily 46,416 samples from drinking water in relation to customer complaints of by SA Health with assistance from supplies throughout the state. Samples dirty water was also higher. These are local government. Provisions in the Act were analysed for compliance with the generally short-term events associated are underpinned by the ADWG and Australian Drinking Water Guidelines with maintenance activities. Incidents prescribe requirements for drinking water (2011) (ADWG) and results reported to associated with disinfection were reduced providers, including: SA Health in line with agreed reporting in 2019-20 compared to 2018-19. protocols. Compliance with the ADWG • registration of drinking water providers The impact of bushfire and the with SA Health for E. coli was achieved in 100 per cent subsequent substantial rain event on the • development and implementation of metropolitan Adelaide samples, Middle River Water Treatment Plant were of risk management plans (RMPs) 99.96 per cent of country samples expertly handled. SA Water personnel • establishment of approved drinking and 100 per cent of remote Aboriginal are commended for their response and water quality monitoring programs community samples. Overall compliance ongoing communication during the event with the ADWG for health-related • notification of incidents or and the recovery. There were impacts parameters was 100 per cent for non-compliance on aesthetic quality of the drinking metropolitan systems, 99.91 per cent • audits and inspections to determine water supply yet despite the damage to for country areas and 99.32 per cent compliance with the Act the treatment plant, supply of drinking for remote community supplies. • use of National Association of Testing water through the Middle River system to Kingscote was maintained at all Authorities accredited laboratories times. Exceedances were recorded for sample testing for manganese and aluminium • reporting of water quality test concentrations and these were results to SA Health and providing resolved appropriately. consumers with drinking water quality information. 46,416 SA Water is registered as a drinking water provider and has established RMPs including approved monitoring programs samples were and an incident notification protocol. SA Water provided water quality testing collected statewide 100% reports for metropolitan, country and remote community water supplies on a monthly basis with results showing a very compliance achieved in high level of compliance. metropolitan systems 50 Year in review: Water quality Under the Act, SA Water is required to Water quality monitoring and testing undergo an annual independent audit. The 87 drinking water supplies we operate serve customers across metropolitan, In 2019-20, the sixth audit of SA Water country and remote Aboriginal communities within South Australia. was undertaken since the Act took effect. A number of representative SA Water To maintain quality, we have SA Health-approved drinking water quality monitoring drinking water supplies were included programs with samples collected and analysed throughout all aspects of the water in the audit. The audit outcomes were supply system, including catchment and source water, treatment processes and the consistently positive and noted that distribution network up to the water meter on individual properties. SA Water was operating in compliance We monitor for health and aesthetic compliance and to optimise water quality. with the requirements and intent of the Samples are collected by our trained field workers to make sure they are taken Act. Compliance improved relative to the correctly, and field results have a high degree of integrity. Laboratory analyses five previous audits and no significant are carried out by our Australian Water Quality Centre in accordance with non-compliances were detected. ISO 9001 Quality Systems and the requirements of the National Association Further information on the Safe Drinking of Testing Authorities. Water Act 2011 can be found at sahealth. The following table summarises routine monitoring and testing activities in our sa.gov.au/safedrinkingwateract SA Health-registered drinking water supply systems in 2019-20. SA Water also provides additional information regarding water quality Number of sample locations and test analytes – statewide, metropolitan, country and remote Aboriginal communities water supply systems, 2019-20 which can be found at sawater.com.au Drinking water systems Statewide Metropolitan Country Remote Catchment to tap Aboriginal communities We manage drinking water quality from catchment to tap in line with our Drinking Supply systems 87 8 59 20 Water Quality Management System to Customer tap sample locations 503 177 306 20 ensure a consistent and reliable supply Catchment to tap sample locations* 1,511 369 1,021 121 of high quality, safe drinking water for Catchment to tap routine test analytes 372,352 79,580 289,997 8,682 our customers. * Includes customer tap sample locations This management system is based on the Framework for Management of Drinking water quality and performance Drinking Water Quality outlined in the In 2019-20, we demonstrated robust management of water quality by consistently ADWG and endorsed by the National providing safe, clean drinking water to our customers. Health and Medical Research Council. The following table summarises our performance for health-related parameters The framework outlines good drinking of routine samples at customer tap sample locations. water supply management, based on the best available scientific evidence Statewide, metropolitan, country and remote Aboriginal communities drinking water that will assure drinking water quality supply systems health-related performance, 2019-20 and safety at the tap. Health-related Statewide systems Metropolitan Country systems Remote Aboriginal parameters (number of test systems (number of test communities analytes) (number of test analytes) (number of test analytes) analytes) Samples free from 99.97% (10,307) 100% (3,221) 99.96% (6,995) 100% (91) E. coli Samples compliant 99.93% (46,416) 100% (13,388) 99.91% (32,438) 99.32% (590) with ADWG health Target: 99.90% Target: 100% Target: 99.80% Target: 99.80% parameters* * Percentage of routine results at customer tap sample locations within drinking water systems which comply with the ADWG health limits (including E. coli). * Direct exceedances of the ADWG were used rather than the 95th percentiles for compliance of individual chemical parameters. * Prior to calculating per cent compliance for health-related chemicals, individual results are rounded to the same number of significant figures as the guideline value in the ADWG (as prescribed in the ADWG and agreed with SA Health). 51 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report We analysed 46,416 routine test analytes from our drinking water supplies (customer tap sample locations) throughout South Australia to determine health-related compliance. • We achieved 99.97 per cent E. coli compliance across customer tap sample locations with exceptions in three country systems. • Compliance with ADWG healthrelated parameters across customer tap sample locations was above target at 99.93 per cent. Although we aim for 100 per cent compliance all the time, the ADWG recognises that occasional exceedances From 1 July 2019 we took on the responsibility of the Wirrina Cove water supply system may occur with most guidelines for from the District Council of Yankalilla. Since then we have installed a specialised chemicals based on a lifetime of aerator and are currently constructing a granular activated carbon plant, both of exposure. In accordance with the which will help remove disinfection by-products from the water, as well as improve guidelines and the interagency Water/ its taste and smell. Wastewater Incident Notification and Following positive feedback from Myponga township residents after changing the Communication Protocol, all detections treatment chemical used to disinfect their water from chlorine to chloramine, we are were immediately communicated to now progressing with the chloramination of the wider Myponga drinking water system SA Health, investigated by us and in two stages. corrective actions implemented as In 2019-20 we undertook planning, design and construction works at the Myponga agreed with SA Health. Water Treatment Plant to facilitate this water quality improvement, which is designed SA Health has confirmed that drinking to mitigate disinfection by-product challenges, with the additional benefit of improving water provided to customers by us was the taste and smell of the water. safe and appropriate responses and After assuming responsibility for the water supplies of Kanpi, Murputja and Nyapari corrective actions were implemented in in late 2017 we have now completed a water supply upgrade project that links all cases and these mitigated any risks these supplies together and includes storage and reverse osmosis (RO) treatment at to public health. Murputja. The water in this area has naturally occurring fluoride above the ADWG The three E. coli detects in 2019-20 health limit and the RO treatment will reduce levels within the guidelines as well as were all in the presence of chlorine improve the aesthetics of the water. or chloramine residuals at levels high enough to mitigate risk. Plant E. coli compliance at metropolitan, country and remote Aboriginal communities drinking operation, chlorine/chloramine residuals water supply system customer tap sample locations since 2017-18 (customer tap sample and bacterial results from different location tests free from E. coli) locations around the time of the detects 100.00% were reviewed and were all within 2019-20 99.96% specifications. Follow up samples were 100.00% taken showing consistent chlorine/ chloramine residual and no E. coli 100% detected. 2018-19 99.99% The greatest challenge to country 100% compliance is disinfection by-products 99.97% due to several South Australian source 2017-18 99.99% waters containing high amounts of 99.00% natural organic matter. We have identified these systems and are 90.00% 91.00% 92.00% 93.00% 94.00% 95.00% 96.00% 97.00% 98.00% 99.00% 100.00% proactively implementing management Metropolitan Country Remote Aboriginal communities strategies to address these situations. 52 Year in review: Water quality Incident management Statewide drinking water supplies number of incidents (metropolitan, country and remote Aboriginal communities) We are committed to applying the ADWG Framework for Management of Reporting period Priority Type 1 Type 1 Type 2 Drinking Water Quality which includes 2019-20 1 36 63 two components for the management 2018-19 1 24 54 of incidents: 2017-18* 2 42 90 1. communication 2. incident and emergency response 2016-17# 2 48 159 protocols. 2015-16 4 32 74 Our Water Quality Incident and Note: these notifications do not include wastewater, recycled water and non-drinking supplies. * Remote Aboriginal communities incidents included in annual reporting from 2017-18. Emergency Management Protocol is # Impacted by River Murray blackwater event. in place and we have a web-based incident management system to record Priority Type 1 and Type 1 incidents are immediately reported to SA Health, while all and generate notifications of water Type 2 notifications reportable within 24 hours, in line with the interagency Water/ quality incidents. These are aligned Wastewater Incident Notification and Communication Protocol. to the interagency Water/Wastewater Incident Notification and Communication The Priority Type 1 incident was due to the Duncan and Ravine bushfires on Kangaroo Protocol that is maintained by SA Health Island when the Middle River Water Treatment Plant sustained significant damage to adopt the principles of the ADWG and leaving it inoperable for about two weeks. In consultation with SA Health, untreated satisfy requirements of the Safe Drinking but disinfected raw water from Middle River Reservoir was approved as safe to drink Water Act 2011 and Safe Drinking Water and supplied to the network. In addition, we supplied boxed, bottled and tankered Regulations 2012. water to ensure ongoing alternative drinking water supplies for the community. An incident management team was setup and convened daily for the duration of the SA Health defines three types of healthincident. related incident classifications based on a precautionary approach: In 2019-20 the number of incidents, particularly Type 1 notifications, increased when compared with 2018-19. This can be largely attributed to an increase in source water 1. Priority Type 1 incident notification incidents with 12 recreational access incidents recorded. This new incident category An incident that, without immediate was introduced in 2019-20 as reservoir reserves began to be progressively opened appropriate response or intervention, for public access. In addition, we had three Type 1 cyanobacteria incidents at the could cause serious risk to human newly acquired Wirrina Cove Water Treatment Plant system. There was a reduction health and is likely to require immediate in disinfection failures and filtered water turbidity incidents, primarily due to improved interagency meetings to consider process monitoring and control systems at water treatment plants. responses. Procedures for Type 1 incident In 2019-20, we continued our focus on early detection and reporting to external notifications also apply. agencies, briefing the Minister for Environment and Water, ensuring prompt corrective action and addressing the causes of preventable Type 1 notifications, such as 2. Type 1 incident notification disinfection failures and filtered water turbidity exceedances. Strategies used to An incident that, without appropriate achieve this include refresher training, optimisation of our drinking water quality response or intervention, could cause monitoring program, ongoing operational and capital improvements, and continuous serious risk to human health. improvement of our Drinking Water Quality Management System. The proactive water quality management of targeted water supply systems and 3. Type 2 incident notifications detection and management of risks continued during 2019-20. Changes in reporting An incident that, without appropriate criteria issued by SA Health in the interagency Water/Wastewater Incident Notification response or intervention, represents and Communication Protocol also occurred and contributed to a change in reporting a low risk to human health. requirements. Following is a comparative summary of the Priority Type 1, Type 1 and Type 2 incident notifications reported against the interagency Water/Wastewater Incident Notification and Communication Protocol. 53 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report Incident Response Index Safe Drinking Water Act audit The Incident Response Index (IRI) drives and guides correct responses when a Priority In November 2019, we were audited Type 1 or Type 1 incident is detected. The IRI is assessed against a number of criteria, under the Safe Drinking Water Act 2011 with each component in the IRI designed to assist the management of water quality (the Act), and successfully met all our incidents, including reporting, initial response and longer-term preventive measures. legislative requirements. The successful The overall 2019-20 strategic target for the IRI was 85 per cent compliance. outcome of the audit found: Criteria used in the Incident Response Index (based on total reportable SA Health Priority • We operate in compliance with both Type 1 and Type 1 incident notifications) the explicit requirements and the implied intent of the Act, Regulation, Incident reported to relevant agencies by phone immediately SA Health audit report template (less than one hour) and the ADWG. Our people and Incident entered into the incident management system contractors consistently demonstrated in less than two hours this compliance and understanding of Initial effective response taken within three hours Overall strategic 2019-20 the need for such vigilance. target: 85% Written report to Minister for Environment and Water • The audited sites and systems by 3pm next business day demonstrated improved compliance Root cause analysis completed within 10 working days relative to the five previous audits (2014 to 2018) and showed positive Preventive actions implemented within agreed timeframes responses to findings from those previous audits. The result was The continual review and improvement of our incident management processes has evidence of continual improvement in positively impacted our overall water quality incident response and performance, the spirit of the ADWG. maintaining an overall score well above our target. • The expertise of our people in water quality management was impressive The Incident Response Index achieved in metropolitan, country and remote Aboriginal and the auditor had confidence in communities and overall for 2019-20, compared to 2018-19 how we discharged our responsibilities and showed our genuine System IRI 2018-19 IRI 2019-20 organisational commitment to water Statewide (weighted combined metropolitan, country and remote 96% 98% quality management. The standard Aboriginal communities) of our supporting systems was high Metropolitan 99% 98% and all 12 elements of the ADWG Country 97% 98% Framework were fully implemented. • Final water verification monitoring Remote Aboriginal communities 67% 100% and reporting continues to be leading nationally and was both drawing on international best practice methods and developing globally leading approaches. • There were no significant noncompliances uncovered during the audit, that is, no findings that constituted an immediate potential threat to public health that required urgent action or reporting. Overall, it was concluded that our water quality management planning was mature, embedded, extensive and comprehensive. The audit result demonstrates the good level of collaboration across the business, with our contract partners, and SA Health. 54 55 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report Effective governance Legislation The Board Directors’ interests SA Water was established as a public The Board is appointed under the South and benefits corporation on 1 July 1995 under the Australian Water Corporation Act 1994 For 2019-20, no director had an interest South Australian Water Corporation to govern the business on behalf of in any contract or proposed contract Act 1994. Legislation guides SA Water’s the state government, reporting to the with SA Water, other than contracts operations, the most significant include: Minister for Environment and Water. The in the ordinary course of business. No • Public Corporations Act 1993 Board sets our strategic direction and benefits were received by any director • Water Industry Act 2012 monitors performance, driving efficiency of SA Water by virtue of a contract that and protecting our long-term financial was made with SA Water, other than in • Safe Drinking Water Act 2011 viability in accordance with the Public normal course of business as set out in • South Australian Public Health Act 2011 Corporations Act 1993. the financial statements. • Work, Health and Safety Act 2012 The following Board directors, appointed • Environment Protection Act 1993 Board committees by the Governor of South Australia, • Landscape South Australia Act 2019. served during 2019-20: The Board has established a committee • Andrew Fletcher AO, Chair structure to assist it in meeting its Key regulators responsibilities. Each committee has a • John Bastian AM The Essential Services Commission of charter that guides its functions and South Australia is the state’s independent • Sue Filby duties and is reviewed regularly. economic regulator and so sets service • Janet Finlay • Chris Ford (from 3 August 2019) Governance, Finance and Risk standards and revenue caps for the Committee – supports the Board in essential water and sewerage services • Fiona Hele fulfilling its governance and oversight we deliver for our customers. • Ian Stirling (to 2 August 2019) responsibilities in relation to our financial SA Health sets and monitors standards • Roch Cheroux (to 16 August 2019) planning and reporting, internal and for drinking water quality and regulates • David Ryan (from 11 November 2019). external audit, internal control processes, recycled water use in the state. risk management systems, compliance, Day to day management of the business The Office of the Technical Regulator is delegated by the Board through the and fraud control. sets standards and requirements for Chief Executive to the Senior Leadership Strategy, Policy and Innovation water and sewerage infrastructure, and Team. Pursuant to section 18 of the South Committee – assists the Board’s the operation of that infrastructure, to Australian Water Corporation Act 1994, oversight of our long-term strategy to ensure public safety. the Minister has delegated authority ensure we remain a valuable, relevant The Environment Protection Authority to the Board of SA Water to approve and effective water and sewerage service sets standards for acceptable discharge procurements of up to $10 million and provider with high levels of customer, from wastewater treatment facilities and expenditure up to $4 million on any one community and stakeholder service monitors our operations and activities to project. and support. minimise impact on the environment. A charter prepared by the Minister People and Culture Committee – The Department for Environment and and the Treasurer, in consultation with supports the Board on matters Water regulates access to natural water the Board, was in place for 2019-20 associated with workforce planning, sources, protects water catchments and in accordance with section 12 of the remuneration and corporate culture, native vegetation and is the state body Public Corporations Act 1993. The taking into account the strategy, responsible for the River Murray as part charter guided the Board in seeking government policy, relevant Board of arrangements for managing the to balance community service with policies, business needs and regulatory Murray-Darling Basin. prudent commercial principles. requirements. 56 Effective governance Organisation structure As at 30 June 2020 GOVERNMENT OF SOUTH AUSTRALIA MINISTER FOR ENVIRONMENT TREASURER AND WATER Hon. Rob Lucas MLC Hon. David Speirs MP SA Water Corporation Public Corporations Act 1993 Act 1994 SA WATER BOARD Andrew Fletcher AO, Chair COMMITTEES Governance, Finance & Risk Strategy, Policy & Innovation People & Culture CHIEF EXECUTIVE David Ryan ASSET, OPERATIONS  CUSTOMER DELIVERY PEOPLE & SAFETY & DELIVERY Kerry Rowlands Ian McLellan Amanda Lewry GOVERNANCE, PLANNING CUSTOMERS, STRATEGY CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER & REGULATION & INNOVATION Jacqueline Guerin (interim) Anne Westley Anna Jackson 57 58 Financial performance Financial performance Total expenses were $19.7 million lower summary than 2018-19 predominately due to: Our financial performance for the year • interest and finance charges was strong. This was due to strong $12.1 million lower due to external water sales resulting from warm and dry interest rate market conditions and weather conditions and an increase in prudent refinancing activities customer revenue from customer growth. • electricity expenditure dropping Instrumental to the federal government's $16.1 million primarily from significantly Water for Fodder program was the lower electricity wholesale prices. production of 40 gigalitres of water at This excludes Adelaide Desalination the Adelaide Desalination Plant, with Plant electricity costs required for the operating costs fully recovered from the Water for Fodder program which federal government. were reimbursed by the federal government. Electricity expenditure Operating expenditure was wellin total increased $4.1 million managed with a continued focus on • services and supplies reducing by efficiencies and electricity expenses $24.5 million, predominately due minimised through volume-managed to the adoption of the new lease purchases from the wholesale energy accounting standard which saw some market. accommodation and vehicle leases We continue to focus on debt costs classified as finance leases management strategies to manage • operational and services contracts interest rate risk and minimise expense. increasing by $7.6 million, The year-end profit before tax was predominately due to increased $315.7 million which is $47.9 million Adelaide Desalination Plant operating higher than budget and $43.2 million costs which is revenue funded through more than the previous year. the Water for Fodder program Revenue remained strong and was • employee benefits expense $23.4 million higher than 2018-19 increasing $3.7 million predominately predominately due to: due to increased wage expense • growth in the number of customers as commensurate with CPI and/or a result of new housing development existing enterprise bargaining and suburban infill agreements • strong water sales due to warm and • depreciation increasing by $1.5 million dry weather conditions through the derived from asset carrying values year, albeit lower than 2018-19 before the year-end revaluation of infrastructure, plant and equipment • increased revenue funding to run assets. the Adelaide Desalination Plant to produce 40 gigalitres during the Income tax expense increased by year as part of the Water for Fodder $13 million as a result of increased profit; program the effective tax rate of 29 per cent is the • increased water and wastewater rates same as 2018-19. as a result of annual CPI price rises • increased contributed assets arising from mains extensions contributions, infrastructure assets gifted to us from developers and capital contributions to us for work we perform. 59 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report Contributions to government Capital expenditure As a significant revenue contributor to the South Australian Government, for the During the year, we spent $564.9 million broader benefit of the people of South Australia, an amount of $481.6 million was on capital expenditure, with $33.7 million paid in 2019-20. This saw $64.4 million of business operating expenditure contributed spent on information technology and to other government agencies and/or councils. Within interest expense, $96.5 million $531.2 million on infrastructure. was paid to the South Australian Financing Authority as guarantee fees and margins. Information technology investments Income tax equivalent of $92.6 million and dividend of $228.1 million was also paid. continue to focus on improving outcomes Contributions to government 2019-20 for our customers and the business actuals including: $’000 • improved service channels and External fees and charges 42,331 customer digital experience Contract services provided 1,321 • increased technology security Operational taxes and tax equivalents 20,753 and reliability • increased business efficiency Total contained within operating expenses 64,405 and employee experience. As a percentage of total operating expenses 10.6% We continue to focus on improving our water and wastewater infrastructure Interest expense – guarantee fees 92,413 assets and invest in major infrastructure South Australian Government Financing Authority margin fees 4,068 projects, all of which have a positive impact on our customers and/or the Additional interest paid to owner 96,481 state. In 2019-20 these included: • Zero Cost Energy Future with Income tax equivalents 92,587 $185.5 million spent towards the Dividends at 100% of profit after tax 228,087 $385 million project Total amounts paid to government 481,560 • Northern Adelaide Irrigation Scheme, continued works and expenditure of $30 million towards the $155.6 million project • Murray Bridge Wastewater Treatment Plant relocation with $21.7 million spent towards the $53.5 million project • Kangaroo Creek Dam Safety works were completed with $14.9 million spent as part of the $119.9 million project • Port Lincoln Sludge Upgrade works continued with $10.7 million spent towards the $18.9 million project. Capital expenditure has been prudent with efficient expenditure through the year. It was contained within the Essential Services Commission of South Australia’s allowable expenditure and/or state budget approvals. 60 Financial performance Consultants The following is a summary of external consultants engaged, and the nature and cost of the work undertaken. Consultant Amount Description/purpose Between $10,000 and $50,000 Ernst & Young 12,000.00 Disclosure support Due Diligence Consultants Pty Ltd 36,393.81 Financial integrity and due diligence reporting Greater than $50,000 Frontier 85,937.50 Advice on the inflation estimate for Our Plan 2020-24 TonyMac Consulting Pty Ltd 87,688.00 Advice on the preparation of analysis and framework for enterprise agreement negotiations PricewaterhouseCoopers 146,251.45 Advice on updating methodology for measuring long-term viability KPMG 181,839.80 Development of a discounted cashflow model and advice on key assumptions Seasonal water allocation revenue adjustments technical paper Review of the Zero Cost Energy Future project as a non-regulated service AMCL Pty Ltd 219,146.65 Water main management independent review – provided management systems auditing expertise to conduct the water main breaks review for the SA Water Board Total 769,257.21 See also tenders.sa.gov.au/tenders/index.do for a list of all external consultancies, including nature of work and value. See also the Consolidated Financial Report of the Department of Treasury and Finance at treasury.sa.gov.au for total value of consultancy contracts across the SA Public Sector. 61 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report Supplementary reporting items Fraud Summary of complaints When compared to 2018-19, EWOSA complaints have trended downwards, There was one instance of alleged fraud Feedback including complaints received with a decrease of five per cent reported in 2019-20. The matter is in the from customers are an opportunity for recorded. process of being investigated and was us to build customer confidence and reported to the appropriate authorities. trust as well as improve our customer During 2019-20, 82.5 per cent of experience performance and operational customers who had a complaint Strategies implemented to efficiency. handled by our Customer Advocacy control and prevent fraud With a comprehensive approach to and Resolution team indicated they were satisfied with our complaints We have a zero tolerance to fraud dealing with complaints, we have a handling process. or corruption and perform a range of dedicated team focused on first contact activities to control and prevent fraud. resolution. Our Customer Advocacy Our Customer Advocacy and Resolution Key to these activities are: and Resolution team is responsible team completes root cause analyses, • senior executive oversight of our Fraud for investigating and responding to post-complaint reviews and case and Corruption Control Policy by complaints which were not able to studies, which are important steps in our the General Manager, Governance, be resolved on first contact. complaint management process. Case Planning and Regulation studies include details of the complaint, In 2019-20, we registered 2.05 complaints a summary of the investigation, the • investigations of all allegations of per 1,000 customers. This has remained outcome and process improvement fraud made under the policy consistent when compared to 2.06 recommendations. • data analytic reviews conducted by complaints per 1,000 customers in 2018-19. Internal Audit of payroll and accounts We continue to track below the national In response to customer feedback, we payable transactions benchmark of 3.5, based on the Bureau continue to implement changes including: • regular communications to our people of Meteorology’s data for major utilities in • providing information about on the need to report matters of its National performance report 2018-19: maintaining healthy sewers for concern and to act in accordance urban water utilities. customers who have wastewater with SA Water’s values, Ethical Together with the Water Services incidents where non-flushables Standards Procedure and the Code Association of Australia and other or fats have been found of Ethics for the South Australian Australian water utilities, we are reviewing • providing hand sanitiser with boxed Public Sector. practices to ensure we are effectively water for customers experiencing a capturing customer complaints resolved temporary water service interruption Public interest disclosure at first contact to continue to generate during the state’s response to the Pursuant to section 12 of the Public valuable insights and improve overall COVID-19 pandemic. Interest Disclosure Act 2018, we have customer experiences. * The number of EWOSA complaints referred to us may differ between our reporting and EWOSA’s due to appointed responsible officers and The most common complaint types relate variances in reporting practices. published procedures for the receipt to water quality, repairs and maintenance and management of public interest of infrastructure in the metropolitan disclosures. We received one public area, and costs incurred for high water interest disclosure-related allegation consumption. during 2019-20. In 2019-20, 184* complaints were made about us to the Energy and Water Ombudsman of South Australia (EWOSA) on a range of issues. Costs incurred for high water use continued to top the list of escalated concerns. 62 Supplementary reporting items 63 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report 64 Supplementary reporting items 65 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report 66 Supplementary reporting items 67 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report 68 Supplementary reporting items 69 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report 70 Supplementary reporting items 71 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report 72 Appendices 73 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report Audited financial statements South Australian Water Corporation annual financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 74 Appendices: Audited Financial Statements 75 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report 76 Appendices: Audited Financial Statements 77 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report 78 Appendices: Audited Financial Statements South Australian Water Corporation Statement of comprehensive income For the year ended 30 June 2020 2020 2019 Notes $'000 $'000 Income Blank row Revenue from ordinary activities 4 1,605,205 1,568,608 Other income 5 736 13,861 Total income 1,605,941 1,582,469 Expenses Depreciation and amortisation expense 6 (362,047) (360,594) Borrowing costs 6 (317,623) (329,766) Electricity expense (86,772) (82,600) Services and supplies 6 (157,250) (181,765) Operational and service contracts (226,328) (218,756) Employee benefits expense 6 (140,248) (136,508) Total expenses (1,290,268) (1,309,989) Profit before income tax equivalents 315,673 272,480 Income tax expense 7 (92,587) (79,637) Profit after income tax equivalents 223,086 192,843 Other comprehensive income Items that will not be reclassified to net result (Loss)/gain on revaluation of infrastructure, plant and equipment assets 29(a) (1,162,845) 116,837 Income tax relating to items of other comprehensive income 7(c) 355,497 (32,117) Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax (807,348) 84,720 Total comprehensive result (584,262) 277,563 T Total comprehensive result for the year is attributable to: The SA Government as owner (584,262) 277,563 The above statement of comprehensive income should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. 3 79 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report South Australian Water Corporation Statement of financial position As at 30 June 2020 2020 2019 Notes $'000 $'000 ASSETS Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 26 4,844 2,772 Receivables 8 223,273 233,886 Inventories 9 8,928 8,498 Other current assets 10 11,456 12,761 Total current assets 248,501 257,917 Non-current assets Finance lease receivable 2,705 Deferred tax assets 11 75,368 40,131 Intangible assets 12 175,563 155,603 Infrastructure, plant and equipment 13 13,173,450 14,212,169 Right-of-use assets 15 186,866 Other non-current assets 16 3,615 221 Total non-current assets 13,617,567 14,408,124 Total assets 13,866,068 14,666,041 LIABILITIES Current liabilities Payables 17 167,389 225,480 Financial liabilities/borrowings 18 57,286 39,645 Tax liabilities 19 10,444 6,785 Provisions 20 21,064 17,370 Other current liabilities 21 16,694 15,640 Total current liabilities 272,877 304,920 Non-current liabilities Payables 2,558 2,519 Financial liabilities/borrowings 22 7,073,955 6,671,551 Deferred tax liabilities 23 1,343,275 1,677,241 Provisions 24 36,644 33,960 Other non-current liabilities 25 342,323 352,062 Total non-current liabilities 8,798,755 8,737,333 Total liabilities 9,071,632 9,042,253 Net assets 4,794,436 5,623,788 EQUITY Contributed equity 213,372 204,210 Asset revaluation surplus 29(a) 4,299,115 5,111,844 Retained earnings 29(b) 281,949 307,734 Total equity 4,794,436 5,623,788 The above statement of financial position should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. 4 80 Appendices: Audited Financial Statements South Australian Water Corporation Statement of changes in equity For the year ended 30 June 2020 Asset Contributedrevaluation Retained equity surplus earnings Total Notes $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 Balance at 1 July 2019 204,210 5,111,844 307,734 5,623,788 Adjustment on initial adoption of AASB 16 29 (26,165) (26,165) Deferred income tax 7(c) 7,871 7,871 Restated total equity at the beginning of the financial year 204,210 5,111,844 289,440 5,605,494 Profit for the year 223,086 223,086 Gain/(loss) on revaluation on infrastructure, plant and equipment assets 29 (1,162,845) (1,162,845) Transfer to retained profits on disposal 29 (2,869) (2,869) Transfer from asset revaluation surplus 29 2,869 2,869 Income tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 7(c) 352,985 (5,359) 347,626 Total comprehensive result for the period (812,729) 220,596 (592,133) Transactions with the SA Government in their capacity as owners: Contributions of equity* 9,162 9,162 Dividends provided for or paid 33 (228,087) (228,087) 9,162 (228,087) (218,925) Balance at 30 June 2020 213,372 4,299,115 281,949 4,794,436 * In 2019/20, SA Water received $7.0m from the SA Government, to partially fund the Northern Adelaide Irrigation Scheme (NAIS) project, after completing the third milestone of the NAIS project. In addition, SA Water received a further $2.162m as a contribution of equity from the SA Government to partially fund the opening of South Australian reservoirs for recreational use. In accordance with Interpretation 1038 Contributions by Owners made to Wholly-Owned Public Sector Entities, these payments have been recognised as contributed equity. The above statement of changes in equity should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. 5 81 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report South Australian Water Corporation Statement of changes in equity For the year ended 30 June 2019 Asset Contributedrevaluation Retained equity surplus earnings Total Notes $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 Balance at 1 July 2018 185,110 5,049,757 271,749 5,506,616 Adjustment on initial adoption of AASB 9 (131) (131) Deferred income tax 39 39 Restated total equity at the beginning of the financial year 185,110 5,049,757 271,657 5,506,524 Profit for the year 192,843 192,843 Gain/(loss) on revaluation on infrastructure, plant and equipment assets 29 116,837 116,837 Transfer to retained profits on disposal 29 (22,594) (22,594) Transfer from asset revaluation surplus 29 22,594 22,594 Income tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 7(c) (32,156) (32,156) Total comprehensive result for the period 62,087 215,437 277,524 Transactions with the SA Government in their capacity as owners: Contributions of equity* 19,100 19,100 Dividends provided for or paid 33 (179,360) (179,360) 19,100 (179,360) (160,260) Balance at 30 June 2019 204,210 5,111,844 307,734 5,623,788 * In 2018/19, SA Water received $19.1m from the SA Government, to partially fund the Northern Adelaide Irrigation Scheme (NAIS) project, after completing the second milestone of the NAIS project. In accordance with Interpretation 1038 Contributions by Owners made to Wholly-Owned Public Sector Entities, this has been recognised as contributed equity. The above statement of changes in equity should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. 6 82 Appendices: Audited Financial Statements South Australian Water Corporation Statement of cash flows For the year ended 30 June 2020 2020 2019 Notes $'000 $'000 Cash flows from operating activities Receipts from customers 1,514,872 1,463,748 Payments to suppliers and employees (730,339) (711,280) Interest received 132 109 Receipts from community service obligations 165,846 139,592 Receipts from contributions 8,160 11,123 Receipts from government grants 35 42 Borrowing costs paid (337,639) (326,992) Income tax equivalents paid (102,636) (100,425) Net cash inflow from operating activities 27 518,431 475,917 Cash flows from investing activities Payments for construction and purchase of infrastructure, plant and equipment (545,314) (513,629) Payments for intangible assets (33,760) (34,751) Proceeds from sale of intangible assets 501 13,248 Proceeds from sale of infrastructure, plant and equipment 585 348 Proceeds from sale of renewable energy certificates 2,460 7,877 Net cash (outflow) from investing activities (575,528) (526,907) Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from borrowings 1,530,600 1,314,400 Repayment of borrowings (1,225,800) (1,093,200) Proceeds from equity contributions 9,162 19,100 Dividends paid 33 (228,087) (179,360) Repayments of finance lease liability (26,706) (11,144) Net cash inflow from financing activities 59,169 49,796 Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 2,072 (1,194) Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the financial year 2,772 3,966 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 26 4,844 2,772 The above statement of cash flows should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. 7 83 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 1 Summary of significant accounting policies The South Australian Water Corporation ( SA Water or the Corporation ) was established on 1 July 1995, as a State owned statutory corporation by the South Australian Water Corporation Act 1994, to which the provisions of the Public Corporations Act 1993 apply. SA Water provides retail water supply and sewerage services in accordance with its licence, provided by the Water Industry Act 2012 (the Act) which came into operation on 1 July 2012. The Act repealed the Waterworks Act 1932, Sewerage Act 1929 and Water Conservation Act 1936. The Corporation has prepared these financial statements in compliance with section 23 of the Public Finance and Audit Act 1987. (a) Basis of preparation These general purpose financial statements have been prepared in accordance with relevant Australian Accounting Standards and comply with the Treasurer's Instructions and Accounting Policy Statements promulgated under provisions of the Public Finance and Audit Act 1987, as well as complying with and Interpretations issued by the Australian Accounting Standards Board and the Corporations (South Australia) Act 2001. South Australian Water Corporation is a for-profit entity for the purpose of preparing the financial statements. Where the Treasurer's Instructions are more prescriptive than the equivalent Australian Accounting Standards, SA Water has applied the Treasurer's Instructions in the application of accounting frameworks. The financial statements are prepared based on a 12 month reporting period and presented in Australian currency/ dollars. The historical cost convention is used unless a different measurement basis is specifically disclosed in the note associated with the item measured. The Corporation’s statement of comprehensive income, statement of financial position and statement of changes in equity have been prepared on an accrual basis and are in accordance with the historical cost convention, except for infrastructure, plant and equipment, derivative financial instruments and renewable energy certificates which are measured on a fair value basis in accordance with the valuation policy applicable. 8 84 Appendices: Audited Financial Statements South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 1 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued) (a) Basis of preparation (continued) Change in accounting policy Adoption of new accounting standards The Corporation has applied the following standard for the first time in the annual reporting period ended 30 June 2020: AASB 16 Leases AASB 16 Leases sets out a comprehensive model for lease accounting that addresses recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases. AASB 16 replaces AASB 117 Leases and related interpretations. It is effective from 1 July 2019 and has resulted in adjustments to the amounts recognised in the financial statements. AASB 117 only required the recognition of an asset and liability in relation to finance leases. AASB 16 applies a comprehensive model to all leases. Applying AASB 16 has resulted in leases previously classified as operating leases now recognised as right-of-use assets and lease liabilities in the Statement of Financial Position. Under AASB 117 operating lease payments were recognised as an expense under Services and Supplies. AASB 16 replaces this with depreciation expense that represents the use of the right-of-use asset and borrowing costs that represent the cost associated with financing the right-of-use asset. AASB 117 only required the finance lease liability to include fixed payments. That portion of the lease payment which was not fixed was not included in the calculation of the lease liability but recognised as a contingent rental expense. Under AASB 16 the measurement of the lease liability includes both fixed payments and variable lease payments that depend on an index or rate. As a consequence of this a contingent rental expense does not get recognised under AASB 16 as it is now included as part of the calculation of the lease liability. Lease incentives (e.g. rent free period) are recognised as part of the measurement of the right-of-use asset and lease liability whereas under AASB 117 they resulted in the recognition of a lease incentive liability which was amortised as a reduction in rental expense on a straight-line basis. Impact on Lessee Accounting In accordance with AASB 16 the following will need to be recognised for all leases except for short-term leases and leases of low value assets: • a right-of-use asset and lease liability in the statement of financial position which is initially measured at the present value of future lease payments; • depreciation of right-of-use assets and interest on lease liabilities in the statement of comprehensive income; and • the lease payment separated into a principal portion and interest expense. These being recognised in the statement of cash flows as payments from financing and operating activities respectively. Impact on Lessor Accounting AASB 16 does not change substantially how a lessor accounts for leases. Under AASB 16, a lessor continues to classify leases as either finance leases or operating leases and account for those two types of leases differently. Under AASB 16, an intermediate lessor accounts for the head lease and the sublease as two separate contracts. The intermediate lessor is required to classify the sublease as a finance or operating lease by reference to the right-of-use asset arising from the head lease (and not by reference to the underlying asset as was the case under AASB 117). 9 85 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 1 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued) (a) Basis of preparation (continued) Change in accounting policy (continued) Accounting policies on transition As a lessee Leases classified as operating leases under AASB 117 AASB 16 includes a number of practical expedients that must be adopted on transition to the application of the new accounting standard. In accordance with Treasurer’s Instructions (Accounting Policy Statements) the Corporation is mandated to adopt certain choices that are included in these practical expedients. The Corporation has therefore adopted the following transitional accounting policies: • The partial retrospective option in AASB 16 whereby the cumulative effect of initially applying the Standard is recognised at 1 July 2019. The comparatives for 30 June 2019 have not been restated. • At 1 July 2019, AASB 16 has only been applied to contracts that were previously identified as containing a lease under AASB 117 and related interpretations. • The initial measurement of the lease liability has been determined as the present value of the remaining lease payments discounted using the relevant incremental borrowing rate as at 1 July 2019. The average weighted incremental borrowing rate for this purpose was 3.42%. • The initial measurement of right-of-use assets has been calculated at either their carrying amount as if AASB 16 had been applied since the commencement date of the lease, discounted using the incremental borrowing rate at 1 July 2019 or an amount equal to the lease liability on transition adjusted for prepaid or accrued lease payments and lease incentive liabilities and assets. • The initial measurement of lease liabilities and right-of-use assets excludes all leases that end by 30 June 2020, except for vehicles leased from the South Australian Government Financing Authority (SAFA). • In accordance with AASB 112 Income Taxes a temporary difference has been recognised for the right-of-use asset and lease liability. A deferred tax liability (DTL) has been recognised for the right-of-use asset. For income tax purposes a deduction can only be claimed as the payments are made for the associated lease liability. The depreciation expense that is recognised for these assets cannot be claimed as an income tax deduction. A deferred tax asset (DTA) has been recognised for the lease liability as a deduction can be claimed in the future when the lease payments have been made. Leases classified as finance leases under AASB 117 • The practical expedient has been adopted which allows the new leasing standard to be applied to leases that were previously identified as finance leases under AASB 117. In accordance with AASB16, on initial application no reassessment is required as to whether a contract contains a lease. • The Corporation has previously entered into Build Own Operate Transfer (BOOT) agreements for a number of infrastructure facilities. BOOT agreements include the requirement for an ongoing availability tariff, as escalated over time by certain indices, for the term of the agreement. In accordance with the requirements of AASB 117, these leases were classified as finance leases. Under the transitional provisions of AASB 16 the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset and the lease liability at July 2019 were determined to be the carrying amount of the lease infrastructure asset and lease liability recognised at 30 June 2019 by applying AASB 117. • Post initial recognition of a lease under the transition provisions, where there is a change to the lease rate or index, the lease liability is required to be remeasured. 10 86 Appendices: Audited Financial Statements South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 1 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued) (a) Basis of preparation (continued) Change in accounting policy (continued) As a lessor The Corporation subleases two floors of its office building located in Adelaide CBD. Under AASB 117, the head lease and sublease contracts were classified as operating leases. Whether a sublease was classified as a finance or operating lease was based on the useful life of the underlying asset. On transition to AASB 16, the Corporation is required to reassess the classification of the subleases as an operating or finance lease by reference to the right-of-use asset arising from the head lease. For one of the subleases, the term aligns to the term of the head lease and therefore this is classified as a finance lease. For the remaining sublease, the term differs from the head lease and therefore it retains its classification as an operating lease. In accordance with AASB 16 where the sublease is classified as a finance lease, the Corporation must derecognise the right-of-use asset relating to the head lease that has been transferred to the sublessee and recognise a receivable at an amount equal to the net investment in the lease. The net investment in the lease being the sum of the lease payments receivable from the lessee discounted using the incremental borrowing rate applicable to the remaining term of the lease. On transition to AASB 16, any difference between that portion of the right-of-use asset that is derecognised and the finance lease receivable is recognised in retained earnings. A deferred tax liability has been recognised for the finance lease receivable as the payments received will be treated as assessable for income tax purposes. Ongoing accounting policies The Treasurer’s Instructions (Accounting Policy Statements) specify required accounting policies for public authorities in applying AASB 16. These requirements are reflected in the Corporation’s accounting policies as follows: • AASB 16 is not applied to leases of intangible assets. • Right-of-use assets and lease liabilities are not recognised for leases of low value assets, being assets which have a value of $15 000 or less, nor short-term leases, being those with a lease term of 12 months or less. • The Corporation, in the capacity of a lessee, does not include non-lease components in lease amounts. • Right-of-use assets are subsequently measured applying a cost model. 11 87 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 1 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued) (a) Basis of preparation (continued) Change in accounting policy (continued) The impact on the financial statements on transition to the adoption of the standard is as follows: 2019 $'000 Assets Infrastructure, plant and equipment (90,241) Right-of-use assets 181,738 Deferred tax assets 36,556 Finance lease receivable 4,403 Prepayments (9) Lease incentive asset (280) Total Assets 132,167 test Liabilities Lease liabilities 120,784 Deferred tax liabilities 28,686 Lease incentive liabilities (576) Unearned income (80) Lease make good provision 1,647 Total Liabilities 150,461 Equity Retained earnings (18,294) Total Equity (18,294) test 12 88 Appendices: Audited Financial Statements South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 1 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued) (a) Basis of preparation (continued) Change in accounting policy (continued) The total impact on the Corporation's retained earnings at 1 July 2019 is as follows: $'000 Closing retained earnings 30 June 2019AASB 117 307,734 Initial recognition right-of-use asset (25,511) Derecognition of right-of-use asset sublease (657) Deferred tax liability right-of-use asset (27,449) Deferred tax liability finance lease receivable (1,321) Deferred tax asset lease liability 36,236 Derecognition of DTL for lease incentive asset 84 Derecognise DTA for deferred rent incentive (173) Recognition of prepayment for land right-of-use asset 3 Deferred tax asset lease make good provision 494 Opening retained earnings 1 July 2019 AASB 16 289,440 The reconciliation of operating lease commitments at 30 June 2019 as disclosed under AASB 117 to the lease liabilities recognised on transition to AASB 16. $'000 Operating lease commitments at 30 June 2019 67,346 Reasonably certain extension options 93,267 Non-lease component (6,049) Leases with a remaining lease term of less than 12 months (107) Prepayments (3) Impact of discounting using incremental borrowing rate at 1 July (33,670) Lease liabilities recognised at 1 July 2019 120,784 13 89 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 1 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued) (a) Basis of preparation (continued) Comparative information The presentation and classification of items in the financial statements are consistent with prior periods except where specific accounting standards and/or accounting policy statements have required a change. Where presentation or classification of items in the financial statements have been amended, comparative figures have been adjusted to conform to changes in presentation or classification in these financial statements unless impracticable. The restated comparative amounts do not replace the original financial statements for the preceding period. Rounding All amounts in the financial statements and accompanying notes have been rounded to the nearest thousand dollars ($'000) unless otherwise stated. (b) Taxes SA Water is liable for income tax equivalents, land tax and council rate equivalents, payroll tax, fringe benefits tax, goods and services tax (GST) and emergency services levy. Income tax equivalents From 1 July 2001, the Corporation has operated under the National Tax Equivalent Regime (NTER) pursuant to the Memorandum of Understanding on NTER between the Commonwealth of Australia, the Commissioner of Taxation and all of the States and Territories. The NTER is administered by the Australian Taxation Office. Income tax expense is calculated in accordance with AASB 112 Income Taxes using the balance sheet liability method. The income tax expense for the period is the tax payable on the current period's taxable income measured at the current national income tax rate adjusted for permanent differences and movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised for temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements. The measurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities reflects the tax consequences that would follow from the manner in which the Corporation expects, at the reporting date, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised at the tax rates expected to apply when the assets are recovered or liabilities are settled. Current and deferred tax is recognised as an expense in the statement of comprehensive income except where it relates to items that are credited or debited to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also recognised directly in equity. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future tax profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Land tax and council rate equivalents The charge for land tax and council rate equivalents has been calculated by Revenue SA, based on valuations supplied by the Valuer General. Goods and services tax Income, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of GST except: • when the GST incurred on a purchase of goods or services is not recoverable from the Australian Taxation Office, in which case the GST is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense item applicable; and • receivables and payables, which are stated with the amount of GST included. 14 90 Appendices: Audited Financial Statements South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 1 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued) (b) Taxes (continued) Goods and services tax (continued) The net amount of GST recoverable from, or payable to, the Australian Taxation Office is included as part of receivables or payables in the statement of financial position. Cash flows are included in the statement of cash flows on a gross basis and the GST component of cash flows arising from investing and financing activities, which is recoverable from, or payable to, the Australian Taxation Office is classified as part of operating cash flows. (c) New accounting standards and interpretations not yet effective The Corporation did not voluntarily change any of its accounting policies during 2019/20. Australian accounting standards and interpretations that have recently been issued or amended but are not yet effective, have not been adopted by the Corporation for the period ending 30 June 2020. AASB 1059 Service Concession Arrangements: Grantors is effective for the annual reporting period beginning 1 July 2020. This standard will be applicable to public-private partnerships (PPPs) which involve the private sector (the operator) providing public services related to a service concession arrangement on behalf of the public sector (the grantor) and the operator managing at least some of those services under its own discretion rather than at the direction of the grantor. It also requires that the government entity controls the asset used to deliver those services. A review has been completed of this standard and the result is that there will be no impact as all services are provided direct to the Corporation rather than directly to the public. 15 91 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 2 Financial risk management (a) Market risk (i) Interest rate risk exposures financial liabilities The Corporation's financial liabilities are exposed to interest rate risk. The Corporation constantly analyses its interest rate exposure and consideration is given to potential renewals of existing positions and the use of alternative risk mitigation strategies. To minimise interest rate volatility, the Corporation enters into forward starting loans (FSLs) with the South Australian Financing Authority (SAFA) where it agrees to borrow specified amounts in the future at a pre-determined interest rate. FSLs are non-derivative financial instruments which are outside the scope of AASB 9, and are disclosed as unrecognised fixed rate loan commitments. Refer note 2c. A key component of the Corporation's interest rate risk management framework is the requirement for a permissible duration range to be maintained, which reflects the average term to maturity of the Corporation's core debt portfolio. As part of a Treasury Risk Management Policy review, the permissible duration range is 2.1 6.5 years. The following sensitivity analysis is based on the interest rate risk exposures in existence at the balance date, assuming all other variables are held constant. The movements in post-tax profit and equity for the year are due to higher/lower interest costs from floating rate debt and cash balances. The movement in interest expense is estimated by applying the interest rate movement to the balance of floating rate debt and cash balances outstanding at balance date. At 30 June 2020 it has been assumed that a reasonable possible shift in interest rates over the next reporting period could be 1% upwards and -0.5% downwards. Interest rate risk -0.5% +1.0% Carrying amount Profit Equity Profit Equity 30 June 2020 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 4,844 (16) (16) 34 34 Financial liabilities Short term borrowings (29,974) 105 105 (210) (210) Total increase/(decrease) 89 89 (176) (176) Interest rate risk -0.5% +1.0% Carrying amount Profit Equity Profit Equity 30 June 2019 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 2,772 (10) (10) 19 19 Financial liabilities Short term borrowings (27,174) 95 95 (190) (190) Total increase/(decrease) 85 85 (171) (171) 16 92 Appendices: Audited Financial Statements South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 2 Financial risk management (continued) (a) Market risk (continued) (ii) Electricity price risk exposures The Corporation has established a multi-faceted risk management framework incorporating an overarching Energy Price Risk Management Policy to manage its energy exposure in the wholesale National Electricity Market. The energy portfolio is managed to mitigate the associated financial risk through activities including demand management, electricity self-generation and financial market hedging. The Corporation monitors its energy consumption profile and uses permitted electricity derivatives, where the pre-determined risk limits are forecast to be exceeded, to manage its exposure to electricity spot prices on energy purchases. Sensitivity analysis is based on electricity price risk exposures in existence at balance date assuming all other variables are held constant. At 30 June 2019 and 30 June 2020 sensitivity analysis was not applicable as no electricity derivatives were held. (b) Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Corporation resulting from the failure of a customer or a counterparty to a financial instrument to meet its financial obligations as and when they fall due. Credit management policies and procedures are in place to ensure there is an appropriate level of due diligence in relation to credit history and financial integrity for financial transactions undertaken by SA Water. In addition, receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis and actions to recover outstanding debt are instigated in accordance with the Corporation’s collection policies and practices with the result that exposure to bad debts is not significant. Under the Water Industry Act 2012, water rates and charges are secured via a first charge on the property. The Corporation has no significant concentration of credit risk. All borrowings are directly undertaken by SAFA on behalf of the Corporation. The Corporation does not hold any credit derivatives to offset its credit exposure. Electricity derivatives are entered into on organised exchanges and with highly rated financial counterparties. (c) Liquidity risk The Corporation has in place a Treasury Risk Management Policy to provide a prudential framework for managing liquidity risk. The policy was reviewed in 2018 and approved by the Treasurer on 09 January 2019. SA Water is required to hold in cash or committed facilities appropriate capacity to meet immediate funding requirements and provide any unforeseen cash flow needs. Liquidity levels are reviewed on a daily basis. Contractual maturities The table below analyses the Corporation’s financial liabilities into the relevant groupings based on the remaining period at the reporting date to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed are the future contractual undiscounted cash flows. The contractual cash flows for fixed rate and floating rate borrowings include principal, interest, guarantee fees and SAFA margins. Maturing borrowings are included in the table at their maturity date and are refinanced at prevailing market interest rates. Fixed rate borrowings are interest only with no fixed repayment date for the principal component. Any principal component of fixed rate borrowings that has already been refinanced prior to the reporting date via forward starting loans (FSLs) is excluded from the relevant maturity grouping. The future cash flows relating to FSLs are separately disclosed in the table below as unrecognised fixed rate loan commitments. 17 93 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 2 Financial risk management (continued) (c) Liquidity risk (continued) Between Between Total Less than 1 and 2 2 and 5 Over 5 contractual 1 year years years years cash flows At 30 June 2020 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 . Non-derivatives Non-interest bearing liabilities* 89,722 89,722 Fixed rate borrowings 1,557,437 247,703 2,939,679 3,751,457 8,496,276 Floating rate borrowings 30,026 30,026 Lease liabilities 35,431 21,164 53,380 95,654 205,629 Total non-derivatives 1,712,616 268,867 2,993,059 3,847,111 8,821,653 Between Between Total Less than 1 and 2 2 and 5 Over 5 contractual 1 year years years years cash flows $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 At 30 June 2019 Non-derivatives Non-interest bearing liabilities* 132,239 132,239 Fixed rate borrowings 2,428,681 799,897 1,344,495 3,560,378 8,133,451 Floating rate borrowings 27,195 27,195 Unrecognised fixed rate loan commitments** 18,924 33,237 478,334 499,485 1,029,980 Finance lease liabilities*** 23,509 23,509 30,765 8,399 86,182 Total non-derivatives 2,630,548 856,643 1,853,594 4,068,262 9,409,047 * Non-interest bearing liabilities disclosed are financial liabilities at cost and exclude amounts relating to statutory payables such as tax equivalents and commonwealth tax. ** For 30 June 2019, the principal component relating to FSLs that was refinanced prior to reporting date has been excluded from the less than 1 year category, and included in the 2-5 years category and over 5 years category in which the FSLs will mature. ***For 2018/19 the lease liabilities reflect only leases recognised in accordance with AASB 117. 18 94 Appendices: Audited Financial Statements South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 2 Financial risk management (continued) (d) Fair value measurements The fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities is the price that would be received to sell the asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the balance date. (i) Fair value of financial liabilities The fair value for long term borrowings is estimated by discounting the anticipated future cash flows to their present value based on current market interest rates at the respective balance dates. A reliable estimate of the fair value for the BOOT finance leases cannot be determined due to the unique nature of the leasing arrangements. Refer notes 18(b) and 21. The carrying amounts and fair values of long term borrowings at balance date are: 2020 2019 Carrying Carrying amount Fair value amount Fair value $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 Long term borrowings (note 22) 6,937,000 7,573,307 6,635,000 7,159,424 The fair values of all other financial liabilities approximate the carrying values. 19 95 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 3 Critical accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires management to exercise judgement in the process of applying the Corporation's accounting policies. Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected. In particular, the areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the financial statements, are listed below: Contributed assets (refer note 4); Impact of COVID-19 (refer note 8); Renewable energy certificates (refer note 10); Asset valuation methodology and useful lives of assets (refer note 13); Impairment of assets (refer note 13); Provision for long service leave (refer note 24); and Provision for workers compensation (refer note 24). 20 96 Appendices: Audited Financial Statements South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 4 Revenue from ordinary activities 2020 2019 $'000 $'000 Revenue from contracts with customers Water and sewer rates and charges 1,245,913 1,246,762 Recoverable works 89,620 87,607 Fees and charges 46,648 45,953 Contributed assets 41,180 35,485 1,423,361 1,415,807 Other revenue Community service obligations 169,391 140,267 Government grants 9,331 9,313 Rents 2,489 3,049 Miscellaneous 501 97 Interest 34 75 Interest finance leases 98 181,844 152,801 Total 1,605,205 1,568,608 Water and sewer rates and charges SA Water sets its water and sewer prices in accordance with a pricing methodology that is guided by the principles outlined in the National Water Initiative and the South Australian Government’s statewide pricing policy. Statewide pricing means that most customers pay the same price regardless of where they live or the actual cost of providing the service. Prices are set in line with the revenue caps set by the Essential Services Commission of South Australia (ESCOSA). The water demand and sewerage customer growth inputs are consistent with ESCOSA’s regulatory determination. The revenue for water and sewer charges is comprised of the following: Water usage charge This is a volumetric charge based on the number of kilolitres of water that are used by the customer. This is charged to customers for costs associated with pumping, treatment and the filtration of water. The supply of water to the customer is deemed to be a distinct performance obligation under the contract with the customer. Revenue is recognised over time as water is received and consumed by the customer. The amount of revenue recognised is comprised of water usage billed for the period and an accrual for unbilled usage at 30 June. The underlying revenue recognition principle is to recognise revenue in the period it is consumed. The period ended 30 June calculation is based on state-wide water supplied, customer billing information, and an assessment and adjustment for non-revenue water (includes water produced and then lost or unaccounted for, such as evaporation, fire fighting and leaks). 21 97 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 4 Revenue from ordinary activities (continued) Water and sewer rates and charges (continued) Water access charge This is a fixed charge that is billed to customers whose properties have been provided with access to the water supply network (connected or unconnected). This is charged to customers for costs associated with building, maintaining and replacing water mains, pipes, reservoirs and other water infrastructure. Commercial customers are charged based on the capital value of their property subject to a minimum charge. Most other customers receive a fixed charge equivalent to the minimum charge. Commercial water charges are updated every year on the basis of the latest Valuer General property values. Sewerage access charge A performance obligation exists to enable customers to have access to SA Water's sewerage infrastructure. Revenue is recognised over time as customers require access to the sewerage services. All customers are billed quarterly with the last bill of the year being for the period ended 30 June. Revenue is recognised as the performance obligation is satisfied. It is at this point that customer bills are raised. Properties that have been provided with access to the sewerage network (connected or unconnected) pay this charge. This is a charge that is billed to the customer quarterly for the removal and treatment of sewage. Charges are associated with building, maintaining and replacing sewer pipes, sewerage pump stations, sewerage treatment plants and other sewerage infrastructure. A performance obligation exists to enable customers to have access to SA Water sewerage infrastructure. Revenue is recognised over time as customers require access to sewerage services. All customers are billed quarterly with the last bill of the year being for the period ended 30 June. Revenue is recognised as the performance obligation is satisfied. It is at this point that customer bills are raised. Sewerage charges are updated every year on the basis of the latest Valuer General property values. Community service obligations (CSOs) The Corporation is required under its charter to provide a number of non-commercial services to the community on behalf of the Government. The Government provides SA Water with funding to compensate for these non commercial activities. The main CSOs relate to under recovery of country water and sewerage services (due to the requirement for state wide pricing) and the provision of water and sewerage concessions to certain properties e.g. charities, churches, public schools and remote communities. During the 2019/20 financial year an agreement between the Commonwealth Government and the State of South Australia was formalised whereby SA Water would produce water from the Adelaide Desalination Plant. The equivalent unused River Murray water allocations would then be transferred from entitlements held by the State in the Murray Darling Basin to irrigators in the Southern Murray Darling Basin under the Water for Fodder program. The Commonwealth Government will fund the State to produce up to 100GL of water at the actual marginal cost of production from the Adelaide Desalination Plant. The project spans from the 2019/20 financial year when an initial 40GL of water was transferred, to 2020/21 if required when up to a further 60GL could be transferred. The CSO revenue is recognised as the services are provided. Contributed assets Contributed assets principally arise from: (i) Mains extensions contributions Customers or Developers who make a contribution where a service or connection has been requested that will require construction of a new main. 22 98 Appendices: Audited Financial Statements South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 4 Revenue from ordinary activities (continued) Contributed assets (continued) A performance obligation exists to construct infrastructure for customers based on the cash contributions that are received by SA Water. This performance obligation is satisfied over time and revenue recognised when the constructed assets are practically completed. When the customer initially makes the payment the amount received is recognised as a contract liability. (ii) Gifted assets: Developers who make contributions where water and sewer infrastructures are constructed by developers and transferred to SA Water. The contribution recognised is equivalent to the fair value of these assets that is estimated using the depreciated modern equivalent replacement cost. The performance obligation for assets that are constructed by developers and gifted to SA Water for nil value, is satisfied and contributed asset revenue recognised when the ownership of the constructed assets is transferred to SA Water. (iii) Miscellaneous capital contributions The Corporation constructs the infrastructure at the developer's request. The performance obligation is satisfied over time and revenue recognised at key milestones during the construction of the asset, and when the asset is practically complete. (iv) Augmentation cash contributions When an individual development forms part of a larger area where further development will occur, rather than only consider what upgrade work is required for the individual development, an augmentation charge can be established to fund the infrastructure required to serve the total area to be developed. An augmentation charge may also be applied where there are a number of existing properties not currently connected to a service offered by SA Water. The performance obligation is satisfied at a point in time when the customer has access to water and sewerage services. The administration fees associated with the processing of an application are treated as a separate distinct performance obligation. Revenue is recognised at a point in time when payment is received from the customer. Recoverable works SA Water is requested by local councils and other government departments to undertake capital works and make alterations to the water and sewerage network in accordance with contract specifications. The performance obligation for these contracts is satisfied over time as the work is undertaken. Revenue is recognised when the works are practically completed, and the customer is billed for costs incurred on the project. SA Water provides a comprehensive range of water and sewerage services including sampling, analysis, advice and research. The performance obligation for these contracts is satisfied at a point in time. Revenue is recognised as customers are billed, which is after testing has been undertaken and the results have been reported to the customer. 23 99 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 4 Revenue from ordinary activities (continued) Fees and charges This includes ancillary services that are associated with the provision of water and sewer services. These services include the connection of the customer to the water and sewerage network. A performance obligation exists for SA Water to connect customers to the water and sewerage network. As the service provided requires the construction of an asset, revenue is recognised over time as the constructed assets are practically completed. In accordance with the contract with the customer, payment must be received before works can be undertaken. When the customer initially makes the payment, the amount received is recognised as a contract liability. For other fees and charges the performance obligation is satisfied and revenue recognised at a point in time once the service has been provided by SA Water. A performance obligation also exists to provide customers access to dispose of hazardous waste through SA Water infrastructure. The amount charged is based on volume of waste that is disposed. Revenue recognition occurs as services are provided. Government grants In accordance with AASB 120 Accounting for Government Grants and Disclosure of Government Assistance, grants from the Government are recognised at their fair value when there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and the Corporation will comply with all attached conditions to the grant. Government grants relating to construction of infrastructure, plant and equipment are initially recognised as unearned revenue (current and non-current liability) and then transferred to income over the periods, and in the proportions, in which depreciation on those assets is charged. Disaggregation of revenue from contracts with customers In accordance with AASB 15, revenue has been disaggregated based on the provision of water and wastewater services to customers. 30 June 2020 Water Wastewater Total $'000 $'000 $'000 Revenue from contracts with customers Water and sewer rates and charges 885,144 360,769 1,245,913 Recoverable works 87,520 2,101 89,621 Fees and charges 24,122 22,525 46,647 Contributed assets 15,806 25,374 41,180 Total revenue from contracts with customers 1,012,592 410,769 1,423,361 30 June 2019 Water Wastewater Total $'000 $'000 $'000 Revenue from contracts with customers Water and sewer rates and charges 893,176 353,586 1,246,762 Recoverable works 86,320 1,287 87,607 Fees and charges 23,984 21,969 45,953 Contributed assets 19,513 15,972 35,485 Total revenue from contracts with customers 1,022,993 392,814 1,415,807 24 100 Appendices: Audited Financial Statements South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 5 Other income 2020 2019 $'000 $'000 Net gain on disposal of infrastructure, plant and equipment 166 190 Net gain on disposal of water allocations 491 13,109 Reversal of prior year infrastructure, plant and equipment revaluation decrement 79 553 Net gain from electricity derivatives at fair value through profit and loss 9 736 13,861 The gain or loss on disposal of non-current assets is recognised at the date that control of the asset passes to the buyer. The gain or loss on disposal is calculated as the difference between the carrying amount of the asset at the time of the disposal and net proceeds from the sale. Upon disposal or derecognition, any asset revaluation surplus relating to a particular asset being sold is transferred to retained earnings. 25 101 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 6 Expenses 2020 2019 Notes $'000 $'000 Depreciation and amortisation Infrastructure, plant and equipment 13 326,062 338,712 Intangible assets 12 19,940 21,882 Right-of-use assets 15 16,045 Total depreciation and amortisation 362,047 360,594 Services & supplies Consultancy costs 769 506 Net bad and doubtful debts 88 86 Net loss on disposal of renewable energy certificates 226 5,228 Write-off in value of infrastructure, plant, equipment and capital WIP 8,260 4,025 Operating minimum lease payments 16,383 Cost of goods sold 30,922 29,967 External fees and charges 41,322 39,232 Licences 19,439 17,672 Finance lease contingent rentals 5,531 Materials and chemicals 16,784 18,178 Other services and supplies 38,070 44,957 Short-term leases 308 Infrastructure, plant and equipment revaluation decrement 1,062 Total services & supplies 157,250 181,765 Borrowing costs Interest paid/payable on short term and long term borrowings 307,341 323,327 Interest expense on lease liabilities 10,282 6,439 Total borrowing costs 317,623 329,766 Employee benefits Salaries and wages 103,267 101,556 Long service leave 5,732 4,227 Annual leave 12,007 11,969 Workers compensation 634 735 Superannuation contribution 18,608 18,021 Total employee benefits 140,248 136,508 Consultancy costs Less than $10,000 (Number 2020: 1 ; 2019: 5) 7 14 Between $10,000 and $50,000 (Number 2020: 2 ; 2019: 10) 48 318 Greater than $50,000 (Number 2020: 6 ; 2019: 2) 714 174 769 506 26 102 Appendices: Audited Financial Statements South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 6 Expenses (continued) Superannuation The amount charged to the statement of comprehensive income represents the contributions made by the Corporation to the superannuation plan in respect of employment services of current staff. The contributions are made to the state government superannuation scheme and several non-state government superannuation schemes. With relation to the state government superannuation scheme, the Department of Treasury and Finance centrally recognises the superannuation liability in the whole of government financial statements. Depreciation Leased infrastructure, plant and equipment are depreciated over the term of the lease. For BOOT arrangements, as ownership of the underlying asset is transferred to the Corporation at the end of the lease term, depreciation is calculated over the useful life of the underlying asset. Owned infrastructure, plant and equipment and other assets are depreciated using the straight line method over their estimated useful lives ranging from 2 to 170 years. The useful lives of assets are reviewed annually and have been assessed as follows: Class of assets Useful life (years) Water and sewer 7 170 years Right-of-use infrastructure assets * 20 50 years Buildings 50 years Other 2 50 years Plant and equipment 3 15 years *Previously denoted as water and sewer leased assets The method of depreciation has regard to the underlying nature of the assets and their expected use in operations of the Corporation. Work in progress is not depreciated until assets are completed and have been commissioned for operation. Borrowing costs Borrowing costs include interest expense, government guarantee fees, South Australian Finance Authority (SAFA) margins and finance lease charges. In accordance with the Treasurer's Instructions (Accounting Policy Statements) and AASB 123 Borrowing Costs, borrowing costs attributable to the acquisition or construction of infrastructure, plant and equipment are capitalised after considering materiality. The Corporation has not capitalised borrowing costs in the year as the proportion related to the acquisition and construction of infrastructure was assessed as not material. The Corporation's Treasury Risk Management Policy and Energy Price Risk Management Policy provide a prudential framework for the management of the Corporation's financial risks including interest rate risk, foreign exchange price risk and commodity price (e.g. electricity) risk. Within the parameters of these policies, SA Water utilises derivative financial instruments for foreign exchange and commodity price risk to implement appropriate financial risk mitigation strategies. Interest rate risk arising from borrowings is managed in accordance with the debt management strategies outlined in note 2(a)(i). 27 103 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 6 Expenses (continued) Short term and low-value leases In accordance with AASB 16 Leases and Treasurer’s Instructions (Accounting Policy Statements) the Corporation must apply the recognition exemption for short-term leases and leases for which the underlying asset is of low value. The recognition exemption for short-term leases is applied by class of underlying asset to which the right-of-use relates. In accordance with AASB 16 a short-term lease is a lease that, at the commencement date, has a lease term of 12 months or less. The recognition exemption for leases for which the underlying asset is of low value can be made on a lease-by-lease basis. In accordance with AASB 16 the lease payments associated with these types of leases are recognised as an expense over the term of the lease. Operating leases recognised under AASB 117 In accordance with AASB 117 Leases minimum lease payments of operating leases, where the lessor effectively retains substantially all of the risks and benefits of ownership of the leased items, are recognised as an expense in the statement of comprehensive income. Equal payments are made over the accounting periods covered by the lease term, except where an alternative basis is more representative of the pattern of benefits to be derived from the leased property. Finance leases previously recognised under AASB 117 Leases for infrastructure assets, where substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the asset but not the legal ownership are assumed by the Corporation, are classified as finance leases (refer note 18,22). Finance leases are capitalised and depreciated over the useful life of the asset in accordance with AASB 117 Leases. The Corporation has previously entered into BOOT agreements for a number of infrastructure facilities. These BOOT agreements include the requirement for an ongoing availability tariff, as escalated over time by certain indices, for the term of the agreement. BOOT agreements have been classified as finance leases, with a lease asset and lease liability being recognised upon commissioning of the underlying asset. The lease asset is brought to account at the fair value of the underlying assets constructed. The equivalent liability is recognised at the present value of the future availability charges. These have been determined at the inception of the lease and do not take account of any future estimated escalation. Variation between the availability charges determined at the inception of the lease and the actual availability charges are brought to account as contingent rentals in accordance with AASB 117. Availability charges are allocated between interest expense and a reduction in the lease liability, with the interest expense calculated using the interest rate implicit in the lease and charged directly to the statement of comprehensive income. Leases recognised under AASB 16 For any new contracts entered into on or after 1 July 2019, the Corporation considers whether a contract is, or contains a lease in accordance with AASB 16 Leases. A lease is defined as ‘a contract, or part of a contract, that conveys the right to use an asset (the underlying asset) for a period of time in exchange for consideration’. To apply this definition the Corporation assesses whether the contract meets three key requirements which are whether: • The contract contains an identified asset, which is either explicitly identified in the contract or implicitly specified by being identified at the time the asset is made available to the Corporation. • The Corporation has the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from use of the identified asset throughout the period of use, considering its rights within the defined scope of the contract. • The Corporation has the right to direct the use of the identified asset throughout the period of use. This will arise where the Corporation has the right to direct ‘how and for what purpose’ the asset is used. 28 104 Appendices: Audited Financial Statements South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 6 Expenses (continued) Leases recognised under AASB 16 (continued) At lease commencement date, the Corporation recognises a right-of-use asset and a lease liability on the statement of financial position. The right-of-use asset is measured at cost, which is made up of the initial measurement of the lease liability and any initial direct costs incurred by the Corporation. When the Corporation incurs an obligation for costs to dismantle and remove a leased asset, restore the site on which it is located or restore the underlying asset to the condition required by the terms and conditions of the lease, a provision is recognised and measured under AASB 137 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets. The costs are included in the related right-of-use asset. The lease liability is measured at the present value of the lease payments unpaid at that date, discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease if that rate is readily available or the incremental borrowing rate. The lease payment is allocated between interest expense and a reduction in the lease liability, with the interest expense calculated using the incremental borrowing rate published by the Department of Treasury and Finance. The right-of-use asset is adjusted for remeasurement of lease liabilities and derecognition associated with the recognition of a finance lease for subleases. The right-of-use asset is also assessed for impairment when such indicators exist. 29 105 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 7 Income tax expense (a) Income tax expense 2020 2019 $'000 $'000 Current tax 106,294 97,042 Deferred tax (13,708) (17,406) Amounts under provided in prior years 1 1 92,587 79,637 Deferred income tax included in income tax expense comprises: (Increase)/decrease in deferred tax assets (note 11) 1,286 (620) (Decrease) in deferred tax liabilities (note 23) (14,994) (16,786) (13,708) (17,406) (b) Numerical reconciliation of income tax expense to prima facie tax payable 2020 2019 $'000 $'000 Profit from continuing operations before income tax expense 315,673 272,480 Tax at the Australian tax rate of 30.0% (2019: 30.0%) 94,702 81,744 Tax effect of amounts which are not deductible (taxable) in calculating taxable income: ADP intangible asset amortisation 510 510 Government grants (2,626) (2,618) 92,586 79,636 Amounts under provided in prior years 1 1 Income tax expense 92,587 79,637 (408,260) (352,117) (c) Income tax relating to items of other comprehensive income 2020 2019 $'000 $'000 (Loss)/gain on revaluation of infrastructure, plant and equipment (352,985) 32,156 Adjustment on initial adoption of AASB 16 (7,871) Leased infrastructure assets 5,359 Adjustment on initial adoption of AASB 9 (note 29(a) & 29(b)) (39) (355,497) 32,117 30 106 Appendices: Audited Financial Statements South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 8 Current assets Receivables 2020 2019 $'000 $'000 Receivables Rates receivable (water and sewer) 165,780 171,414 Sundry debtors* 31,725 42,968 Allowance for doubtful debts (193) (142) 197,312 214,240 Other receivables Finance lease receivable 914 Community service obligations 25,047 19,646 223,273 233,886 *Sundry debtors includes trade waste revenue, Australian Water Quality Centre revenue & other miscellaneous fees and charges. Receivables for rates and charges and sundry debtors are normally settled within 21 days. These are recognised in the accounts as amounts due. Collectability of receivables is reviewed on an ongoing basis. An allowance for doubtful debts is raised based on a review of outstanding amounts at balance date. (a) Impaired trade receivables The Corporation recognises an allowance for doubtful debts from the initial recognition of trade receivables using the simplified approach permitted by AASB 9. Under the simplified approach lifetime expected credit losses have been recognised using historical write-off experience. The impact of COVID-19 has been considered to determine if this approach remains reflective. There is insufficient evidence to support an increase to the allowance for doubtful debts solely related to COVID-19 and the simplified approach using historical write-off experience has been maintained. An allowance for doubtful debts has also been recognised based on an assessment of expected credit losses where a debtor has experienced a known credit event. Receivables are written off when there is no reasonable expectation of recovery. Indicators that there is no reasonable expectation of recovery include the failure of a debtor to enter into a payment plan with the Corporation, the Company has gone into liquidation, unable to recover the water and sewer charges from the sale of the customers property in accordance with the South Australian Water Corporation Act 1994. 31 107 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 8 Current assets Receivables (continued) (a) Impaired trade receivables (continued) Movements in the allowance for doubtful debts are as follows: 2020 2019 $'000 $'000 Opening balance at 1 July 142 163 Increase in the allowance 72 3 Amounts written off (36) (107) Amounts reversed 15 83 Closing balance at 30 June 193 142 SA Water has elected not to adopt a provision matrix methodology for measuring expected credit losses under AASB 9 due to the immateriality of exposure to credit risk. The information relating to the ageing analysis for rates and sundry receivables is shown below: 32 108 Appendices: Audited Financial Statements South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 8 Current assets Receivables (continued) (a) Impaired trade receivables (continued) 2020 2019 $'000 $'000 At 30 June the ageing of rates receivable is as follows: Not past due 118,270 126,677 Past due 22 60 days 18,539 19,736 Past due 61 90 days 5,619 6,212 Past due 91 120 days 4,046 877 Past due > 120 days 19,306 17,912 165,780 171,414 2020 2019 $'000 $'000 At 30 June the ageing of sundry debtors is as follows: Not past due 28,558 31,932 Past due 31 60 days 1,922 2,346 Past due 61 90 days 428 955 Past due 91 120 days 38 28 Past due > 120 days 779 7,707 31,725 42,968 Balances for other receivables relates to Community Service Obligations and do not contain impaired assets and are not past due. It is expected that these balances will be received when due. 33 109 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 8 Current assets Receivables (continued) (b) Finance lease receivable The following is a maturity analysis of the current and non-current finance lease receivable which is required under AASB 16 Leases: 2020 $'000 Undiscounted finance lease payments receivable Less than 1 year 991 Between 1 and 2 years 1,020 Between 2 and 5 years 1,772 Total undiscounted finance payments receivable 3,783 Less unearned finance income 164 Total finance lease receivables 3,619 The Corporation subleases one floor of its office building located in Adelaide CBD to the South Australian Tourism Commission. There are 4 years remaining on the term of the sublease, which aligns to the head lease. Consequently, the sublease is classified as a finance lease. The payment received for the sublease is allocated between a reduction in the lease receivable and interest received. None of the finance lease receivable at the end of the reporting period is past due and taking into consideration the historical default experience and current economic conditions it is considered not to be impaired. Operating leases The following table is a maturity analysis of lease payments, showing the undiscounted operating lease payments to be received after the reporting date. 2020 2019 $'000 $'000 Undiscounted operating lease payments Less than 1 year 385 Between 1 and 2 years 40 Total 425 (c) Fair value and credit risk Due to the short-term nature of the current receivables, their carrying amount is assumed to approximate their fair value. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the end of the reporting period is the carrying amount of each class of receivables mentioned above. Refer to note 2 for more information on the risk management policy of the Corporation and the credit quality of the Corporation's receivables. 34 110 Appendices: Audited Financial Statements South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 9 Current assets Inventories 2020 2019 $'000 $'000 Raw materials and stores 8,422 7,357 Allowance for obsolete stock (254) (186) Work in progress 760 1,327 8,928 8,498 Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The cost of goods and services, if any, manufactured by SA Water are on a full absorption cost basis. Inventories are held for purposes of maintenance and construction and not for resale. 10 Current assets Other current assets 2020 2019 $'000 $'000 Interest receivable 6 5 Prepayments 9,707 10,400 Renewable Energy Certificates* 1,454 1,501 Lease incentive asset 60 Australian carbon credits 289 795 11,456 12,761 *SA Water purchases Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs) as well as generate RECS, in order to meet Green House Gas (GHG) emission targets. Unused RECs accumulated as at 30 June are recorded at their fair value and expected to be utilised in satisfying the Corporation's GHG emission targets. 35 111 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 11 Non-current assets Deferred tax assets 2020 2019 Notes $'000 $'000 The balance comprises temporary differences attributable to: Doubtful debts 19 3 Obsolete stock 76 56 Infrastructure, plant and equipment 11,650 11,851 Pooled assets 47 58 Payables 1,547 1,439 Audit fee payable 153 136 Government grants 10,924 11,087 Employee benefits 14,270 13,634 Deferred lease incentives 173 173 Lease liability right-of-use asset (2,917) Unearned customer contributions (1,202) (1,000) Unearned income 709 89 Provision for asset disposal 972 455 Provision for workers compensation 467 193 36,888 38,174 Amounts recognised directly in equity Unearned customer contributions 2,335 2,335 Revaluation of Infrastructure, plant and equipment 29 (405) (417) Lease liability Initial adoption of AASB 16 36,236 Leased infrastructure assets (1,061) Lease make good provision 494 Deferred lease incentives (173) Doubtful debts Initial adoption of AASB 9 39 39 74,353 40,131 Recognition of leases AASB 16 Recognition of new leases 1,015 1,015 Total deferred tax assets 75,368 40,131 2020 2019 $'000 $'000 Movements: Opening balance at 1 July 40,131 40,169 Charged to the statement of comprehensive income (1,286) 620 Charged to equity (note 29(a) & 29(b)) 35,508 (658) Recognition of new leases AASB 16 1,015 Closing balance at 30 June 75,368 40,131 Deferred tax assets expected to be recovered within 12 months 11,500 7,360 Deferred tax assets expected to be recovered after more than 12 months 63,868 32,771 75,368 40,131 36 112 South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 12 Intangible assets Prescription Computer ADP Purchased Easements rights software intangible water rights Total $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 Year ended 30 June 2020 Opening net book amount 6,213 4,500 45,857 57,874 41,159 155,603 Additions 39,900 39,900 Amortisation charge (18,240) (1,700) (19,940) Closing net book amount 6,213 4,500 67,517 56,174 41,159 175,563 At 30 June 2020 Cost 6,213 4,500 264,883 70,982 41,159 387,737 Accumulated amortisation (197,366) (14,808) (212,174) Net book amount 6,213 4,500 67,517 56,174 41,159 175,563 Prescription Computer ADP Purchased Easements rights software intangible water rights Total $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 Year ended 30 June 2019 Opening net book amount 6,213 4,500 39,826 59,574 40,981 151,094 Additions 26,213 178 26,391 Amortisation charge (20,182) (1,700) (21,882) Closing net book amount 6,213 4,500 45,857 57,874 41,159 155,603 At 30 June 2019 37 Appendices: Audited Financial Statements 113 114 South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report 12 Intangible assets (continued) Prescription Computer ADP Purchased Easements rights software intangible water rights Total $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 Cost 6,213 4,500 224,983 70,982 41,159 347,837 Accumulated amortisation (179,126) (13,108) (192,234) Net book amount 6,213 4,500 45,857 57,874 41,159 155,603 38 Appendices: Audited Financial Statements South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 12 Intangible assets (continued) Issued water licences The South Australian Government has issued water licences to the Corporation under the relevant Water Allocation Plan for the water resource given effect by the Natural Resources Management (NRM) Act 2004 (SA). Some of these licences have conditions attached which restrict the use of the allocations endorsed thereon. All licences are held to underpin the water security of SA Water customers. These licenses are held by the Corporation in accordance with Department of Treasury & Finance (DTF) Accounting Policy Statement reference 138. The Corporation holds a River Murray licence to underpin the metropolitan Adelaide and associated country Areas, and a licence that supports our River Murray Country towns customers Rights other than those relating to the River Murray are: Various South East Region licences; Various Murray Mallee Area licences; Various Eyre Peninsula Region licences; McLaren Vale licence for the Aldinga Wastewater Treatment Plant; Northern Adelaide Plains licence for the Bolivar Wastewater Treatment Plant; Western Mount Lofty Ranges licences; and Far North region licences. Purchased water rights The Corporation owns a series of tradable water rights that it has purchased from the Southern Murray Darling Basin water trading markets. The rights are perpetual and title is held by the Corporation under the relevant legislation in the jurisdiction of issue (as water access entitlements onto licences issued by the South Australian Government under the NRM Act 2004 (SA), as water shares issued by the Victorian Government under the Water Act 1989 (VIC), and as unit shares issued by the New South Wales Government under the Water Management Act 2000 (NSW)). The allocations made to these water rights are held in South Australia or are able to be transferred into South Australia from within the Southern Murray Darling Basin, subject to statutory trading rules. In accordance with the requirements of Treasurer's Instructions (Accounting Policy Statements) covering valuation of intangible assets, the water rights are valued at cost. The water rights have an indefinite useful life and as such are not subject to amortisation. Easements In accordance with the Treasurer's Instructions (Accounting Policy Statements) and AASB 138 Intangible Assets, easements have been classified as an intangible asset and valued at cost. Easements gifted to the Corporation are not valued. Application software Application software is valued at cost as per AASB 138. The useful life is reviewed annually and has been assessed at 5 years. The software is amortised using the straight-line method. 39 115 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 12 Intangible assets (continued) ADP intangible asset An intangible asset exists in relation to the network connection agreement between SA Water and SA Power Networks. The agreement grants the Corporation the legal right to connect to the SA Power Networks substation constructed at Port Stanvac and thus acquire electricity for the Adelaide Desalination Plant (ADP) at the rates specified in the agreement. In accordance with AASB 138, this right was recognised in 2012/13 as an intangible asset and is measured at the construction cost of the SA Power Networks' substation. The useful life is based on the average useful life of the ADP assets belonging to SA Water upon which the intangible asset is dependent as per AASB 138. As with other non-current assets, the useful life of the intangible asset is assessed annually and is currently 41.75 years. The ADP intangible asset is amortised using the straight-line method. 40 116 South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 13 Non-current assets Infrastructure, plant and equipment Other System property, Work in Leased sewer Plant and infrastructure Leased water plant and progress Land infrastructure equipment assets* infrastructure equipment Total $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 Year ended 30 June 2020 Opening net book amount 653,741 385,806 16,633 20,647 12,962,138 73,608 99,596 14,212,169 Impact of adoption of AASB 16** (16,633) (73,608) (90,241) Revaluation increment/(decrement) 14,569 (1,178,397) (1,163,828) Additions*** 564,887 6,491 567,593 19,386 1,158,357 Transfers (608,267) (608,267) Depreciation charge (2,859) (302,706) (20,497) (326,062) Asset write-down (4,040) (4,220) (8,260) Disposals (418) (418) Closing net book amount 606,321 400,375 23,861 12,044,408 98,485 13,173,450 At 30 June 2020 Cost or fair value 606,321 400,375 57,597 20,943,706 358,966 22,366,965 Accumulated depreciation (33,736) (8,899,298) (260,481) (9,193,515) Net book amount 606,321 400,375 23,861 12,044,408 98,485 13,173,450 *Water and sewer infrastructure assets and buildings previously split out are referred to as system infrastructure assets. **Leased water and sewer infrastructure assets were previously recognised in accordance with AASB 117. Management have now adopted AASB 16 in line with the transitional requirements of the standard. On initial adoption of AASB 16 these leases were reclassified from infrastructure, plant and equipment to right-of-use assets. Refer to note 15. ***Additions include transfers to work in progress. 41 Appendices: Audited Financial Statements 117 118 South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report 13 Non-current assets Infrastructure, plant and equipment (continued) Other *System property, Work in Leased sewer Plant and Infrastructure Leased water plant and progress Land infrastructure equipment assets infrastructure equipment Total $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 Year ended 30 June 2019 Opening net book amount 399,748 375,508 22,699 20,537 12,888,711 74,892 106,614 13,888,709 Revaluation increment/(decrement) 10,298 (4,693) 105,935 2,303 3,547 117,390 Additions** 551,180 2,878 278,161 811 10,248 843,278 Depreciation charge (1,373) (2,609) (309,519) (4,398) (20,813) (338,712) Asset write-down (2,875) (1,150) (4,025) Disposals (159) (159) Transfers (294,312) (294,312) Closing net book amount 653,741 385,806 16,633 20,647 12,962,138 73,608 99,596 14,212,169 At 30 June 2019 Cost 653,741 653,741 Valuation 385,806 35,853 53,355 22,483,449 209,431 339,580 23,507,474 Accumulated depreciation (19,220) (32,708) (9,521,311) (135,823) (239,984) (9,949,046) Net book amount 653,741 385,806 16,633 20,647 12,962,138 73,608 99,596 14,212,169 * Water and sewer infrastructure assets and buildings previously split out are referred to as system infrastructure assets. ** Additions include transfers to work in progress. 42 Appendices: Audited Financial Statements South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 13 Non-current assets Infrastructure, plant and equipment (continued) Infrastructure, plant and equipment (a) Carrying amounts that would have been recognised If revalued assets were stated on the historical cost basis less accumulated depreciation, the amounts would be as follows: *System **Leased Other plant infrastructure sewer and and Land assets water equipment Total $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 At At Revalued assets based on cost model Cost 52,816 8,142,249 283,644 8,478,709 Accumulated depreciation (2,623,153) (196,484) (2,819,637) At 30 June 2020 net carrying amount 52,816 5,519,096 87,160 5,659,072 Revalued assets based on cost model Cost 52,816 7,615,411 142,975 264,257 8,075,459 Accumulated depreciation (2,472,628) (85,202) (178,765) (2,736,595) At 30 June 2019 net carrying amount 52,816 5,142,783 57,773 85,492 5,338,864 * Water and sewer infrastructure assets and buildings previously split out are referred to as system infrastructure assets. **Leased water and sewer infrastructure assets were previously recognised in accordance with AASB 117. Management have now adopted AASB 16 in line with the transitional requirements of the standard. On initial adoption of AASB 16 these leases were reclassified from infrastructure, plant and equipment to right-of-use assets. Refer to note 15. Acquisition Items of infrastructure, plant and equipment are initially recorded at cost in accordance with AASB 116 Property, Plant and Equipment, and are depreciated as outlined above in expenses (note 6). Assets acquired under BOOT agreements are brought to account when commissioned as right-of-use assets, ownership is transferred to SA Water once the lease expires. Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Corporation and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the statement of comprehensive income during the financial period in which they are incurred. Valuations The Corporation has adopted the revaluation method for measuring and reporting infrastructure assets in the statement of financial position in accordance with AASB 13 Fair Value Measurement and AASB 116 Property, Plant and Equipment. Refer note 14 for disclosures regarding fair value level hierarchy. In prior years, the Corporation used both independent valuation and Director’s valuation methods to measure fair value dependent upon asset class utilising the depreciable replacement cost method. Depending upon on the asset class, the Director's valuation was performed using the Producer Price Index (PPI) or current contract rates. The system infrastructure assets were re-valued on a cyclical basis at least every 5 years, and in the intervening periods they were indexed annually at 1 July using the appropriate PPI. 43 119 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 13 Non-current assets Infrastructure, plant and equipment (continued) Infrastructure, plant and equipment (continued) Valuations (continued) For 2019/20, SA Water has adopted the use of the income approach in accordance with Australian Accounting Standard AASB 13 Fair Value Measurement for valuation of the Corporation's system infrastructure assets. These were previously denoted as infrastructure assets (such as pipes, treatment plants, pumping stations and buildings). The independent valuation will no longer be required in future years as a result of the change to the income approach. The application of the income approach means the assets are valued using a discounted cash flow methodology at 30 June 2020, based on the discounted value of the future cash flows expected to be generated from the use of SA Water's assets under the environment in which the Corporation operates as a for profit entity. Future cashflows generated from the use of these assets are considered the primary factor that a market participant would consider when pricing these assets. With SA Water about to enter its third regulatory determination period beginning on 1st July 2020, the regulatory environment is now considered to be mature and stable. Therefore, SA Water considered it the appropriate time to adopt the income approach valuation methodology. Adopting the income approach also aligns SA Water with standard industry practice amongst comparable for-profit peers. Revaluations undertaken during each reporting period are effective from 30 June. Depreciation for the year is based on the carrying value of assets prior to revaluation. System infrastructure assets Includes all the Corporations network assets, its treatment plants for both water and sewerage, storage related assets and buildings and depots. These assets deliver water, sewerage and recycled water to and from the customer through its integrated network of assets. The income approach has been adopted by SA Water to determine fair value of its system infrastructure assets, as there is generally no active market for assets of such a specialised nature. As a for-profit entity, any expected transaction for the Corporation’s assets would be based on the income that the assets derive. The income approach calculates the future net cashflows from the whole of the integrated network of system infrastructure assets held by the Corporation, which are discounted to their present value. The network of system assets are assessed as an integrated network because of the interdependent nature of their operations. The Corporation aligns its approach to determining the future cash flows with the methodology applied by the Essential Services Commission of South Australia (ESCOSA). In addition to the cash flows for regulated assets under this approach, the Corporation’s fair value calculations also include estimated cash flows from non-regulated assets, which are not included in ESCOSA’s methodology. The fair value of system infrastructure assets is determined by calculating the total value of all SA Water assets that contribute to the generation of future cashflows and then deducting asset classes that have been valued using the market or cost approach. Land Land is independently valued using the market approach by the State Valuer General. The Valuer General uses site values of generically similar allotments to arrive at a unit rate used to assign a value to individual parcels. Rates depend on whether the site is residential, industrial or commercial. Land is valued separately from any structures or improvements residing on it. It is acquired and held principally for continued use. Land has an unlimited useful life and is not a depreciable asset. Plant and equipment Includes operating plant and machinery, vehicles and office equipment. Valued at cost which is deemed to be its fair value. 44 120 Appendices: Audited Financial Statements South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 13 Non-current assets Infrastructure, plant and equipment (continued) Infrastructure, plant and equipment (continued) Plant and equipment (continued) Costs associated with this class include construction cost or purchase price, installation costs and attributable labour. Other property, plant and equipment Includes computing equipment, leasehold improvements and assets that do not fall into the above categories. On initial recognition costs associated with this asset class include construction cost or purchase price, installation costs and attributable labour. These assets are subsequently revalued. Our methodology for measuring fair value is the cost approach within AASB 13 using the directors valuation to measure fair value. The Corporation assess whether the carrying value is materially consistent with fair value on an annual basis and appropriately update using indexation where required. Work in progress Includes all the Corporation’s capital projects that are currently under construction. Carried at cost which is deemed to be its fair value. Recognised at fair value based on the cost approach at 30 June 2020. Costs associated with this class include construction cost or purchase price, installation costs and attributable labour. 45 121 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 13 Non-current assets Infrastructure, plant and equipment (continued) Infrastructure, plant and equipment (continued) Fair value model A discounted cash flow model is used to determine fair value for all assets classes valued under the income approach. Determining fair value under this approach is highly dependent on the assumptions and inputs used to estimate the future cashflows. The significant judgement and estimate of assumptions and inputs used in the Corporation's fair value model (primarily level 3 inputs) are below: Impact on fair value Input measurement For 30 June 2020 Nominal post-tax Weighted Asset value would increase as the Average Cost of Capital (WACC) Discount rate discount rate decreases. of 4.45%. Asset value would increase as the Perpetual growth rate perpetual growth rate increases. 2.50% 2020/21 is based on annual CPI ending March 2020, reflecting the actual revenue increase. 2021/22 Asset value would increase as CPI onwards utilises a glide path to a CPI rate increases. long term rate of 2.50% Asset value would increase as 5 years (with an estimate of Period of discounting period of discounting increases. terminal value). Cash inflows: Estimates of future revenues were based the SA Water Regulatory Determination 2020 and expected Asset value would increase if revenue over succeeding Service and usage revenue future revenue increases. regulatory periods. Non-regulated revenue is based Asset value would increase if on forward estimates. Investment Other non-regulated revenue non-regulated revenue increases. and interest income is excluded. Cash outflows: Operating expenditure is based on the SA Water Regulatory Asset value would increase as Determination 2020 and estimates Operating expenditure operating expenditure decreases of non-regulated expenditure. Capital expenditure based on the SA Water Regulatory Determination 2020 and estimates Asset value would increase as of non-regulated Capital Capital expenditure capital expenditure decreases. expenditure. 46 122 Appendices: Audited Financial Statements South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 13 Non-current assets Infrastructure, plant and equipment (continued) Infrastructure, plant and equipment (continued) Fair value model (continued) Sensitivity analysis (i) Discount rate Rate applied % If higher +0.1% If lower -0.1% Nominal post-tax rate 4.45% 4.55% 4.35% Calculated fair value of infrastructure, plant and equipment (‘$000) $13,173,450 $12,486,450 $13,967,450 Resulting change (‘$000) ($687,000) $794,000 (ii) Perpetual nominal growth rate Rate applied % If higher +0.1% If lower -0.1% Nominal Post tax rate 2.50% 2.60% 2.40% Calculated fair value of infrastructure. plant and equipment (‘$000) $13,173,450 $13,895,450 $12,521,450 Resulting change (‘$000) $722,000 ($652,000) (iii) Sustainable Capital Expenditure Value applied $ If higher $10.0m If lower $10.0m Nominal post-tax value $384.4m $394.4m $374.4m Calculated fair value of infrastructure, plant and equipment (‘$000) $13,173,450 $12,535,450 $13,811,450 Resulting change (‘$000) ($638,000) $638,000 The sensitivity analysis is being carried out on those variables which have the greatest influence over the discounted cashflow. Impairment of assets AASB 136 Impairment of Assets requires for-profit entities, at each reporting date, to undertake an assessment for impairment indicators for its non-current assets including infrastructure, plant and equipment. Where there is an indication of impairment, an impairment test is undertaken for a cash-generating unit and the recoverable amount is estimated. SA Water has a single cash-generating unit at a whole of entity level. Recoverable amount is determined as the higher of fair value less cost of disposal and value-in-use. An amount by which the asset's carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount is recorded as an impairment loss. For revalued assets, any impairment loss is offset against the relevant asset revaluation surplus until fully extinguished with any remaining amount expensed in the statement of comprehensive income. SA Water, in accordance with AASB 136, has sound impairment monitoring processes where management assess whether there are any “impairment Indicators” being present from external and internal sources prior to each reporting date. External and internal sources include but are not limited to market conditions, technology changes or asset obsolescence. In June 2020, the outcome of the South Australian Inquiry into water prices and the SA Water Regulatory Determination 2020 were released. The impacts resulting from the pricing inquiry outcome and regulatory determination are incorporated within the fair value measurement as at 30 June 2020, with the carrying value based on fair value adjusted accordingly. As these factors were taken into consideration at 30 June 2020 as part of the asset revaluation no further impact of these outcomes are required to be accounted for under AASB 136. 47 123 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 14 Fair value measurements The Corporation measures and recognises the following financial and non-financial assets at fair value on a recurring basis: • Land (note 13); • Leased water and sewer infrastructure (note 13); • System infrastructure assets (note 13); • Plant and equipment (note 13); • Other property, plant and equipment (note 13). (a) Fair value measurements AASB 13 Fair Value Measurement requires disclosure of fair value measurements by level of the following fair value measurement hierarchy (consistent with the hierarchy applied to financial assets and financial liabilities): (a) quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1); (b) inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly (level 2); and (c) inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs) (level 3). The following table presents the Corporation’s non-financial assets measured and recognised at fair value at 30 June 2020. (i) Recognised fair value measurements 2020 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 30 June 2020 Notes $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 Recurring fair value measurements NonFinancial Assets 13 Land 400,375 400,375 System infrastructure assets 12,044,408 12,044,408 Plant and equipment and other 122,343 122,343 Total non-financial assets 12,567,126 400,375 12,166,751 Total recurring financial and non-financial assets 12,567,126 400,375 12,166,751 48 124 Appendices: Audited Financial Statements South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 14 Fair value measurements (continued) (a) Fair value measurements (continued) (i) Recognised fair value measurements (continued) 2019 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 30 June 2019 Notes $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 Recurring fair value measurement Non-financial assets 13 Land 385,806 385,806 System infrastructure assets 13,052,379 13,052,379 Plant and equipment and other 120,244 120,244 Total non-financial assets 13,558,429 385,806 13,172,623 Total recurring financial and non-financial assets 13,558,429 385,806 13,172,623 There were no transfers between levels for recurring fair value measurements during the period. The Corporation’s policy is to recognise transfers into and transfers out of fair value hierarchy levels as at the end of the reporting period. (ii) Disclosed fair values The Corporation has a number of assets and liabilities which are not measured at fair value, but for which fair values are disclosed in the notes. The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, payables and other current liabilities are assumed to approximate their fair values due to their short-term nature. SA Water does not hold any non-current receivables. The fair value of financial instruments that make up the long term borrowings disclosed in note 2(d)(i) have been deemed to be level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. The valuation is based on SAFA bond rates (market observable) which reflects the cost of funds. The carrying amount of short term borrowings approximates its fair value, as the impact of discounting is not significant. (b) Valuation techniques used to derive level 3 fair values (i) Recurring fair value measurements The valuation techniques used to derive level 3 fair values are described in note 13. There has been a change in the valuation technique in this reporting period from depreciable replacement cost to the income approach. Unobservable inputs have been utilised for both methods in determining the fair value and are subjective. Accordingly, disclosures in note 13 between reporting periods also reflect the differences in these two approaches. The amounts shown as comparatives for fair value in note 14 are disclosed according to the fair value definitions that apply or applied in each relevant reporting period. When categories of assets are revalued based on the income approach, any existing accumulated depreciation or amortisation is eliminated against the gross carrying amount of the asset and the net amount is restated to the revalued amount of the asset. 49 125 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 14 Fair value measurements (continued) (b) Valuation techniques used to derive level 3 fair values (continued) (ii) Non-recurring fair value measurements SA Water has no non-recurring fair value measurements. (iii) Valuation inputs and relationships to fair value Refer to note 13 for information relating to unobservable inputs and valuation processes. (c) Fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs (level 3) The recurring fair value measurements for those asset classes using significant unobservable inputs (level 3) is disclosed under note 13. Water and sewer infrastructure and buildings have been separately disclosed in previous financial years, however have now been amalgamated into system infrastructure assets. 50 126 Appendices: Audited Financial Statements South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 15 Non-current assets Right-of-use asset Plant and Infrastructure Land Buildings equipment assets Total $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 Opening balance at 1 July 2019 587 84,854 6,056 90,241 181,738 Additions 3,383 3,383 Lease liability remeasurement 17,863 17,863 Depreciation (20) (6,710) (3,478) (5,837) (16,045) Disposals (73) (73) Closing net book amount at 30 June 2020 567 78,144 5,888 102,267 186,866 The Corporation has entered into a number of leases: A Memorandum of Lease has been entered into with Adelaide Airport Limited for the use of land for the purpose of storm water capture, management and treatment. The term of the lease is 29 years with monthly rental payments which are increased annually by the higher of 4% and CPI. A Memorandum of Administrative Arrangement has been entered into with the Department of Planning Transport and Infrastructure for the lease of its office accommodation in Adelaide CBD and at Berri. The initial recognition of the right-of-use asset has been calculated in accordance with the transitional requirements of AASB 16. The carrying amount of the right-of use asset for the office in the CBD has been calculated at the commencement date of the lease, but discounted using the incremental borrowing rate at 1 July 2019. While the right-of-use asset for the office accommodation at Berri has been calculated as the amount equal to the remaining lease liability at 1 July 2019. The lease is paid monthly and increased annually by a fixed amount of 3%. SA Water has motor vehicle leases with the South Australian Government Financing Authority (SAFA). Motor vehicle leases are non-cancellable, with rental payments paid monthly in arrears. Motor vehicle lease terms can range from 1 year up to 5 years and up to 10 years by exception on approval. The lease term can also range in duration from 60,000km up to 100,000km and 200,000km by exception. No contingent rental provisions exist within the lease agreements and no options exist to renew the leases at the end of their term. At the date of initial application of AASB 16 Leases, where the Corporation was not reasonably certain of exercising any lease extension options, the additional term/s have not been included in the measurement of the right-of-use asset and remaining lease liability. BOOT agreements were classified as finance leases under AASB 117 Leases, with a lease asset and lease liability being recognised upon commissioning of the underlying asset. At inception of the lease the assets were brought to account at the fair value of the underlying assets constructed and recognised as leased water and sewer infrastructure assets. The equivalent liability is recognised at the present value of the future availability charges. The impact of any estimated future escalation was not included. In accordance with the transitional provisions of AASB 16, the Corporation is able to recognise the fair value of BOOT leased infrastructure assets recognised at 30 June 2019 as the carrying value of the right-of-use asset at 1 July 2019. After initial recognition the Corporation is required to adopt the application of AASB 16 to measure the remaining lease liability, which includes the impact of any future escalation. This has resulted in an increase in the lease liability of $17.9m and a corresponding increase in the carrying value of the right-of-use asset at 30 June 2020 (refer note 22). 51 127 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 16 Other non-current assets 2020 2019 $'000 $'000 Prepayments 3,615 Lease incentive asset 221 3,615 221 17 Current liabilities Payables 2020 2019 $'000 $'000 Interest payable 60,793 80,809 Trade creditors 91,984 131,983 Other creditors 14,612 12,688 167,389 225,480 Liabilities, whether or not yet billed to the Corporation, are recognised as amounts to be paid in the future for goods and services received, including any related GST. Trade accounts payable are normally settled within 30 days. 18 Current liabilities Financial liabilities/borrowings 2020 2019 $'000 $'000 Lease liabilities 27,312 12,470 Short term borrowings 29,974 27,175 57,286 39,645 The Corporation has a $150m short term borrowing facility with SAFA, bearing interest at SAFA's daily cash rate. (a) Risk exposures Information regarding interest rate risk and liquidity risk exposure is set out in note 2. (b) Fair value disclosures Information about the security relating to each of the secured liabilities and the fair value of each of the borrowings is provided in note 2. Due to the short term nature of these interest bearing liabilities, their carrying value is assumed to approximate their fair value. Refer to note 2. 52 128 Appendices: Audited Financial Statements South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 19 Current liabilities Tax liabilities 2020 2019 $'000 $'000 Provision for current income tax movements during the year were as follows: Opening balance at 1 July 6,785 10,167 Income tax paid (102,636) (100,425) Current year's income tax provision 106,294 97,042 Amounts under provided in prior years 1 1 10,444 6,785 53 129 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 20 Current liabilities Provisions 2020 2019 $'000 $'000 Employee benefits 17,377 15,814 Asset disposal 1,340 60 Damages and claims 401 404 Workers compensation 1,946 1,092 21,064 17,370 (a) Movements in provisions Movements in each class of provision during the financial year, other than employee benefits, are set out below: Asset Damages and Workers 2020 disposal claims compensation Total Current $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 Opening balance at 1 July 60 404 1,092 1,556 Provisions recognised 1,138 2,199 3,337 Re-measurement adjustments 26 (711) (685) Payments made during year (46) (1,141) (634) (1,821) Transfer from non-current provisions 1,300 1,300 Closing balance at 30 June 1,340 401 1,946 3,687 Provisions are recognised when the Corporation has a present obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. Employee benefits This includes liabilities for annual and long service leave. The annual leave and long service leave liability is expected to be payable within twelve months and is measured at the undiscounted amount expected to be paid when the liability is settled. Asset disposal A provision for the disposal and abandonment of assets is recognised when there is a present obligation to undertake further work to decommission surplus assets and ensure they are safe to the public and do not cause harm to the environment. The estimated costs of site rehabilitation and decommissioning non-current assets are based on past experience and current market prices. Damages and claims A provision is recognised for claims against the Corporation relating to property damage, personal injury and civil liability. 54 130 Appendices: Audited Financial Statements South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 20 Current liabilities Provisions (continued) Damages and claims (continued) The amounts measured and recorded for claims are based on estimates of specified claims and the probability that the Corporation will be required to settle the obligation. Previous claims history and the Crown Solicitor's Office advice is used in the determination of the liability. SA Water is insured under the South Australian Government’s insurance and risk management arrangements with SAICORP. Under this agreement between SAICORP and SA Water, SAICORP will meet the cost of any civil liability claim made against SA Water subject to SA Water's selected deductible. In addition, insurance arrangements are in place for construction works, travel insurance, and director and officer liabilities. Workers compensation The corporation is registered with ReturnToWorkSA as a government self-insurer and is responsible for the management and liability of all workers' compensation claims. The provision is for the estimated cost of ongoing payments to employees as required under current legislation. The Corporation's provision is an actuarial estimate of the outstanding liability as at 30 June 2020 provided by KPMG Actuarial Pty Ltd. SA Water is committed to early intervention and supportive of early return to work programs for our people. 21 Current liabilities Other current liabilities 2020 2019 $'000 $'000 Government grants 9,566 9,566 Lease incentives 133 Unearned income* 2,070 88 Deposits from customers 1,281 1,403 Contract liabilities 3,777 4,450 16,694 15,640 * Includes $1.8m for Adelaide Desalination Plant CSO funding received in advance under the Water for Fodder program. 22 Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities/borrowings 2020 2019 $'000 $'000 Lease liabilities 136,955 36,551 Long term borrowings 6,937,000 6,635,000 7,073,955 6,671,551 The Corporation has a long term and short term borrowing facility with the South Australian Government Financing Authority (SAFA). The loans are denominated in Australian dollars and carry both fixed and floating interest rates. The Government provides a guarantee in respect of these borrowings pursuant to the provisions of the Public Finance and Audit Act 1987. 55 131 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 22 Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities/borrowings (continued) SA Water’s debt portfolio is managed in line with the requirements outlined in the Treasury Risk Management Policy. The policy is approved by the State Treasurer and the SA Water Board. SA Water’s Treasury Risk Management Committee (TRMC) is responsible for the management of the debt portfolio within the requirements of this policy. Under a Client Service Agreement between SAFA and SA Water, SAFA is a member of this Committee and executes debt transactions on behalf of SA Water. 56 132 Appendices: Audited Financial Statements South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 22 Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities/borrowings (continued) The movements in the lease liability (current and non-current) relating to the right-of-use asset are set out below: Plant and Infrastructure Land Buildings equipment assets Total $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 Opening balance at 1 July 2019 585 114,143 6,056 49,021 169,805 Interest expense 21 3,727 148 6,386 10,282 Additions 3,383 3,383 Remeasurement 17,863 17,863 Write off on disposal (79) (79) Lease payments (18) (9,944) (3,577) (23,448) (36,987) Closing net book amount at 30 June 2020 588 107,926 5,931 49,822 164,267 The lease payments included in the measurement of the lease liability comprise fixed payments (including in-substance fixed payments) and variable lease payments that depend on an index or rate less any lease incentives. 57 133 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 23 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 2020 2019 $'000 $'000 The balance comprises temporary differences attributable to: Blank row Prepayments 1,872 1,867 Lease incentive asset 84 84 Infrastructure, plant and equipment (65,275) (54,389) Right-of-use asset (3,876) Finance lease receivable (235) (67,430) (52,438) Amounts recognised directly in equity Revaluation of infrastructure, plant and equipment 1,376,706 1,729,679 Right-of-use asset initial adoption of AASB 16 27,449 Finance lease receivable initial adoption of AASB 16 1,321 Leased infrastructure assets 4,298 Lease incentive asset (84) 1,409,690 1,729,679 Recognition of leases AASB 16 Recognition of new leases 1,015 1,015 Total deferred tax liabilities 1,343,275 1,677,241 2020 2019 $'000 $'000 Movements: Opening balance 1,677,241 1,662,569 Credited to the Statement of Comprehensive Income (note 7) (14,994) (16,787) Charged to equity (note 29(a) & 29(b)) (319,987) 31,459 Recognition of new leases AASB 16 1,015 Closing balance at 30 June 1,343,275 1,677,241 Deferred tax liabilities to be settled within 12 months 2,146 1,885 Deferred tax liabilities expected to be settled after more than 12 months 1,341,129 1,675,356 1,343,275 1,677,241 58 134 Appendices: Audited Financial Statements South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 24 Non-current liabilities Provisions 2020 2019 $'000 $'000 Employee benefits 30,191 29,632 Workers compensation 2,907 2,869 Asset disposal 1,900 1,459 Lease make good 1,646 36,644 33,960 (a) Movements in provisions Movements in each class of provision during the financial year, other than employee benefits, are set out below: Workers Asset Lease make 2020 compensation disposal good Total Non-current $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 Opening balance at 1 July 2,869 1,459 1,647 5,975 Transfer to current provisions (1,300) (1,300) Re-measurement adjustments 38 1,741 1,779 Closing balance at 30 June 2,907 1,900 1,647 6,454 Employee benefits Liabilities that are not expected to be settled within 12 months are measured as the present value of expected future payments to be made in respect of services provided by employees up to the reporting date. Consideration is given to anticipated future wage and salary levels, experience of employee departures and periods of service. Expected future payments are discounted using interest rates on negotiable government guaranteed securities with terms of maturity that match, as closely as possible, the estimated future cash flows. The related on costs have been recognised in the statement of financial position as payables. The Corporation's long service leave liability for 30 June 2020 was valued by KPMG Actuarial Pty Ltd. Lease make good The opening balance of the lease make good provision stems from recognising leases in accordance now with AASB 16. It is the expected cost of returning the properties to their original condition. 25 Non-current liabilities Other non-current liabilities 2020 2019 $'000 $'000 Government grants 342,323 351,619 Lease incentives 443 342,323 352,062 59 135 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 26 Reconciliation of cash 2020 2019 $'000 $'000 Cash and cash equivalents as at the end of the financial year as shown in the statement of cash flows is reconciled to the items in the statement of financial position as follows: Blank row Cash and cash equivalents 4,844 2,772 Cash on hand and at bank is stated at nominal value. For the purposes of the statement of cash flows, cash includes cash on hand and at bank. (a) Fair Value Due to the short term nature of cash and cash equivalents, their carrying value is assumed to approximate their fair value. 60 136 Appendices: Audited Financial Statements South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 27 Reconciliation of profit after income tax to net cash inflow from operating activities 2020 2019 $'000 $'000 Net profit for the year 223,086 192,843 Add/(less) non-cash items: Depreciation and amortisation 362,047 360,594 Amortisation of government grant revenue (9,331) (9,313) Contributed assets (32,483) (24,174) Net (gain) on disposal of infrastructure, plant and equipment (166) (190) Net (gain) on disposal of temporary water allocations (501) (13,248) Infrastructure, plant and equipment revaluation decrement reversal (79) (553) Infrastructure, plant and equipment revaluation decrement 1,062 Write-off in value of infrastructure, plant and equipment and capital WIP 8,260 4,025 Net loss on disposal of renewable energy certificates 217 5,228 Change in assets and liabilities: Decrease/(increase) in receivables 12,336 (30,880) (Increase) in prepayments (2,931) (1,286) (Increase)/decrease in inventories (430) 620 (Increase) in other operating assets (2,125) (4,051) Decrease in derivative financial assets 21 Decrease/(increase) in deferred tax assets 1,286 (620) (Decrease) in trade creditors (13,744) (3,814) Increase provision for employee benefits 2,122 2,634 Increase in provision for workers compensation 892 337 (Decrease)/increase in other operating liabilities (21,505) 16,005 Increase in government grants 35 42 Increase in other provisions 1,718 1,864 (Decrease) in deferred tax liabilities (14,994) (16,786) Increase/(decrease) in income tax payable 3,659 (3,381) Net cash inflow from operating activities 518,431 475,917 61 137 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 28 Capital risk management Capital is managed within the parameters outlined in the Financial Ownership Framework for SA Water, which encompasses the Corporation’s relationship with its owner in respect of capital structure, community service obligations and dividends. When managing capital, management's objective is to ensure the Corporation continues as a going concern as well as maintaining optimal returns to the State Government (as sole shareholder). The gearing ratios based on continuing operations at 30 June 2020 and 30 June 2019 were as follows: 2020 2019 $'000 $'000 Interest bearing borrowings (note 18, 22) 7,131,241 6,711,196 Less: cash and cash equivalents (note 26) (4,844) (2,772) Net debt 7,126,397 6,708,424 Total assets 13,866,068 14,666,041 Gearing ratio 51.4% 45.8% SA Water is required by the SA Government to adjust its borrowings each year prior to 30 June, to maintain a debt/asset gearing ratio of at least 45%. This commenced from the year ended 30 June 2017, and requires SA Water to make an additional return to the State Government, transacted as a specified dividend, as directed by the Treasurer, of an amount equivalent to the required incremental increase in borrowings. The gearing ratio has been impacted by the decrement of the asset revaluation surplus, which is why the gearing ratio exceeds the debt/asset target ratio of at least 45%. 62 138 Appendices: Audited Financial Statements South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 29 Asset revaluation surplus and retained earnings (a) Asset revaluation surplus 2020 2019 $'000 $'000 Revaluation surplus infrastructure, plant and equipment 4,299,115 5,111,844 4,299,115 5,111,844 Movements: Infrastructure, plant and equipment revaluation surplus Opening balance at 1 July 5,111,844 5,049,757 Revaluation of infrastructure, plant and equipment* (1,162,845) 116,837 Movements in deferred tax liability (note 23) 352,973 (31,459) Transfer to retained profits on disposal (2,869) (22,594) Movements in deferred tax assets (note 11) 12 (697) Closing balance at 30 June 4,299,115 5,111,844 *The 2018/19 revaluation increase (approximately 0.8%) is primarily attributable to the revaluation increment of pipe assets, wastewater treatment plants, desalination plant and water filtration plants. *The 2019/20 revaluation decrease (approximately 8%) is attributable to the revaluation of system infrastructure assets that includes SA Water's network assets, treatment plants for both water and wastewater, storage related assets and buildings and depots. (b) Retained earnings Movements in retained earnings were as follows: Opening balance at 1 July 307,734 271,749 Profit for the year 223,086 192,843 Dividends (note 33) (228,087) (179,360) Transfers from asset revaluation surplus 2,869 22,594 Adjustment on initial adoption of AASB 9 (131) Adjustment on initial adoption of AASB 16 (26,165) Movement in deferred tax asset (note 11) 36,557 39 Movement in deferred tax liability (note 23) (28,686) Leased infrastructure assets (note 11 & 23) (5,359) Closing balance at 30 June 281,949 307,734 (c) Nature and purpose of other asset revaluation surplus (i) Infrastructure plant and equipment revaluation surplus The infrastructure, plant and equipment revaluation surplus is the cumulative balance of asset revaluation increments and decrements. 63 139 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 30 Commitments and contingencies (a) Capital commitments Capital expenditure contracted for at the balance date but not recognised as liabilities in the financial statements, are committed as follows: 2020 2019 $'000 $'000 Within one year 158,135 334,021 Later than one year but not later than five years 61,067 5,207 219,202 339,228 The capital commitments relate to the Corporation's capital program in delivering water and sewer infrastructure, property, plant & equipment assets. (b) Operating lease commitments 2020 2019 $'000 $'000 Commitments for minimum lease payments in relation to non-cancellable operating leases are committed as follows: Within one year 16,200 Later than one year but not later than five years 50,170 Later than five years 976 67,346 Operating lease commitments is provided for comparative purposes only. The rentals for property leases are non-cancellable, payable monthly and reviewed annually. The annual increases are based on 3%. The Corporation has an operating lease commitment for accommodation effective from 2008-09 which expires after 15 years, and includes a right of renewal and a market rent review in year 10. The operating lease commitment for motor vehicles is non-cancellable, rentals are paid monthly in arrears and no contingent rental provisions exist within the agreement. (c) Other expenditure commitments 2020 2019 $'000 $'000 Future other expenditure commitments not provided for in the financial statements are committed as follows: Within one year 170,111 199,896 Later than one year but not later than five years 103,886 239,891 Later than five years 207,416 235,248 481,413 675,035 Other expenditure commitments include commitments pursuant to contracts to: • Operate, manage and maintain the Adelaide metropolitan water and sewer networks and treatment plants. • Operate, maintain and provide energy for the Adelaide Desalination Project. • Other expenditure commitments reported are based on minimum contracted amounts payable at balance date and include an estimate for escalation of charges. 64 140 Appendices: Audited Financial Statements South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 30 Commitments and contingencies (continued) (c) Other expenditure commitments (continued) (d) Finance leases 2020 2019 $'000 $'000 Commitments in relation to finance leases are payable as follows: Within one year 17,584 Later than one year but not later than five years 39,988 Later than five years 6,067 Minimum lease payments 63,639 Future finance charges (14,618) Recognised as a liability 49,021 Representing lease liabilities: Current (note 18) 12,470 Non-current (note 22) 36,551 49,021 The present value of finance lease liabilities is as follows: Within one year 12,470 Later than one year but not later than five years 30,934 Later than five years 5,617 Minimum lease payments 49,021 Finance lease commitments is provided for comparative purposes only. Future finance lease payments are amounts contracted with private sector providers to construct, own and operate water and sewer treatment facilities. (e) Contingent rentals The above finance leases comprise a base amount plus an incremental contingent rental. Contingent rentals are based on the consumer price and related indexes. Commitments in relation to contingent rentals are payable as follows: 2020 2019 $'000 $'000 Within one year 5,925 Later than one year but not later than five years 14,286 Later than five years 2,332 22,543 Contingent rentals commitments is provided for comparative purposes only. (f) Other contingencies At balance date there were no other known contingent assets or liabilities. 65 141 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 31 Joint Operation Jointly controlled operations The Corporation holds an interest of 50% in the output of the Jointly controlled operation named SA Water/Lofty Ranges Power Jointly controlled operation whose principal activity is the generation of electricity from the use of water energy stored in and by the Corporation's infrastructure at Hope Valley. The Corporation's jointly controlled operation is brought to account by including its proportionate share of the operation's assets, liabilities, expenses and revenues on a line by line basis. Included in the assets and liabilities of the Corporation are the following items which represent the Corporation's interest in the assets and liabilities employed in the Jointly controlled operation, recorded under the following classifications: 2020 2019 $'000 $'000 Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 58 48 Receivables 31 4 Total current assets 89 52 Non-current assets Infrastructure, plant and equipment 1,445 1,507 Total assets 1,534 1,559 Current liabilities Payables 65 42 Total liabilities 65 42 Net assets 1,469 1,517 66 142 Appendices: Audited Financial Statements South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 32 Remuneration of auditors 2020 2019 $'000 $'000 Audit fees paid/payable: SA Water annual Public Finance and Audit Act audit 497 441 SA Water regulatory financial statements audit* 11 11 508 452 * Pursuant to Water Industry Guideline Number 2 and confirmation from ESCOSA, a full Audit Opinion Certificate on the Corporation’s special purpose (regulatory) financial statements is not required. An ‘Agreed Upon Procedures Report’ has been determined to be the appropriate audit assurance to SA Water's Board and Management. 33 Dividends 2020 2019 $'000 $'000 Dividend paid 228,087 179,360 228,087 179,360 Dividends paid and payable are recognised in the reporting period in which the dividends are declared or have been specifically determined and approved in consultation with the Treasurer and the Corporation's Minister. Dividend paid to the South Australian (SA) Government has been in accordance with the Financial Ownership Framework where the dividend paid is based on the recommendation of the Board and approved by the Treasurer pursuant to section 30 of the Public Corporations Act 1993. SA Water is required by the SA Government to adjust its borrowings each year prior to 30 June, to maintain a debt/asset gearing ratio of a minimum of 45%. This is transacted as a specified dividend. There was no specified dividend to be paid for the year ended 30 June 2019 and the year ended 30 June 2020, in recognition that SA Water 's debt/asset gearing ratio was maintained above the predetermined gearing target of 45% (refer to note 28). As part of the 2019/20 State budget process, SA Water’s payout ratio for dividend was increased from 95% to 100% in line with a State Government initiative to increase payout ratios across government owned entities. This commenced for the financial year ending 30 June 2019. 67 143 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 34 Remuneration of employees Current Current employees Ex-Employees employees Ex-Employees 2020 2020 2019 2019 The number of employees whose remuneration paid and payables falls within the following bands is: $151,000 154,000* n/a n/a 12 $154,001 174,000 55 3 58 1 $174,001 194,000 38 31 2 $194,001 214,000 9 7 2 $214,001 234,000 8 5 $234,001 254,000 1 1 1 $254,001 274,000 1 2 $274,001 294,000 2 1 1 $294,001 314,000 1 1 3 2 $314,001 334,000 1 1 $334,001 354,000 3 2 1 $354,001 374,000 1 $374,001 394,000 1 $394,001 414,000 1 1 1 $414,001 434,000 1 1 1 1 $434,001 454,000 1 $454,001 474,000 1 $534,001 554,000 1 $574,001 594,000 1 Total 120 12 123 14 *This band has been included for the purposes of reporting comparative figures based on the executive base level remuneration rate for 2018-19. The table includes all employees who received remuneration equal to or greater than the base executive remuneration level during the year. Remuneration of employees reflects all costs of employment including salaries and wages, payments in lieu of leave, superannuation contributions, salary sacrifice benefits and fringe benefits, and any fringe benefits tax paid or payable in respect of those benefits. The total remuneration received by these employees for the year was $26.5m (2019: $27.1m). 2020 2019 $'000 $'000 Targeted voluntary separation packages (TVSPs) Amount paid during the reporting period to separated employees: TVSPs 1,292 472 Annual leave and long service leave paid to those employees 1,013 338 Net cost to SA Water 2,305 810 The number of employees who received TVSPs during the reporting period was 10 (2019: 4). 68 144 Appendices: Audited Financial Statements South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 35 Remuneration of directors The Board of SA Water was established under the South Australian Water Corporation Act 1994 and consists of up to seven members including the Chief Executive. Note: Although a member of the Board, the Chief Executive does not receive additional remuneration as a Board member. The remuneration of the Chief Executive is included in notes 34 and 36. Remuneration of Directors (excluding the Chief Executive) is shown in the table below. 2020 2019 Number of Number of directors directors The number of Directors of the Corporation (excluding the Chief Executive) whose remuneration paid and payable falls within the following bands is: Blank row $0 $19,999 1 3 $20,000 $39,999 1 $40,000 $59,999 4 5 $60,000 $79,999 1 $80,000 $99,999 1 7 9 The total remuneration paid and payable for those directors was $0.30m (2019: $0.30m) which includes superannuation contributions. 69 145 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 36 Related party disclosures (a) Directors The following persons held the position of director of the Corporation during the financial year: Mr A.V Fletcher AO; Mr J.J Bastian AM; Ms S.M Filby; Ms J.M.H Finlay; Ms F.A Hele; Mr I.F Stirling (to 2 August 2019); Mr R.J.G.A Cheroux (to 16 August 2019); Mr C.J Ford (from 3 August 2019) and Mr D.A Ryan (from 11 November 2019). Mr Fletcher is currently a non-executive director of Justin Pty Ltd and associated companies and Rheinmetall Defence Australia Pty Ltd (Supervisory Board), director/shareholder of Andrew Fletcher and Associates Pty Ltd and associated companies, and the chair of Cryoclock Pty Ltd. Mr Bastian is currently chair of Techgrow Agriculture, syndicate chair of the CEO Institute, owner and irrigation customer of SA Water for Bastian’s Block Clare Valley Vineyard, chair of the Spencer Gulf Ecosystem and Development Initiative, and a member of the Women’s and Children’s Local Health Network Board. Mr Bastian was a director for CH4 South Australia Pty Ltd (a subsidiary of CH4 Global Ltd NZ). Ms Filby is currently a facilitator for Behind Closed Doors and a volunteer at Calvary Health Care. Ms Filby was a temporary member of the SA Planning Commission Public Hearing Panels, and the external chair for the SA Power Networks Customer Consultative Committee until December 2019. Ms Finlay is currently a director of Leveque Consulting Pty Ltd and director and shareholder for Leveque Investments Pty Ltd, member of the Libraries Board SA, director of St John’s Ambulance Australia SA Incorporated, chair of the SA Community Care Committee of St John’s Ambulance Australia SA, member of the University of Adelaide Council, and committee member for the University of Adelaide Finance and Infrastructure Committee. Ms Finlay was previously a member of the State Planning Commission. Ms Hele is a director and shareholder of the Sealink Travel Group, director for Celsus Securitisation Pty Ltd, board member of the Adelaide Venue Management Corporation, and director and shareholder of Hele Investments Pty Ltd. Mr Ford is a senior executive with the SA Power Networks and Enerven. Mr Ryan holds the position of Chief Executive and director of the corporation. He is currently a director of the Water Services Association of Australia. Mr Stirling ceased being a director of the South Australian Water Corporation on 2 August 2019. During his time with the Corporation he was the chair and director of A Noble and Son Limited group of companies, and executive chairman of Stirling Advisory Pty Ltd whose clients previously included Ausnet Services and Hastings Funds Management. Mr Stirling was previously a director of the Adelaide Botanic Gardens Foundation, and an independent member of the Air Warfare Destroyers LT Sustainment Board (Department for Defence DDG SPO). Mr Cheroux ceased his position with the South Australian Water Corporation on 16 August 2019. During his time as Chief Executive and director of the corporation he was a director of the Water Services Association of Australia, a member of the Advisory Council of the French-Australian Chamber of Commerce (FACCI), and member of the Advisory Committee of the Australian Water Partnership. Mr Cheroux was previously a member of the French Engagement Advisory Group (SA). 70 146 Appendices: Audited Financial Statements South Australian Water Corporation Notes to the financial statements 30 June 2020 (continued) 36 Related party disclosures (continued) (b) Key management personnel Key management personnel compensation for the years ended 30 June 2020 and 2019 is set out below. The key management personnel are the directors of the Corporation (including the Chief Executive) and the Senior Leadership Team (SLT) who have responsibility for the strategic direction and management of the Corporation. The Minister for Water and the River Murray is also considered a member of the key management personnel of the Corporation by virtue of the Minister’s power to control and direct the Corporation pursuant to the Public Corporations Act 1993. No remuneration has been included in this note disclosure for the Minister as he is not directly remunerated by the Corporation. Number of key Short-termPost-employment Long-term Termination management benefits benefits benefits benefits Total personnel $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 2020* 18 2,889 223 3,112 2019* 17 3,030 281 65 163 3,539 *Both 2020 and 2019 include an overlap of SLT members. Due to the additional disclosures on related party transactions with key management personnel as required by Department of Treasury and Finance, from 1 July 2016 the value of leave liabilities accrued are no longer included as part of compensation leave is recognised as it is paid. 71 147 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report Drinking water quality data Table 1 2019-20 metropolitan Adelaide source water quality (inlets to water treatment plants) Parameter Samples Min Max Ave* Samples Min Max Ave* Anstey Hill WTP Hope Valley WTP Colour – True (456nm) [HU] 12 5 9 7 10 8 16 11 Dissolved Organic Carbon [mg/L] 50 2.4 7.1 3.6 48 2.8 5.2 4.1 Fluoride [mg/L] 12 <0.1 0.23 <0.1 10 0.17 0.23 0.20 Hardness – Total [mg/L] 14 98 112 107 14 90 125 108 Nitrate as Nitrogen [mg/L] 26 0.001 0.283 0.034 27 0.001 0.473 0.089 pH [pH units] 12 7.0 8.0 7.4 10 7.5 8.5 7.9 Phosphorus – Total [mg/L] 26 0.013 0.074 0.027 27 0.007 0.174 0.027 Total Dissolved Solids [mg/L] 12 122 348 179 10 249 432 300 Turbidity [NTU] 12 5.1 65 39 10 1.4 11 4.2 Barossa WTP Little Para WTP Colour – True (456nm) [HU] 12 10 18 13 9 6 9 7 Dissolved Organic Carbon [mg/L] 53 6.7 10.8 8.3 39 3.4 4.2 3.8 Fluoride [mg/L] 12 0.27 0.32 0.30 9 0.17 0.20 0.19 Hardness – Total [mg/L] 14 92 113 101 14 69 99 87 Nitrate as Nitrogen [mg/L] 27 0.001 0.035 0.011 27 0.041 0.184 0.117 pH [pH units] 12 7.5 8.0 7.7 9 7.0 8.0 7.6 Phosphorus – Total [mg/L] 27 <0.005 0.040 0.016 27 0.013 0.168 0.040 Total Dissolved Solids [mg/L] 12 312 381 327 9 227 333 267 Turbidity [NTU] 12 0.24 1.4 0.72 9 12 21 17 Happy Valley WTP Myponga WTP Colour – True (456nm) [HU] 12 9 31 17 12 29 57 40 Dissolved Organic Carbon [mg/L] 52 3.6 6.3 4.7 53 10.5 13.1 11.6 Fluoride [mg/L] 12 0.17 0.23 0.20 12 0.17 0.22 0.19 Hardness – Total [mg/L] 14 63 93 80 13 108 132 119 Nitrate as Nitrogen [mg/L] 27 0.002 0.193 0.074 26 0.002 0.158 0.054 pH [pH units] 12 7.3 8.8 7.9 12 7.5 8.2 7.8 Phosphorus – Total [mg/L] 27 0.018 0.065 0.041 26 0.025 0.119 0.042 Total Dissolved Solids [mg/L] 15 187 283 245 12 353 395 371 Turbidity [NTU] 12 3.4 66 23 12 0.87 4.8 2.0 * Limit of reporting (LOR) values replaced with half LOR prior to calculating average. 148 Appendices: Drinking water quality data Table 2 2019-20 metropolitan Adelaide distribution system customer tap water quality against Australian Drinking Water Guidelines Parameter Health Aesthetic Samples Min Max Ave* % Compliance# Guideline Guideline Anstey Hill Metro System Chlorine Residual – Free [mg/L] ≤5 220 <0.1 1.3 0.3 100 Chlorine Residual – Free [mg/L] ≤ 0.6 220 <0.1 1.3 0.3 90.9 Colour – True [HU] ≤ 15 4 <1 <1 <1 100 E. coli [per cfu/100mL] ++ 219 0 0 0 100 Fluoride [mg/L] ≤ 1.5 4 <0.1 0.94 0.69 100 Hardness – Total [mg/L] ≤ 200 4 47 53 50 100 Iron – Total [mg/L] ≤ 0.3 4 0.0047 0.0142 0.0081 100 Manganese – Total [mg/L] ≤ 0.5 4 0.0003 0.0004 0.0004 100 Manganese – Total [mg/L] ≤ 0.1 4 0.0003 0.0004 0.0004 100 pH Units 6.5 8.5 12 7.1 7.7 7.5 100 Total Dissolved Solids [mg/L] ≤ 600 4 148 207 167 100 Trihalomethanes – Total [µg/L] ≤ 250 53 42 137 65 100 Turbidity [NTU] ≤5 12 <0.1 0.40 <0.1 100 Barossa Metro System Chlorine Residual – Free [mg/L] ≤5 97 <0.1 1.6 0.5 100 Chlorine Residual – Free [mg/L] ≤ 0.6 97 <0.1 1.6 0.5 76.3 Colour – True [HU] ≤ 15 4 <1 1 <1 100 E. coli [per cfu/100mL] ++ 97 0 0 0 100 Fluoride [mg/L] ≤ 1.5 4 0.25 0.89 0.56 100 Hardness – Total [mg/L] ≤ 200 4 112 129 123 100 Iron – Total [mg/L] ≤ 0.3 4 0.0023 0.0052 0.0042 100 Manganese – Total [mg/L] ≤ 0.5 4 0.0003 0.0010 0.0005 100 Manganese – Total [mg/L] ≤ 0.1 4 0.0003 0.0010 0.0005 100 pH Units 6.5 8.5 12 7.0 7.6 7.3 100 Total Dissolved Solids [mg/L] ≤ 600 4 348 377 360 100 Trihalomethanes – Total [µg/L] ≤ 250 42 104 163 133 100 Turbidity [NTU] ≤5 12 <0.1 <0.1 <0.1 100 149 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report Table 2 — continued Parameter Health Aesthetic Samples Min Max Ave* % Compliance# Guideline Guideline Central Metro System Chlorine Residual – Free [mg/L] ≤5 1,162 <0.1 2.2 0.4 100 Chlorine Residual – Free [mg/L] ≤ 0.6 1,162 <0.1 2.2 0.4 83.0 Colour – True [HU] ≤ 15 26 <1 1 <1 100 E. coli [per cfu/100mL] ++ 1,162 0 0 0 100 Fluoride [mg/L] ≤ 1.5 26 0.22 0.94 0.84 100 Hardness – Total [mg/L] ≤ 200 26 39 111 73 100 Iron – Total [mg/L] ≤ 0.3 28 0.0022 0.0293 0.0087 100 Manganese – Total [mg/L] ≤ 0.5 26 <0.0001 0.0035 0.0008 100 Manganese – Total [mg/L] ≤ 0.1 26 <0.0001 0.0035 0.0008 100 pH Units 6.5 8.5 74 7.0 8.2 7.5 100 Total Dissolved Solids [mg/L] ≤ 600 26 97 316 220 100 Trihalomethanes – Total [µg/L] ≤ 250 206 <4 140 73 100 Turbidity [NTU] ≤5 74 <0.1 1.3 <0.1 100 East Metro System Chlorine Residual – Free [mg/L] ≤5 489 <0.1 1.2 0.4 100 Chlorine Residual – Free [mg/L] ≤ 0.6 24 <0.1 1.2 0.4 84.7 Colour – True [HU] ≤ 15 487 <1 1 <1 100 E. coli [per cfu/100mL] ++ 24 0 0 0 100 Fluoride [mg/L] ≤ 1.5 24 <0.1 0.91 0.81 100 Hardness – Total [mg/L] ≤ 200 25 44 117 72 100 Iron – Total [mg/L] ≤ 0.3 24 0.0029 0.0522 0.0109 100 Manganese – Total [mg/L] ≤ 0.5 24 <0.0001 0.0022 0.0008 100 Manganese – Total [mg/L] ≤ 0.1 24 <0.0001 0.0022 0.0008 100 pH Units 6.5 8.5 69 7.1 8.0 7.5 100 Total Dissolved Solids [mg/L] ≤ 600 24 117 353 214 100 Trihalomethanes – Total [µg/L] ≤ 250 98 5 146 78 100 Turbidity [NTU] ≤5 80 <0.1 3.6 0.13 100 150 Appendices: Drinking water quality data Table 2 — continued Parameter Health Aesthetic Samples Min Max Ave* % Compliance# Guideline Guideline Myponga Metro System Chlorine Residual – Free [mg/L] ≤5 63 <0.1 0.5 0.2 100 Chlorine Residual – Free [mg/L] ≤ 0.6 63 <0.1 0.5 0.2 100 Colour – True [HU] ≤ 15 4 1 2 1 100 E. coli [per cfu/100mL] ++ 63 0 0 0 100 Fluoride [mg/L] ≤ 1.5 4 0.30 0.84 0.62 100 Hardness – Total [mg/L] ≤ 200 4 112 123 117 100 Iron – Total [mg/L] ≤ 0.3 4 0.0047 0.0104 0.0079 100 Manganese – Total [mg/L] ≤ 0.5 4 0.0006 0.0009 0.0008 100 Manganese – Total [mg/L] ≤ 0.1 4 0.0008 0.0034 0.0017 100 pH Units 6.5 8.5 12 7.2 7.8 7.4 100 Total Dissolved Solids [mg/L] ≤ 600 4 408 439 420 100 Trihalomethanes – Total [µg/L] ≤ 250 24 58 253 178 100 Turbidity [NTU] ≤5 12 <0.1 0.12 <0.1 100 North Metro System Chlorine Residual – Free [mg/L] ≤5 555 <0.1 1.2 0.4 100 Chlorine Residual – Free [mg/L] ≤ 0.6 555 <0.1 1.2 0.4 84.0 Colour – True [HU] ≤ 15 24 <1 1 <1 100 E. coli [per cfu/100mL] ++ 555 0 0 0 100 Fluoride [mg/L] ≤ 1.5 24 0.13 0.94 0.73 100 Hardness – Total [mg/L] ≤ 200 24 46 137 95 100 Iron – Total [mg/L] ≤ 0.3 24 0.0024 0.0491 0.0085 100 Manganese – Total [mg/L] ≤ 0.5 24 0.0001 0.0017 0.0006 100 Manganese – Total [mg/L] ≤ 0.1 24 <0.0001 0.0012 0.0005 100 pH Units 6.5 8.5 72 7.0 8.0 7.4 100 Total Dissolved Solids [mg/L] ≤ 600 73 126 433 329 100 Trihalomethanes – Total [µg/L] ≤ 250 102 22 177 101 100 Turbidity [NTU] ≤5 72 <0.1 0.34 <0.1 100 151 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report Table 2 — continued Parameter Health Aesthetic Samples Min Max Ave* % Compliance# Guideline Guideline South Metro System Chlorine Residual – Free [mg/L] ≤5 135 <0.1 1.0 0.3 100 Chlorine Residual – Free [mg/L] ≤ 0.6 135 <0.1 1.0 0.3 96.3 Colour – True [HU] ≤ 15 4 <1 <1 <1 100 E. coli [per cfu/100mL] ++ 135 0 0 0 100 Fluoride [mg/L] ≤ 1.5 4 0.83 0.90 0.86 100 Hardness – Total [mg/L] ≤ 200 4 43 101 73 100 Iron – Total [mg/L] ≤ 0.3 4 0.0037 0.0056 0.0048 100 Manganese – Total [mg/L] ≤ 0.5 4 0.0002 0.0008 0.0005 100 Manganese – Total [mg/L] ≤ 0.1 4 0.0002 0.0008 0.0005 100 pH Units 6.5 8.5 12 7.3 7.9 7.5 100 Total Dissolved Solids [mg/L] ≤ 600 4 99 296 209 100 Trihalomethanes – Total [µg/L] ≤ 250 60 7 190 94 100 Turbidity [NTU] ≤5 12 <0.1 0.11 <0.1 100 West Metro System Chlorine Residual – Free [mg/L] ≤5 665 <0.1 1.6 0.4 100 Chlorine Residual – Free [mg/L] ≤ 0.6 665 <0.1 1.6 0.4 87.4 Colour – True [HU] ≤ 15 24 <1 1 <1 100 E. coli [per cfu/100mL] ++ 503 0 0 0 100 Fluoride [mg/L] ≤ 1.5 24 0.11 0.89 0.68 100 Hardness – Total [mg/L] ≤ 200 24 37 122 80 100 Iron – Total [mg/L] ≤ 0.3 24 0.0019 0.1194 0.0150 100 Manganese – Total [mg/L] ≤ 0.5 24 0.0001 0.0039 0.0010 100 Manganese – Total [mg/L] ≤ 0.1 24 0.0001 0.0039 0.0010 100 pH Units 6.5 8.5 72 7.0 8.2 7.4 100 Total Dissolved Solids [mg/L] ≤ 600 316 86 356 223 100 Trihalomethanes – Total [µg/L] ≤ 250 121 <4 133 81 100 Turbidity [NTU] ≤5 72 <0.1 0.54 <0.1 100 152 Appendices: Drinking water quality data Table 2 — continued Parameter Health Aesthetic Samples Min Max Ave* % Compliance# Guideline Guideline Metropolitan Adelaide – Total Distribution System Chlorine Residual – Free [mg/L] ≤5 3,386 <0.1 2.2 0.4 100 Chlorine Residual – Free [mg/L] ≤ 0.6 3,386 <0.1 2.2 0.4 85.4 Colour – True [HU] ≤ 15 114 <1 2 <1 100 E. coli [per cfu/100mL] ++ 3,221 0 0 0 100 Fluoride [mg/L] ≤ 1.5 114 <0.1 0.94 0.76 100 Hardness – Total [mg/L] ≤ 200 114 37 137 81 100 Iron – Total [mg/L] ≤ 0.3 117 0.0019 0.1194 0.0102 100 Manganese – Total [mg/L] ≤ 0.5 114 <0.0001 0.0039 0.0008 100 Manganese – Total [mg/L] ≤ 0.1 114 <0.0001 0.0039 0.0008 100 pH Units 6.5 8.5 335 7.0 8.2 7.5 100 Total Dissolved Solids [mg/L] ≤ 600 455 86 439 241 100 Trihalomethanes – Total [µg/L] ≤ 250 706 <4 253 87 100 Turbidity [NTU] ≤5 346 <0.1 3.6 <0.1 100 ++ E. coli should not be detected in samples of drinking water. * Limit of reporting (LOR) values replaced with half LOR prior to calculating average. # Prior to calculating compliance for health related chemicals, individual water sample test results are rounded to the same number of significant figures as the ADWG value (as prescribed in the ADWG and endorsed by SA Health). 153 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report Table 3 2019-20 country source water quality Total Dissolved Solid Hardness Total Dissolved Organic Carbon pH [mg/L] [mg/L] [mg/L] [pH Units] System Min Max Ave* Min Max Ave* Min Max Ave* Min Max Ave* Barmera WTP 78 168 115 2.0 3.7 2.6 7.0 8.4 7.8 Barossa WTP 312 381 327 92 113 101 6.7 10.8 8.3 7.5 8.0 7.7 Beachport IRP 650 683 668 268 280 274 0.9 1.0 1.0 7.3 7.6 7.5 Berri WTP 66 128 99 2.0 4.0 2.6 6.6 8.5 7.5 Blanchetown WTP 85 207 135 2.3 4.2 2.9 7.1 8.3 7.7 Bordertown 387 700 482 222 282 242 0.6 0.9 0.7 7.2 7.6 7.4 Cadell WTP 85 538 141 2.1 3.2 2.6 7.0 8.2 7.6 Coffin Bay 343 491 396 204 214 210 0.4 0.5 0.4 7.7 7.8 7.8 Cowirra WTP 111 200 144 2.3 5.0 3.0 7.0 7.9 7.5 Elliston 577 1030 738 258 343 279 0.4 0.7 0.5 7.3 7.6 7.4 Eyre South 443 1340 686 220 509 299 0.4 0.9 0.6 7.0 7.8 7.3 Geranium 1310 1550 1450 558 580 569 0.8 0.8 0.8 7.0 7.1 7.1 Glossop WTP 66 128 99 2.0 4.0 2.6 6.6 8.5 7.5 Happy Valley WTP 187 283 245 63 93 80 3.6 6.3 4.7 7.3 8.8 7.9 Hawker Desalination WTP 2210 2640 2410 949 1090 1020 0.5 0.5 0.5 7.2 7.7 7.4 Kalangadoo IRP 530 550 543 346 356 351 1.1 1.1 1.1 7.2 7.4 7.3 Kanmantoo WTP 123 224 155 36 48 43 2.3 3.8 3.1 6.9 7.6 7.3 Kingston SE IRP 756 1050 880 201 242 222 0.9 0.9 0.9 7.4 7.8 7.6 Lameroo IRP 918 1020 964 223 227 225 0.5 0.5 0.5 7.5 8.2 7.9 Leigh Creek WTP 1920 5240 2730 480 1620 879 0.3 1.1 0.7 7.1 7.8 7.5 Loxton WTP 67 168 111 2.1 4.3 2.8 7.2 8.2 7.8 Lucindale IRP 817 846 832 302 305 304 2.3 2.4 2.4 7.5 7.7 7.6 Mannum WTP 112 213 146 35 49 41 2.5 6.4 3.5 7.1 7.9 7.5 Melrose 1210 1840 1530 273 416 345 0.5 0.5 0.5 7.3 7.5 7.4 Middle River WTP 457 817 573 70 165 104 12.6 20.0 14.6 6.7 7.7 7.2 Millicent 583 683 631 350 377 364 1.1 1.5 1.3 7.5 7.7 7.6 Moorook WTP 72 195 115 2.2 3.7 2.8 7.2 8.2 7.7 Morgan WTP 89 269 136 26 47 38 1.2 4.1 2.5 7.0 8.7 7.8 Mt Burr 410 491 451 265 321 293 0.5 0.5 0.5 7.4 7.6 7.5 Mt Compass 119 472 188 43 60 52 <0.3 <0.3 <0.3 6.2 7.3 6.5 Mt Gambier 348 644 529 172 299 216 0.8 1.4 1.0 7.4 8.4 8.0 Mt Pleasant WTP 112 213 146 35 49 41 2.5 6.4 3.5 7.1 7.9 7.5 Murray Bridge WTP 123 224 155 36 48 43 2.3 3.8 3.1 6.9 7.6 7.3 Mypolonga WTP 117 221 151 2.4 3.4 2.9 7.0 7.6 7.3 154 Appendices: Drinking water quality data Table 3 — continued Total Dissolved Solid Hardness Total Dissolved Organic Carbon pH [mg/L] [mg/L] [mg/L] [pH Units] System Min Max Ave* Min Max Ave* Min Max Ave* Min Max Ave* Myponga WTP 353 395 371 108 132 119 10.5 13.1 11.6 7.5 8.2 7.8 Nangwarry 530 666 606 336 411 374 1.1 1.3 1.2 7.1 7.5 7.3 Naracoorte 1230 1340 1280 311 389 350 1.5 1.9 1.7 7.7 7.9 7.8 Padthaway 1410 1670 1580 588 592 590 0.7 0.8 0.8 7.1 7.4 7.3 Palmer WTP 112 213 146 35 49 41 2.5 6.4 3.5 7.1 7.9 7.5 Parachilna 817 846 833 306 306 306 <0.3 <0.3 <0.3 7.6 7.8 7.7 Parilla IRP 340 705 627 178 183 181 0.4 0.6 0.5 7.4 8.0 7.7 Penneshaw WTP 37300 40300 38700 1.1 1.4 1.3 7.9 8.2 8.0 Penola IRP 644 689 663 299 317 308 1.4 3.1 2.3 7.3 7.5 7.5 Pinnaroo IRP 633 801 715 235 247 242 0.5 0.5 0.5 7.5 7.7 7.6 Port MacDonnell 689 711 700 20 21 21 1.2 1.2 1.2 8.2 8.4 8.3 Quorn 1070 1410 1240 466 529 499 0.7 1.2 0.9 7.0 7.5 7.2 Renmark WTP 59 184 91 20 46 29 2.2 4.4 3.0 7.0 8.1 7.5 Robe IRP 633 986 752 68 142 118 0.9 1.1 1.0 7.6 7.9 7.8 Summit WTP 123 224 155 36 48 43 2.3 3.8 3.1 6.9 7.6 7.3 Swan Reach Town WTP 99 202 141 2.2 3.8 2.9 7.0 8.6 7.9 Swan Reach WTP 102 190 137 29 47 38 2.4 4.6 3.0 7.7 8.4 7.9 Tailem Bend WTP 135 275 174 39 57 47 2.4 3.9 3.2 6.9 10.0 7.4 Tarpeena IRP 644 761 701 406 406 406 1.3 1.3 1.3 7.2 7.8 7.4 Waikerie WTP 76 168 122 2.3 4.5 3.0 7.3 8.4 7.7 Wilmington 295 374 327 89 140 115 <0.3 0.9 0.5 6.3 6.8 6.5 Wirrina Cove WTP 1080 1670 1290 5.2 16.9 13.9 6.4 8.2 7.6 Woolpunda WTP 73 179 119 1.4 3.1 2.5 6.9 8.2 7.7 * Limit of reporting (LOR) values replaced with half LOR prior to calculating average. 155 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report Table 3 — continued System Turbidity Colour – True (456nm) Nitrate as Nitrogen Phosphorous – Total [NTU] [HU] [mg/L] [mg/L] Min Max Ave* Min Max Ave* Min Max Ave* Min Max Ave* Barmera WTP 19 55 36 5 11 7 Barossa WTP 0.24 1.4 0.72 10 18 13 0.001 0.035 0.011 <0.005 0.040 0.016 Beachport IRP 2.1 4.4 3.4 <1 1 <1 0.001 0.002 0.001 0.036 0.042 0.039 Berri WTP 21 53 39 5 14 8 Blanchetown WTP 11 60 35 5 15 7 Bordertown <0.1 1.7 0.16 <1 <1 <1 0.002 0.574 0.154 0.005 0.013 0.009 Cadell WTP 17 76 39 5 10 7 Coffin Bay <0.1 0.24 <0.1 <1 <1 <1 0.223 1.097 0.770 0.009 0.017 0.013 Cowirra WTP 24 68 44 5 9 7 Elliston <0.1 1.1 0.11 <1 <1 <1 2.757 3.817 3.124 <0.005 0.019 0.012 Eyre South <0.1 11 0.26 <1 1 <1 0.566 10.70 3.790 <0.005 0.029 0.010 Geranium <0.1 0.13 <0.1 <1 <1 <1 0.026 0.083 0.055 0.036 0.047 0.042 Glossop WTP 21 53 39 5 14 8 Happy Valley WTP 3.4 66 23 9 31 17 0.002 0.193 0.074 0.018 0.065 0.041 Hawker Desalination WTP 1.6 16 8.3 <1 <1 <1 0.010 0.014 0.012 0.011 0.014 0.013 Kalangadoo IRP 1.1 6.4 4.2 <1 1 <1 0.001 0.002 0.001 0.013 0.018 0.016 Kanmantoo WTP 25 84 52 6 10 7 0.042 0.520 0.122 Kingston SE IRP 0.47 18 7.1 <1 1 <1 0.002 0.021 0.010 0.008 0.039 0.018 Lameroo IRP 1.6 5.8 3.2 <1 1 <1 0.002 0.004 0.003 0.053 0.061 0.057 Leigh Creek WTP <0.1 1.4 0.23 <1 1 <1 0.362 2.107 1.162 0.005 0.030 0.014 Loxton WTP 21 66 38 4 12 7 0.001 0.012 0.003 0.042 0.185 0.087 Lucindale IRP 2.4 9.7 7.7 1 2 2 0.001 0.002 0.001 0.040 0.042 0.041 Mannum WTP 18 86 48 5 9 7 0.002 0.151 0.051 0.049 0.374 0.120 Melrose <0.1 1.4 0.25 <1 <1 <1 0.269 0.824 0.547 0.009 0.020 0.015 Middle River WTP 1.4 17 4.2 62 175 124 0.002 0.912 0.313 0.014 0.194 0.043 Millicent 0.18 0.51 0.31 2 4 3 0.033 0.063 0.048 0.015 0.018 0.017 Moorook WTP 17 60 39 5 16 7 0.001 0.011 0.002 0.037 0.107 0.072 Morgan WTP 0.20 62 17 <1 21 4 0.001 0.038 0.015 0.006 0.256 0.071 Mt Burr <0.1 0.20 <0.1 <1 <1 <1 0.260 1.277 0.769 0.030 0.038 0.034 Mt Compass <0.1 0.72 0.15 <1 <1 <1 0.043 0.048 0.046 0.018 0.034 0.026 Mt Gambier <0.1 2.1 0.48 <1 2 1 0.002 3.559 2.626 <0.005 0.037 0.013 Mt Pleasant WTP 18 86 48 5 9 7 0.002 0.151 0.051 0.049 0.374 0.120 Murray Bridge WTP 25 84 52 6 10 7 0.042 0.520 0.122 Mypolonga WTP 21 72 45 6 10 7 156 Appendices: Drinking water quality data Table 3 — continued System Turbidity Colour – True (456nm) Nitrate as Nitrogen Phosphorous – Total [NTU] [HU] [mg/L] [mg/L] Min Max Ave* Min Max Ave* Min Max Ave* Min Max Ave* Myponga WTP 0.87 4.8 2.0 29 57 40 0.002 0.158 0.054 0.025 0.119 0.042 Nangwarry <0.1 0.12 <0.1 <1 <1 <1 1.267 3.987 2.627 0.011 0.015 0.013 Naracoorte 0.21 1.2 0.38 <1 6 5 0.002 0.002 0.002 0.059 0.069 0.065 Padthaway <0.1 1.8 0.56 <1 <1 <1 0.043 0.075 0.059 0.011 0.014 0.013 Palmer WTP 18 86 48 5 9 7 0.002 0.151 0.051 0.049 0.374 0.120 Parachilna <0.1 0.28 <0.1 <1 <1 <1 1.179 1.179 1.179 <0.005 <0.005 <0.005 Parilla IRP 1.3 4.4 2.8 <1 1 <1 0.002 0.002 0.002 0.033 0.044 0.039 Penneshaw WTP <0.1 2.9 0.61 <0.005 <0.005 <0.005 Penola IRP 7.7 15 12 1 3 2 0.002 0.002 0.002 0.034 0.054 0.044 Pinnaroo IRP 0.84 6.3 3.1 <1 <1 <1 0.002 0.002 0.002 0.039 0.056 0.048 Port MacDonnell <0.1 0.69 0.11 2 8 4 0.002 0.012 0.007 0.129 0.155 0.142 Quorn <0.1 1.4 0.21 <1 <1 <1 0.101 0.130 0.117 0.013 0.032 0.023 Renmark WTP 22 60 40 4 14 8 0.001 0.027 0.005 0.041 0.295 0.092 Robe IRP <0.1 5.7 1.1 <1 2 <1 0.002 0.386 0.098 0.028 0.056 0.044 Summit WTP 25 84 52 6 10 7 0.042 0.520 0.122 Swan Reach Town WTP 8.8 70 39 3 11 7 Swan Reach WTP 11 60 36 5 9 6 0.001 0.033 0.009 0.044 0.542 0.113 Tailem Bend WTP 25 72 47 6 19 8 0.044 0.230 0.104 Tarpeena IRP 0.63 19 9.4 <1 <1 <1 0.002 0.002 0.002 0.035 0.035 0.035 Waikerie WTP 18 92 47 5 14 7 0.001 0.052 0.006 0.045 0.193 0.103 Wilmington <0.1 0.83 0.15 <1 <1 <1 0.192 0.195 0.194 0.058 0.095 0.077 Wirrina Cove WTP 1.6 7.0 4.1 4 100 48 Woolpunda WTP 22 62 39 3 10 7 * Limit of reporting (LOR) values replaced with half LOR prior to calculating average. 157 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report Table 4 2019-20 country drinking water distribution systems – customer tap water quality against Australian Drinking Water Guidelines E. coli Total Dissolved Solids [per cfu/100mL] [mg/L] System Samples Health Min Max Ave* Aesthetic Compliance % Compliance % ADWG value ++ ≤600 Target 99.8% Free Barmera WTP 58 100 118 184 141 100 Barossa WTP 437 100 333 418 373 100 Beachport IRP 63 100 666 678 671 0.0 Berri WTP 64 100 105 144 126 100 Blanchetown WTP 52 100 133 163 148 100 Bordertown 57 100 277 616 468 75.0 Cadell WTP 52 100 125 191 154 100 Coffin Bay 64 100 425 480 452 100 Cowirra WTP 57 100 141 174 160 100 Elliston 51 100 666 801 740 0.0 Eyre South 372 100 419 616 566 89.5 Eyre South/Morgan WTP 242 100 328 482 416 100 Geranium 52 100 1390 1510 1460 0.0 Glossop WTP 58 100 110 141 124 100 Happy Valley WTP 60 100 175 315 244 100 Hawker Desalination WTP 49 100 375 380 378 100 Kalangadoo IRP 62 100 542 555 551 100 Kanmantoo WTP 60 100 143 239 182 100 Kingston SE IRP 62 100 846 868 857 0.0 Lameroo IRP 51 100 952 986 969 0.0 Leigh Creek WTP 75 100 82 115 98 100 Loxton WTP 70 100 105 151 136 100 Lucindale IRP 61 100 829 846 835 0.0 Mannum WTP 61 100 138 206 168 100 Melrose 52 100 1410 1600 1520 0.0 Middle River WTP 139 100 594 694 648 25.0 Millicent 77 100 616 666 637 0.0 Moorook WTP 59 100 119 148 133 100 Morgan / Swan Reach WTP 432 100 131 219 169 100 Morgan WTP 728 100 130 237 183 100 Mt Burr 52 100 452 461 456 100 158 Appendices: Drinking water quality data Table 4 — continued E. coli Total Dissolved Solids [per cfu/100mL] [mg/L] System Samples Health Min Max Ave* Aesthetic Compliance % Compliance % ADWG value ++ ≤600 Target 99.8% Free Mt Compass 58 100 229 277 251 100 Mt Gambier 155 99.4 350 367 359 100 Mt Pleasant WTP 77 100 132 192 156 100 Murray Bridge WTP 190 100 151 256 189 100 Mypolonga WTP 59 100 138 196 169 100 Myponga WTP 285 100 398 493 433 100 Nangwarry 66 100 588 610 596 75.0 Naracoorte 78 100 1270 1300 1280 0.0 Padthaway 53 100 1560 1650 1600 0.0 Palmer WTP 81 100 133 200 162 100 Parachilna 49 100 834 846 839 0.0 Parilla IRP 52 100 622 661 646 0.0 Penneshaw WTP 62 100 280 316 296 100 Penola IRP 65 100 650 678 665 0.0 Pinnaroo IRP 59 100 728 745 735 0.0 Port MacDonnell 65 100 700 705 701 0.0 Quorn 51 100 1150 1210 1180 0.0 Renmark WTP 190 100 80 144 116 100 Robe IRP 60 100 678 823 753 0.0 Summit WTP 418 100 150 237 185 100 Swan Reach Town WTP 58 100 126 193 157 100 Swan Reach WTP 367 99.7 127 212 174 100 Tailem Bend WTP 255 100 174 285 216 100 Tarpeena IRP 64 98.4 689 705 699 0.0 Waikerie WTP 58 100 118 165 140 100 Wilmington 61 100 320 381 346 100 Wirrina Cove WTP 50 100 1130 1400 1310 0.0 Woolpunda WTP 80 100 134 159 146 100 * Limit of reporting (LOR) values replaced with half LOR prior to calculating average. ++ E. coli should not be detected in samples of drinking water. While we aim for 100 per cent compliance, the ADWG recognises exceedances in test results can happen occasionally. Any detection is immediately investigated and corrective action taken as needed, in conjunction with SA Health. 159 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report Table 4 — continued Chlorine Residual – Free Chlorine Residual – Total [mg/L]^ [mg/L]† System Min Max Ave* Health Min Max Ave* Health Compliance %# Compliance %# ADWG value ≤5 ≤5 Target 99.8% 99.8% Barmera WTP 0.5 1.5 0.9 100 Barossa WTP <0.1 3.1 0.7 100 Beachport IRP 0.7 1.7 0.9 100 Berri WTP 0.4 1.4 1.0 100 Blanchetown WTP 0.4 1.3 0.7 100 Bordertown 0.3 1.8 1.2 100 Cadell WTP 0.4 1.2 0.9 100 Coffin Bay 0.7 1.5 1.0 100 Cowirra WTP 0.6 1.9 1.3 100 Elliston 0.6 1.2 0.9 100 Eyre South 0.3 1.9 1.0 100 Eyre South/Morgan WTP 0.7 2.2 1.4 100 Geranium 0.5 1.4 1.0 100 Glossop WTP 0.5 1.5 1.0 100 Happy Valley WTP 0.3 1.6 1.1 100 Hawker Desalination WTP 1.0 1.4 1.2 100 Kalangadoo IRP 0.7 1.5 1.0 100 Kanmantoo WTP 0.6 1.5 1.1 100 Kingston SE IRP 0.6 1.9 0.9 100 Lameroo IRP 1.0 2.3 1.5 100 Leigh Creek WTP 0.2 1.4 1.1 100 Loxton WTP 3.0 4.5 3.8 100 Lucindale IRP 0.5 1.2 0.8 100 Mannum WTP 0.2 2.2 1.1 100 Melrose 0.6 1.7 1.2 100 Middle River WTP <0.1 1.4 0.5 100 Millicent 0.5 1.3 0.8 100 Moorook WTP 0.5 1.7 1.0 100 Morgan / Swan Reach WTP 0.1 4.4 3.1 100 Morgan WTP <0.1 4.5 3.1 100 Mt Burr 0.5 1.4 0.8 100 160 Appendices: Drinking water quality data Table 4 — continued Chlorine Residual – Free Chlorine Residual – Total [mg/L]^ [mg/L]† System Min Max Ave* Health Min Max Ave* Health Compliance %# Compliance %# ADWG value ≤5 ≤5 Target 99.8% 99.8% Mt Compass 0.7 1.5 1.1 100 Mt Gambier 0.4 1.4 1.0 100 Mt Pleasant WTP <0.1 1.9 1.2 100 Murray Bridge WTP <0.1 4.2 1.6 100 Mypolonga WTP 0.4 1.6 1.2 100 Myponga WTP <0.1 1.4 0.3 100 1.6 ++ 3.0 ++ 2.4 ++ 100 Nangwarry 0.5 1.2 0.8 100 Naracoorte <0.1 1.0 0.6 100 Padthaway 0.5 1.2 0.8 100 Palmer WTP 0.2 1.7 0.8 100 Parachilna 0.6 1.4 1.0 100 Parilla IRP 0.7 2.0 1.3 100 Penneshaw WTP <0.1 2.5 1.0 100 Penola IRP <0.1 1.4 0.9 100 Pinnaroo IRP 0.3 1.9 1.2 100 Port MacDonnell 0.7 1.3 0.9 100 Quorn 0.8 1.9 1.3 100 Renmark WTP 0.2 2.4 1.1 100 Robe IRP 0.6 1.5 0.9 100 Summit WTP 2.2 4.7 3.4 100 Swan Reach Town WTP 0.3 1.6 1.0 100 Swan Reach WTP 2.4 4.9 3.5 100 Tailem Bend WTP 0.1 4.8 3.0 100 Tarpeena IRP 0.6 1.4 0.9 100 Waikerie WTP 0.5 1.5 1.0 100 Wilmington 0.5 2.9 1.5 100 Wirrina Cove WTP <0.1 1.5 0.5 100 Woolpunda WTP 1.0 4.3 2.6 100 ^ Chlorinated systems only. † Chloraminated systems only. ++ Myponga township chloramination. * Limit of reporting (LOR) values replaced with half LOR prior to calculating average. # Prior to calculating compliance for health related chemicals, individual water sample test results are rounded to the same number of significant figures as the ADWG value (as prescribed in the ADWG and endorsed by SA Health). While we aim for 100 per cent health compliance, the ADWG recognises exceedances in test results can happen occasionally. The ADWG states: “although concentrations of by-products should be kept as low as possible, efforts to achieve this should never jeopardise effective disinfection.” An exceedance of the health guideline is immediately investigated and corrective action taken as needed, in conjunction with SA Health. 161 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report Table 4 — continued Colour – True (456nm) Turbidity [HU] [NTU] System Min Max Ave* Aesthetic Min Max Ave* Aesthetic Compliance % Compliance % ADWG value ≤ 15 ≤5 Target Barmera WTP <1 <1 <1 100 <0.1 0.22 <0.1 100 Barossa WTP <1 2 <1 100 <0.1 1.2 0.14 100 Beachport IRP <1 <1 <1 100 <0.1 1.8 0.13 100 Berri WTP <1 <1 <1 100 <0.1 0.39 0.11 100 Blanchetown WTP <1 1 <1 100 0.15 0.28 0.21 100 Bordertown <1 <1 <1 100 <0.1 0.18 <0.1 100 Cadell WTP <1 <1 <1 100 <0.1 0.20 0.14 100 Coffin Bay <1 <1 <1 100 <0.1 0.12 <0.1 100 Cowirra WTP <1 <1 <1 100 <0.1 0.13 <0.1 100 Elliston <1 <1 <1 100 <0.1 0.18 <0.1 100 Eyre South <1 <1 <1 100 <0.1 0.41 <0.1 100 Eyre South/Morgan WTP <1 <1 <1 100 <0.1 0.71 0.11 100 Geranium <1 <1 <1 100 <0.1 0.14 <0.1 100 Glossop WTP <1 <1 <1 100 <0.1 1.0 0.19 100 Happy Valley WTP <1 <1 <1 100 <0.1 0.63 0.12 100 Hawker Desalination WTP <1 <1 <1 100 <0.1 0.21 <0.1 100 Kalangadoo IRP <1 <1 <1 100 <0.1 0.15 <0.1 100 Kanmantoo WTP <1 <1 <1 100 <0.1 0.35 0.17 100 Kingston SE IRP <1 <1 <1 100 <0.1 0.16 <0.1 100 Lameroo IRP <1 <1 <1 100 <0.1 1.6 0.22 100 Leigh Creek WTP <1 <1 <1 100 <0.1 1.4 0.19 100 Loxton WTP <1 1 <1 100 <0.1 0.31 <0.1 100 Lucindale IRP <1 <1 <1 100 <0.1 0.14 <0.1 100 Mannum WTP <1 <1 <1 100 <0.1 0.20 <0.1 100 Melrose <1 <1 <1 100 <0.1 0.17 <0.1 100 Middle River WTP <1 <1 <1 100 <0.1 2.1 0.24 100 Millicent <1 <1 <1 100 <0.1 1.3 0.10 100 Moorook WTP <1 <1 <1 100 0.11 6.2 0.41 95.8 Morgan / Swan Reach WTP <1 2 <1 100 <0.1 1.2 <0.1 100 Morgan WTP <1 1 <1 100 <0.1 14 0.18 99.1 Mt Burr <1 <1 <1 100 <0.1 0.14 <0.1 100 162 Appendices: Drinking water quality data Table 4 — continued Colour – True (456nm) Turbidity [HU] [NTU] System Min Max Ave* Aesthetic Min Max Ave* Aesthetic Compliance % Compliance % ADWG value ≤ 15 ≤5 Target Mt Compass <1 <1 <1 100 <0.1 0.24 <0.1 100 Mt Gambier <1 1 <1 100 <0.1 0.27 0.12 100 Mt Pleasant WTP <1 <1 <1 100 <0.1 0.26 <0.1 100 Murray Bridge WTP <1 <1 <1 100 <0.1 0.38 <0.1 100 Mypolonga WTP <1 8 2 100 <0.1 0.16 <0.1 100 Myponga WTP <1 2 1 100 <0.1 6.0 0.19 99.4 Nangwarry <1 <1 <1 100 <0.1 0.68 <0.1 100 Naracoorte <1 <1 <1 100 <0.1 1.2 0.26 100 Padthaway <1 <1 <1 100 0.13 0.23 0.17 100 Palmer WTP <1 <1 <1 100 <0.1 0.21 <0.1 100 Parachilna <1 <1 <1 100 <0.1 0.16 <0.1 100 Parilla IRP <1 2 <1 100 <0.1 0.12 <0.1 100 Penneshaw WTP <1 <1 <1 100 <0.1 0.66 0.12 100 Penola IRP <1 <1 <1 100 <0.1 0.29 <0.1 100 Pinnaroo IRP <1 <1 <1 100 <0.1 1.2 0.12 100 Port MacDonnell <1 <1 <1 100 <0.1 0.27 0.12 100 Quorn <1 2 <1 100 <0.1 0.18 <0.1 100 Renmark WTP <1 1 <1 100 <0.1 0.14 <0.1 100 Robe IRP <1 <1 <1 100 <0.1 0.18 <0.1 100 Summit WTP <1 2 1 100 <0.1 0.18 <0.1 100 Swan Reach Town WTP <1 <1 <1 100 <0.1 0.40 0.13 100 Swan Reach WTP <1 2 <1 100 <0.1 1.1 <0.1 100 Tailem Bend WTP <1 2 1 100 <0.1 3.0 0.13 100 Tarpeena IRP <1 <1 <1 100 <0.1 0.27 <0.1 100 Waikerie WTP <1 2 <1 100 <0.1 0.19 0.10 100 Wilmington <1 <1 <1 100 <0.1 0.41 0.18 100 Wirrina Cove WTP <1 1 <1 100 0.18 1.4 0.48 100 Woolpunda WTP <1 <1 <1 100 <0.1 1.9 0.17 100 * Limit of reporting (LOR) values replaced with half LOR prior to calculating average. 163 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report Table 4 — continued pH Trihalomethanes – Total [pH Units] [µg/L]^ System Min Max Ave* Aesthetic Min Max Ave* Health Compliance % Compliance %# ADWG value 6.5 8.5 ≤ 250 Target 99.8% Barmera WTP 7.1 8.0 7.7 100 46 80 62 100 Barossa WTP 7.1 8.8 7.6 93.3 91 226 157 100 Beachport IRP 7.7 7.8 7.8 100 36 36 36 100 Berri WTP 7.3 8.0 7.6 100 33 79 55 100 Blanchetown WTP 7.1 8.2 7.6 100 38 65 53 100 Bordertown 7.2 7.8 7.5 100 11 11 11 100 Cadell WTP 7.0 7.9 7.4 100 37 59 46 100 Coffin Bay 7.7 8.0 7.8 100 18 18 18 100 Cowirra WTP 7.1 8.0 7.5 100 49 83 72 100 Elliston 7.5 7.8 7.6 100 11 11 11 100 Eyre South 7.0 8.0 7.6 100 9 71 21 100 Eyre South/Morgan WTP 7.6 8.2 7.9 100 51 168 102 100 Geranium 6.9 7.2 7.1 100 <4 <4 <4 100 Glossop WTP 7.2 8.0 7.8 100 29 54 44 100 Happy Valley WTP 7.3 8.7 7.9 92.0 39 153 114 100 Hawker Desalination WTP 7.9 8.1 8.0 100 9 9 9 100 Kalangadoo IRP 7.3 7.6 7.4 100 47 47 47 100 Kanmantoo WTP 7.2 7.9 7.5 100 55 90 66 100 Kingston SE IRP 7.5 7.7 7.6 100 43 43 43 100 Lameroo IRP 7.1 8.0 7.7 100 26 26 26 100 Leigh Creek WTP 7.8 9.4 8.6 47.5 <4 <4 <4 100 Loxton WTP 8.2 9.0 8.7 15.4 Lucindale IRP 7.6 7.8 7.7 100 116 116 116 100 Mannum WTP 7.1 7.8 7.5 100 42 85 56 100 Melrose 7.3 7.6 7.5 100 8 8 8 100 Middle River WTP 6.8 7.8 7.3 100 22 343 135 91.7 Millicent 7.5 7.9 7.7 100 70 70 70 100 Moorook WTP 7.6 8.0 7.9 100 42 60 52 100 Morgan / Swan Reach WTP 8.0 10.0 9.2 1.1 Morgan WTP 6.9 9.8 8.6 26.9 39 147 80 100 Mt Burr 7.6 8.1 7.8 100 9 9 9 100 164 Appendices: Drinking water quality data Table 4 — continued pH Trihalomethanes – Total [pH Units] [µg/L]^ System Min Max Ave* Aesthetic Min Max Ave* Health Compliance % Compliance %# ADWG value 6.5 8.5 ≤ 250 Target 99.8% Mt Compass 7.2 8.0 7.6 100 <4 <4 <4 100 Mt Gambier 8.0 8.3 8.2 100 27 31 29 100 Mt Pleasant WTP 7.3 7.9 7.7 100 62 125 90 100 Murray Bridge WTP 7.1 8.8 7.5 99.2 53 144 96 100 Mypolonga WTP 7.1 7.8 7.5 100 75 125 94 100 Myponga WTP 7.1 8.8 7.8 88.5 161 273 215 85.4 Nangwarry 7.4 7.6 7.5 100 21 21 21 100 Naracoorte 7.7 7.9 7.8 100 173 205 188 100 Padthaway 7.4 7.8 7.6 100 10 10 10 100 Palmer WTP 7.2 8.5 8.0 100 58 115 85 100 Parachilna 7.9 8.3 8.0 100 9 9 9 100 Parilla IRP 7.5 7.9 7.8 100 17 17 17 100 Penneshaw WTP 7.5 8.0 7.8 100 <4 <4 <4 100 Penola IRP 7.5 7.6 7.5 100 55 55 55 100 Pinnaroo IRP 7.5 7.8 7.6 100 19 19 19 100 Port MacDonnell 8.0 8.2 8.1 100 78 78 78 100 Quorn 7.2 7.5 7.3 100 7 8 8 100 Renmark WTP 7.1 9.2 7.9 71.1 24 99 60 100 Robe IRP 7.7 7.9 7.8 100 56 56 56 100 Summit WTP 8.0 9.1 8.7 23.1 Swan Reach Town WTP 7.3 7.8 7.6 100 40 89 61 100 Swan Reach WTP 7.3 9.5 8.9 12.5 Tailem Bend WTP 7.6 9.5 8.7 36.9 Tarpeena IRP 7.6 7.8 7.7 100 26 26 26 100 Waikerie WTP 7.4 8.0 7.7 100 46 74 59 100 Wilmington 6.5 7.8 7.2 100 27 27 27 100 Wirrina Cove WTP 6.9 7.5 7.2 100 256 437 332 0.0 Woolpunda WTP 8.4 9.6 9.1 11.1 ^ Chlorinated systems only. * Limit of reporting (LOR) values replaced with half LOR prior to calculating average. # Prior to calculating compliance for health related chemicals, individual water sample test results are rounded to the same number of significant figures as the ADWG value (as prescribed in the ADWG and endorsed by SA Health). While we aim for 100 per cent health compliance, the ADWG recognises exceedances in test results can happen occasionally. The ADWG states: “although concentrations of by-products should be kept as low as possible, efforts to achieve this should never jeopardise effective disinfection.” An exceedance of the health guideline is immediately investigated and corrective action taken as needed, in conjunction with SA Health. † Chloraminated systems are run at a higher pH to improve chlorine residual persistence. 165 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report Table 4 — continued Fluoride Iron – Total [mg/L] [mg/L] System Min Max Ave* Health Min Max Ave* Aesthetic Compliance %# Compliance % ADWG value ≤ 1.5 ≤ 0.3 Target 99.8% Barmera WTP 0.87 0.92 0.90 100 0.0119 0.0311 0.0169 100 Barossa WTP 0.23 0.94 0.69 100 0.0038 0.1730 0.0363 100 Beachport IRP 0.22 0.25 0.23 100 0.0017 0.0362 0.0080 100 Berri WTP 0.87 0.90 0.89 100 0.0109 0.2303 0.0732 100 Blanchetown WTP <0.1 <0.1 <0.1 100 0.0104 0.0195 0.0163 100 Bordertown 0.30 0.33 0.32 100 0.0005 0.0143 0.0026 100 Cadell WTP <0.1 <0.1 <0.1 100 0.0095 0.0137 0.0117 100 Coffin Bay 0.87 1.2 1.0 100 <0.0005 0.0022 0.0011 100 Cowirra WTP <0.1 0.12 <0.1 100 0.0081 0.0235 0.0146 100 Elliston 0.57 0.68 0.63 100 <0.0005 0.0013 0.0009 100 Eyre South 0.42 1.2 0.53 100 <0.0005 0.0188 0.0021 100 Eyre South/Morgan WTP 0.49 0.67 0.58 100 0.0010 0.0059 0.0035 100 Geranium 0.99 1.1 1.1 100 0.0071 0.0215 0.0147 100 Glossop WTP <0.1 <0.1 <0.1 100 0.0090 0.0192 0.0145 100 Happy Valley WTP 0.65 0.91 0.83 100 0.0069 0.0732 0.0244 100 Hawker Desalination WTP <0.1 0.11 <0.1 100 0.0011 0.0053 0.0027 100 Kalangadoo IRP 0.11 0.13 0.12 100 0.0012 0.0256 0.0098 100 Kanmantoo WTP <0.1 0.1 <0.1 100 0.0012 0.0055 0.0029 100 Kingston SE IRP 0.28 0.32 0.30 100 0.0010 0.0146 0.0051 100 Lameroo IRP 0.54 0.62 0.59 100 0.0163 0.3240 0.0461 91.7 Leigh Creek WTP <0.1 <0.1 <0.1 100 0.0097 0.0653 0.0345 100 Loxton WTP 0.89 0.96 0.91 100 0.0010 0.0038 0.0023 100 Lucindale IRP 0.31 0.33 0.32 100 <0.0005 0.0080 0.0038 100 Mannum WTP 0.86 0.89 0.88 100 0.0092 0.0331 0.0219 100 Melrose 1.0 1.1 1.1 100 0.0017 0.0079 0.0054 100 Middle River WTP <0.1 <0.1 <0.1 100 0.0109 0.0774 0.0394 100 Millicent 0.97 1.1 1.0 100 0.0093 0.2855 0.0813 100 Moorook WTP <0.1 <0.1 <0.1 100 0.0052 0.0105 0.0081 100 Morgan / Swan Reach WTP 0.33 0.96 0.80 100 0.0029 0.0241 0.0083 100 Morgan WTP 0.39 0.91 0.83 100 <0.0005 0.1550 0.0280 100 Mt Burr 0.25 0.26 0.25 100 0.0019 0.0077 0.0037 100 166 Appendices: Drinking water quality data Table 4 — continued Fluoride Iron – Total [mg/L] [mg/L] System Min Max Ave* Health Min Max Ave* Aesthetic Compliance %# Compliance % ADWG value ≤ 1.5 ≤ 0.3 Target 99.8% Mt Compass 0.22 0.25 0.24 100 0.0014 0.0028 0.0019 100 Mt Gambier 0.85 0.94 0.89 100 <0.0005 0.0053 0.0008 100 Mt Pleasant WTP 0.86 0.91 0.88 100 0.0008 0.0013 0.0011 100 Murray Bridge WTP 0.86 0.96 0.92 100 0.0032 0.1180 0.0203 100 Mypolonga WTP <0.1 <0.1 <0.1 100 0.0071 0.0175 0.0125 100 Myponga WTP 0.11 0.85 0.61 100 0.0017 0.0404 0.0116 100 Nangwarry <0.1 0.14 0.11 100 <0.0005 0.0019 0.0008 100 Naracoorte 1.2 1.2 1.2 100 0.0722 0.2283 0.1380 100 Padthaway 0.10 0.13 0.12 100 0.0149 0.0164 0.0157 100 Palmer WTP <0.1 0.11 <0.1 100 0.0039 0.0088 0.0064 100 Parachilna 0.59 0.63 0.61 100 0.0026 0.0046 0.0036 100 Parilla IRP 0.44 0.46 0.45 100 0.0032 0.0200 0.0095 100 Penneshaw WTP <0.1 <0.1 <0.1 100 0.0007 0.0025 0.0015 100 Penola IRP 0.18 0.20 0.19 100 0.0022 0.2512 0.0440 100 Pinnaroo IRP 0.68 0.73 0.70 100 0.0007 0.0234 0.0112 100 Port MacDonnell 0.76 0.81 0.79 100 0.0021 0.0042 0.0034 100 Quorn 0.57 0.60 0.59 100 <0.0005 0.0106 0.0028 100 Renmark WTP 0.86 0.96 0.90 100 0.0016 0.0235 0.0087 100 Robe IRP 0.29 0.36 0.31 100 0.0013 0.0152 0.0041 100 Summit WTP 0.83 0.94 0.88 100 0.0008 0.0277 0.0076 100 Swan Reach Town WTP <0.1 <0.1 <0.1 100 0.0197 0.1322 0.0495 100 Swan Reach WTP 0.55 0.95 0.88 100 0.0005 0.0047 0.0023 100 Tailem Bend WTP 0.85 1.0 0.93 100 0.0015 0.0092 0.0045 100 Tarpeena IRP 0.17 0.21 0.20 100 0.0014 0.1035 0.0187 100 Waikerie WTP 0.87 0.91 0.89 100 0.0103 0.0251 0.0172 100 Wilmington 0.15 0.19 0.17 100 0.0115 0.0724 0.0393 100 Wirrina Cove WTP <0.1 0.14 0.11 100 0.0191 0.3881 0.1132 75.0 Woolpunda WTP <0.1 <0.1 <0.1 100 0.0014 0.0110 0.0059 100 * Limit of reporting (LOR) values replaced with half LOR prior to calculating average. # Prior to calculating compliance for health related chemicals, individual water sample test results are rounded to the same number of significant figures as the ADWG value (as prescribed in the ADWG and endorsed by SA Health). 167 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report Table 4 — continued Manganese – Total Hardness – Total [mg/L] [mg/L] System Health Aesthetic Aesthetic Min Max Ave* Min Max Ave* Compliance %# Compliance % Compliance % ADWG value ≤ 0.5 ≤ 0.1 ≤ 200 Target 99.8% Barmera WTP 0.0015 0.0023 0.0020 100 100 32 44 36 100 Barossa WTP 0.0004 0.0087 0.0017 100 100 114 141 125 100 Beachport IRP 0.0004 0.0038 0.0013 100 100 270 287 275 0.0 Berri WTP 0.0020 0.0040 0.0027 100 100 30 36 32 100 Blanchetown WTP 0.0008 0.0013 0.0011 100 100 36 46 40 100 Bordertown <0.0001 <0.0001 <0.0001 100 100 244 270 261 0.0 Cadell WTP 0.0005 0.0006 0.0006 100 100 34 47 39 100 Coffin Bay <0.0001 0.0003 0.0002 100 100 223 248 234 0.0 Cowirra WTP 0.0002 0.0005 0.0004 100 100 36 46 43 100 Elliston <0.0001 <0.0001 <0.0001 100 100 275 306 291 0.0 Eyre South <0.0001 0.0004 <0.0001 100 100 172 305 264 5.3 Eyre South/Morgan WTP <0.0001 0.0009 0.0004 100 100 132 197 178 100 Geranium 0.0001 0.0003 0.0002 100 100 569 580 576 0.0 Glossop WTP 0.0002 0.0005 0.0003 100 100 29 39 33 100 Happy Valley WTP 0.0002 0.0009 0.0007 100 100 60 86 73 100 Hawker Desalination WTP 0.0002 0.0005 0.0004 100 100 107 114 111 100 Kalangadoo IRP <0.0001 0.0001 <0.0001 100 100 339 352 347 0.0 Kanmantoo WTP 0.0002 0.0006 0.0004 100 100 38 53 47 100 Kingston SE IRP 0.0001 0.0006 0.0003 100 100 225 241 235 0.0 Lameroo IRP 0.0008 0.0011 0.0009 100 100 223 235 229 0.0 Leigh Creek WTP 0.0003 0.0023 0.0011 100 100 3 7 5 100 Loxton WTP 0.0008 0.0018 0.0012 100 100 25 36 31 100 Lucindale IRP <0.0001 <0.0001 <0.0001 100 100 308 315 311 0.0 Mannum WTP 0.0016 0.0086 0.0043 100 100 36 49 42 100 Melrose <0.0001 0.0001 <0.0001 100 100 328 363 351 0.0 Middle River WTP 0.0006 0.0271 0.0085 100 100 78 141 100 100 Millicent 0.0004 0.0084 0.0026 100 100 353 389 371 0.0 Moorook WTP <0.0001 0.0010 0.0007 100 100 30 40 35 100 Morgan / Swan Reach WTP <0.0001 0.0035 0.0016 100 100 34 56 44 100 Morgan WTP 0.0007 0.0046 0.0020 100 100 30 65 48 100 Mt Burr <0.0001 0.0002 0.0001 100 100 285 307 294 0.0 168 Appendices: Drinking water quality data Table 4 — continued Manganese – Total Hardness – Total [mg/L] [mg/L] System Health Aesthetic Aesthetic Min Max Ave* Min Max Ave* Compliance %# Compliance % Compliance % ADWG value ≤ 0.5 ≤ 0.1 ≤ 200 Target 99.8% Mt Compass <0.0001 0.0002 0.0002 100 100 51 57 55 100 Mt Gambier <0.0001 0.0001 <0.0001 100 100 166 194 178 100 Mt Pleasant WTP 0.0001 0.0004 0.0002 100 100 36 46 42 100 Murray Bridge WTP 0.0006 0.0029 0.0013 100 100 49 59 53 100 Mypolonga WTP 0.0003 0.0006 0.0005 100 100 37 51 45 100 Myponga WTP 0.0002 0.0095 0.0011 100 100 113 125 119 100 Nangwarry <0.0001 0.0001 <0.0001 100 100 364 393 381 0.0 Naracoorte 0.0115 0.0158 0.0137 100 100 334 376 357 0.0 Padthaway 0.0003 0.0005 0.0004 100 100 568 605 591 0.0 Palmer WTP 0.0001 0.0003 0.0002 100 100 37 49 44 100 Parachilna <0.0001 0.0002 0.0001 100 100 295 305 302 0.0 Parilla IRP <0.0001 0.0004 0.0002 100 100 175 185 180 100 Penneshaw WTP 0.0003 0.0031 0.0013 100 100 51 67 61 100 Penola IRP 0.0003 0.0022 0.0008 100 100 310 327 318 0.0 Pinnaroo IRP <0.0001 0.0007 0.0002 100 100 237 253 244 0.0 Port MacDonnell 0.0007 0.0008 0.0008 100 100 19 22 21 100 Quorn <0.0001 0.0006 0.0002 100 100 491 521 502 0.0 Renmark WTP 0.0007 0.0080 0.0020 100 100 24 40 31 100 Robe IRP <0.0001 0.0002 <0.0001 100 100 112 134 119 100 Summit WTP 0.0009 0.0055 0.0031 100 100 38 55 47 100 Swan Reach Town WTP 0.0003 0.0023 0.0009 100 100 30 46 39 100 Swan Reach WTP 0.0004 0.0047 0.0021 100 100 40 56 47 100 Tailem Bend WTP 0.0005 0.0025 0.0012 100 100 45 72 58 100 Tarpeena IRP 0.0002 0.0079 0.0024 100 100 384 409 396 0.0 Waikerie WTP 0.0016 0.0036 0.0023 100 100 31 42 36 100 Wilmington 0.0003 0.0019 0.0007 100 100 116 135 124 100 Wirrina Cove WTP 0.0177 0.0675 0.0432 100 100 218 296 263 0.0 Woolpunda WTP 0.0003 0.0017 0.0008 100 100 35 40 37 100 * Limit of reporting (LOR) values replaced with half LOR prior to calculating average. # Prior to calculating compliance for health related chemicals, individual water sample test results are rounded to the same number of significant figures as the ADWG value (as prescribed in the ADWG and endorsed by SA Health). 169 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report Table 5 2019-20 remote Aboriginal communities source water quality System Name Total Dissolved Solids Hardness – Total pH [mg/L] [mg/L] [pH Units] Min Max Ave* Min Max Ave* Min Max Ave* Amata ++ 511 1100 669 281 533 361 7.4 7.6 7.5 Davenport^ Gerard# Indulkana++ 1360 1540 1470 385 547 465 6.7 7.1 6.9 Kalka ++ Kaltjiti ++ 420 1320 1030 281 397 329 7.6 7.9 7.7 Kanpi++ 980 1310 1210 196 587 459 7.4 7.8 7.6 Mimili++ 316 1450 919 149 285 213 7.6 8.0 7.8 Murputja ++ 840 890 868 328 342 334 7.4 7.5 7.4 Nepabunna + Nyapari++ 524 930 768 134 310 235 7.6 7.6 7.6 Oak Valley+ Pipalyatjara ++ 722 733 729 393 437 410 7.6 7.6 7.6 Pt Pearce^ Pukatja++ 395 711 564 198 336 253 7.4 8.2 7.7 Raukkan^ Umuwa ++ 335 422 366 209 231 221 7.6 8.0 7.7 Watinuma ++ 694 1040 886 300 410 335 7.6 7.8 7.7 Yalata 8950 10200 9400 3160 4050 3420 6.5 6.9 6.7 Yunyarinyi++ 367 520 478 188 251 230 8.0 8.1 8.0 * Limit of reporting (LOR) values replaced with half LOR prior to calculating average. ^ System supplied from another SA Water supply. Refer to data in Country Source Water Quality Table 3. Davenport supplied from Morgan WTP, Point Pearce supplied from Morgan / Swan Reach WTP, and Raukkan supplied from Tailem Bend WTP. # Refer to Loxton WTP data in Country Source Water Quality Table 3. + System sourced from rainwater. ++ Due to COVID-19 travel restrictions to remote Aboriginal communities, the fourth quarter sampling run to the APY Lands was cancelled. 170 Appendices: Drinking water quality data Table 5 — continued System Name Colour – True (456nm) Fluoride Nitrate + Nitrite as Nitrogen Turbidity [HU] [mg/L] [mg/L] [NTU] Min Max Ave* Min Max Ave* Min Max Ave* Min Max Ave* Amata ++ <1 <1 <1 0.65 1.2 0.97 1.38 6.59 3.19 <0.1 0.56 0.16 Davenport^ Gerard# Indulkana ++ <1 <1 <1 0.42 0.55 0.49 6.73 8.75 7.81 <0.1 1.6 0.52 Kalka ++ <1 <1 <1 0.77 0.77 0.77 9.77 9.77 9.77 0.12 0.12 0.12 Kaltjiti ++ <1 <1 <1 1.2 1.7 1.5 7.58 10.2 8.90 <0.1 1.3 0.28 Kanpi++ <1 <1 <1 1.4 2.0 1.6 3.22 6.22 4.08 0.13 7.8 2.3 Mimili ++ <1 1 <1 1.7 2.5 2.0 0.450 17.2 14.1 <0.1 200 18 Murputja ++ <1 1 <1 3.1 3.2 3.1 1.98 2.76 2.25 <0.1 0.18 <0.1 Nepabunna + <1 <1 <1 0.75 0.75 0.75 Nyapari++ <1 <1 <1 2.0 2.5 2.2 1.90 4.58 3.56 0.35 1.1 0.61 Oak Valley + <1 <1 <1 0.85 0.85 0.85 Pipalyatjara ++ <1 <1 <1 0.66 0.71 0.69 6.27 6.84 6.63 <0.1 1.2 0.34 Pt Pearce^ Pukatja++ <1 <1 <1 0.95 1.8 1.3 0.501 2.35 1.17 <0.1 0.20 0.11 Raukkan^ Umuwa ++ <1 <1 <1 0.73 1.0 0.91 2.59 5.24 3.66 <0.1 0.28 <0.1 Watinuma ++ <1 <1 <1 1.0 1.4 1.2 3.64 4.24 3.97 <0.1 0.16 0.10 Yalata <1 2 1 0.37 0.78 0.49 0.351 1.09 0.862 <0.1 8.0 2.1 Yunyarinyi ++ <1 <1 <1 1.6 1.7 1.6 3.04 7.51 5.31 <0.1 0.16 <0.1 * Limit of reporting (LOR) values replaced with half LOR prior to calculating average. ^ System supplied from another SA Water supply. Refer to data in Country Source Water Quality Table 3. Davenport supplied from Morgan WTP, Point Pearce supplied from Morgan / Swan Reach WTP, and Raukkan supplied from Tailem Bend WTP. # Refer to Loxton WTP data in Country Source Water Quality Table 3. + System sourced from rainwater. ++ Due to COVID-19 travel restrictions to remote Aboriginal communities, the fourth quarter sampling run to the APY Lands was cancelled. 171 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report Table 6 2019-20 remote Aboriginal communities drinking water distribution systems – customer tap water quality against Australian Drinking Water Guidelines E. coli Total Dissolved Solids System [per cfu/100mL] [mg/L] Samples Health Min Max Ave* Aesthetic Compliance %# Compliance % ADWG Value ++ ≤600 Target 99.8% Free Amata++ 3 100 761 761 761 0.0 Davenport 10 100 202 202 202 100 Gerard 11 100 119 119 119 100 Indulkana ++ 3 100 122 122 122 100 Kalka++ 3 100 577 577 577 100 Kaltjiti++ 2 100 Kanpi ++ 3 100 1260 1260 1260 0.0 Mimili ++ 2 100 739 739 739 0.0 Murputja++ 3 100 264 264 264 100 Nepabunna 3 100 93 93 93 100 Nyapari ++ 2 100 272 272 272 100 Oak Valley 4 100 28 28 28 100 Pipalyatjara++ 3 100 745 745 745 0.0 Pt Pearce 12 100 181 181 181 100 Pukatja ++ 3 100 622 622 622 0.0 Raukkan 10 100 229 229 229 100 Umuwa++ 3 100 375 375 375 100 Watinuma++ 3 100 789 789 789 0.0 Yalata 4 100 126 126 126 100 Yunyarinyi ++ 3 100 143 143 143 100 ++ E. coli should not be detected. * Limit of reporting (LOR) values replaced with half LOR prior to calculating average. ++ Due to COVID-19 travel restrictions to remote Aboriginal communities, the fourth quarter sampling run to the APY Lands was cancelled. 172 Appendices: Drinking water quality data Table 6 — continued Chlorine Residual – Free Chlorine Residual – Total System [mg/L]^ [mg/L] † Min Max Ave* Health Min Max Ave* Health Compliance %# Compliance %# ADWG Value ≤5 ≤5 Target 99.8% 99.8% Amata++ Davenport 2.7 3.7 3.2 100 Gerard 0.2 0.9 0.6 100 Indulkana++ Kalka++ Kaltjiti ++ Kanpi ++ Mimili++ Murputja++ Nepabunna Nyapari ++ Oak Valley Pipalyatjara++ Pt Pearce 2.0 3.1 2.7 100 Pukatja ++ Raukkan 1.8 3.2 2.6 100 Umuwa++ Watinuma ++ Yalata Yunyarinyi++ A majority of the remote Aboriginal communities use UV as the primary mode of disinfection. ^ Chlorinated systems only. † Chloraminated systems only. * Limit of reporting (LOR) values replaced with half LOR prior to calculating average. # Prior to calculating compliance for health related chemicals, individual water sample test results are rounded to the same number of significant figures as the ADWG value (as prescribed in the ADWG and endorsed by SA Health). ++ Due to COVID 19-travel restrictions to remote Aboriginal communities, the fourth quarter sampling run to the APY Lands was cancelled. 173 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report Table 6 — continued System Colour – True (456nm) Turbidity [HU] [NTU] Min Max Ave* Aesthetic Min Max Ave* Aesthetic Compliance % Compliance % ADWG Value ≤ 15 ≤5 Target Amata++ <1 <1 <1 100 0.16 0.16 0.16 100 Davenport^ <0.1 1.4 0.35 100 Gerard 4 4 4 100 0.33 8.5 1.5 100 Indulkana ++ <1 <1 <1 100 1.3 1.3 1.3 100 Kalka ++ <1 <1 <1 100 0.13 0.13 0.13 100 Kaltjiti++ Kanpi ++ <1 <1 <1 100 0.15 0.15 0.15 100 Mimili ++ <1 <1 <1 100 <0.1 <0.1 <0.1 100 Murputja ++ <1 <1 <1 100 0.14 0.14 0.14 100 Nepabunna <1 <1 <1 100 0.27 0.27 0.27 100 Nyapari ++ <1 <1 <1 100 <0.1 <0.1 <0.1 100 Oak Valley <1 <1 <1 100 0.48 0.48 0.48 100 Pipalyatjara++ <1 <1 <1 100 <0.1 <0.1 <0.1 100 Pt Pearce^ <0.1 0.17 <0.1 100 Pukatja ++ <1 <1 <1 100 0.22 0.22 0.22 100 Raukkan^ <0.1 0.27 0.11 100 Umuwa++ <1 <1 <1 100 0.18 0.18 0.18 100 Watinuma ++ <1 <1 <1 -100 <0.1 <0.1 <0.1 100 Yalata <1 <1 <1 100 <0.1 <0.1 <0.1 100 Yunyarinyi ++ <1 <1 <1 100 0.10 0.10 0.10 100 * Limit of reporting (LOR) values replaced with half LOR prior to calculating average. ^ System supplied from another SA Water supply. Refer to data in Country Supply Table 4. Davenport supplied from Morgan WTP, Point Pearce supplied from Morgan / Swan Reach WTP, and Raukkan supplied from Tailem Bend WTP. ++ Due to COVID-19 travel restrictions to remote Aboriginal communities, the fourth quarter sampling run to the APY Lands was cancelled. 174 Appendices: Drinking water quality data Table 6 — continued System pH Trihalomethanes Total [pH Units] [µg/L] ^ Min Max Ave* Aesthetic Min Max Ave* Health Compliance % Compliance %# ADWG Value 6.5 8.5 ≤ 250 Target 99.8% Amata++ 7.8 7.8 7.8 100 Davenport 8.9 9.3 9.1 0.0 Gerard 7.2 7.9 7.7 100 57 107 81 100 Indulkana ++ 7.6 7.6 7.6 100 Kalka++ 8.0 8.0 8.0 100 Kaltjiti++ Kanpi ++ 7.9 7.9 7.9 100 Mimili ++ 8.0 8.0 8.0 100 Murputja++ 7.8 7.8 7.8 100 Nepabunna 6.9 6.9 6.9 100 Nyapari ++ 8.2 8.2 8.2 100 Oak Valley 7.0 7.0 7.0 100 Pipalyatjara++ 7.9 7.9 7.9 100 Pt Pearce 9.0 9.5 9.3 0.0 Pukatja ++ 7.8 7.8 7.8 100 Raukkan 8.2 8.8 8.6 50.0 Umuwa++ 8.0 8.0 8.0 100 Watinuma++ 7.9 7.9 7.9 100 Yalata 7.6 7.6 7.6 100 Yunyarinyi ++ 8.2 8.2 8.2 100 * Limit of reporting (LOR) values replaced with half LOR prior to calculating average. ^ Chlorinated systems only. # Prior to calculating compliance for health related chemicals, individual water sample test results are rounded to the same number of significant figures as the ADWG value (as prescribed in the ADWG and endorsed by SA Health). ++ Due to COVID-19 travel restrictions to remote Aboriginal communities, the fourth quarter sampling run to the APY Lands was cancelled. 175 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report Table 6 — continued Fluoride Iron – Total System [mg/L] [mg/L] Min Max Ave* Health Min Max Ave* Aesthetic Compliance %# Compliance % ADWG Value ≤ 1.5 ≤ 0.3 Target 99.8% Amata++ 0.88 0.92 0.89 100 0.0059 0.0059 0.0059 100 Davenport^ Gerard <0.1 <0.1 <0.1 100 0.1825 0.1825 0.1825 100 Indulkana ++ <0.1 <0.1 <0.1 100 0.0503 0.0503 0.0503 100 Kalka++ 0.89 0.89 0.89 100 0.0012 0.0012 0.0012 100 Kaltjiti++ 0.50 0.52 0.51 100 Kanpi ++ 1.5 1.6 1.6 33.3 0.0058 0.0058 0.0058 100 Mimili ++ 0.55 1.4 1.1 100 0.0036 0.0036 0.0036 Murputja++ 0.48 3.1 1.4 66.6 0.0021 0.0021 0.0021 100 Nepabunna 0.30 0.30 0.30 100 0.2161 0.2161 0.2161 100 Nyapari ++ 0.46 0.47 0.47 100 0.0094 0.0094 0.0094 100 Oak Valley <0.1 <0.1 <0.1 100 0.0025 0.0025 0.0025 100 Pipalyatjara++ 0.38 0.38 0.38 100 0.0015 0.0015 0.0015 100 Pt Pearce^ Pukatja ++ 1.0 1.3 1.1 100 0.0129 0.0129 0.0129 100 Raukkan^ Umuwa++ 0.88 0.88 0.88 100 0.0043 0.0043 0.0043 100 Watinuma ++ 1.2 1.3 1.3 100 <0.0005 <0.0005 <0.0005 100 Yalata <0.1 <0.1 <0.1 100 <0.0005 <0.0005 <0.0005 100 Yunyarinyi ++ 0.36 0.60 0.45 100 0.0269 0.0269 0.0269 100 * Limit of reporting (LOR) values replaced with half LOR prior to calculating average. # Prior to calculating compliance for health related chemicals, individual water sample test results are rounded to the same number of significant figures as the ADWG value (as prescribed in the ADWG and endorsed by SA Health). While we aim for 100 per cent health compliance, the ADWG recognises exceedances in test results can happen occasionally. Most health guidelines for chemicals are based on a lifetime of exposure, therefore even if the compliance figures in this report are less than 100 per cent, it does not mean your water is not safe to drink. An exceedance of the health guideline is immediately investigated and corrective action taken as needed, in conjunction with SA Health. ^ System supplied from another SA Water Supply. Refer to data in Country Supply Table 4. Davenport supplied from Morgan WTP, Point Pearce supplied from Morgan / Swan Reach WTP, and Raukkan supplied from Tailem Bend WTP. ++ Due to COVID-19 travel restrictions to remote Aboriginal communities, the fourth quarter sampling run to the APY Lands was cancelled. 176 Appendices: Drinking water quality data Table 6 — continued Manganese – Total Hardness – Total System [mg/L] [mg/L] Min Max Ave* Health Aesthetic Min Max Ave* Aesthetic Compliance %# Compliance % Compliance % ADWG Value ≤ 0.5 ≤ 0.1 ≤ 200 Target 99.8% Amata++ 0.0005 0.0005 0.0005 100 100 405 405 405 0.0 Davenport^ Gerard 0.0042 0.0042 0.0042 100 100 29 29 29 100 Indulkana ++ 0.0015 0.0015 0.0015 100 100 90 90 90 100 Kalka++ <0.0001 <0.0001 <0.0001 100 100 327 327 327 0.0 Kaltjiti++ Kanpi ++ 0.0002 0.0002 0.0002 100 100 516 516 516 0.0 Mimili ++ 0.0001 0.0001 0.0001 100 100 142 142 142 100 Murputja++ 0.0034 0.0034 0.0034 100 100 102 102 102 100 Nepabunna 0.0034 0.0034 0.0034 100 100 19 19 19 100 Nyapari ++ 0.0037 0.0037 0.0037 100 100 95 95 95 100 Oak Valley <0.0001 <0.0001 <0.0001 100 100 7 7 7 100 Pipalyatjara++ <0.0001 <0.0001 <0.0001 100 100 466 466 466 0.0 Pt Pearce^ Pukatja ++ 0.0002 0.0002 0.0002 100 100 237 237 237 0.0 Raukkan^ Umuwa++ 0.0004 0.0004 0.0004 100 100 236 236 236 0.0 Watinuma++ <0.0001 <0.0001 <0.0001 100 100 403 403 403 0.0 Yalata <0.0001 <0.0001 <0.0001 100 100 87 87 87 100 Yunyarinyi ++ 0.0001 0.0001 0.0001 100 100 67 67 67 100 * Limit of reporting (LOR) values replaced with half LOR prior to calculating average. # Prior to calculating compliance for health related chemicals, individual water sample test results are rounded to the same number of significant figures as the ADWG value (as prescribed in the ADWG and endorsed by SA Health). ^ System supplied from another SA Water Supply. Data available in Country Supply Table 4. Davenport supplied from Morgan WTP, Point Pearce supplied from Morgan / Swan Reach WTP, and Raukkan supplied from Tailem Bend WTP. ++ Due to COVID-19 travel restrictions to remote Aboriginal communities, the fourth quarter sampling run to the APY Lands was cancelled. 177 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report United Nations Communication on Progress As a participant of the United Nations Global Compact, we are part of the world’s largest corporate sustainability In addition to our external responsibilities, we have five business-wide policies which Policy Developing business-specific policies initiative which exists reinforce our commitment to operating around human rights has been identified sustainably to maintain our viability now to implement universal and into the future: as an opportunity for improvement. Our Finance Policy states that “when sustainability principles 1. Customer and Community making decisions about purchasing goods, services or works, we consider and support progress 2. 3. Environment Finance customer, community and environmental towards achieving 4. Governance consequences as well as the financial benefits”. the Sustainable 5. People, Safety and Capability. Our policies, legislative requirements Plans and procedures Development Goals. and strategy guide our procedures, Our Leave Procedure has provisions for priorities and actions. Through our people to access personal leave and A principle-based approach policies and compliance actions, our enables people experiencing family and Ensuring our customers receive reliable, business and operations are aligned domestic violence additional provision. quality services, and trust us, is why we with the Ten Principles of the UN Global It also has provisions for gender are transparent in what we do and how Compact to achieve the Sustainable affirmation leave to support our people we do it. Development Goals. who are undertaking gender transition To achieve this, we comply with many or defining their gender identity. acts, laws, regulations, codes of practice, Human Rights Our Supply Chain team is implementing policies and procedures, as well as Principle 1: Business should support plans aimed at addressing a range of set ourselves measurable goals which and respect the protection of social impacts through the supply chain, go beyond compliance and reach into internationally proclaimed human including the State Government’s Local working to improve outcomes rights. Participation Policy, our Reconciliation for communities. Action Plan and Modern Slavery Action Our Corporate Compliance Framework Principle 2: Make sure they are not Plan. Our procurement procedures have ensures an integrated, strategic and complicit in human rights abuses. been enhanced to include the need to consistent approach to managing our identify and address any social impacts responsibilities, and provides processes Acts and regulations including human rights as part of our for identifying, assessing, prioritising, As a South Australian owned statutory approaches to the supply market and reporting, and monitoring our corporation, we operate under Australian with our contracted partners and their performance on a regular basis so and South Australian laws, including, yet associated supply chains. that what we do is safe, consistent, not limited to: reliable, and in the best interest of • Age Discrimination Act 2004 our customers and our people. • Disability Discrimination Act 1992 iComply is our compliance system, • Racial Discrimination Act 1975 providing a central repository for • Sex Discrimination Act 1984. managing our obligations and licenses, raising non-compliances and all associated reporting. 178 Appendices: United Nations Communication on Progress Actions Acts and regulations Our Diversity and Inclusion Plan has Through an industry-leading initiative, As a responsible statutory corporation, four priority areas of focus: accessible services for a wider world, we we actively comply with anti1. women at SA Water are changing the way we work to deliver discrimination, equal opportunity 2. Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander better water services for our customers responsibilities and labour laws including: employment and retention living with a disability or debilitating • Equal opportunity Act 1984 3. flexible and inclusive workforce lifestyle condition. This program aims to • Work Health and Safety Act 2012 4. emerging workforce. make sure anyone living with a disability • Return to Work Act 2014 Our Leave Procedure has provisions or accessibility issue is able to best engage with our services, and that • Long Service Leave Act 1987. for trade union training leave which we are meeting their needs. Our Enterprise Agreement enables acknowledges the right of our people collective bargaining in accordance with to choose to be members of a trade We seek to work collaboratively with our the Australian Fair Work Act 2009. This union or employee association and suppliers and the supply chain to identify requires the support from the majority of supports their development in promoting risk and implement controls to support our people covered by the agreement, effective industrial relations in the minimising human rights risks throughout and who can vote on it, before it is then workplace. We also provide training for the supply chain. This includes: approved by the Fair Work Commission. our people to develop and participate in • developing focused local participation It must provide better terms and our business as work health and safety plans and key social performance conditions of employment for our people representatives. metrics with our strategic partners than if they were employed under the In addition, this procedure also has • seeking to form and build relevant modern award. provisions for cultural/ceremonial leave relationships with Aboriginal owned for our Aboriginal and Torres Strait businesses and helping develop their Policy Islander people enabling them to fulfil commercial acumen Our People, Safety and Capability Policy cultural requirements and responsibilities • identifying high risk human rights provides our people clear boundaries that are a recognised and important supply chains, working with our and guiding principles on our approach part of their culture. suppliers and the supply chain within to managing our greatest asset – these high-risk areas and training and people. It states that discrimination is Actions developing our people to improve not tolerated. Each of the four focus areas in our social outcomes through our supply Diversity and Inclusion Plan comprises chain investment. In addition, through our Finance Policy we encourage equal opportunity to all multiple actions and programs so we potential suppliers. The policy states achieve in each area. Labour that: “Potential suppliers are given equal To support diversity across the Principle 3: Businesses should uphold opportunity to do business with us. To corporation, we measure the number the freedom of association and the support the South Australian Industry of women in leadership positions effective recognition of the right to Participation Policy and Aboriginal monthly, which forms one of our key collective bargaining. Business Procurement Policy, local strategic metrics. Initiatives include and Aboriginal suppliers will be given partnering with the University of Principle 4: The elimination of all opportunities to satisfy our requirements, Adelaide to support their Women in forms of forced and compulsory including competitiveness and capability.” Science, Technology, Engineering and labour. Mathematics Careers program. Plans and procedures Principle 5: The effective abolition As a member of Pride in Water, we Our Enterprise Agreement incorporates of child labour. support this Australian water industry our commitment to providing appropriate initiative to include our people who Principle 6: The elimination support, training and development to identify as LGBTIQ+, as well as our of discrimination in respect of promote diversity in the workplace. This customers. To support our people, employment and occupation. is supported by a number of plans we have two internal network groups: including our Diversity and Inclusion Together for Women and Pride Together. Plan and our Reconciliation Action Plan. This plan includes Aboriginal and Torres We also provide meaningful employment Strait Islander employment and retention opportunities for young people through targets. our traineeships, apprenticeships and graduate placements. 179 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report To implement sustainable procurement Plans and procedures Policy practices in our business, we are To fulfil our environmental commitments, As public officers our people must investigating our supply chains to ensure we established and maintain a corporate comply with the South Australian Public we are not involuntarily complicitous Environmental Management System Sector Fraud and Corruption Control in forced, compulsory or child labour which is certified to the Australian Policy and the Code of Ethics for the through any international procurement and international standard AS/NZS South Australian Public Sector. of goods and services. ISO14001:2015. Our business-wide Governance Policy Our corporate Environmental provides clear boundaries and guiding Environment Management Plan outlines overarching principles for good governance. It states Principle 7: Businesses should support environmental performance improvement that “we have a culture where ethical a precautionary approach objectives and targets. Its actions align to behaviour is paramount, and fraud and to environmental challenges. our operational and asset management corruption is not tolerated”. plans. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives To manage our environmental risks and Plans and procedures to promote greater environmental ensure specified standards are met, our Our Fraud and Corruption Control Plan responsibility. Environmental Management System has establishes a uniform approach to processes and procedures that determine managing risks associated with fraud Principle 9: Encourage the how a specific process or activity must and/or corruption. Fraud and corruption development and diffusion of be performed. control is a responsibility shared by all environmentally friendly technologies. Environmental incidents, hazards and our people and our contractors. The plan risks are captured in our Safe, Actions, is supported by a Fraud and Corruption Acts and regulations Control Procedure. Our register of Environmental Legal Assured, Managed system and managed Requirements captures all the legislation in accordance with the policy and Our Ethical Standards Procedure ensures we must comply with. This includes, yet procedures. respect, safety, integrity and lawfulness is not limited to: in our dealings with the public and Actions each other, and that our people do • Environment Protection Act 1993 Environment and heritage assessments not engage in fraudulent, corrupt or • Planning Development and make sure potential impacts to the illegal activity. Infrastructure Act 2016 environment or heritage are identified and managed throughout planning, Our Procurement and Contract • Aboriginal Heritage Act 1988 constructing and operating our assets. Management Procedure provides the • Landscape South Australia Act 2019. steps and guidance to our people on Under the Environment Protection Act Anti-corruption our procurement processes, authorities 1993, the operation of our licenced and accountabilities to ensure probity facilities are regulated by the South Principle 10: Businesses should work is applied and conflicts of interest are Australian Environment Protection against corruption in all its forms, managed. Authority. including extortion and bribery. Actions Policy Acts and regulations Our performance is monitored regularly, Our business-wide Environment Policy All of our people are ‘public officers’ and this information is provided to gives our people clear boundaries and and so bound by the provisions of the: our Senior Leadership Team, Board guiding principles on how we provide Committees and external regulators. • Independent Commissioner Against environmental outcomes our customers Compliance programs are managed by Corruption Act 2012 value as we provide high quality drinking specialist areas in our business where a • Independent Commissioner Against water and recycled water, as well as specific area of operation has significant Corruption Directions and Guidelines the effective collection, treatment and responsibility requirements. for Public Officers disposal of wastewater. • Public Interest Disclosure Act 2018 • Public Interest Disclosure Regulations 2019 • Public Sector (Honesty and Accountability) Act 1995 • Public Sector (Honesty and Accountability) Regulations 2010. 180 Appendices: United Nations Communication on Progress Prioritising goals The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are inherently interdependent. Our materiality assessment highlights the areas in which we can make the biggest impact and we recognise our actions have secondary impacts where we can make a difference. Our material impacts are grouped in four narratives. 1. In delivering our core water and sanitation services, we are the interface between our customers and the natural environment. Our production and treatment activities ensure the water is fit for our customers to use and to be recycled or returned to the environment. 2. In serving the whole community, we care for our people, customers and members of the community. We are committed to building enduring and respectful relationships with the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander community. 3. We are part of the fabric of our towns, cities and regional centres, contributing to sustainable and liveable communities. We build and operate significant assets to provide water and sanitation services. 4. Climate change affects all aspects of our business including water security. Distribution of a reliable drinking water supply and provision of our services requires significant amounts of energy. The SDGs are all interconnected and we acknowledge our impact on these additional goals. 181 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report How we contribute to the SDGs Primary focus: Goal 6 – Clean Water and Sanitation How we contribute to this goal Our core business is to provide safe, clean water and sanitation services to meet the public health needs of communities across South Australia. Taking raw water from a range of sources, we treat it to meet stringent quality criteria. At the other end, we remove the wastewater and treat it to be suitable for reuse or for release back into the environment. Goal 6 targets we contribute to Our target Our progress as of 30 June 2020 Read more 6.1 By 2030, achieve universal Delivering water More than 230 billion litres of water supplied Our services, and equitable access to safe and services across the to more than 700,000 homes and businesses. page 12. affordable drinking water for all. state. In 2019-20 we took on responsibility for the Yankalilla operation and maintenance of the drinking water wastewater supply network servicing the town of Wirrina. and Wirrina water networks transferred, page 25. Delivering a In 2020-21, the average residential customer Lower prices for reduced average in metropolitan Adelaide will benefit from an customers, page bill price. estimated annual saving of $200 or 15.9 per cent 22. on their combined water and sewerage bills, with average residential customers in regional areas estimated to save around $185. Providing services An estimated 2,650 customers living in remote to remote Aboriginal communities, including the Anangu communities. Pitjantjatjara Yankunytjatjara (APY) Lands, receive our services. Murputja, Kanpi, Nyapari, in APY Lands, began to Kanpi connects receive safe, clean drinking water treated through to remote the Murputja Desalination Plant. desalination plant, page 24. Supporting Our Customer Assist Program was delivered to customers support customers finding it difficult to pay their experiencing bills, including free, confidential and independent hardship. financial counselling, support and assistance. Access to safe drinking water was maintained Bushfire impacts during significant bushfire events. and recovery, page 18. 182 Appendices: United Nations Communication on Progress Goal 6 targets we contribute to Our target Our progress as of 30 June 2020 Read more 6.2 By 2030, achieve access to Delivering Safe wastewater services were provided to Our services, adequate and equitable sanitation wastewater services more than 537,000 homes and businesses in page 12. and hygiene for all and end across the state. metropolitan Adelaide and larger regional towns. open defecation, paying special attention to the needs of women and girls and those in vulnerable situations. 6.3 By 2030, improve water quality Reducing In 2019-20 we had 142 environmental wastewater by reducing pollution, eliminating wastewater overflows. This performance is also measured over dumping and minimising release overflows into the a five-year rolling average to account for wet and of hazardous chemicals and environment. dry conditions. Our five-year rolling average was materials, halving the proportion 116 overflows. Both results are above our target of untreated wastewater and of 91. substantially increasing recycling and safe reuse globally. When there were toilet paper shortages in the Healthy sewers, community prompted by the COVID-19 pandemic, page 20. our healthy sewers messaging helped our customers make informed decisions about what not to flush in order to minimise wastewater overflows into the environment caused by blocked sewers. Facebook content about healthy sewers reached more than 403,000 people. 6.4 By 2030, substantially increase Reducing our With 413 kilometres of pipe networks and Our services, water-use efficiency across all reliance on 6,949 connections, we have the longest recycled page 12. sectors and ensure sustainable freshwater by water mains network in Australia. withdrawals and supply of increasing the At 33.1 per cent, we are the second highest recycler freshwater to address water amount of recycled of wastewater among large utilities in Australia. scarcity and substantially reduce water. the number of people suffering Recycled water used to water recreational facilities Recycled water from water scarcity. including: keeps Whyalla’s • Bennett Oval oval green, page 36. • Amata Oval. Outback footy oval powered up, page 39. The cooling effects of watering open space was Mapping cool, mapped to help us work with local councils to green parks, implement smart irrigation, enabling efficient page 46. maintenance of healthy lawns and vegetation at parks and playgrounds. 183 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report Secondary contribution: Goal 3 – Good Health and Wellbeing How we contribute to this goal The provision of safe water and sanitation services protects our customers and communities from waterborne diseases and death from contaminated water. By providing accessible drinking water fountains and encouraging our communities to use them, we are working to reduce negative health impacts associated with consuming sugary drinks. Goal 3 targets we contribute to Our target Our progress as of 30 June 2020 Read more 3.9 By 2030, substantially reduce Complying with the We had 99.93 per cent health compliance with the Water quality, the number of deaths and Australian Drinking Australian Drinking Water Guidelines in 2019-20, page 50. illnesses from hazardous chemicals Water Guidelines. against our target of 99.9 per cent. and air, water and soil pollution and contamination. Secondary contribution: Goal 14 – Life Below Water How we contribute to this goal Our wastewater is treated so it can be released back to the environment. With 33.1 per cent reused as recycled water, we are reducing discharges to water courses and the sea. Coastal desalination plants supplement our water supply and we manage our operations so waste streams do not have negative impacts on coastal waters. Goal 14 targets we contribute to Our target Our progress as of 30 June 2020 Read more 14.1 By 2025, prevent and Reducing the load We recycled 33.1 per cent of water from our significantly reduce marine on receiving waters wastewater treatment plant effluent. This is above pollution of all kinds, in particular by recycling water our target of 28 per cent. from land-based activities, for reuse. including marine debris and Complying with We had 98.1 per cent compliance with our Protecting the nutrient pollution. our environmental legislative and regulated environmental protection environment, protection responsibilities against a target of 98 per cent. page 26. responsibilities. Supporting our Through our Community Partnerships Program, Partnerships community to care we supported Our Coast Our Mission to clean up bring community for life below water. South Australian beaches, rivers and waterways. benefits page 32. 184 Appendices: United Nations Communication on Progress Secondary contribution: Goal 15 – Life on Land How we contribute to this goal Our barrier approach to managing drinking water quality ensures we take care of our catchments and reservoirs. As a significant landholder in South Australia with approximately 80,000 hectares, we have a duty of care to manage land and biodiversity. Goal 15 targets we Our target Our progress as of 30 June 2020 Read more contribute to 15.1 By 2020, ensure the Maintain and enhance Restoration of terrestrial ecosystems followed the Bushfire impacts conservation, restoration and the ecological integrity Cudlee Creek bushfire by helping the community and recovery, sustainable use of terrestrial and of our land and to prevent soil erosion and loss of seeds and page 18. inland freshwater ecosystems and maximise areas of removal of feral goats and sheep. their services, in particular forests, native vegetation. Major infrastructure was delivered to Results wetlands, mountains and drylands, enable managed inundation events on in Katarapko, in line with obligations under the 9,000 hectare Katarapko floodplain and page 37. international agreements. support restoration of habitats for biodiversity. Rehabilitation of the Mobilong and Toora River irrigation flats was completed to maintain the health of the environment and manage acid sulphate soil. Biodiversity was developed through grassy Grassy woodland woodland restoration at Millbrook. restoration at Millbrook, page 43. 15.3 By 2030, combat desertification, Revegetation of Revegetation of our Kadina Depot used more Kadina plantings restore degraded land and degraded land with than 300 locally-sourced native plants. grow local soil, including land affected by natural plant species. gardening desertification, drought and floods, inspiration, and strive to achieve a land page 36. degradation-neutral world. 15.5 Take urgent and significant No livestock grazing There is no grazing on any of reservoir reserve action to reduce the degradation on our land abutting sites (or groundwater basins) upstream of dam of natural habitats, halt the loss of dams, weirs, and walls. biodiversity and, by 2020, protect natural aqueducts. and prevent the extinction of Active programs in Pest animal control programs are implemented threatened species. place to control all and recorded across all our major landholdings pest species prescribed for key species such as goats, deer, rabbits, pigs in legislation. and foxes. Protect biodiversity In 2019-20, we completed four prescribed burns through prescribed totalling 105 hectares. burning of catchments. Since 2009, 3,000 hectares of our land has been burnt through prescribed burning activities. 15.8 By 2020, introduce measures Revegetation of Revegetation work at Little Para Reservoir Little Para natives to prevent the introduction and degraded land with Reserve included planting more than a budding significantly reduce the impact of natural plant species 3,300 native trees. success, page 35. invasive alien species on land and to control weeds. water ecosystems and control or eradicate the priority species. 185 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report Primary focus: Goal 10 – Reduced Inequalities How we contribute to this goal Our people By fostering an inclusive culture, diversity of thought, background and experience are embraced and celebrated within our business and our communities. Guided by our Diversity and Inclusion Plan, we are making changes to how we work so everyone feels comfortable to be who they are at work. Our priorities are focused on the four pillars that underpin our Diversity and Inclusion Plan. These are: 1. women at SA Water 2. Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander employment and retention 3. flexible and inclusive workforce 4. emerging workforce. Our community Working on Aboriginal lands – including culturally sensitive and significant sites across South Australia – we have relationships with many communities that help guide us in how we operate on these lands and waters. We are committed to building enduring and respectful relationships with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities. In supporting Reconciliation Australia’s aim of closing the life expectancy gap that exists between Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people and other Australians, we continue to contribute by delivering our Reconciliation Action Plan. Goal 10 targets we contribute to Our target Our progress as at 30 June 2020 Read more 10.2 By 2030, empower and Increase the 2.6 per cent of our people are Aboriginal and/or Diversity and promote the social, economic number of Torres Strait Islander people. inclusion, and political inclusion of all, Aboriginal and page 47. irrespective of age, sex, disability, Torres Strait Islander 47 per cent of our apprentice intake were women race, ethnicity, origin, religion or employees. and/or Aboriginal people. economic or other status. Support people Our Community Partnerships Program supports Partnerships living with a initiatives which promote social inclusion for people bring community disability. living with a disability. This year we supported benefits, page 32. accessibility at the Lucindale Pool, a sensory garden in Mount Gambier and an aquatic therapy program run by Autism SA. 186 Appendices: United Nations Communication on Progress Secondary contribution: Goal 2 – Zero Hunger How we contribute to this goal Water is essential for food production and we work to provide fit for purpose water solutions to meet this need. Our services support home gardeners and commercial horticulture alike. Goal 2 targets we contribute to Our target Our progress as at 30 June 2020 Read more 2.1 By 2030, end hunger and Provide water Through our Community Partnerships Program, we Partnerships ensure access by all people, in solutions that supported the installation of water efficient wicking bring community particular the poor and people support food garden beds to grow fresh produce for people in benefits, page 32. in vulnerable situations, including production. need living in Port Lincoln. infants, to safe, nutritious and sufficient food all year round. 187 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report Secondary contribution: Goal 4 – Quality Education How we contribute to this goal Our school and community programs feature activities promoting the importance of water as a resource, the water cycle, ways to overcome scarcity and how we can all contribute to sustainability. Goal 4 targets we contribute to Our target Our progress as at 30 June 2020 Read more 4.4 By 2030, substantially increase Providing learning Working with members of the Anangu community, Skills shared the number of youth and adults opportunities for we continued to deliver a plumbing course that build capability, who have relevant skills, including our communities empowers community members to fix water leaks. page 39. technical and vocational skills, to support decent Two courses were offered in 2019-20 and there have for employment, decent jobs and work. been 85 attendees to date. entrepreneurship. Learning In 2019-20, three Aboriginal members of our opportunities for workforce completed the Sisterhood Foundation Aboriginal and Leadership and Personal Development Program Torres Strait Islander run by the Gladys Elphick Awards. people through scholarships, apprenticeships, traineeships and leadership courses. 4.7 By 2030, ensure that all Providing learning 12,286 students and their teachers participated Community learners acquire the knowledge opportunities for in our Brainwave education program. programs and and skills needed to promote our communities to events, page 35. sustainable development, support sustainable 1,671 people toured the Adelaide Desalination Plant including, among others, through development. and Kauwi Interpretive Centre, including 14 Cree education for sustainable Indigenous visitors from Canada. development and sustainable lifestyles, human rights, gender 447 people attended community presentations equality, promotion of a culture of about water services and toured our treatment peace and non-violence, global plants. citizenship and appreciation of Through our Community Partnerships Program, we Partnerships cultural diversity and of culture’s supported the creation of a water wise garden at bring community contribution to sustainable the Murraylands Migrant Resource Centre to share benefits, page 32. development. knowledge about what grows well in our local environment. 188 Appendices: United Nations Communication on Progress Secondary contribution: Goal 5 – Gender Equality How we contribute to this goal Our commitment is to increase opportunities for women in leadership and non-traditional roles including science, technology, engineering, mathematics (STEM) and trades. Goal 5 targets we contribute to Our target Our progress as at 30 June 2020 Read more 5.5 Ensure women’s full and Increase the 38.9 per cent of leadership positions are held Diversity and effective participation and equal number of women by women. inclusion, opportunities for leadership at in leadership page 47. all levels of decision-making in positions. political, economic and public life. Increase More than 50 per cent of our STEM Strengthening opportunities for undergraduates are female, as are 47 per cent support for women in STEM. of our graduates. women in STEM, page 30. We provided 100 young women in STEM fields Strengthening with career development support through our support for partnership with the University of Adelaide. women in STEM, page 30. 189 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report Secondary contribution: Goal 8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth How we contribute to this goal Our people Our Enterprise Agreement provides simple, clear and unambiguous conditions of employment which are underpinned by National Employment Standards. Actions in this area demonstrate our commitment to growing and retaining our Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander workforce through ongoing career support and development. Apprenticeships, traineeships and graduate placements are provided, particularly for young people, including targeting Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people. Our community Our focus is on empowering Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander businesses to participate in opportunities through commercially competitive arrangements and ventures. Goal 8 targets we contribute to Our target Our progress as at 30 June 2020 Read more 8.3 Promote development-oriented Increasing Aboriginal We spent more than $3.2 million with A new policies that support productive and Torres Strait Islander Aboriginal businesses, comprising a direct Reconciliation activities, decent job creation, supplier diversity. spend in excess of $500,000 and indirect Action Plan, entrepreneurship, creativity and spending more than $2.7 million. page 38. innovation, and encourage the formalisation and growth of micro-, smalland medium-sized enterprises, including through access to financial services. 8.6 By 2020, substantially reduce Provide a number of 70 positions across the organisation the proportion of youth not in entry level positions for are dedicated to these programs. employment, education or training. graduates, trainees, cadets and apprentices. Provide work experience Three Tauondi College scholarship students opportunities for Aboriginal completed work experience in 2019-20, and Torres Strait Islander with all three extended due to successful people through our placements. partnering with Tauondi Aboriginal College. Increase the number There were five successful Aboriginal of traineeships, applicants for apprenticeships and apprenticeships and traineeships in 2019-20. graduate placements for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people. Provide graduate roles. Provided 18 graduate positions in our workforce with graduate retention at 96 per cent. 190 Appendices: United Nations Communication on Progress Primary focus: Goal 11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities How we contribute to this goal By delivering and promoting activities related to water and sanitation services, we support the development of resilient and liveable communities. Our Liveable Communities program is designed to create a better life for South Australians through innovative outdoor water use, leading to a greener city and state, reduced air temperature, improved health and wellbeing, and lower cost of living. We also promote the use of reusable bottles with safe, clean tap water as an alternative to single-use plastic bottles including through our BYOB app that maps public drinking fountains across South Australia. Goal 11 targets we contribute to Our target Our progress as at 30 June 2020 Read more 11.4 Strengthen efforts to protect Partner with Through our Water Wisdom video series, we shared Sharing water and safeguard the world’s cultural Aboriginal Aboriginal stories about traditional wisdom, page and natural heritage. communities to and contemporary water knowledge. 38. record and share Community art projects in Port Augusta and Kadina In this together, Aboriginal cultural supported the sharing of culture in different and page 40. heritage. appropriate ways. 11.7 By 2030, provide universal Research new Smart irrigation is helping cool parks and air Mapping cool, access to safe, inclusive and ways to cool our temperature, with sensors installed to measure green parks, accessible, green and public communities and results. page 46. spaces, in particular for women reduce the effect of and children, older persons and urban heat islands persons with disabilities. through urban greening initiatives. Secondary contribution: Goal 9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure How we contribute to this goal As an asset-intensive business, the infrastructure we build and operate is designed with consideration to the full life cycle to ensure resilient provision of water and wastewater services into the future. Goal 9 targets we contribute to Our target Our progress as at 30 June 2020 Read more 9.1 Develop quality, reliable, Invest in sustainable The new Murray Bridge Wastewater Treatment New wastewater sustainable and resilient infrastructure. Plant was acknowledged for its leading treatment plant infrastructure, including regional sustainable design. sets Australian and transborder infrastructure, to sustainability support economic development record, page 42. and human wellbeing, with a focus on affordable and equitable access for all. 191 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report Secondary contribution: Goal 12 – Responsible Consumption and Production How we contribute to this goal Operating 17 recycled water schemes and three stormwater harvesting schemes reduces our reliance on drinking water and discharges to the environment. Goal 12 targets we contribute to Our target Our progress as at 30 June 2020 Read more 12.4 By 2020, achieve the Maximise the In 2019-20 we achieved 100 per cent reuse of all environmentally sound beneficial reuse of suitable biosolids generated from our wastewater management of chemicals and biosolids and water treatment plants. all wastes throughout their life treatment residuals cycle, in accordance with agreed generated from our international frameworks, and treatment plants. significantly reduce their release to air, water and soil in order to minimise their adverse impacts on human health and the environment. 12.5 By 2030, substantially reduce Encouraging our Our Quench Benches and drinking fountains Community waste generation through community to drink provided more than 100,000 litres of drinking water programs and prevention, reduction, recycling tap water and to about 1.3 million people at more than 120 public events, page 35. and reuse. avoid single-use events across the state. plastic bottles. Installation of 18 new free drinking fountains in Water flows at 2019-20, brought the total in operation across new community the state to 52. fountains, page 33. Our BYOB app was released. The app shows the BYOB app location of more than 1,000 drinking fountains maps drinking across South Australia. fountains, page 35. Miss Isla attended community events serving water Keeping event infusions and promoting a healthy lifestyle and goers cool and better environmental outcomes through refilling refreshed, page re-usable bottles with safe, clean tap water. 34. 192 Appendices: United Nations Communication on Progress Primary focus: Goal 13 – Climate Action How we contribute to this goal Delivering safe, clean water and sanitation services to our customers, generates greenhouse emissions through our pumping, treatment and business operations. Emissions reductions and energy efficiencies are being developed through investment in research to minimise emissions from our wastewater treatment processes, and renewable energy generation. Goal 13 targets we contribute to Our target Our progress as at 30 June 2020 Read more 13.2 Integrate climate change Meet our We continued to meet our long-term greenhouse measures into national policies, greenhouse gas gas reduction target of emissions no greater than strategies and planning. emissions reduction 40 per cent of 1990 levels by 2050 and are reviewing and renewable our targets. energy generation Our total greenhouse gas emissions for 2018-19 were targets. 397,212 tonnes CO2-e and the overall percentage of renewable electricity produced or purchased was approximately 28 per cent. We have 2,285 hectares of reforestation for the purpose of carbon sequestration. Adequately adapt The Adelaide Desalination Plant can meet Supporting to climate change. 50 per cent of Adelaide’s water demand, national drought providing a climate-independent water source. relief, page 29. 193 SA Water 2019-20 Annual Report Secondary contribution: Goal 7 – Affordable Clean Energy How we contribute to this goal As one of South Australia’s largest electricity users, energy management is an important part of our business with 583 gigawatt hours of energy used in 2019-20. Goal 7 targets we contribute to Our target Our progress as at 30 June 2020 Read more 7.2 By 2030, increase substantially Invest in renewable Our Zero Cost Energy Future initiative has seen Building a zero the share of renewable energy in technologies 150,000 solar panels installed across the state. cost energy the global energy mix. to reduce our The panels installed to date have the capacity to future, page 41. greenhouse gas generate up to 57 megawatts and 95 gigawatt emissions. hours a year. Use biogas Additional biogas was generated at Glenelg Biogas boost, generated from Wastewater Treatment Plant. page 21. the wastewater Our Port Lincoln Wastewater Treatment Plant Port Lincoln treatment process upgrade continued with the installation of a new digester delivers, as a fuel source. anerobic digestor. Biogas generated during the page 24. digestion process will then be extracted and burnt to provide a source of heat for the digester. 194 Appendices: United Nations Communication on Progress Continual improvement plan This is our second Communication on Progress. Following closely from our first, it is now incorporated into our annual reporting process. We continue to work on the following opportunities for improvement: • Clarity and greater transparency about how we are working to protect human rights. • Develop stronger alignment of UN targets with our internal measures, overarching strategy, and corporate strategies. • Increase business-wide understanding of the SDGs and communicate about them regularly. 195
