SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT A MESSAGE TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS With the profound belief that we must aim at strengthening the relationship with our key stakeholders while raising awareness on the social and environmental impacts directly deriving from our activities, we are proud to present our first Sustainability Progress Report. A window on our world, this document confirms our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact initiative we adhered to in January 2020. The Report is the first step towards a new pathway of social and environmental impact monitoring and awareness, aimed at defining what sustainability means to us and at identifying where to focus our efforts to enhance our performances and generate positive outcomes. The publication of this Report happens in difficult times. Indeed, from the beginning of 2020 the world has been shaken by COVID-19 pandemic, which hit hardest in the Bergamo’s province, Northern Italy where Italcanditi is headquartered. A series of precautionary measures have been taken promptly to limit the risk of contagion and to timely protect our people. The overall severity and forecast concerning the pandemic evolution are currently uncertain and as a consequence we cannot predict how it could impact our activities and stakeholders. Nonetheless, we can count on strong foundations and management to duly deal with the emergency. A fundamental part of this strength derives from the entry of Investindustrial in Italcanditi from January 2019: it is a significant opportunity to further expand our growth and European footprint, guaranteeing corporate continuity, new resources and opportunity to consolidate the leadership of Italcanditi Vitalfood in its relevant markets. Maurizio Goffi, CEO Italcanditi 3 OUR DAS HBOARD 4 Italcandi Italcanditi 5 deemed relevant by both stakeholders and the Company’s management are defined as material and Our sustainability path constitute the foundations of the reporting exercise. In particular, all the 13 material aspects deemed relevant by both stakeholders and the Company’s management are defined as material and constitute the OUR SUSTAINABILITY PATH highlighted are included and described in detail in the present Sustainability Progress Report. foundations of the reporting exercise. In particular, all the 13 material aspects highlighted are included and described The outcome of a long path that witnessed the active participation of our functions and in detail in the present Sustainability Progress Report. The outcome our management, of a first long Sustainability path that witnessed the active Progress Report opens ofwith participation our afunctions Dashboardand management, that constitutes our firstthe coreSustainability of the entire document. Progress Report opens It aims with anot only atthathighlighting Dashboard constitutes the data, of thealso core but synthetizing atdocument. entire It aimsour approach around a selection data, but ofalsokey matters that showcase Italcanditi’s a selection ofworld best. that Theshowcase Report is participation ofnotour only at functions highlighting and at synthetizing our approach around key matters thenthatcomposed ith a Dashboard constitutes the by single, vertical chapters that dive into each and every one of the Dashboard’s key g data, but alsoItalcanditi’s at synthetizing ourworld best. The Report is then composed by single, vertical chapters that dive into each and every one of talcanditi’stopics, world best. ThethusReportproviding is both quantitative and qualitative insights. the Dashboard’s key topics, thus providing both quantitative and qualitative insights. and every one of the Dashboard’s key ts. mitment has The first step that we made as part of our sustainability commitment has been to supportThe ), a voluntary step thatNations we madeGlobal thefirstUnited Compact as part of (UNGC), our sustainability a voluntary commitment has been to support the United sustainability initiative based on oals. The ten CEO commitments to implement universal sustainability Nations Global Compact (UNGC), a voluntary initiative based on CEO commitments to implement t and antiprinciples and to undertake partnerships in support of UN goals. The ten ith signatory universal sustainability principles and to undertake partnerships in support of UN goals. The ten principles address human rights, labor, the environment and antidged as the categories that are most principles sess wherecorruption. the outcomes of ouraddress From human daily January rights, labor,we 2020, theadhere environment UNGC with From the anti-corruption. to and January 2020, we adhere to the signatory ers and carriers), middle (among the , and lower engagement UNGC (clients, with and distributors tier. engagement tier. signatory Company’s perimeter (collaborators). rent and specific activities. Then, Then, proceeded to to weweproceeded mapmap ourstakeholders, key stakeholders, our key acknowledged as the categoriesasthat acknowledged thearecategories most subjectthat are most to Italcanditi’s subject to Italcanditi’s influence or dependence, in a way to assess where the outcomes of our daily influence or dependence, in a way to assess where the outcomes of our daily activities unfold. These are located both activities unfold. These are located both in the upper (suppliers and carriers), middle (among the others, upper communities, in the local (suppliers and carriers), banksmiddleand (among the others, investors, local communities, and unions), and lower and investors, banks(clients, and unions), distributors and finaland consumers) lower (clients,side of ourand distributors value finalchain, as well side as consumers) value the within of our Company’s chain, perimeter as well as within (collaborators). the Company’s perimeter stakeholders Our(collaborators). Ourare engagedare stakeholders onengaged a continuous basis with on a continuous basisdifferent and with different specific activities. andspecific activities. a dedicated workshop with our top Reporting Standards and made up of tices and global sustainability trends topics that influence the decisions of nditi’s economic, environmental and TheTheones ones that arepositioned positioned that are in theinupper the right upper right corner, corner, such such as “Occupational as “Occupational health and safety”,health “Energyand safety”, efficiency” materiality matrix: each of the topics “Energy efficiency” and “Greenhouse Gasand “Greenhouse emissions”, Gas emissions”, are acknowledged are to be of great acknowledged importance to be ofand for both Italcanditi great importance its stakeholders. for both Italcanditi and its stakeholders. On the contrary, those that are positioned in the lower left On the contrary, those that are positioned in the lower left corner are to be considered relevant but non material corner are to be considered relevant but non material topics, and thus are not reported on. During thetopics, and thus are workshop, not reported on. During “Anti-corruption”, “Economic “Anti-corruption”, the workshop,value “Economic value directly generated and directly generated and distributed” and “Compliance distributed” andwith applicable “Compliance laws with and regulations” applicable were recognized laws and regulations” were recognized as preconditionsfor as preconditions for operating operating whoseresponsibility whose responsibility and and oversight oversight are anare an integral integral part of Italcanditi’s part of Italcanditi’s daily daily activities. activities.these Consequently, Consequently, topics are these topics are not included in our materiality matrix, but are nonetheless reported on. not included in our materiality matrix, but are nonetheless reported on. Our sustainability commitment also aims at taking action that actively supports the achievement of theOur17sustainability United Nations Sustainable commitment also aimsDevelopment at taking actionGoals (SDGs) that actively of thethe supports 2030 Agenda offortheSustainable achievement 17 United Development – adopted Nations Sustainable by world Development Goals (SDGs)inofSeptember leaders the 2030 Agenda2015.forThe SDGs ultimate Sustainable ambition Development is indeed – adopted by to end poverty and other deprivations, develop strategies that improve health and education, Afterwards, a materiality Afterwards, materiality analysis analysis was carried carried was out: duringout: a dedicated a dedicated duringworkshop with our workshop top management, our top witha context world leaders in September 2015. The SDGs ultimate ambition is indeed to end poverty and other deprivations, reduce inequality and spur economic growth, all while facing climate change and working to management, analysis basedaoncontext analysis Reporting based on GRI Sustainability Reporting competitorsStandards andsustainability made up of develop marine strategiesand thatland improve health andConsidering education, reduce inequality and support spur economic growth, GRI Sustainability Standards and made up of benchmarking, preserve ecosystems. the SDGs we can through our all while activities competitors benchmarking, sustainability reporting best practices and global sustainability trends reporting best practices and global sustainability trends was assessed and discussed. The aim was to map all relevant and initiatives, facing we draw climate change and inspiration from the working to preserve marine ecosystems.Centre’s and landResilience Stockholm Considering the SDGscake”: “wedding we canthe was assessed and discussed. The aim was to map all relevant topics that influence the decisions of linear, supportsegregated through our conception of development activities and initiatives, shifts towards we draw inspiration from thean integrated, Stockholm multi-level Resilience paradigm Centre’s “wedding thetopics that influence the key stakeholders decisions of identified thethat and key stakeholders are relevant identified and that are economic, for Italcanditi’s relevant for Italcanditi’s environmental economic,and social impacts. and environmental Thus, theimpacts. social outcomeThus,ofthethis outcome of thisisprocess process our first materiality is our first materiality matrix:each matrix: eachof topics thetopics of the cake”: the linear, segregated conception of development shifts towards an integrated, multi-level paradigm 6 Italcandi Italcanditi 7 at implies that economies and societies are embedded parts of the biosphere. The model that implies the that economies andas societies the are embedded parts ofallthe biosphere. The model understands the food all sector derstands food sector one that links the SDGs together, since the Goals are ABOUT US rectly orasindirectly connected the one that links all the SDGstotogether, sustainable and since all the healthy Goals food. are directly or indirectly connected towe In particular, highlighted sustainable and the six Gs thathealthy are linked to our we food. In particular, sustainability SDGs that are and highlighted the sixinitiatives linked commitments. to our sustainability initiatives and commitments. Headquartered in Pedrengo (Bergamo, Italy), with a presence in 30 different countries and more than 2,000 clients, About Italcanditi us S.p.A. can count on a market share of up to 90% in the Italian Bakery industry. Originally founded in 1963 by Angelo Goffi to produce candied fruit and marron glacés, it gradually gained foothold, recording 107 million Headquartered in Pedrengo (Bergamo, Italy), with a presence in 30 different countries and more euros turnover in 2019 and 341 employees. Today Italcanditi, under the brand Vitalfood, is recognized for its unique than 2,000 clients, Italcanditi S.p.A. can count on a market share of up to 90% in the Italian Bakery research and industry. development Originally skills and founded for theby in 1963 quality Angelo scope to and Goffi of its product candied produce fruit consists portfolio which of approximately and marron glacés, it gradually 6,700 recipesgained foothold, divided into sevenrecording 108 million main categories: euros turnover preparations in 2019 for yoghurt, jams and Today employees.hydrated 341preparations, andfruit Italcanditi, creams, marronsunder the semi-candied glacés, brand Vitalfood, is recognized fruit, andfor and candied unique saltyitscreams andresearch vegetables.and development skills and for the quality and scope of its product portfolio which consists of approximately 6,700 recipes divided into seven The tailor-made mainiscategories: approach preparations specifically designed to bestfor yoghurt, address needsand the jams fruit of our preparations, divided intohydrated clients, two main creams, marrons glacés, semi-candied and candied fruit, and salty creams and vegetables. clusters: industries, for which we develop customized products that provide large scale companies with their desired The tailor-made approach is specifically designed to best address the needs of our clients, divided output and process performance characteristics; and bakers, for which we have drafted ad hoc solutions able to meet into two main clusters: industries, for which we develop customized products that provide large their specific scale companiesrequests. with their desired output and process performance characteristics; and bakers, for which we have drafted ad hoc solutions able to meet their specific requests. 1 In 2019, Investindustrial indirectly acquired a major share in Italcanditi: founded in 1990 out of an industrial group and with 11 billion euros of raised fund capital, Investindustrial is one of Europe's In 2019, independent leading Italcanditi was indirectly investment acquired by a focused groups fund managed by Investindustrial, on taking a leadingpredominantly control positions European group in of Southern independentlyEuropean management medium-sized companies investment, holding that are and advisory leaders in their fields. companies. Regarding our value generation, in 2019, our generated economic value amounted to EUR 107 million, thus recording a 3.3% increase with respect to previous year. Direct economic value generated and distributed 2018 2019 € in thousands Direct economic value generated 104,047 107,433 Economic value distributed 98,262 99,811 1 Re-work based on Azote Images for Stockholm Resilience Centre, Stockholm University. Operating costs 60,944 61,722 8 Italcandi Italcanditi 9 Preparations for yoghurt Salty creams In 2019, Italcanditi was indirectly acquired by a fund managed by Investindustrial, a leading European group of independently management investment, holding and advisory companies. Regarding our value generation, in 2019, our generated economic value amounted to EUR 107 million, thus recording We implemented a control and governance system, based on a Board of Directors that comprises six members – 2 Regarding our value generation, in 2019, our generated economic value amounted to EUR 107 a 3.3% increase million, with respect thus recording to previous a 3.3% increase year.with respect to previous year. women and 4 men – and which is entrusted with the powers to ensure the ordinary and extraordinary management We implemented a control and governance system, based on a Board of Directors that comprises ofsixthemembers Company.– 2 women and 4 men – and which is entrusted with the powers to ensure the ordinary and extraordinary management of the Company. Direct economic value generated and distributed 2018 2019 € in thousands Members of the Board Direct economic value generated 104,047 107,433 Chair of the Board Caverni Mara Anna Rita Economic value distributed 98,262 99,811 Chief Executive Officer Goffi Maurizio Pieralfredo Operating costs 60,944 61,722 Board member Goffi Patrizia Employee wages and benefits 20,329 22,344 Board member Razzano Dante Payments to providers of capital 12,038 11,658 Board member Catapano Salvatore Payments to government 4,939 4,077 2 Board member Revenues by geographic area and business Bruno Romeoline refer to 2019. Community Payments to government 12 investments 4,939 10 4,077 Economic Community value retained investments5,785 12 7,622 10 An independent auditing firm has also been appointed. Economic value retained 5,785 7,622 Furthermore, in 2019, Italcanditi S.p.A. started a process for the definition of an Organizational, Revenues by geographic area show that the majority of our business is based in Italy, depending on Management An and Control independent auditing Model firm has pursuant also been to Italian Legislative Decree 231/2001. The model appointed. the largest share on preparations for yoghurt, jams and candied fruit. 2 approval is in expected within the first few months Revenues by Revenues geographicbyareageographic show that area show that the majority of ourthe majority business of our is based business in Italy, depending Italy, depending on theinlargest is based share on Furthermore, 2019, Italcanditi S.p.A. started a processoffor2021. the definition of an Organizational, Management and the largest on preparations share for yoghurt, jamsonand 2 yoghurt, jams and candied fruit. candied fruit.for preparations 2 Control Model pursuant to Italian Legislative Decree 231/2001. The model approval is expected within the first few months of 2021. Revenues, by geographic area Revenues, by business line Revenues, by geographic area Revenues, by business line 3% 0.1% 18% 3% 34% 0.1% 18% 34% 34% 34% 28% 63% 14% 28% 6% 63% 14% 6% Candied fruit Jams Marrons glacés Creams Candied fruit Jams Italy EU Extra-EU Preparations for yoghurt Salty creams Marrons glacés Creams Italy EU Extra-EU Preparations for yoghurt Salty creams We implemented a control and governance system, based on a Board of Directors that comprises six members Revenues – 2 women by geographic area and and 4 men business – and line refer which is entrusted with the powers to ensure the ordinary to 2019. 2 We implemented a control and governance system, based on a Board of Directors that comprises and extraordinary management of the Company. six members – 2 women and 4 men – and which is entrusted with the powers to ensure the ordinary 10 Italcandi and extraordinary management of the Company. Italcanditi 11 Members of the Board Chair of theofBoard Members the Board Caverni Mara Anna Rita ITALCANDITI IN NUMBERS Employees, by age (2019) Employees are first and foremost individuals to us. From the outset, we worked towards establishing a Italcanditi in numbers relationship that goes beyond mere contractual terms and reflects our organizational structure, typical of 8% family business. Employees are first and foremost individuals to us. From the outset, we worked towards 30% With a workforcea ofrelationship establishing 348 people – 98% that goes arebeyond of whom employees mere and 2% contractual of whom are agency and reflects termsworkers our – 2019 recorded organizational structure, typical of family business. a growing trend of around 8% with respect to the previous year and in line with our economic growth. Our people are With a workforce of 348 people – 98% of whom are employees and 2% of whom are agency workers divided on a year-over-year stable share between two thirds of male and one third of female individuals. The gender – 2019 recorded a growing trend of around 8% with respect to the previous year and in line with 62% composition our economic is similarly growth.mirrored as far are Our people on aconcerned: divided are as contracts we havestable year-over-year preference a high share for permanent between (96% two thirds of male share, +9%andonone thirdbasis) of female a yearly individuals. over temporary The Due contracts. to ourcomposition gender is similarly inherent productive, mirrored as far business-to-business as nature, employees’are contracts concerned: categories we ahave also show a high pyramidal preference structure, permanent forhighest with the in the share, density (96% on a yearly +9%process operational part and <30 years 30 ≤ x ≤ 50 years > 50 years basis) over temporary contracts. Due to our inherent productive, business-to-business nature, the lowest in the employees’ upper, office categories alsoside. show a pyramidal structure, with the highest density in the operational process part and the lowest in the upper, office side. Full-Time and Part-Time employees In 2019, we recorded a 38% hiring rate, slightly lower with respect to the previous year, while the turnover rate In 2019, we recorded a 38% hiring rate, slightly lower with respect to the previous year, while the amounted to 31%. A peculiar trait of our employee structure is seasonality. Indeed, almost all of our product lines turnover rate amounted to 31%. A peculiar trait of our employee structure is seasonality. Indeed, 7% are characterized almost all of ourbyproduct fluctuations linesthroughout the year, in terms are characterized of both food throughout by fluctuations product availability and market the year, demand in terms of both trends:food some product lines areavailability and market tied to festivities demand such as Easter andtrends: some Christmas, lines while aredepend tied toonfestivities others such as the fruit seasonality. Easter and Christmas, while others depend on the fruit seasonality. These aspects impact on These aspects impact on employee composition, that in peak periods can significantly vary from year-end stability employee composition, that in peak periods can significantly vary from year-end stability data, data, amounting amounting to around410 to around people from 410 people fromJune to November. June to November. to our close Thanks Thanks our long-lasting to and close and relationship long-lasting with relationship with the the local community, most local community, of our most of seasonal workers our seasonal – employed underworkers temporary,– employed under –temporary, full-time contracts are the same full-time contracts from one year – are to the next: we the same can thus from count on one year trusted andto the employees skilled next: we tocan carry out count thus trusted and onproduction important tasks 93% skilled employees to carry out important production tasks with the expertise and flexibility that have expertise and flexibility with thecharacterized always that have our business always characterized our business model. model. Full-Time Part-Time Key performance indicators Employees, by category Employees, by contract type and gender 3% 6% 3 5 11 10 113 108 28% 63% 193 214 Executives Managers White collars Blue collars 2018 2019 Permanent, Men Permanent, Women Temporary, Men Temporary, Women 12 Italcandi Italcanditi 13 Men Women 2018 2019 Hires, by gender Terminations, Hires, by age age (2019) 24% 24% 25% 31% 78 75 51 54 45% 51% Men Women 2018 2019 <30 years <3030years ≤ x ≤ 50 years 30 ≤ x ≤ 50> years 50 years > 50 years Terminations, by gender Hires, by age (2019) 24% 25% 74 68 51% 37 36 <30 years 30 ≤ x ≤ 50 years > 50 years Terminations, by gender 2018 2019 Men Women Hires, by gender 74 68 78 75 37 36 54 51 2018 Men Women 2019 2018 2019 Men Women Hires, by age (2019) 14 Italcandi Italcanditi 15 24% 25% force: one of the main features is a yearly production bonus. Formalized procedures are to be added to established practices and to various initiatives such as Yoga courses during lunch breaks, and tax form assistance, aimed at fostering people’s wellbeing through the promotion of an adequate ENHANCING PEOPLE POTENTIAL balance between work and private life. Key performance indicators The attention to our people is driven by the belief that training and development activities are key enablers Training hours, by gender for safe and quality processes. Most of the training courses carried out in the two-year reporting period were focused on health and safety topics, and aspects related to both quality and operations. 2019 1,728 826 As for the latter, each of our departments is in charge of periodically verifying people’s skills and competences so as to foster personal and professional development: to this end, the head of each department is the reference figure that, drawing from their relationship with employees, can best identify strengths and areas for improvement so as to 2018 299 496 ensure training program efficacy. The clustered management of training needs is in line with the objective to guarantee the highest levels of quality along the production process, taking advantage of each employee’s know-how and competences by heavily relying Men Women on training on-the-job. Furthermore, office employees are also offered language and legislative update courses, also provided by local manufacturing and service company associations and neighboring universities, aiming at developing professional skills and fostering employee engagement. In 2019, training hours amounted to 2,554, recording an Average training hours, by gender and category important increase on an annual basis mainly due to a better monitoring of the courses provided to employees and (2019) due to the periodic update on health and safety matters required by law. 10.7 9.0 Our close relationship with employees is one of our most valuable assets. Over the years, we have implemented a 8.5 7.7 7.1 number of initiatives that are aimed at helping our people with ad hoc measures typical of “family business” approach. 6.6 All of our employees, regardless of typology and hierarchy, can count on a second level contract that integrates the collective bargaining agreement already in force: one of the main features is a yearly production bonus. Formalized procedures are to be added to established practices and to various initiatives such as Yoga courses during lunch breaks, and tax form assistance, aimed at fostering people’s wellbeing through the promotion of an adequate balance between work and private life. Men Women Executives Managers White collars Blue collars 16 Italcandi Italcanditi 17 THE TASTE OF SUSTAINABILITY 18 Italcandi Italcanditi 19 lines and safety on the job. Furthermore, we installed a touch-screen totem where employees can consult H&S documentation as well as screen looping slides on H&S topics that complement standard communications. The first results of the remediation plan put in place were already visible in the first months of 2020 during which lower injury rates were registered. In the coming years, we HEALTH & SAFETY are willing to strongly commit towards zeroing of work-related injuries in all our production lines. In order to guarantee the highest safety standards, we have been relying on a formalized Health & Safety Key performance indicators Policy and on the best available technologies both in terms of protective equipment and solutions. As part of 2018 2019 our commitment to further strengthen our health and safety culture, in 2019 we started the implementation Worked hours 590,131 603,317 of a health and safety management system consistent with ISO 45001:2018 standard: our aim is to achieve Number of recordable work-related injuries 23 25 the third-party certification by 2020. At the Pedrengo site health and safety topics are directly managed by different functions at all levels of our organizational Number of recordable high-consequence 0 1 work-related injuries chart: specific skills and responsibilities over the application of safety procedures are attributed, and regular training Recordable fatalities as a consequence of 0 0 sessions are foreseen. Whistleblowing-related repercussions are prevented through specific procedures, and medical work-related injuries examination is integral part of H&S procedures. As required by Italian law, recurrent assessments are carried out in Injury rate* 7.8 8.3 order to update the identification of safety risks so as to put in place all necessary mitigation and prevention efforts. High-consequence injury rate** 0.0 0.3 Among the main risks identified are, handling of heavy weights during production phases, manual work, and the use of technical equipment. In 2019, we had just one high-consequence accident related to a broken bone: the injured Lost time injury rate*** 171.3 161.8 person will make a full recovery. Data-driven risk assessment is indeed at the core of our health and safety practices: in full compliance with in-force national and regional regulations, we systematically analyze accident causes through direct consultations with heads * Calculated by the total number of recordable work-related injuries divided by the number of working hours and multiplied by 200,000. of departments, employee representatives and all workers involved. This process allowed to investigate the injuries ** Calculated by the total number of recordable high consequence work-related injuries divided by the number of working hours and multiplied by 200,000. that occurred in both 2018 and 2019, to identify points of enhancement and to implement mitigation and prevention *** Calculated by the number of lost days due to injury divided by the number of working hours and multiplied by 200,000. efforts: training courses specifically aimed at reducing the occurrence of such injuries – mainly related to product spills on the floor and consequent slipping – allowed to increase the synergy between production lines and safety on the job. Furthermore, we installed a touch-screen totem where employees can consult H&S documentation as well as screen looping slides on H&S topics that complement standard communications. The first results of the remediation plan put in place were already visible in the first months of 2020 during which lower injury rates were registered. 20 Italcandi Italcanditi 21 in the pipeline – covers approximately 3% of our electric energy consumption amounting to as much as 250,000 ENERGY CONSUMPTION kWh of renewable electricity and equivalent to around 90 tCO2 of avoided emissions. In the coming years we could of the emissions. avoided evaluate possibility ofInexpanding the coming years we the surface areawill by thethe evaluate covered possibility in orderoftoexpanding panels increase ourthe surface production Building on the awareness that energy consumptions represent one of our most relevant environmental area covered by the panels in order to increase our production capacity. capacity. impacts, we have always invested in both optimizing our energy demand and in increasing the share of We are committed to increasingly mapping our consumption trends so as to identify areas for renewable sources in our energy mix. We are committedand improvement evaluate mapping to increasingly solutionsourthat trendshigh can drive consumption so asenergy to identify areas for while efficiency reducing improvement and environmental evaluate solutionsburdens. that can drive high energy efficiency while reducing environmental burdens. In 2019, our energy consumption amounted to an overall 227,530 GJ, thus recording a stable trend with respect to 2018 data. Natural gas represents the 86% of our energy demand and it is used for both generating heat through traditional boilers and for the production of combined heat and power through our cogeneration and trigeneration Key performance indicators plants. In particular, heat is used in different steps of our production processes, from heating and cooking in the oven to fruit candying and from sterilization to pasteurization. The latter is one of the most significant processes in terms Energy consumption (GJ) of energy consumption since it is based on the application of a combined heat and cooling treatment designed for 28,786 29,146 guaranteeing food safety and preservation. The simultaneous generation of cooling, heat and power allows us to substantially reduce carbon emissions as well as energy costs. In fact, compared to standard combustion systems, in combined heat and power production less fuel is 199,538 196,602 burned with the same energy output while transmission and distribution losses are avoided thus resulting in increased energy efficiencies and reduced GHG emissions. 3,425 1,782 Cogeneration consists of the production of Combined Heat and Power (CHP). The most common cogenerators 2018 2019 Diesel and petrol Natural gas Electricity take advantage of fuel combustion to generate electricity and recover heat. A specific declination of this concept is trigeneration (CCHP, combined cooling, heat and power), which allows to use the thermal energy recovered from combustion to produce cooling energy, or refrigerant fluids for air conditioning and industrial processes. Energy intensity, in GJ/€k revenues The energy produced from our natural gas fed trigenerator is entirely consumed: while the electricity covers 2.23 approximately half of our annual need, heat and cooling are used in our production processes. As for the cogeneration systems, one is fueled by biodiesel – purchased in the form of rapeseed oil – while the other one is fed by biogas, which is produced through the process of anaerobic digestion carried out in our wastewater treatment plant. While the heat generated by the combustion process in our two cogenerators is used internally for production purposes, the power is sold to energy providers: in 2019 only, we produced 4,200,000 kWh of electricity from renewable sources, 2.12 thus contributing to reducing the carbon intensity of the Italian national energy mix. Electricity makes up for the remaining 13% of our energy need, while the fuels consumed by our car fleet accounts for 2018 2019 less than 1%. As for thermal energy, electricity is used for a multitude of production processes including raw materials and manufactured cooling and refrigeration products. Food preservation is indeed another important source of energy consumption since it requires diverse temperature ranges, from -25°C to +4°C. The renewable energy produced through photovoltaic panels – installed back in 2011 with progressive renovation for newer, more performant solutions 22 Italcandi Italcanditi 23 OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT As part of our sustainability path, we started monitoring our Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions over the twoKey performance indicators year period 2018-19. Our carbon footprint includes direct emissions (Scope 1), indirect emissions (Scope GHG emissions UoM 2018 2019 Direct emissions (Scope 1) tCO2e 13,775 12,947 2) from the electricity purchased from the national grid, and other indirect emissions (Scope 3) related to Gas refrigerants refills for refrigerating tCO2e 2,192 1,662 outbound logistics and business travels. rooms and air conditioning Car fleet tCO2e 255 132 In 2019, direct emissions amounted to 12,947 tCO2e. The most part of these comes from the combustion of natural gas Natural gas for boilers, heating, and tCO2e 11,328 11,153 for boilers, heating, cogeneration and trigeneration systems (86%), followed by gas refrigerants refills for refrigerating cogeneration and trigeneration systems Indirect emissions (Scope 2) Location tCO2e 2,787 2,817 rooms (13%) and our car fleet (1%) composed of both owned and long-term leased vehicles. In order to mitigate the based impacts on climate changes arising from refrigerant gas leakages and to increase energy efficiency, we installed a Electricity purchased from the grid tCO2 2,787 2,817 Location based new refrigeration system which makes use of ammonia as refrigerant liquid. Indirect emissions (Scope 2) Market based tCO2e 3,689 3,839 Electricity purchased from the grid Market tCO2e 3,689 3,839 In 2019, indirect energy emissions amounted to 2,817 tCO2, accounting for the electricity purchased from the national based grid only. The figure is calculated according to two different methodologies: the location-based methodology reflects the Other indirect emissions (Scope 3) tCO2e 6,364 5,788 average emissions intensity of grids from which energy consumption occurs; in turn, the market-based method reflects Transportation of sold goods tCO2e 6,347 5,771 Business travels tCO2e 17 17 the use of contractual instruments – e.g. Guarantees of Origin – to purchase electricity produced from renewable Total Location based tCO2e 22,926 21,552 sources, which will thus be excluded from the GHG emissions calculation. The remaining part of the electricity, that Total Market based tCO2e 23,828 22,574 as of 2019 equaled the totality of the electricity we purchased, corresponds to the untracked consumption, that is not represented by Guarantees of Origin: this amount is multiplied by a residual mix emission factor. Finally, other indirect emissions are related to the transportation of sold goods – carried out by ship and trucks – as well as business travels on a much smaller scale. In 2019, the overall other indirect GHG emissions produced were 5,788 tCO2e. In the coming years, we are committed to progressively enlarging our Scope 3 emissions both in terms of activity coverage and detail level so as to quantify our climate impact along the entire value chain. 24 Italcandi Italcanditi 25 Customized packaging projects may be carried out starting from special requests from key accounts. In these cases, we support our clients throughout the whole packaging creation process, from technical requirements to graphic studio drafting. Depending on client needs, this kind of project entails the use of various materials and certification schemes, such as Forest Stewardship CouncilMATERIALS CONSUMPTION AND SUSTAINABLE PACKAGING certified paper and cardboards: FSC certification attests that the pack material is procured from sustainably managed forests that meet environmental and social standards. Carefully selected food products and ingredients are the key components of our business model. These are Key performance indicators mainly made up of sugar, fruit, milk and other food products and ingredients accounting for 98% of the total weight of purchased materials, followed by packaging materials (1%) and associated process materials (0.5%). Materials (tons) About 80% of our products are indeed sold to clients in owned, reusable steel tanks that, once empty, are returned, 2019 58,369 302 656 sanitized, checked and prepared for another use. The tanks are available in different sizes, offering transportation solutions that range from 400 kilos to 1 ton of product per tank so as to better adapt to all client needs. This allows 2018 56,585 267 681 us to use low amounts of single-use packaging materials such as plastics and cardboard, thus reducing the related impacts on the environment. The remainder of packaging consists in smaller containers that are used only residually Food ingredients Associated process materials Packaging materials according to clients’ needs and requests, much preferred by the bakery sector and by buyers that handle smaller quantities of products. These are mainly composed of plastic buckets and sac-à-poches specifically designed to minimize the risks of product contamination and deterioration while reducing food waste, for instance, with closeable sac-à-poches. Additionally, we introduced recyclable or reusable solutions also for light weights, namely bags in boxes (10 to 1000 kilos) and metal tins (3 to 5 kilos), thus increasing the flexibility of our packaging solutions so as to foster the efficient use of materials and, at the same time, to be able to address all of our clients’ requirements. Customized packaging projects may be carried out starting from special requests from key accounts. In these cases, we support our clients throughout the whole packaging creation process, from technical requirements to graphic studio drafting. Depending on client needs, this kind of project entails the use of various materials and certification schemes, such as Forest Stewardship Council-certified paper and cardboards: FSC certification attests that the pack material is procured from sustainably managed forests that meet environmental and social standards. 26 Italcandi Italcanditi 27 The water used for production purposes is then treated through our two water treatment plants able to treat on average between 30 and 50 m3 of water per hour. Besides lowering the organic substances present in the wastewater, through the anaerobic digestion process we also produce WASTE AND WATER MANAGEMENT biogas, collected and burned in the cogeneration plant. Responsible waste management is a fundamental aspect of our daily operations. The composition of Key performance indicator our waste is divided into two main clusters. On the one hand, we handle the inbound packaging that Waste, by disposal method (tons) accompanies the materials we source from our suppliers, the almost totality of which is made up of paper and cardboards. On the other hand, we mainly produce organic wastes that come from food filtering and 0.8 processing, from the separation of fruit stones and from wastewater treatments. In particular, the difference recorded in the two-year reporting period in the waste volumes is mainly linked to wastes accumulated over previous years, which we decided to send to disposal at one time in 2018. 1,475 1,149 The efficient use of water resources is indeed another key aspect of our environmental footprint since, in 2019 only, we withdrew 151,000 m3 used for different purposes along the production process: to produce steam, the majority of which is employed to carry out product pasteurization, for cooling food products, to rinse salt solution-kept food 197 177 ingredients as well as to wash production systems and reusable steel tanks. For this last use, we have implemented 0.7 0.1 686 650 a set of high-pressure pumps that allow for high-quality washing processes while delivering water saving with respect 2018 2019 to traditional solutions. Recovery Incineration Recycling Composting Landfill The water used for production purposes is then treated through our two water treatment plants able to treat on average between 30 and 50 m3 of water per hour. Besides lowering the organic substances present in the wastewater, through the anaerobic digestion process we also produce biogas, collected and burned in the cogeneration plant. Waste, by composition (2019) 2% 40% 58% Food waste Packaging Others* *Electronic devices and batteries, metals, transportation tanks washing waste and engine oils, printer ink, tar, insulation *Electronic devices and batteries, metals, transportation tanks washing waste and engine oils, printer ink, tar, materials, incineration wastes, chemicals, glass. insulation materials, incineration wastes, chemicals, glass. 28 Italcandi Italcanditi 29 solid components with respect to the finished product. Given the sensitivity of the issues of contamination and CLIENT CENTRICITY batch collection, the certifications require minute traceability. In order to guarantee timely response to potential critical situations, we also carry out a crisis management exercise on an annual basis, simulating a product faultiness The integration between quality standards and our people’s commitment allows for flexibility and speed. emergency. In 2018 and 2019, we recorded no non-compliance incidences for product safety and consequent These are essential elements for delivering customized products able to satisfy all our clients’ needs. withdrawals, nor any quality non-compliance issues. Client centricity is a fundamental characteristic of our way of both carrying out daily activities and structuring guarantee timely response to potential critical situations, we also carry out a crisis management Our R&D Department exercise on an annual playsbasis, a fundamental simulating guaranteeing role ain product a strongemergency. faultiness In 2018product connection between and 2019,quality weand long-term strategies. According to our business partners’ input, we select food ingredients and draft ad hoc recorded no non-compliance clients satisfaction. incidences Indeed, four laboratories forstuffing, (fruit and consequent safetypreparations, productyoghurt candiedwithdrawals, fruit and creamnor any stuffing) production manufacturing processes so as to ensure that our output perfectly adheres to the requests outlined. quality non-compliance issues. are dedicated to engineering customized recipes able to meet the highest production standards. Additionally, an This process starts with the relationship within our supply chain: about 90% of our suppliers are located within the Our R&D laboratory innovation Department plays studies new aproduction fundamental methods, in guaranteeing rolenew materials and new a strong connection technologies between to be adopted. We European Union. These range from medium-sized companies to multinational corporations specialized in dealing product quality and client’s satisfaction. Indeed, four laboratories (fruit stuffing, yoghurt also participate in research projects with universities. Since 2017, we have been part of “Food NET” with Bicocca with agricultural processed food products. Italcanditi selects them according to product specifics and volumes in preparations, candied fruit and cream stuffing) are dedicated to engineering customized recipes University able in Milan, to meet theUniversity of Pavia and University highest production standards. of Calabria, Additionally, an that a project aims to explore innovation the field laboratory of innovative studies new order to ensure the highest combination of quality and fulfilment of client’s demands. production foods that have methods, nutritionalnew materials advantages and new for people overtechnologies 65 years of age be adopted. to while We also fostering waste participate recycling and reuse.in research projects with universities. Since 2017, we have been part of “Food NET” with Bicocca Certifications are also an essential part of the product customization process. Our Quality Department deals with Furthermore, we are members of the Experimental Station for the Food Preserving Industry (SSICA), a Research University in Milan, University of Pavia and University of Calabria, a project that aims to explore the guaranteeing certificates and marks respect during everyday activities: we can count on several certifications Foundation field that carriesfoods out applied of innovative that research and experimental have nutritional development, advantages technological for people years of analysis over 65supervision, age while and recognized in different countries that apply to specific product categories as required by our clients. In particular, for fostering waste recycling laboratory consultancy, and transfer reuse. Furthermore, training and otherwerelated of results, are members the of activities, inoffavor Experimental Stationinfor companies operating the the Food Preserving Industry (SSICA), a Research Foundation that carries out applied research and cases of territorial origin denominations, we enroll in consortia and undergo all audits and controls that certify the agri-food preserving sector. experimental development, technological supervision, analysis and laboratory consultancy, transfer adherence to labeling requirements. Consortia and origin denominations safeguard the authenticity of a particular of results, training and other related activities, in favor of companies operating in the agri-food food or agricultural product by guaranteeing cultivation, process and/or transportation standards: as a consequence, preserving sector. the procurement of those kinds of products requires detailed terms and procedures to abide by. Controls are carried out almost totally internally and are focused on application compliance, which means satisfying Key performance indicators clients’ recipes and requests on the basis of physical and chemical characteristics. Quality checks are thus Our certifications specifically designed to best fit each product category in its various declinations: controls are carried out on all RSPO supply chain Certificate Sustainable palm oil procurement from certified sources. production phases. These include microbiological tests as well to understand whether the product complies with shipment standards. On the basis of our HACCP plan, we have also drawn up a list of controls according to which Kosher Certificate Industrial processes and material compliance with Jewish different microbiological aspects for each product category are assessed. Quality indexes on all the production lines ethical and hygienic health standards. ISO 22000:2005 Pasteurization and/or sterilization and packaging of products. are regularly monitored and discussed upon with the aim to assess eventual issues, evaluate them and propose mitigation or prevention efforts. IFS Certificate Being business-to-business, our labeling practice depends on clients’ requests and indications. It can be described FSSC 22000 as an internal “cascade” chain of checks, directly deriving from the guidelines issued by the business partner. The BRC Certificate closed circle heavily relies on the high degree of transparency and trustworthiness we guarantee regarding the IT BIO 007 Organic operations according to the European Union product origin, compositions and allergens. Moreover, a fundamental part concerns process controls, for which we Regulation on organic production and labelling of organic avoid cross-contamination between different products and product ingredients along the lines. This includes highly products. Halal product Certification Industrial processes and material compliance with Islam reliable segregation of processes and storage, and the capacity of washing procedures to eliminate contaminants. ethical and hygienic health standards. To do so, we implemented a barcode-based traceability system that allows to accurately trace the origin of single UTZ Certification Sustainable farming of cocoa. 30 Italcandi Italcanditi 31 THE TASTE OF QUALITY 32 Italcandi Italcanditi 33 the external perimeter are duly specified. Our material GRI material Aspect Boundary Limitations of reporting on boundary METHODOLOGICAL NOTE topics aspects Within the Outside the Within the Outside the organization organization organization organization Our first Sustainability Progress Report has been drafted with reference to the GRI Sustainability Reporting Customer health Customer health Italcanditi Clients Reporting scope and safety and safety not extended to Standards. The content of the document reflects the results of the materiality analysis as described in detail in the clients paragraph “Our sustainability path”. Employees Employment Italcanditi attraction and retention As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Initiative from January 2020, through this Sustainability Employees Training and Italcanditi training and education Progress Report Italcanditi fulfills its commitment to produce a Communication on Progress – a public disclosure development Energy efficiency Energy Italcanditi Suppliers, clients Reporting scope outlining its progress in implementing the principles of the UNGC. The UNGC Principles are clearly mapped against not extended to suppliers and suppliers and the GRI indicators in the GRI Disclosures section. At present, our Report does not directly address the UNGC issues clients clients and principles related to Human Rights, since the vast majority of our direct activities and suppliers are located in Freedom of Freedom of LaborLaborItalcanditi Italcanditi ---association association and and management management Europe, where Human Rights are regulated by law. In addition, some of the most important human rights issues collective collective relations relations bargaining bargaining related to Italcanditi’s operations, such as the protection of workers’ occupational health and safety, are already Greenhouse Gas Gas Emissions Italcanditi Suppliers, clients clients Greenhouse Emissions Italcanditi Suppliers, -Reporting scope Reporting scope emissions emissions partially extended partially extended included among the “Labor” principles and issues we report on. to clients, clients, not not to extended extended to to suppliers SCOPE OF REPORTING Innovation suppliers Innovation -Italcanditi Italcanditi ---This document includes a description of initiatives and activities carried out from January, 1st to December, 31st Occupational Occupational Occupational Occupational Italcanditi Italcanditi Suppliers Suppliers -Reporting scope Reporting scope 2019 as well as the related key performance indicators presented for the 2018-2019 period, where available. The health andand safety safety and safety health and safety not extended extended to to health health not suppliers data collection process and the report publication activities are structured on an annual basis. The information suppliers Procurement Procurement Procurement Procurement Italcanditi Italcanditi ---refers to Italcanditi S.p.A and includes the Company’s registered Headquarters, located in Via Cavour, 10 – 24066 practices practices practices practices Product Product Marketing and Marketing and Italcanditi Italcanditi ---Pedrengo (Bergamo, Italy). marketing and and labeling marketing labeling labeling labeling TOPIC BOUNDARY Production and Production and Materials Materials Italcanditi Italcanditi Suppliers Suppliers -Reporting scope Reporting scope packaging packaging not extended not extended to to The following table provides the link between our material aspects as they are presented in our Materiality Matrix materials materials suppliers suppliers Suppliers social Suppliers social Suppliers Suppliers Italcanditi Italcanditi ---and the corresponding GRI Standards topics. The scope and any eventual limitation concerning the reporting and and environmental environmental environmental environmental assessment assessment boundary due to the unavailability of data and information on the external perimeter are duly specified. assessment assessment Suppliers social Suppliers social Italcanditi Italcanditi ---assessment assessment Waste and Waste and water water Waste Waste Italcanditi Italcanditi ---management management Water and Water and Italcanditi Italcanditi ---effluents effluents QUALITY REPORTING PRINCIPLES Qu Q uaalliittyy rreeppoorrttiin ngg p prriin ncciip plleess TheSustainability The Sustainability Progress Report Report Progress is draftedisin accordance drafted in inwith the principles accordance of balance, with comparability, principles the principles accuracy, of balance, balance, The Sustainability Progress Report is drafted accordance with the of comparability, timeliness, comparability, accuracy, clarity accuracy, and reliability, timeliness, timeliness, clarity and by the and as definedclarity reliability, The GRI Standards. reliability, as defined as defined documentby by the GRI highlights the GRIboth Standards. strengths The Standards. The and document highlights document weaknesses, highlights both strengths both as well as potential strengths and weaknesses, and weaknesses, areas of improvement. The dataas collection as well as well potential as potential and reporting areas areas of process improvement. of improvement. are structured The The data data collection collection and and reporting reporting process process are are structured structured in in order order to to ensure ensure comparability comparability and the and the in order to ensure comparability and the correct interpretation of information by the key stakeholders interested correct interpretation correct interpretation of information by of information the key key stakeholders by the interested in stakeholders interested in our our performance performance our performance inevolution. evolution. evolution. we Furthermore, Furthermore, Furthermore, we apply the apply the weprecautionary apply the precautionary precautionary principle principle principle in all in all our all inour our activities.The activities. activities. The present Thepresent present Sustainability Sustainability Sustainability Progress Progress Progress ReportReport Reportis notis not subject not subject issubject to to external external to external assurance. assurance. assurance. 34 Italcandi Caallccu C ullaattiio on nmmeetth ho oddo oggiieess ollo Italcanditi 35 The methodologies The methodologies and assumption used and assumption used to calculate the to calculate performance indicators the performance indicators included included in in the the Report are Report are described described below: below: calculated by considering the shipments of sold products from the Pedrengo site to the client’s city. Concerning truck transportation of sold goods, available distance and weight data cover around 70% of all shipments. CALCULATION METHODOLOGIES Our GHG emissions have been calculated as follows: Our GHG emissions have been calculated as follows: The methodologies and assumption used to calculate the performance indicators included in the Report are GHG GHGEMISSIONS emissions –– SCOPE Scope 11 described below: Source Activity data Emission factor GWP • All data related to injuries refer to the Italcanditi’s employees, thus excluding contractors. Commuting injuries for Car fleet Fuel consumption UK Department for CO2 equivalent has which the transportation has not been organized by the Company and first-aid cases are not included; (gasoline and diesel) Environment, Food & been considered. • The waste composition has been determined on the basis of waste weights as reported in the Environmental Rural Affairs (DEFRA), Conversion factors – • The Form Declaration composition waste(Modello Unico dihas been determined Dichiarazione on the basis of waste weights as reported in Ambientale); Full set, 2018, 2019 the Environmental Declaration Form (Modello Unico di Dichiarazione Ambientale); Natural gas for Fuel consumption UK Department for CO2 equivalent has • The energy consumption related to Italcanditi’s owned and long-term leased vehicles has been calculated starting • The energy consumption related to Italcanditi’s owned and long-term leased vehicles has boilers, heating, and (Natural gas) Environment, Food & been considered. from available fuel consumption been calculated data. starting The available from fuelshows following table the conversion data.factors consumption The following tableused: that have been shows cogeneration and Rural Affairs (DEFRA), the conversion factors that have been used: trigeneration systems Conversion factors – Typology UoM Source Full set, 2018, 2019 Gas Gas refrigerants refrigerants refills refills Leakages Leakages (kg) (kg) Global Warming Warming Global Fuel density l/t UK Department for Environment, Food & Rural for for refrigerating refrigerating Potentials (GWPs) are Potentials (GWPs) are Affairs (DEFRA), Conversion factors – Full set, rooms and rooms and air taken from taken from IPCC IPCC Fifth Fifth 2018, 2019 conditioning conditioning Assessment Report Assessment Report LCV (Lower Calorific Value) GJ/t UK Department for Environment, Food & Rural (AR5). (AR5). Affairs (DEFRA), Conversion factors – Full set, 2018, 2019 GHGEMISSIONS GHG GHG emissions–––SCOPE emissions Scope 2 Scope Source Activity data Source Emission factor GWP GWP • Greenhouse Gas emissions calculations are carried out based on the principles outlined in the GHG purchased Electricity Electricity purchased Electricity Terna international Only Only COCO222 emissions emissions • Greenhouse emissionsCorporate Gas Protocol are carried and calculationsAccounting Reporting out based on theStandard. principles outlined in the GHG Protocol the national national grid consumption (kWh) comparisons on have For the calculation of the amount of emissions avoided thanks to the energy generated by from from the have been been Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. Italcanditi's photovoltaic system, kWh consumption of auto-produced electricity through PV –– Location-based Location-based Enerdata figures, considered. considered. 2017, 2018 For thepanels hasofbeen calculation converted the amount into COavoided of emissions thanksbytousing 2 emissions the Terna the energy generated by Italcanditi’senergy location-based mix. photovoltaic Electricity purchased Electricity purchased Electricity AIB, European CO222 equivalent CO equivalent has has Refrigerant gas blends for which a conversion factor was not available were taken from system, kWh consumption of auto-produced electricity through PV panels has been converted into CO2 emissions from the from national grid consumption (kWh) the national Residual Mixes, 2017, 2017, been been considered. considered. available data provided by suppliers while blend components’ Global Warming Potential by using (GWP) werelocation-based the Terna taken from IPCC energy mix.Assessment Refrigerant Report Fifth gas blends for which a conversion factor was not (AR5). Market-based –– Market-based 2018 available Scope 2 emissions was taken datafrom resulting from available the by provided consumption suppliers while electricity of blend components’ Globalfrom purchased the national Warming Potential grid are calculated according to two different methodologies: the location-based one reflects GHG GHGEMISSIONS GHG emissions–––SCOPE emissions Scope 33 Scope (GWP) the wereaverage taken from IPCC Fifthintensity emissions Assessment Report of grids (AR5).the energy consumption occurs; the marketwhere Source Activity data Source Emission factor GWP GWP Scope based 2 emissionsone resulting thetheemissions reflectsfrom consumption from the electricity purchasedsource of electricity from thethat thegrid Company national has are calculated purposefully chosen. Transportation of Transportation of sold Product shipped UK Department for CO CO222 equivalent equivalent has has according to two different methodologies: the location-based one reflects the average emissions intensity of grids Scope 3 emissions estimations include indirect emissions resulting from outbound logistics goods goods (km*ton) (km*ton) Environment, Food Environment, Food & & been considered. been considered. where the andenergy business travels occurs; consumption by air the andmarket-based one reflects train. Outbound by shipfrom the emissions logistics the electricity have source distances been Rural Affairs (DEFRA), Rural Affairs (DEFRA), that thecalculated Company has consideringchosen. by purposefully the shipments of sold products from the Pedrengo site to the Conversion Conversion factors factors –– client’s city. Concerning truck transportation of sold goods, available distance and weight Full Full set, 2018, 2019 set, 2018, 2019 Scope data3 emissions cover estimations around 70% include of allindirect emissions resulting from outbound logistics and business travels shipments. Business travels travels by by air air Kilometers Kilometers UK Business Department UK Department for for CO equivalent has CO222 equivalent has by air Our GHG andemissions havelogistics train. Outbound by ship distances been calculated have been calculated by considering the shipments of sold as follows: Environment, Food Environment, Food & & been been considered. considered. Rural Affairs (DEFRA), Rural Affairs (DEFRA), products from the Pedrengo site to the client’s city. Concerning truck transportation of sold goods, available GHG emissions – Scope 1 Conversion Conversion factors factors –– distance and weight data cover Source arounddata Activity 70% of all shipments. Emission factor GWP Full set, Full set, 2018, 2019 2018, 2019 Business travels Business travels by by Kilometers Kilometers Ferrovie dello Stato, Ferrovie dello Stato, Only CO Only CO222 emissions emissions Car fleet Fuel consumption UK Department for CO2 equivalent has train train “Rapporto di “Rapporto di have been have been (gasoline and diesel) Environment, Food & been considered. Sostenibilità”, Sostenibilità”, 2017, 2017, considered. considered. Rural Affairs (DEFRA), 2018 2018 Conversion factors – Full set, 2018, 2019 36 Natural gas Italcandi for Fuel consumption UK Department for CO2 equivalent has GGRRII DDiisscclloossuurreess Italcanditi 37 boilers, heating, and (Natural gas) Environment, Food & been considered. The material of The material of the the present Sustainability Progress present Sustainability Progress Report references the Report references GRI Disclosures. following GRI the following Disclosures. cogeneration and Rural Affairs (DEFRA), IfIf not otherwise specified, specified, the not otherwise the Disclosures Disclosures applied have been applied have been used used inin full. full. trigeneration systems Conversion factors – GRI Standard Disclosure Notes Sostenibilità”, 2017, considered. 2018 102-51 Date of most recent report The 2019 Sustainability Progress Report is the Company’s first document of its kind. GRI DISCLOSURES 102-52 Reporting cycle GRmaterial The I Discloofsuthe respresent Sustainability Progress Report references the following GRI Disclosures. If not otherwise The material of the present Sustainability Progress Report references the following GRI Disclosures. 102-53 Contact point for questions specified, the Disclosures applied have been used in full. regarding the report If not otherwise specified, the Disclosures applied have been used in full. 102-56 External assurance GRI Standard Disclosure Notes Economic performance GRI 102 – General Disclosures 102-1 Name of the organization (2016) GRI 201 – Economic performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and (2016) distributed services Procurement practices 102-3 Location of headquarters GRI 204 – Procurement practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local 102-4 Location of operations (2016) suppliers Materials 102-5 Ownership and legal form GRI 103 – Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and 102-7 Scale of the organization (2016) its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 102-8 Information on employees and other components workers GRI 301 – Materials (2016) 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 102-9 Supply chain Energy 102-10 Significant changes to the No significant changes to the organization and its supply chain organization’s size, structure, or supply chain were recorded in the reporting GRI 103 – Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and period. (2016) its Boundary 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 103-2 The management approach and its components 102-12 External initiatives GRI 302 – Energy (2016) 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 102-14 Statement from senior decisionmaker 302-3 Energy intensity Energy intensity accounts for the energy consumption within the organization only. 102-18 Governance structure Emissions 102-40 List of stakeholder groups GRI 103 – Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and (2016) its Boundary 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 103-2 The management approach and its components 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders GRI 305 – Emissions (2016) 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 102-47 List of material topics 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 102-48 Restatements of information The 2019 Sustainability Progress Report is the Company’s first document of its kind. Waste 102-49 Changes in reporting The 2019 Sustainability Progress Report is the Company’s first document of its kind. GRI 103 – Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and (2016) its Boundary 102-50 Reporting period 103-2 The management approach and its components 102-51 Date of most recent report The 2019 Sustainability Progress Report is the Company’s first document of its kind. GRI 306 – Waste (2020) 306-2 Management of significant wasterelated impacts 102-52 Reporting cycle 306-3 Waste generated 38 Italcandi 102-53 Contact point for questions Italcanditi 39 regarding the report Supplier environmental assessment 102-56 External assurance GRI 308 – Supplier environmental 308-1 New suppliers that were screened To date, new suppliers are screened using emissions directly linked by business relationships 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG 403-9 Work-related injuries emissions Waste Training and education GRI 103 – Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and GRI 103 – Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and (2016) its Boundary (2016) its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 103-2 The management approach and its components components GRI 306 – Waste (2020) 306-2 Management of significant wasteGRI 404 – Training and education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per related impacts (2016) employee 306-3 Waste generated Supplier social assessment Supplier environmental GRI 414 – Supplier social 414-1 New suppliers that were screened To date, new suppliers are screened using assessment assessment (2016) using social criteria social criteria only if required by clients. GRI 308 – Supplier environmental 308-1 New suppliers that were screened To date, new suppliers are screened using Customer health and safety assessment (2016) using environmental criteria environmental criteria only if required by clients. Employment GRI 103 – Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and (2016) its Boundary GRI 103 – Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and 103-2 The management approach and its (2016) its Boundary components 103-2 The management approach and its GRI 416 – Customer health and 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance components safety (2016) concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services GRI 401 – Employment (2016) 401-1 New employee hires and employee Marketing and labeling turnover Labor-management relations GRI 103 – Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and (2016) its Boundary GRI 402 – Labor-management 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding No minimum notice period regarding 103-2 The management approach and its relations (2016) operational changes operational changes is specified. components Occupational Health GRI 417 – Marketing and labeling 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance No incidents of non-compliance and Safety (2016) concerning product and service concerning product and service information and labeling information and labeling were recorded in GRI 103 – Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and the reporting period. (2016) its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its components GRI 403 – Occupational Health and 403-1 Occupational Health and safety Safety (2018) management system 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation 403-3 Occupational health services 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational health and safety 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 403-6 Promotion of worker health 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly linked by business relationships 403-9 Work-related injuries Training and education GRI 103 – Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and (2016) its Boundary 40 Italcandi 103-2 The management approach and its Italcanditi 41 components GRI 404 – Training and education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per (2016) employee CONTENTS A MESSAGE TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 3 OUR DASHBOARD 4 OUR SUSTAINABILITY PATH 6 ABOUT US 9 ITALCANDITI IN NUMBERS 12 ENHANCING PEOPLE POTENTIAL 16 HEALTH & SAFETY 20 ENERGY CONSUMPTION 22 OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT 24 MATERIALS CONSUMPTION AND SUSTAINABLE PACKAGING 26 WASTE AND WATER MANAGEMENT 28 CLIENT CENTRICITY 30 METHODOLOGICAL NOTE 34 SCOPE OF REPORTING 34 TOPIC BOUNDARY 34 QUALITY REPORTING PRINCIPLES 35 CALCULATION METHODOLOGIES 36 GRI DISCLOSURES 38 42 Italcandi Via Cavour, 10 · 24066 Pedrengo (BG) · ITALIA Tel. +39.035.654911 · italcanditi@italcanditi.it · www.italcanditi.it
