2019 Sustainability Report Index 3 Good Health and Well-being 4 Quality Education 5 Gender Equality 6 Reduced Inequalities 12 Responsible Consumption and Production 13 Climate Change 14 Life Below Water 15 Life On Land 16 Peace Justice and Strong Institutions 17 Partnerships for the Goals 1 / 28 Welcome After celebrating our third consecutive recognition as a socially responsible company, we are now more than ever committed to a corporate culture of social responsibility and its' diffusion to all our stakeholders. For this reason, we would like to thank all those who have accompanied us on our daily path to becoming a more socially responsible company. In this publication, we wish to demonstrate how proud it makes us, as a Mexican company, to be able to work with several of the most vulnerable groups in society and to help give Mexico a brighter future. In the past 134 years, this company has built, along with our employees, customers, suppliers, and stakeholders, an ideal for what it means to be socially responsible. An ideal, that helps us face the challenging times our country is going through. The development of both personal and collective principles, aligned with corporate and global interests, is therefore a challenge that we have gladly accepted and it is a calling we wish that every company would follow. The idea is simple: Everyone who has been in contact with Maritimex should leave as a changed person and hopefully as a kinder human being. Ricardo Everbusch G. President of Maritimex Group. 1 / 28 8 20 251 Companies Offices Employees MARITIMEX 85,577 TEUS 23,589,737 TONS 134 YEARS IN THE 3,998 TEUS INDUSTRY 4,362 TEUS FOUNDATION: 1885 HEADQUATER: Mexico City Since 2019, Maritimex has made it a Corporate Goal to support the UNs BUSINESS: Family owned 17 Sustainable Development Goals, to provide a better future for all. PROGRAMS: 10 + Shipping Lines 100 + Countries Impacted 15 Industries Served 2 / 28 Our Business Pillars Non-Liner Shipping Container Shipping Where we handle all Where we handle all general, liquid, proyect & containerized and roro cargo. Connecting refrigerated cargo, Mexico with the world. between Mexico and the world. 134 Years of Making Maritime History in Mexico Were we support all the Were we provide cargo going in and out of integrated solutions the Mexican Ports. Bringing tailored to the needs it safely from port to port. of our customers. Inland transportation Integrated Logistics 3 / 28 Our Sutainability Goals In Maritimex, we have built our but instead we are contributing to a sustainability strategy upon the UN's larger and more global effort to improve global sustainability goals. This way, we the life of millions, the health of our ensure that the impact of our monthly planet, and the conditions below the causes and programs is not only local, surface of the oceans. 4 / 28 Cooltura Maritimex 5 / 28 Our Planet 6 / 28 Highlights 150 of pine trees planted by We launched the project Maritimex. In total 45 paperless in the port volunteers took part in this Manzanillo. Also, we began to event organized by separate all our trash by CONAFOR. The result of the type: Organic, Paper, Plastics event was 5000 new trees. & Glass. We collected over 5,000 bottle caps for the Siegfried 20 volunteers participated in Rhein organization & a beach and port clean-up on AMANC. The result, 5 the pacific coast. The event Chemotherapies for a young was organized by the boy & wheelchairs for kids secretary of tourism. with cancer. This is an important cause to Maritimex as we strive to respect the environment in every one of our processes and operations and hope that our actions to promote a healthier environment will transfer to our surroundings. Our goals this year were to support reforestation, reduce printings, recycle more PET, and lastly to partake in beach cleanings. 7 / 28 How We Protect Our Oceans Every year, around 8 million MT of For all these reason, we did not plastic enters our oceans, according hesitate to accept the invitation from to study published by the World the secretary of Tourism in Economic Forum in 2016. In total, this Manzanillo to join them in a local results in 5 trillion pieces of plastic beach and port cleaning. We waste floating around in the oceans, participated with 20 people from according to The Ocean Cleanup. Maritimex, and were able to help collect 15 kg of trash in just one day! Not only does this pollute the seawater and the potentially the food It's far from what is needed to clean we get from the ocean, it also affects up our oceans, but it's a beginning, more than 800 marine species and and in Maritimex we strongly believe contaminate the entire ecosystem, that in order to see change you want according to the Ocean Conservancy. in the world, you have to be the change. 8 / 28 On Land Responsability Since the 2005, the Maritimex group In addition to these certifications, 4 of has been offering inland our suppliers have also been certified transportation via truck or rail. A as Socially Responsible Companies by service that is provided to all our the Cemefi. clients in need of inland transportation to and from the Moreover, Mexterra has implemented Mexican Ports. However, transporting new digitalization processes that not over 8,000 TEUS via land does affect only simplifies the work processes, our carbon footprint. Therefore, we but also help reduce printing and run a strict supplier policy, to ensure paper waste. Over the past two years, that we contaminate the least this has resulted in a 22% reducing in amount possible. printing at Maritimex offices. Today, Mexterra has 42 current suppliers of inland transportation be it via road or rail. Of these suppliers, 55 mexterra percent has been certified as low carbon emission trucks. For the vehicles and suppliers going around in Mexico City, the number goes up to 100 %. One of ways in which we ensure that our suppliers are certified is through the presentation of their NOM registration. 9 / 28 Being CSR in Our Offices On average, we have been Paperless: Substitution of able to reduce our paper physical documentation for waste by 22 % in Mexico electronic, in addition to City, by implementing a digitization of files for Responsible Printing Rule. greater efficiency. Our office style is Friendly and inviting . By mixing a pleasant architecture with green materials and our extra high ceilings we have created an environment that allows for plenty of sunlight to enter every floor, and create a relaxing atmosphere to work in. Moreover, we have installed sensor lights in the entire office, which allows to safe energy. In an effort to reduce the use of plastic bottles and disposable coffee cups, in the office, we have installed water dispensors and coffee manchines on every floor to the disposal of everyone. This together with the reusable coffee mugs and water cups avaliable, we estimate that we have reduced our plastic waste by 50 %. 10 / 28 Our Employees 10 / 28 Highlights To promote employee In October, 15 women health, we provided 50 eye participated in our Breast exams, 99 blood tests & Cancer talks, while 10 men 48 teeth cleanings. While took part in talks on 50 people participated in Prostate Cancer. Together, our wellness program. we ran 220 km in a Breast Cancer Awareness Run. 32 women participated in Preparing for the future is the talks on creating a essential, and 107 people healthy work-life-balance. assisted in the talks on And 64 presents were protecing your future, given to Maritimex's including medical insurance, Mothers for Mother's Day! social security & pensions.. This is an important cause to Maritimex as we wish to promote a healthy work environment, where personal and professional development is at the core and one that foster well-being and where human rights are always respected. This year, our program navigation towards excellence for measuring employee progress and achievements, was one of our main goals. 11 / 28 Inclusion & Diversity Gender Distribution Women HQ PORT 40.1% OFFICES Men Women 50% 50% Men 59.9% Maritimex has reached a 100 % gender equality at the main office in Mexico City, while the port offices are only 9.9 % away from reaching that goal also. Salaries 100 % equal pay Salary Gap of the Overall Workforce in Male Female Mexico 2019 Salary Gap of the Workforce in Male Female Maritimex 2019 Courses and inhouse trainings Courses Course Men 43.2% 2019 hours Men Women 48.7% Women 51.3% 56.8% The courses with the biggest impact were Leaders in Development for the male employees and Perfectioning Management Skills for the female employees. 12 / 28 Training and Office Safety In 2019, we consolidated our Civil Additionally, this 2019 we added new Protection program. This year, we external stairs to our head office in carried out more than 10 drills Mexico City, designed exclusively to throughout the year, and we also be used as emergency stairs and to reinforced our Maritimex brigade help reduce our evacuation time in team by adding more colleagues. In case of an emergency situation. total, we now have 21 brigades who are trained in first aid, firefighting, In Maritimex, we will continue to work search and rescue as well as for your safety. evacuation and withdrawal. Our employees in fire training in La Posta, Hidalgo. 13 / 28 Our Community 14 / 28 Highlights This year we collaborated 20 volunteers went to the with The Red Cross in Pergatuzoo animal shelter Mexico and 25 people with different food & volunteered to donate a cleaning supplies for their total of 7 liters of blood. 300+ animals. Kids smiling because of 4 We donated 65 kg of sports scholarships, 10 clothes, 140 diapers, and volunteers with Dr. a total of 70 monetary Sonrisas , 4 sponsorships donations to the shelter with Lazos foundation, Refuge & Peace . and a total of 145 Christmas presents. This is an important cause to Maritimex as seek to always help out in our local community and we wish to support, not just anyone, but organizations most at need of investments or human capital. Our goals this year were to support the Red Cross, the elder community, sick childen and children from low income backgrounds. 15 / 28 Bringing Hope & Life to our Community Through our many volunteer programs In 2019, we reached both the elderly we are able to help the most community, school-aged kids, as well vulnerable groups. We believe that as positively impacting the work of the act of voluntarism has a young people with special needs. significant impact on our employee’s lives too. We continually launch social action programs that seek to positively Every year, we try to distribute our impact our surroundings and the efforts between all the groups in community we belong to. In addition need, to reach as many people as to this, we make donations to the possible, and thereby leave the movie theaters and theaters with the biggest impact on our community. purpose of supporting the local art scene. 15/ 28 Ethics & Compliance 17 / 28 Highlights 18 dads participated in We launched our football tournament, 34 Intranet with direct shirts & 18 led-pens gifted, access to all important to male employees for programs, our company father's day. benefits, corp. videos, & info, manuals, etc. We launched a program: 22 new brigade members was incorporated and we Maritimex the home of provided them 24hrs of everyone , which strive training. Also, 150 people to integrate people with were evacuated in mock disabilities in economic earthquake, with a time activities. reduction of 20 %. This is an important cause to Maritimex as we do not tolerate any practices of corruption nor money laundry. Moreover, we find it very important to promote a fair work environment that builds on a solid code of ethics. Our goals this year were to develop new policies for anti-corruption and anti-bribery, educate our employees on these and to improve our corporate governance. 18 / 28 Procurement & Compliance The creation and strengthening of an Attractive salaries, compensation, internal legal area made it possible to and benefits equal to those of large supervise documentation, deals and corporations; trainings and internal commercial acts to respect current growth, plus everything that we laws at all times. consider emotional salary, including the remodeling of the facilities, Our purchasing process has been financial help to continued education, updated to carry out procedures and spaces for coexistence, among making sure that our suppliers stick others. to all the current laws and regulations, and also for them to be certain of their procedures and remuneration. Thanks to our internal processes of improvement and the feedback we receive, we are able to guarantee a higher customer satisfaction. We believe, that what sets apart a great company are their problem solving skills. 19 / 28 Anti-Corruption Maritimex has been certified by TRACE Anti-Bribery Compliance Solutions since 2015. This association helps its' members conduct business ethically and in compliance with international antibribery legislation. Moreover, they provide access to pre-screened intermediaries and third party risk assessment tool. For Maritimex, this means that we are able to draw on their expertise for any questions and concerns regarding any operation or process. Additionally, it provides our clients and business partners with the assurance that doing business with Maritimex is a safe choice. We strive to always provide all our business partners and clients with the biggest possible transparency and insight to all our business operation. 20 / 28 Human Rights Maritimex will respect the Jobs at Maritimex offer a decent International Declaration of Human lifestyle. Discrimination based on Rights and will avoid being complicit in origin, nationality, religion, race, sex or any abuse in this matter. Likewise, age is not allowed. any person or legal entity that has a relationship with us must respect the On the other hand, any form of moral human dignity, privacy and rights of or sexual harassment will not only be each individual. prohibited but also actively detected and eliminated. Maritimex commits to acting within all national and international laws, while Maritimex employees must comply always respecting the international with applicable laws and act under human rights treaties. ethical behavior. 21 / 28 What Do Others Say? Agradecemos que desde hace cuatro años la familia Maritimex forme parte de la jornada de mantenimiento y reforestación, contribuyendo con nuestro medio ambiente y nuestra sociedad. Ing. Luis Manuel Reyes Esquivel CONAFOR. Nos da mucho gusto dar continuidad al Programa de Salud y Bienestar de Maritimex para poder seguir siendo generadores de cambio para los empleados de Maritimex. Celia Peniche Nutrición Dinámica Nosotros agradecemos a la familia Maritimex, me enorgullece formar parte de esta empresa y la oportunidad que nos brindan de participar con nuestras familias en este tipo eventos. Karla Negrete Voluntarios Maritimex La Cruz Roja Mexicana Distrito Federal, reconoce a Maritimex por la valiosa colaboración que nos brindó al participar con su apoyo a la campaña de donación voluntaria de sangre, Confiamos en seguir contando con la participación. Dra. Eva Carolina Rosas Cruz Roja Muchas gracias por su noble gesto para con los niños de la escuela Cuahtemoc (Amecameca) les encantaron sus regalos y están muy agradecidos con todos ustedes. Abel Cruz Fundación Lazos 22 / 28 Sustainability Goals for 2020 Our Plant Safeguarding our resources Our Employees Growing potential & well-being We plan to continue our yearly We plan to do trainings on personal reforestation with CONAFOR. finances and protecting our future. Improve our recycling and separation We also plan to continue our of trash at our offices. wellness program to promote a healthy lifestyle among our Implement a new app to facilitate the employees. paperless proyect at our port offices. Continue the program navigating Educate our employees on being to excellence . more green at home and in their daily life. Our Community Developing thriving communities Ethics & CPL Safety & Transparency Support our local community and Improve and add to our safety and business. security protocols. Bring Christmas presents to kids Building an inclusive company with from low income families. room for everyone. Bring awareness to Breast Cancer and raise money for this cause. Help out and bring supplies to a local animal shelter. 23 / 28 End notes A company is defined by three measures: Its economic, social, and environmental situation. Therefore, the corporate social responsibility report is as important as the company's financial report, which documents the economic situation of the company, in that it demonstrates the company's social responsiblility practices and the results of these. MARITIMEX Frontera 67, Colonia Tizapán San Ángel, Alcaldía Álvaro Obregón, C.P. 01090 Mexico City, Mexico Phone: +52 55 5089 2222 web: www.maritimex.com.mx For any comments, questions, or suggestions regarding the content of this report please contact: Irene Lasanta Aarón Almada HR Director Human Resources ilasanta@maritimex.com.mx aalmada@maritimex.com.mx 55-5089 2222 ext. 2243 55-5089 2222 ext. 2332 Follow us on any of our social media channels: 24 / 28
