Sustainability Review 2019 1 53 Contents Year 2019 Key figures Sponda in brief 3 Environmental responsibility key figures 31 Highlights in 2019 4 Social responsibility key figures 37 Chief Executive’s review 5 Economic responsibility key figures 39 Sustainability Principles of the report Sustainability at Sponda 8 Description and scope of the report 41 Responding to trends and changes 10 Management approach 44 How we create value 12 Independent Practitioner’s Limited Assurance Report 45 Stakeholder cooperation 14 GRI index 47 The objectives and results of Sponda’s sustainability in 2019 15 New sustainability programme 2020–2022 27 This review has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiativen (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards: Core option. 2 46 Year 2019 Sponda in brief 3 Highlights in 2019 4 Chief Executive’s review 5 Sustainability Review 2019 3 Year 2019 Sustainability Key figures Principles of the report 53 Sponda in brief 5.4 52% 53% Training hours Office premises Waste per employee recycling rate Sponda Plc is one of the leading property investment companies in Finland. We are a forerunner in property investment, an experienced business partner and a responsible developer of properties and urban 131 41% Shopping centres 45.7 Employees kg CO2/gross m2 environments. We own, lease and develop office and Carbon footprint retail properties and shopping centres in the largest cities in Finland. We develop operating environments that promote the success of our customers. 1.44% 1.1 million m² Leasable area 216 Sick leave, % of kWh/gross m2 working hours Energy consumption Sponda is owned by Blackstone, one of the largest real estate investors in the world. Sponda business units are Office Properties, Shopping Centres, Active Property Management, Portfolio Management New President and CEO 19 M€ Property development 30% and Coworking Spaces (31 December 2019). Christian Hohenthal was investments Environmental certification rate appointed as Sponda’s President and CEO as of 1 February 2020. 3.1 bn € Total value of properties Leader in responsibility In the property sector’s international GRESB* sustainability survey, Sponda Property development was selected as the best projects company in Europe and the 2019 Sector Leader. The new Ratina Office building reached rooftop height and the Arkadia 6 renovation project * Global Real Estate Sustainability proceeded to tenant alterations. Benchmark Sustainability Review 2019 4 Year 2019 Sustainability Key figures Principles of the report 53 Highlights in 2019 We revised our The most responsible company Finland’s largest solar sustainability programme in its industry in Europe power plant We updated our sustainability strategy to Sponda was ranked number one in Europe in We constructed a power plant with more than ensure that our sustainability efforts meet the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark 3,000 solar panels on the roof of the Elo shopping the requirements of the changing operating 2019 survey. GRESB is a global comparative centre in Ylöjärvi. It is the first roof-mounted solar environment. In 2019, we re-evaluated which study of sustainability that measures the power plant in Finland with more than one million sustainability issues are the most material to performance of property companies in various watts of power, which also makes it the largest Sponda. The materiality analysis was carried areas of sustainability. We received a full five-star roof-mounted solar power plant in Finland. The out by listening to stakeholders. Based on the assessment and, for the seventh year running, solar power plant covers approximately one-fourth results, we defined new sustainability themes we were also awarded a Green Star for our of Elo’s total electricity consumption, reducing and targets as well as a roadmap for reaching sustainability efforts. This recognition demonstrates the carbon dioxide emissions of the shopping those objectives. The new themes in the excellent leadership in sustainable development in centre by up to 112,000 kg per year. According sustainability programme included sustainability the property sector. to a study, solar power is regarded as the most in the supply chain, healthy and safe premises, environmentally friendly sources of energy.1 and data-driven management and the use of digital innovations. 1 Source: Nationwide consumer survey on consumer perceptions of the sustainability of companies and different sources of energy. 1,104 respondents. Carried out in September–October 2018/ 2019 NorstatFinland Oy. Sustainability Review 2019 5 Year 2019 Sustainability Key figures Principles of the report 53 Chief Executive’s review At Sponda, 2019 was a significant year of renewal. The company renewed its sustainability programme and, buoyed by its success in the GRESB survey, emerged even more prominently as a leader in sustainable development. Continued positive economic growth and low interDuring the year, we also began a comprehenest rate level in Finland in 2019 created excellent sive website renewal process and continued the operating conditions for the property investment development of our information systems. We also market. Our total revenue and net operating income updated our Code of Conduct. The Supplier Code decreased primarily due to divestments during of Conduct will be updated this year. the year. As in previous years, we made significant investments in property development. Our investSponda ranked as a leader in ments during the financial year totalled EUR 19.3 sustainable development million. The fair value of our investment properties One of the highlights of the year was the publiwas approximately EUR 3.1 billion at the end of 2019. cation of the results of the international GRESB sustainability survey. We were ranked as the most Renewal across the board sustainable company in Europe in our peer group Renewal was our key word in 2019 with regard to and chosen as a Sector Leader in sustainable sustainability. We conducted a comprehensive development. This was the seventh consecutive materiality analysis that served as the basis for time that we achieved an excellent result in the the renewal of our sustainability programme. We GRESB ratings. also identified new sustainability themes as well as sustainability targets to give concrete shape to the Being selected as a leader in sustainability also themes. comes with an obligation. Leadership requires continuous renewal, strong commitment and the ability to anticipate future needs, and these were also the starting points of our renewal efforts in 2019. Sustainability Review 2019 6 Year 2019 Sustainability Key figures Principles of the report 53 ” T he results of the GRESB survey position us even more firmly as a leader in sustainable development and a forerunner in our industry. Christian Hohenthal President and CEO New initiatives in sustainability our extranet services to provide our customers Employees and customers play key roles We promoted our sustainability targets on several with even more detailed information to help them The past year was demanding for our personnel. All fronts during the year. We exceeded the targets monitor and communicate their sustainability. of our employees have participated in putting our set for our energy efficiency measures and we ambitious sustainability targets into action and been are making good progress towards our 2020 Leading the way in energy efficiency involved in our renewal efforts on many levels. They energy efficiency target, which is to reduce energy We have taken a big step forward in the use of deserve the majority of the credit for the successful ­consumption by 20 per cent compared to the level renewable energy. Finland’s first over one megawatt year we had in 2019. of 2001–2005. rooftop solar power plant also become the largest when it was completed on the Elo shopping centre I also want to thank our highly aware customers and We reduced our carbon dioxide emissions by in early 2020. stakeholders, who have significantly influenced the almost 7 per cent from the previous year and our development of our sustainability and contributed to recycling rate increased by as much as 5 percentAs in previous years, in the planning and design of the achievement of our shared goals. The effective age points to 53 per cent. new properties and renovation projects, we applied co-operation on multiple fronts has also made it our own design guidelines, which are in many ways possible for us to develop new sustainable operatIn the area of recycling, we also made an initiative more extensive and ambitious than the generally ing models and take the entire industry forward. that represents an important new move for the applied standards. In the shopping centre business, industry as a whole. We became the first large our largest project was the renewal of the first floor In 2020, we will focus on the practical implemenproperty owner to start collecting post-consumer of Citycenter. In office properties, the most significant tation of our renewal measures and continue our plastic packaging waste at our office properties in ongoing projects are the Arkadia 6 office building efforts as a developer of the properties and working the Helsinki metropolitan area in spring 2019. and the Ratina Offices project, both of which will be environments of the future. Our mission is to completed in summer 2020. create business premises that deliver increasingly Increased customer interest in smart, healthy and significant brand value and business benefits to our safe properties was reflected in our development We also continued our active efforts related to LEED® customers through sustainability. activities. During the year, we carried out IoT pilot and BREEAM® certifications in 2019. We successfully projects and introduced a new energy management applied for four certificates for our properties, includChristian Hohenthal, tool, amongst other things. We will also redesign ing new certifications as well as recertifications. President and CEO Sustainability Review 2019 7 46 Sustainability Sustainability at Sponda 8 Responding to trends and changes 10 How we create value 12 Stakeholder cooperation 14 The objectives and results of Sponda’s sustainability in 2019 15 New sustainability programme 2020–2022 27 Sustainability Review 2019 8 Year 2019 Sustainability Key figures Principles of the report 53 Sustainability at Sponda Sustainability is an integral and inseparable part of our strategy, day-to-day work and business expertise. Active stakeholder engagement is key to the success of our sustainability efforts and we require our personnel and subcontractors, for example, to commit to our ethical operating practices. At Sponda, 2019 was a year of renewal. We updated our sustainability programme in collaboration with our stakeholders to ensure that it effectively serves our business in a changing world. As a company that operates in the property sector, Our sustainability efforts are based on our strategy sustainability efforts, created a new sustainability we have an opportunity and a duty to promote as well as our values, and Code of Conduct. We strategy, defined new sustainability targets and sustainable development, as buildings account are also committed to the UN Global Compact created a road map for achieving them. for a significant proportion of the world’s energy sustainability principles. We have a Supplier Code consumption and carbon dioxide emissions. Susof Conduct that is binding on our supply chain. Other highlights during the year included our tainability is one of the cornerstones of Sponda’s achievements related to environmental efficiency strategy, and we take it comprehensively into We have identified six sustainability priorities with in particular. We developed a solar power plant account in everything we do. The sustainability the help of our stakeholders, and we have set both exceeding one million watts in capacity on the roof themes linked to our business are integral aspects longand short-term targets for each one. We of the Elo shopping centre, significantly increased of our daily work throughout the organisation, and report on our progress towards achieving these our recycling rate and reduced our carbon dioxide our sustainability efforts cover social, economic and targets annually in our Sustainability Review. More emissions. We received a full five-star rating in the environmental responsibility. information on our targets and the results of our international GRESB sustainability assessment, efforts in 2019 is provided on pages 15–17. and we were chosen as the most sustainable real estate company in Europe in our peer group and a We updated our sustainability Sector Leader in sustainable development. We will ” programme and were recognised continue to work towards our new targets in 2020. for our sustainability efforts A t Sponda, 2019 was a At Sponda, 2019 was a year of renewal. One of the year of renewal. One of the most important renewal measures was updating most important renewal our sustainability programme. The nearly year-long process was a comprehensive effort: we surveyed measures was to update our our stakeholders’ views and wishes regarding our sustainability programme. Sustainability Review 2019 9 Year 2019 Sustainability Key figures Principles of the report 53 Management and organisation of sustainability Our sustainability work is guided by six sustainabilTETS, and the WWF Green Office targets for the and new sustainability themes. It also increasingly ity priorities, and we have set both longand shorthead office and MOW coworking hubs. emphasises Sponda brand, information security term objectives for each one of them. Sponda’s and the safety and comfortability of premises. The President and CEO and the Executive Board are in We commit our stakeholders new Supplier Code of Conduct will be incorporated charge of the management of sustainability and the to sustainability into all of our new subcontracting agreements achievement of targets. Executive Board monitors Comprehensive sustainability requires co-operation and, as agreements are renewed, it will also be the progress relating to the sustainability objectives with stakeholders. We require our employees and expanded to cover old subcontractors. By the end on a quarterly basis. The Sustainability Manager is partners to commit to responsible practices. We of the year, our aim is for 60 per cent of our supresponsible for the development of sustainability also help our customers operate responsibly by pliers to have committed themselves to Sponda’s work. The progress and results of sustainability offering office space in which they can reach their Supplier Code of Conduct. The Supplier Code of efforts are also monitored 4–6 times per year by a own office space-related sustainability objectives. Conduct is available on our website. In 2020, we will sustainability steering group comprised of memalso open an anonymous whistleblowing channel bers of the Executive Board and heads of business In 2019, we revised the Code of Conduct binding on our website. units. Whenever necessary, sustainability matters on our personnel and began revising our Supplier are discussed by the Board of Directors. Code of Conduct. The internal Code of Conduct was published in July, and all of our employees took In addition to the company’s strategy, Sponda’s part in the mandatory training during the autumn ” sustainability management practices are based and winter. The Code of Conduct covers our suson the Code of Conduct, the UN Global Compact tainability principles, including good governance, principles and the company’s internal operations transparent business operations, anti-bribery and We revised our Code of Conduct, handbook and commitments supplementing them. anti-corruption practices, environmental sustainwhich is binding on our personnel, Our operations are also guided by being a Climate ability and our sustainability as an employer. Partner of the City of Helsinki, commitment to the and started the process of revising property sector’s energy efficiency agreement The updated Supplier Code of Conduct will be our Supplier Code of Conduct. revised in accordance with the Code of Conduct Sustainability Review 2019 10 Year 2019 Sustainability Key figures Principles of the report 53 Responding to trends and changes Climate change, urbanisation, digitalisation and well-being are the megatrends that currently have the strongest impact on the property industry. We respond to the megatrends that influence our industry by, for example, investing in a centrally located property portfolio, making the properties more energy-efficient, healthy and safe, and by making use of digital solutions and data. At the same time, we are laying down the foundation for the growth of our business and new opportunities. Climate change with its own energy efficiency scheme and climate Climate change has a major impact on Sponda objectives. Energy efficiency has been one of our and the industry as a whole. The property sector is strategic focus areas since 2009, and our new important to mitigating climate change as buildings energy efficiency and climate objectives extending account for a significant proportion of the world’s to 2030 were defined in 2019. energy consumption and carbon dioxide emissions. Energy efficiency, low emissions and renewable Climate change -related risks are managed with energy solutions have become increasingly environmental certifications and Sponda’s design significant. Our customers are increasingly climate solutions for new and renovated properties. We conscious, and the environmental impact from prepare for extreme weather phenomena, which the use of office space plays a significant role in will become more frequent with climate change, in their environmental objectives. Our customers co-operation with the maintenance network. are interested in the type of electricity used in our properties and how energy efficiency is taken into Urbanisation consideration. The population is increasingly concentrated in cities and around urban centres. The need for business Reducing emissions and increasing the use of premises and retail services increases in growth renewable energy sources are important climate centres and places with good transport access, actions. Sponda aims to reduce its climate impact and our customers increasingly appreciate retail Sustainability Review 2019 11 Year 2019 Sustainability Key figures Principles of the report 53 ” We are developing our Environment, Health & Safety organisation as well as our operating methods related to indoor air quality and property safety towards an even more proactive approach. and business premises that are located in city On the other hand, digitalisation increases remote Well-being centres. The demand for premises will continue work and the need for flexible business premises The well-being and health megatrend is particularly to grow, especially in Helsinki’s central business solutions. Work has become increasingly indepenvisible in our customers’ expectations of us. We district. dent of time and place, but the need for community want to ensure the satisfaction of users of properhas not disappeared. We have been among the ties with the built environment and indoor climate, In order to respond to this change, we will focus first to respond to the need for flexible office space and also guarantee their safety under all conditions. our property ownership on prime locations in that supports a sense of community with our For Sponda, indoor air quality is an important Helsinki and Tampere, in the immediate vicinity of proprietary MOW coworking concept. aspect of a property quality management system. rail routes and other transport hubs. The location of our properties in city centres is part of reducing We aim to find the best possible digital solutions to We are developing our EHS (Environment, Health our environmental impacts as a whole because the changing needs of our customers and our own & Safety) organisation, indoor air guidelines and good transport access encourages our customers business. Data-driven management and the use of procedures relating to the safety and security of to favour environmentally friendly modes of transdigital innovation are included in Sponda’s new susproperties in an increasingly proactive direction. The port, thereby reducing the climate impact of our tainability themes as they are material to successful prevention of accidents is promoted through safety properties during use. Our office spaces are business. We use digital innovation and IoT (Internet walks, a wide range of surveys and drills. designed to be suitable for commuting by bicycle of Things) in the maintenance of properties and and electric vehicles. provide our customers with, for example, information relating to energy efficiency and good indoor Digitalisation and transformation air quality. We test innovations that improve energy of working life efficiency and indoor air quality in our properties Digitalisation has an impact on our customers’ and develop our design guidelines on the basis of operations and society as a whole: Growth in our experience. We also aim to promote the use e-commerce challenges shopping centres and of diverse as a Service solutions, such as mobility creates changes in the retail and property sectors. services, in our properties. Sustainability Review 2019 12 Year 2019 Sustainability Key figures Principles of the report 53 How we create value We want to create value for our customers, personnel, society and various communities for whom our operations have direct or indirect effects. From the point of view of our customers and society, the development of comfortable urban environments and office spaces that support success is essential with regard to Sponda’s value generation. We create value for our personnel by investing in management and support for professional development. The reduction of energy and water consumption as well as CO2 emissions and the recycling of waste are at the core of our environmental sustainability. ” T he development of comfortable urban environments and office spaces that support the customers’ success is essential to Sponda’s value creation. Sustainability Review 2019 13 Year 2019 Sustainability Key figures Principles of the report 53 Sponda’s value creation model Sponda’s value creation model Sponda’s capital Operating models Value created by Sponda Financial capital Value for customers • Value of investment properties 3,092 bn€ • Office spaces that support operations • Property development investments 19.3 M€ • Development of the property portfolio • Maintenance investments (capex) 52.7 M€ SPONDA’S VISION • Savings from the reduced energy consumption of business premises The fi rst choice for customers looking for Personnel • Number of personnel 131 business premises. Value for society • Academic background: university or polytechnic 74%, vocational school level 25%, other 2% • Development of the urban environment • Training days per person: 0.72 • Taxes arising from Sponda’s business operations 16.1 M€ • Property development investments 19.3 M€ Manufactured capital • Quantity of properties 151 • Total floor area of office properties 502,000 m 2 • Total floor area of shopping centres 287,000 m 2 • Value of land 44 M€ Value for the community • Employment • Sharing knowledge and expertise Intellectual capital • Environmental partners: 11 • Properties in energy efficiency programme 80 • Development of business premises and services • Corporate planning SPONDA BUSINESS OPERATIONS Impact on the environment • Reduction of energy and water Social capital Sponda owns, leases and develops consumption • Activity in industry organisations office and retail properties and • Reduction of CO 2 emissions • Extensive subcontractor network shopping centres. With innovative • Maximising waste recycling customer-focused solutions and high-quality property maintenance, Natural capital we provide our customers with • Water consumption 363,026 m 3 • Electricity consumption 131,638 MWh comfortable, safe and energy• Heating consumption 166,684 MWh efficient business premises. • District cooling consumption 11,525 MWh Information dated 31 Dec 2019 Sustainability Review 2019 14 Year 2019 Sustainability Key figures Principles of the report 53 Stakeholder cooperation We co-operate with numerous stakeholders. We aim to fulfil the expectations of our stakeholders by engaging in active dialogue and through compliance with our values and procedures. The key principles for our work with stakeholders are reliability, integrity and transparency. Our most significant stakeholders are customers, personnel, subcontractors, society and authorities, the media and NGOs. We also co-operate with diverse educational institutions and research and development organisations. More information on stakeholders is available on our website. Stakeholder group Expectations towards Sponda Sponda’s actions Customers • high-quality energy-efficient business premises • offering practical, flexible and energy-efficient business premises • responding to changing spatial needs and working methods • developing office concepts and services • facility services • developing better retail locations • good customer service • developing customer service and service channels • taking environmental sustainability into consideration • regular contact with customers and creating the conditions for long-term • long-term customer relationships customer relationships • developing sales and customer relationship management processes • guiding customers towards operations that conserve energy and protect the environment Personnel • stable employer with a good reputation • offering good opportunities for employment and further education • safe working conditions • investing in effective communications and an atmosphere of open dialogue • open access to information • ensuring well-being at work • opportunities for personal development at work • organising performance and appraisal discussions and job satisfaction surveys • equal and non-discriminatory treatment • equal and non-discriminatory treatment of employees Subcontractors • equal treatment of subcontractors • effective purchasing and quality processes • adherence to agreements • monitoring and supervising the work and quality of subcontractors • long-term subcontractor relationships Society and the authorities • c  ompliance with legislation and other regulations issued • m onitoring legislative developments and advancing the company’s interests by the authorities in the discussion • responsible and transparent operations • taking part in urban development • paying taxes • improving the energy efficiency of business premises • providing jobs Media • active, open and responsive communications • timely, reliable and open communications • reliable information on the company • developing and expanding communications channels Other stakeholders, such as educational • providing opportunities for internships and thesis writing • providing study opportunities to students in the field of real estate institutions and various research and • participation in the industry’s research and development activities • joint projects with educational institutions in the field of real estate development organisations Sustainability Review 2019 15 Year 2019 Sustainability Key figures Principles of the report 53 The objectives and results of Sponda’s sustainability in 2019 For Sponda, 2019 was a year of renewal for our sustainability efforts: we updated the material sustainability themes that guide our sustainability work and its development. The process was driven by our business strategy and involved listening closely to our stakeholders. At the same time, we worked to achieve the sustainability objectives we had set for 2019. We achieved tremendous results with regard to environmental efficiency, in particular: our carbon dioxide emissions were reduced and our waste recycling rate increased significantly. Our material responsibility • enhancing the customer experience themes guide our efforts • investing in employees We have identified the following responsibility themes • energy and environmental efficiency as being the most material to Sponda’s operations: • property locations the professional competence of personnel, the • taking the industry forward energy efficiency of properties, customer health and safety, the comfort of indoor environments, providing The following pages discuss our progress with a working environment that supports the customer’s regard to the responsibility targets we set for 2019. operations, and Sponda’s ethical business principles. The themes were selected on the basis of a During the year, we updated our sustainability materiality analysis of Sponda’s value chain in 2014. programme to ensure that our sustainability efforts The analysis is based on industry and background are in line with the needs of our stakeholders and analyses, key stakeholder perspectives and an support Sponda’s business in the best possible assessment of business impacts. manner. We conducted a new materiality analysis and defined new responsibility themes with Our six responsibility priorities, derived from the short-term and long-term targets. To support the material responsibility themes, that guided our achievement of the targets, we also created a road responsibility efforts in 2019 were as follows: map for the coming years. In 2019, we also revised the Sponda Code of Conduct and began revising • transparent and ethical operations our Supplier Code of Conduct. Sustainability Review 2019 16 Year 2019 Sustainability Key figures Principles of the report 53 The objectives and results of our responsibility priorities in 2019 The objectives and results of our responsibility priorities in 2019 Long-term objective Objective for the year Status RESULTS IN 2019 Transparent and ethical operations Maintaining an excellent level in international sustainability assessments. The results of the GRESB sustainability assessment will remain Sponda was selected as the most sustainable company at an excellent level. in the property sector in Europe. We received a full five-star rating and were awarded a Green Star. Operating in accordance with ethical principles. New Supplier Code of Conduct principles implemented and The Code of Conduct was updated and the entire incorporated into new and renewed agreements. personnel were trained in its application. Update of the Supplier Code of Conduct was also started. Monitoring the operating model, control and monitoring of property _ Sponda’s property management organisation was maintenance services. strengthened and its strategy was updated. Conducting maintenance and energy reviews at properties. _ Regular maintenance and energy reviews were conducted at properties. Enhancing the customer experience We will continue to improve the quantity and quality of our customer We will continue to focus on active and high-quality customer We continued the development of the CRM system communications. communications in all of our operations. and active maintenance of customer relationships. Measuring customer satisfaction regarding the quality of the indoor Indoor environment satisfaction surveys conducted at two Two extensive indoor environment satisfaction surveys environment at Sponda’s properties. Sponda-owned properties at a minimum. were conducted. We will improve our customers’ overall satisfaction and the Net Promoter Overall satisfaction and Net Promoter Score (NPS) improved A comprehensive customer satisfaction survey was Score (NPS) further. from the previous year. not carried out in 2019. However, we carried out a satisfaction survey on all new and leaving tenants as well as tenants whose tenancy had lasted 18 months. Investing in employees We develop skills and practices for sharing knowledge and expertise _ Investment in this was lower than planned because of as well as our culture of interaction and feedback. the organisational changes, but more will be invested in 2020. Investing in good leadership by utilising evaluations of managerial _ A total of 97 training days, with middle management work and coaching. training days representing 25% of this total. We promote occupational wellbeing and individual responsibility for _ Creating a sense of community through leisure activities maintaining a positive work atmosphere. and events sponsored by Sponda. We invest in providing development and training opportunities for _ A total of 97 reported training days. The organisational our personnel. change brought about new job descriptions and advancements. Sustainability Review 2019 Long-term objective Objective for the year Status RESULTS IN 2019 Score (NPS) further. from the previous year. not carried out in 2019. However, we carried out a satisfaction survey on all new and leaving tenants as well as tenants whose tenancy had lasted 18 months. Investing in employees 17 We develop skills and practices forYear 2019 sharing knowledge andSustainability expertise Key figures _ Principles of the report Investment in this was lower than planned because of 53 as well as our culture of interaction and feedback. the organisational changes, but more will be invested in 2020. Investing in good leadership by utilising evaluations of managerial _ A total of 97 training days, with middle management work and coaching. training days representing 25% of this total. We promote occupational wellbeing and individual responsibility for _ Creating a sense of community through leisure activities maintaining a positive work atmosphere. and events sponsored by Sponda. We invest in providing development and training opportunities for _ A total of 97 reported training days. The organisational our personnel. change brought about new job descriptions and advancements. The objectives and results of our responsibility priorities in 2019 Long-term objective Objective for the year Status RESULTS IN 2019 Energy and environmental efficiency Energy savings of 20% by 2020, using the average consumption in 2001–2005 We promote our energy efficiency programme each year. 18.7 percentage points of the target was achieved. as the baseline. Total like-for-like energy consumption of properties will decrease each year. Total energy consumption of properties to be reduced. Energy consumption decreased 0.4% compared with the previous year. The CO2 emissions arising from total like-for-like energy consumption will CO2 emissions arising from the like-for-like energy consumption Like-for-like CO2 emissions decreased by 6.6%. decrease each year. to be reduced. Improving energy efficiency in line with the property sector’s energy efficiency Energy efficiency improvement measures produced one per cent The annual target was exceeded. agreement (TETS) by 7.5% by 2025, using energy consumption in 2015 as in energy savings (1,722 MWh) compared to the total energy the baseline. consumption in 2015. Seeking environmental certification (LEED®, BREEAM®) for all new property At least two properties will be certified in 2019. We were awarded four new certifications or development projects and major renovation projects. recertifications. Increasing co-operation on environmental responsibility with our customers. Two new environmental partnerships. No new partners, but co-operation continued. Increasing the waste recycling rate each year. Waste recycling rate at 50% by the end of the year. The recycling rate increased by as many as five percentage points from 48% to 53%. Property locations Developing the property portfolio by concentrating ownership on _ Of the property portfolio, 34.1% is located in the Helsinki prime areas. Central Business District (CBD). Developing the property portfolio by concentrating on locations with _ Implemented in accordance with the strategy. The public transport links. property development projects Ratina Office building and Arkadia 6 are located near important public transport hubs. Taking the industry forward Promoting best practices in the property sector to support _ Piloting of new technologies at properties and sustainable development. introduction of a new energy management tool. Active participation in RAKLI and GBC Finland activities and projects. We were active participants in the activities of RAKLI’s sector-specific management teams and committees and GBC Finland’s committees. Promoting responsible operating methods in co-operation with our _ Progress in environmental partnerships and customers and contractors. responsibility-related co-operation with customers. The Supplier Code of Conduct is incorporated into new and renewed agreements. Sustainability Review 2019 18 Year 2019 Sustainability Key figures Principles of the report 53 Transparent and ethical operations Transparent and ethical operations is a theme that We apply for LEED ® or BREEAM® environmental cercuts through Sponda’s comprehensive approach tification for all new buildings and major renovation to sustainability and provides the foundation for projects, and aim to raise the level of our existing the other responsibility priorities. The transparency certifications. In addition, we seek BREEAM In-Use® and ethicality of our operations is supported by certification for our properties. Sponda currently has unambiguous operational guidelines and policies, 16 certified properties in total. reporting and corporate governance. We encourage our stakeholders Again at the top of the Sustainability reporting plays a significant role in to operate sustainably communicating the transparency of our operaSponda’s operations and sustainability are guided GRESB rankings tions. In the Sustainability Review, we report the by our strategy, values and Code of Conduct as Sponda was selected as the best company key events and highlights of the year, as well as well as the principles of the UN Global Compact. In in Europe and the 2019 Sector Leader in the areas for development, in accordance with the 2019, we updated our internal Code of Conduct and Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark Core option of the GRI framework. The Sustainprovided related training to all Sponda employees (GRESB) assessment. Sponda received ability Review also satisfies the requirements of UN during autumn and winter 2019–2020. particularly good ratings in environmental Communication on Progress (COP) reporting. certification, risk and opportunity identification The supply chain is growing in significance in corand management, stakeholder collaboration, External recognition speaks porate sustainability efforts. Sponda is a significant sustainability management and operating to our sustainability purchaser that works in close co-operation with an methods as well as environmental responIn 2019, we again achieved an excellent result in extensive network of subcontractors. In 2019, we sibility in property development. This year’s the GRESB survey: we were ranked as the best began the process of updating our Supplier Code GRESB survey assessed 1,005 companies and real estate company in Europe and chosen as the of Conduct, which is binding on our subcontractors. funds in 64 countries. 2019 Sector Leader. We received a full five-star assessment and, for the seventh year running, we In 2020, we will adopt a public and anonymous Read the case were also awarded a Green Star. whistleblowing channel, intended to encourage Sustainability Review 2019 19 Year 2019 Sustainability Key figures Principles of the report 53 Sponda’s employees and partners to report any Cash Cash flows flows between between stakeholders stakeholders in 2019 in 2019 misconduct observed in the company’s operations. Customers’ opinions do matter Suppliers We monitor the quality of property services by means of customer feedback and continuous reporting data as well as property audits, indoor 244.5 M€ Purchases 128.9 M€ • Purchases, maintenance 112.8 M€ • Purchases, administration 16.1 M€ 52.7%* environment satisfaction questionnaires and Revenues service experience surveys. Property audits are conducted in all properties twice a year, in the Customers and society spring and autumn. In 2019, we conducted indoor environment satisfaction questionnaires at two of Property development investments, 19.3 M€ 7.9%* our properties and carried out energy reviews and maintenance reviews. BREEAM (Building Research Establishment Personnel Personnel expenses, 19.7 M€ 8.1%* Environmental Assessment Method) is an international environmental rating system for assessing the environmental impacts of buildings. The BREEAM® In-Use 6.6%* certification system is intended for the Public sector certification of buildings in use. Taxes, 16.1 M€ LEED® Certification (Leadership in Energy * Of total revenue. and Environmental Design) is one of the best-known international green building certification systems. It aims to reduce the environmental impact of construction and use of buildings as well as the development of healthier working environments. The LEED® environmental classification is awarded by the U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC). Sustainability Review 2019 20 Year 2019 Sustainability Key figures Principles of the report 53 Enhancing the customer experience Working environments and property services that managers and maintenance managers together support the customer’s operations, the comfort decide on the actions to be taken at each property of the indoor environment and the customer’s and communicate them to the customers. Plastic and safety and health are all key areas of the customer experience that we aim to enhance continuously. We measure customer satisfaction by conducting paperboard collection Supporting our customers’ sustainability goals is surveys regularly. In 2019, we conducted a satisfacproduced tremendous also an important aspect of our sustainability efforts. tion survey for all new customers, leaving customers Our customers are active in contacting us, especially and customers who reached 18 months of tenancy. results when it comes to climate issues, and they want to At two of our properties, we conducted a survey of Sponda started to collect plastic and paperfind opportunities to reduce the carbon footprint indoor environment quality that covered all of the board packaging at its office properties in associated with their use of business premises. We tenants. We also carried out a target group survey to the spring 2019. The majority of the waste provide information to our customers on topics such analyse the values of our shopping centre customers generated in office break rooms, in particas the energy efficiency and indoor air quality of in detail. ular, can be sorted and collected as plastic, our properties and we develop waste management biowaste and paperboard. An environmental based on customers’ wishes. We adapt our service path to meet coordinator representing Sponda’s waste the customer’s expectations management partner Lassila & Tikanoja helps Feedback is a prerequisite for a We continuously evaluate our operating process and tenant companies get started with recycling. good customer experience service path. We analyse key encounters during the Property owners play an important role in The continuous development of services in our propproperty customer relationship, starting from the signenabling recycling. By facilitating the collecerties and functional communications and feedback ing of the lease: What kinds expectations do the custion of plastic and paperboard, Sponda aims channels between Sponda and customers support tomers have at different stages of the lease and how to reduce the amount of incinerated waste the creation of a good customer experience. We can they be addressed effectively? Our aim is to allow and promote the circular economy. carefully analyse the feedback we get from our custhe customer to focus on their own business while we tomers regarding our properties, property maintehandle all property-related services in co-operation Read the case nance, services and the lessor’s operations. Account with our property management partners. Sustainability Review 2019 21 Year 2019 Sustainability Key figures Principles of the report 53 Investing in employees Skilled and motivated personnel are a key resource We invested in training and for Sponda. Promoting employee well-being and responsible operating methods a positive workplace atmosphere, investing in Sponda strives to maintain a high level of profespersonnel development and training opportunities sional competence among employees. We offer and developing our management practices and in-house training programmes for our personnel as managerial work are among our long-term objecwell as opportunities to participate in training outtives and they were again a visible aspect of our side the company. In 2019, we focused particularly operations in 2019. on assessing the personnel’s training needs. At Sponda, 2019 was a year of changes. The The equal treatment of employees and ensuring focus of our personnel-related efforts was on the occupational safety are the core themes of our effective execution of changes, the evaluation of human resource strategy. We updated our Code future goals and reorganising and strengthening of Conduct and equality plan in 2019. The Code the structures of human resource management. of Conduct was implemented throughout the We defined our future goals and how they will be organisation by means of mandatory workshop achieved. We want to ensure that our objectives are training. The workshops discussed how the Code appropriate and clear to all of our personnel. We of Conduct influences the day-to-day work of the also want to make our human resource manageparticipants from the perspectives of employees, ment more systematic and ensure a high level of partners, the environment and human rights. The employee well-being and a positive workplace benefits to Sponda of operating ethically were also atmosphere. Employee well-being and compereviewed in the workshops, and feedback and tence development are also included in the new ideas were collected to support the improvement of sustainability themes we defined in 2019. operating methods in daily work. Sustainability Review 2019 22 Year 2019 Sustainability Key figures Principles of the report 53 We encourage employees to exercise Sex ratio* Educational structure* 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2019 and we support their well-being 1.6% We engage in close co-operation with our occupa43% 24.6% tional health partners and provide comprehensive occupational health care services. Together with 45.9% occupational health professionals, we invest in activities to maintain health and prevent illnesses. 57% We also offer recreational benefits to our employ27.9% ees, support recreational activities and organise employee events. For example, in 2019, we Men University education Women Polytechnic qualification organised environmental events and occupational College education well-being events as well as an autumn kick-off * Sponda Group Other event. * Sponda Real Estate Ltd In 2020, we will start managerial training aimed at developing the interaction and feedback Age ratio* Personnel* giving skills of managers at Sponda. We will also 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2019 % Persons strengthen our performance and development 25 140 review process, carry out an employee satisfaction 120 20 survey and workplace survey as well as assess 100 employee training needs at the company level. 15 80 60 10 40 5 20 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 5 9 4 9 4 9 4 9 0 <2 –2 –3 –3 –4 –4 –5 –5 >6 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 * Sponda Group * Sponda Real Estate Ltd Sustainability Review 2019 23 Year 2019 Sustainability Key figures Principles of the report 53 Energy and environmental efficiency The long-term enhancement of energy and Energy efficiency and waste sorting are also environmental efficiency is an important overall susemphasised in the way we support our customers’ tainability objective for Sponda. We measure our pursuit of their sustainability targets. Our t­enants Finland’s largest solar performance in these areas by the improvement are increasingly aware of the environmental of our energy efficiency, new certifications and impacts of properties and they want more inforpower plant built on the increase in our recycling rate. In 2019, we were mation on topics such as environmental certificathe roof of the Elo particularly successful in increasing the recycling tions, energy efficiency improvement measures rate and reducing carbon dioxide emissions. and waste sorting. We are developing the waste shopping centre recycling opportunities to be more diverse as part In the autumn 2019, construction began at the Focus on energy efficiency of our environmental responsibility and customer Sponda-owned Elo shopping centre in Ylöjärvi and waste management service. Through our environmental partnership on the first roof-mounted solar power plant in Enhancing energy efficiency has been one of programme, we aim to reduce the environmental Finland with a capacity exceeding one million our strategic priorities since 2009. The goal of load resulting from the use of properties by engagwatts. Consisting of 3,186 solar panels spread our extensive energy efficiency programme is to ing in close co-operation with our customers – in a out over an area of 12,000 square metres, it enhance energy efficiency by 20% by 2020, using manner that is agreed upon separately with each will be the largest roof-mounted power plant the 2001–2005 average as the baseline. By the end individual customer. in Finland. The power plant will cover approxof 2019, we had enhanced our energy efficiency by imately one quarter of Elo’s total electricity 18.7 per cent and we had reached 94 per cent of Our recycling rate increased significantly in 2019: consumption, reducing the shopping centre’s the goal of our energy efficiency programme. Our Sponda’s overall waste recycling and reuse rate in carbon dioxide emissions by as much as carbon dioxide emissions decreased by almost Finland was 53 per cent at the end of the year, with 112,000 kg per year. The power plant was built 7 per cent compared to 2018. We achieved — by the target being at least 50 per cent. We started by Helen Ltd and it was completed in February a comfortable margin — the one per cent energy the collection of plastic packaging waste and 2020. efficiency target stipulated by the TETS energy cardboard at our office properties and our environefficiency agreement we have joined. mental coordinator provided waste management Read the case Sustainability Review 2019 24 Year 2019 Sustainability Key figures Principles of the report 53 guidance to all of our tenants in the Helsinki metroIn accordance with our strategy, our aim is to seek politan area. The development efforts will continue environmental certification for all new construction in 2020 and expand to other parts of Finland. projects and significant renovation projects. We were awarded four new certifications or recertificaEnvironmental certification tions in 2019. Properties with ongoing environmental At the end of 2019, Sponda had 16 properties cercertification processes at the end of 2019 included tified under the international LEED ® and BREEAM® the Ratina shopping centre, Ratina Offices and environmental certification systems. The certified the Arkadia 6 office building in Helsinki. Upcoming properties represent approximately 30 per cent of certification processes in 2020 include the second Sponda’s total leased floor space. stage of Väritehtaankatu 8 at Vantaa and the Elo shopping centre. Up-to-date information on our Ratina Offices environmentally certified properties is available on our website. will be smart and adaptable Sponda’s new commercial property in central Carbon dioxide emission intensity Waste recovery rates from energy consumption of the properties 2019* Tampere is built to meet the Gold level requireof the properties* ments of the international LEED® environmen0.1% kg CO 2 / GFAm 2 53.1% tal certification framework. The spaces are 50 designed to be easily adaptable. Sensors will be 40 6,690 tonnes installed in the office premises to collect data 30 in total on temperature, lighting and the carbon dioxide 20 46.8% content of the indoor air. The building will also 10 feature systems for monitoring water and electricity consumption. The users of premises 0 Material recovery 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Energy recovery equipped with sensors will have access to the Electricity Final treatment monitoring data via a mobile application. Heating District cooling * Sponda’s properties, like-for-like, Total in Finland Read the case * Sponda’s properties in Finland Sustainability Review 2019 25 Year 2019 Sustainability Key figures Principles of the report 53 Property locations By focusing our property portfolio in centrally located prime areas. Among our new property development level achieved by the Aleksi-Hermes commercial and high-growth areas in the Helsinki metropolitan projects, the Ratina shopping centre in Tampere, property proves our investment in the well-being area and Tampere, we aim for a high level of finanthe Ratina Office complex to be completed in of the environment when deciding on property cial and ecological sustainability for our investments. summer 2020 and the renovation of the Arkadia 6 investments. Having our properties be centrally located with good office building in Helsinki represent new strategic public transport connections helps reduce the enviinvestments. The development of urban environments ronmental impacts of the properties during their use. is driven by co-operation The demand and rental levels for properties located Accessibility and the promotion We want to develop our properties boldly in co-opin the central areas of cities are also more stable. of eco-friendly mobility eration with our customers, which makes it possible Good accessibility for customers and employees is to create a vibrant and community-oriented urban In 2019, we continued to implement our strategy an increasingly important criterion in the business environment. We also want to support cities and by increasingly focusing our property portfolio on premises decisions of companies and a way to municipalities in the achievement of their climate reduce emissions from commuting. The needs of targets. Our climate partnership with the City of cyclists and users of electric vehicles are always Helsinki is one example of continuous co-operInvestment properties by location and by fair value* taken into consideration at our new properties. ation. We are playing our part in making Helsinki 31 Dec 2019 Ratina shopping centre is a good example of a carbon neutral by 2035. The heating of properties 2.2% 2.6% property that is easy to reach in an environmentally accounts for more than half of Helsinki’s emissions, friendly manner. so we can directly contribute to reaching the target 15.3% through our own efforts. We work with various Location is also one of the criteria applied in the stakeholders, such as Green Building Council environmental certification of business properties. Finland, to develop attractive and comfortable The BREEAM® and LEED ® certification processes urban environments. GBC Finland’s goals include 80.0% take into account not only the energy and water the creation of a sustainable built environment that consumption of the building, but also factors such supports the principles of the circular economy Helsinki Tampere as public transport links, parking facilities for bicyand facilitating sustainable lifestyles and a high metropolitan Oulu area Russia cles and low-emission vehicles and green spaces. standard of living, which is aligned with Sponda’s * Excluding Property Development The BREEAM® In-Use certification in Very Good strategic objectives. Sustainability Review 2019 26 Year 2019 Sustainability Key figures Principles of the report 53 Taking the industry forward We want to do our part in taking the property ment, the environmental certification of properties industry forward. We are engaged in industry and energy practices in the property sector. In development on a broad front: we are active and 2019, we continued our membership in the MaaS long-term members of property and construction (Mobility as a Service) and urban development industry organisations, we share our knowledge clinic established by RAKLI and the City of Helsinki. and expertise and we engage in research and We also joined RAKLI’s Circular Economy Criteria development activities of our own. clinic. The aim of the MaaS project was to assess the prerequisites for the development of mobility Our development efforts include pilot projects services from the perspectives of various parties focused on studying the intelligent monitoring (property owner, city, service provider) so that the of indoor air conditions, water consumption and urban environment can be developed with an eye energy consumption. In 2019, we also deployed to future mobility needs. The Circular Economy a new energy management tool that enables us Criteria clinic aims to define area-specific targets, to take more effective action in response to deviaopportunities and criteria for the practical impletions and monitor the impacts of energy efficiency mentation of the circular economy in a way that measures. maintains and strengthens the vitality of each area. Sponda has a long track record of active involveWe are also actively involved in the FiBS (Finnish ment in, for example, the Finnish Association of Business and Society) corporate responsibility Building Owners and Construction Clients (RAKLI) network, which aims to promote economically, and Green Building Council Finland, which is an socially and ecologically responsible business in organisation that focuses on sustainable developFinland. Sustainability Review 2019 27 Year 2019 Sustainability Key figures Principles of the report 53 New sustainability programme 2020–2022 We updated our sustainability programme in 2019 to ensure that it is in line with the needs and wishes of our stakeholders and supports Sponda’s business in the best possible manner in the years to come. The new sustainability programme consists of eight themes and its core is the development of sustainable and vibrant urban environments. Operating sustainably helps Sponda achieve continued success in a changing world. At Sponda, 2019 was a year of renewal. One of the mind, the road map in our sustainability programme most important renewal was updating our sustainincludes, for example, a section on the management ability programme. The nearly year-long process was of financial risks related to climate change. We are a comprehensive effort: we created a new sustainalso affected by regulatory changes implemented in ability strategy, defined new sustainability targets and response to climate change. created a road map for achieving them. We wanted to identify the material themes of our sustainability In creating our new sustainability programme, from Sponda’s perspective and the perspective of we wanted to establish a better understanding our stakeholders. of our stakeholders’ expectations regarding our sustainability efforts. We surveyed the views of our Sponda’s business strategy was the starting point stakeholders by means of online questionnaires and for the process. The purpose of the sustainability in-depth interviews, among other things. This led to programme is to help Sponda achieve continued the introduction of new themes in our sustainability success in a changing world. When we planned the programme: healthy and safe premises, data-driven renewal, we weighed up the benefits and costs of management and use of digital innovations. sustainability for Sponda and came to the conclusion that sustainability is part of our risk management The overarching theme of our new sustainability and good leadership. We aim to anticipate changes programme is the development of sustainable in our operating environment, and climate change is and vibrant urban environments. The programme one of the most significant among them. We have is divided into eight themes that cover economic, a duty to mitigate climate change and anticipate social and environmental responsibility as well as the associated risks and opportunities. With this in sustainability issues that are of particular relevance to our industry. Sustainability Review 2019 28 Year 2019 Sustainability Key figures Principles of the report 53 Our new responsibility themes starting from 2020 Our new responsibility themes starting from 2020 Responsibility theme Vision Objective(s) UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG’s) Economic responsibility Sustainable We support profitable business through good governance • Proportion of annual energy efficiency investments of all and transparent and risk management, systematic property maintenance investments (%). economy and risk and investments that aim for long life cycles. • 100% coverage in energy and property audits. management • LCA (Life Cycle Assessment) calculations for new and major renovation projects. • Annual assessment of the risks and opportunities associated with climate change. • Staying at the five-star level in the GRESB sustainability assessment. Social responsibility Employee wellbeing We invest in a good working environment, support the • Promotion of the personnel’s well-being at work and and competence development of employee competence and engage our reduction of the turnover rate from the previous year. development personnel in the development of sustainability at Sponda. • Keeping absences due to illness at an acceptable level. • Development of work capacity management and related performance indicators. • Providing training that matches the personnel’s needs and increasing the number of training days. Responsibility in the We require our partners to comply with our ethical • Supplier audits and development of co-operation supply chain guidelines. We aim to promote human rights and prevent meetings with key suppliers. the grey economy. • Suppliers’ commitment to Sponda’s Supplier Code of Conduct. Customer We invest in the quality of our services, and our MOW • Further improvement of customer experience (overall orientation concept helps us to pursue bold initiatives to respond to satisfaction rate over 4.0 on a scale from 1 to 5). the changing needs of working life. We help tenants to • Improvement of the Net Promoter Score (NPS) from achieve their sustainability objectives related to the use of customers. the premises. • Providing better sustainability information through the website and extranet services. • Closer co-operation in sustainability with tenants (environmental partnerships, etc.). Responsibility theme Vision Objective(s) UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG’s) Environmental responsibility Eco efficiency We improve the efficiency of energy consumption, reduce • Reduction of purchased energy in properties by 20% by water consumption and improve the waste recycling 2030 compared with average consumption in 2016–2018. Sustainability Review 2019 rate. Environmental certification (LEED® or BREEAM®) • Improving energy efficiency in line with the property sector’s is sought for all new and major renovation property energy efficiency agreement (TETS) by 7.5% by 2025, using development projects. Sponda also seeks In-Use energy consumption in 2015 as the baseline. • Development of work capacity management and related performance indicators. • Providing training that matches the personnel’s needs and increasing the number of training days. 29 Responsibility in the Yearour2019 We require Sustainability partners to comply with our ethical Key figures • Supplier auditsPrinciples of the and development report of co-operation 53 supply chain guidelines. We aim to promote human rights and prevent meetings with key suppliers. the grey economy. • Suppliers’ commitment to Sponda’s Supplier Code of Conduct. Customer We invest in the quality of our services, and our MOW • Further improvement of customer experience (overall orientation concept helps us to pursue bold initiatives to respond to satisfaction rate over 4.0 on a scale from 1 to 5). the changing needs of working life. We help tenants to • Improvement of the Net Promoter Score (NPS) from achieve their sustainability objectives related to the use of customers. the premises. • Providing better sustainability information through the website and extranet services. • Closer co-operation in sustainability with tenants (environmental partnerships, etc.). Our new responsibility themes starting from 2020 Responsibility theme Vision Objective(s) UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG’s) Environmental responsibility Eco efficiency We improve the efficiency of energy consumption, reduce • Reduction of purchased energy in properties by 20% by water consumption and improve the waste recycling 2030 compared with average consumption in 2016–2018. rate. Environmental certification (LEED® or BREEAM®) • Improving energy efficiency in line with the property sector’s is sought for all new and major renovation property energy efficiency agreement (TETS) by 7.5% by 2025, using development projects. Sponda also seeks In-Use energy consumption in 2015 as the baseline. certification for its properties. • Reduction of water consumption in the property portfolio. • Increasing the recycling rate to 58% in Sponda overall, 50% in offices and 67% in shopping centres by 2022. • Seeking environmental certification (LEED® or BREEAM®) for all new property development projects and significant renovation projects. In-Use certification will also be sought for properties. At least two properties will be certified each year. Carbon smart We reduce our emissions and develop solutions for • 70 per cent reduction of CO2 emissions from energy low-carbon construction. We increase the proportion of consumption by 2030 from the 2016–2018 average level renewable energy and our own production of renewable through energy efficiency measures and renewable energy energy. projects and procurement. • Improving the design guidelines, taking into account the carbon footprint and material efficiency. • Implementing at least one significant renewable energy project each year (e.g. a solar power plant or geothermal energy). • By 2022, the entire portfolio will consist of 100% green electricity. Industry sustainability themes Healthy and safe We develop the quality control of our properties and invest • Further development of the indoor air quality operating premises in indoor air quality. We ensure that the premises are safe model and guidelines to support proactive measures. for tenants, employees and visitors. • At least two indoor air satisfaction surveys will be carried out each year. • Development of the EHS operating model. Data-driven We utilise IoT technology in the maintenance of our • Increasing the number of pilot projects that promote digitamanagement and properties. We promote the use of digital products and lisation and smart solutions in property maintenance. the use of digital services that are related to energy efficiency and good • Building ecosystems that promote innovation. innovations indoor air quality. Sustainability Review 2019 30 46 Key figures Environmental responsibility key figures 31 Social responsibility key figures 37 Economic responsibility key figures 39 Sustainability Review 2019 31 Year 2019 Sustainability Key figures Principles of the report 53 Environmental responsibility key figures Electricity, heating, water and district cooling consumption of Sponda’s properties in Finland Change Number of 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2018-2019, % properties 2019 Total energy consumption, all properties, MWh 309,846 323,322 297,984 293,565 269,813 -4.2 Total energy consumption, all properties, GJ 1,115,447 1,163,960 1,072,743 1,056,833 971,327 Total energy consumption, like-for-like properties, MWh 243,002 244,037 -0.4 Total energy consumption, like-for-like properties, GJ 874,809 878,534 Electricity, all properties, MWh 131,638 140,297 127,747 128,045 111,502 -6.2 125 Tenants' electricity purchased by landlord, MWh 33,688 35,293 Electricity consumption in common areas, MWh 97,950 105,004 Electricity, like-for-like properties, MWh 105,520 107,013 -1.4 96 Heating, normalised, all properties, MWh 166,684 167,972 158,508 153,160 150,185 -0.8 123 Heating, normalised, like-for-like properties, MWh 126,806 123,705 2.5 95 Heating, measured, all properties, MWh 149,884 159,642 146,564 146,900 122,769 -6.1 123 Heating, measured, like-for-like properties, MWh 115,782 118,122 -2.0 95 District cooling, all properties, MWh 11,525 15,053 11,729 12,359 8,126 -23.4 26 District cooling, like-for-like properties, MWh 10,676 13,319 -19.8 19 Water, all properties, m3 * 363,026 405,796 386,291 366,747 327,161 -10.5 119 Water, like-for-like properties, m3 296,503 300,718 -1.4 91 * Supplied from a municipal or city water supply network. Electricity, heating, water and district cooling consumption intensity of Sponda’s properties in Finland 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Energy intensity, kWh/GFAm2/year 216.0 200.5 203.6 197.8 203.5 Electricity intensity, kWh/GFAm²/year 95.0 88.1 89.1 84.2 86.1 Heating intensity, normalised, kWh/GFAm²/year 114.6 105.3 109.5 110.6 116.5 Heating intensity, measured, kWh/GFAm²/year 104.8 100.4 101.2 106.3 95.2 District cooling intensity, kWh/GFAm²/year 22.9 24.3 19.3 19.4 26.4 Water intensity, ltr/GFAm²/year 280.6 274.2 277.1 249.6 265.0 Sustainability Review 2019 32 Year 2019 Sustainability Key figures Principles of the report 53 Energy and water consumption of Sponda’s properties by main segment Office properties Shopping centres 2019 2018 Change, % 2019 2018 Change, % Total energy consumption by main segment, MWh 160,730 160,903 -0.1 82,272 83,135 -1.0 Electricity, MWh 64,606 65,239 -1.0 40,914 41,774 -2.1 Heating, normalised, MWh 91,722 90,063 1.8 35,084 33,642 4.3 Heating, measured, MWh 83,616 86,150 -2.9 32,167 31,972 0.6 District cooling, MWh 4,402 5,601 -21.4 6,274 7,718 -18.7 Water, m3 167,492 172,649 -3.0 129,011 128,069 0.7 Energy and water consumption intensity of Sponda’s properties by main segment Office properties Shopping centres 2019 2018 Change, % 2019 2018 Change, % Energy intensity by main segment, kWh/GFAm2 /year 186.1 175.7 6.0 276.4 290.3 -4.8 Electricity intensity, kWh/GFAm /year 2 76.7 71.8 6.7 132.3 147.1 -10.0 Heating intensity, normalised, kWh/GFAm²/year 107.6 102.2 5.4 129.6 117.6 10.2 Heating intensity, measured, kWh/GFAm²/year 98.2 97.5 0.7 119.1 111.8 6.5 District cooling intensity, kWh/GFAm²/year 18.0 18.0 -0.5 28.6 34.4 -17.1 Water intensity, ltr/GFAm²/year 232.9 224.8 3.6 371.0 443.6 -16.4 Energy and water comsumption of Sponda’s head office Electricity, heating, water and district cooling consumption intensity of Sponda’s head office Change 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2018–2019, % 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Total energy consumption, MWh 1,077 1,087 1,056 1,101 1,017 -0.9 Energy intensity, kWh/GFAm2/year 182,7 184,4 179,2 186,8 172,5 Electricity, MWh 342 331 324 339 327 3.4 Electricity intensity, kWh/GFAm2/year 58,1 56,2 54,9 57,6 55,5 Heating, normalised, MWh 685 657 681 697 647 4.3 Heating intensity, normalised, Heating, measured, MWh 623 637 625 680 551 -2.1 kWh/GFAm²/year 116,2 111,4 115,5 118,2 109,8 District cooling, MWh 50 100 52 65 43 -50.3 Heating intensity, measured, Water, m3 1,512 1,177 1,542 1,838 1,523 28.4 kWh/GFAm²/year 105,7 108,0 106,0 115,4 93,3 District cooling intensity, kWh/GFAm²/year 8,4 16,9 8,8 11,0 7,3 Water intensity, ltr/GFAm²/year 256,5 199,7 261,6 311,8 258,4 Sustainability Review 2019 33 Year 2019 Sustainability Key figures Principles of the report 53 Energy sources and emission factors Carbon footprint arising from the energy consumption of Sponda’s properties in Finland 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Change Purchased electricity t CO 2 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2018–2019, % Market-based emission factor, kg CO2/MWh 284 284 256 282 278 In total carbon footprint from energy consumption 63,178 69,483 62,591 64,636 52,503 -9.1 Renewables, % 25 15 15 13 11 Electricity * 37,399 39,882 32,650 36,137 30,998 -6.2 Non-renewables, % 53 45 44 45 43 Heating 31,139 31,313 30,252 28,760 21,560 -0.6 Nuclear power, % 22 40 41 42 46 District cooling 830 1,084 715 841 504 -23.4 Location-based emission factor, kg CO2/MWh 158 158 164 181 209 CO2 emission reductions from seft Heating generated renewable energy and Market-based emission factor, kg CO2/MWh 187 186 191 188 144 Guarantee of Origin certificates -6,190 -2,795 -1,026 -1,102 -559 Renewables, % 20 18 17 15 14 Total, like-for-like properties ** 54,374 54,408 -0.1 Non-renewables, % 80 82 83 85 86 Total, like-for-like properties *** 48,183 51,613 -6.6 Location-based emission factor, kg CO2/MWh 164 164 188 176 183 Total, location-based 48,965 50,798 51,465 50,973 51,292 -3.6 District cooling * Includes the emissions from both the purchased common area electricity (Scope 2) and indirect tenant electricity (Scope 3). ** Excluding Guarantee of Origin certificates and self generated renewable energy. Market-based emission factor, kg CO2/MWh 72 72 61 68 62 *** Including Guarantee of Origin certificates and self generated renewable energy. Renewables, % 92 92 94 88 86 Non-renewables, % 8 8 6 12 14 Carbon footprint arising from the energy consumption of Sponda’s head office Location-based emission factor, kg CO2/MWh 72 72 61 68 62 Change The share of renewable energy of Sponda’s total energy usage 25% t CO 2 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2018–2019, % Total carbon footprint from head office energy consumption * 115.4 111.3 118.7 120.7 153.2 3.7 Total carbon footprint from head office energy consumption ** 211.1 207.0 205.8 215.7 153.2 2.0 Electricity 99.3 96.0 85.5 97.7 91.0 3.4 Heating 108.2 103.8 117.1 113.6 59.5 4.2 District cooling 3.6 7.2 3.2 4.4 2.7 -50.0 CO2 emission reductions from Guarantee of Origin certificates -95.7 -95.7 -87.1 -95.0 * Including emission reductions from Guarantee of Origin renewable energy certificates. ** Excluding emission reductions from Guarantee of Origin renewable energy certificates. Sustainability Review 2019 34 Year 2019 Sustainability Key figures Principles of the report 53 Carbon dioxide emission intensity from energy Carbon dioxide emission intensity from the energy consumption of Sponda’s properties in Finland consumption of Sponda’s head office Change Change kg CO2/GFAm2/year 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2018–2019, % kg CO2/GFAm2/year 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2018–2019, % Total CO2 intensity 45.7 45.1 46.4 43.3 40.2 1.4 Total CO2 intensity from head office energy consumption 19.6 18.9 20.4 20.5 26.0 3.7 CO2 intensity from electricity 22.7 23.6 23.6 23.6 23.9 -3.6 CO2 intensity from electricity 0.6 0.1 0.0 0.5 15.4 CO2 intensity from heating 21.4 19.7 21.7 20.9 16.9 8.6 CO2 intensity from heating 18.4 17.6 19.9 19.3 10.1 4.2 CO2 intensity from district cooling 1.6 1.8 1.2 1.3 1.6 -10.0 CO2 intensity from district cooling 0.6 1.2 0.5 0.7 0.5 -50.0 Sponda’s indirect carbon dioxide emissions Carbon footprint arising from energy consumption Change of Sponda’s properties by main segment t CO 2 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2018–2019, % Carbon footprint arising from Carbon dioxide emission intensity Total indirect carbon dioxide emissions 10,145.5 10,604.6 346.8 311.9 376.5 -4.3 energy consumption of Sponda’s from energy consumption of Tenant electricity 9,769.5 10,235.1 -4.5 properties in Finland by main Sponda’s properties in Finland by segment main segment Emissions from waste management 252.0 227.6 190.4 166.6 225.5 10.7 (t CO 2) (kg CO 2 /GFAm 2 /year) Emissions from leased cars 57.9 86.0 90.5 85.5 70.0 -32.7 2019 2018 Change % 2019 2018 Change % Emissions from business travel Office Properties 35,149 34,468 2.0 43.3 40.2 7.5 (flights) 66.1 56.0 65.9 59.8 81.0 18.1 Shopping Centres 13,035 17,145 -24.0 50.3 64.5 -22.1 Sponda’s Energy Efficiency Programme 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Change 2018–2019, % Number of properties included in Sponda's Energy Efficiency Programme at the end of the year 80 102 101 106 109 -22 Share of properties included in the programme, % of the total property portfolio 83 87 89 91 88 -4 Annual energy saving achieved by the energy efficiency programme, MWh -329 -365 -3,622 -110 -7,405 -10 Annual energy saving achieved by the energy efficiency programme, GJ -1,186 -1,313 -13,039 -396 -26,658 -10 Number of energy reviews conducted per year 71 101 63 91 95 -30 Sustainability Review 2019 35 Year 2019 Sustainability Key figures Principles of the report 53 Sponda’s Environmental partnership 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Change 2018–2019, % Total energy consumption of Sponda's environmental partners, MWh 59,999 75,119 86,638 98,689 91,769 -20.1 Electricity, MWh 25,720 31,467 35,571 40,527 37,492 -18.3 Heating, normalised, MWh 30,063 37,867 45,840 52,918 49,474 -20.6 District cooling, MWh 4,216 5,785 5,226 5,244 4,803 -27.1 Water, m3 98,617 114,670 126,439 132,101 122,227 -14.0 CO2 -emissions, t CO2 11,617 13,362 16,213 19,545 16,661 -13.1 Number of environmental partners 11 16 20 24 23 -31.3 Waste volumes of Sponda’s properties in Finland Waste recovery rates of Sponda’s properties in Finland 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Total, t 7,709 8,193 7,217 6,571 6,297 Overall waste recovery rate, % 99.9 100.0 100.0 100.0 97.1 Energy recovery, % 47.0 52.2 54.9 54.9 51.8 Energy recovery, t 3 ,626 4,278 3,963 3,610 3,264 Material recovery, % 52.9 47.8 45.1 45.0 45.3 Material Recovery, t 4,075 3,915 3,252 2,960 2,852 Final treatment, % 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 2.9 Biowaste, t 1,717 1,528 1,230 1,022 928 Paper, t 282 296 378 476 576 Paperboard, t 1 ,418 1,464 1,303 1,135 971 Cardboard, t 94 100 92 102 118 Glass, t 119 112 91 78 76 Metal, t 154 135 103 87 65 Plastic, t 55 14 1 2 2 Sludge, t 75 112 21 31 92 Other waste, t 155 147 16 19 17 Hazardous waste, t 7 7 17 10 7 Final treatment, t 7 0 1 1 181 Total carbon dioxide emissions arising from waste, t CO2 252 219 190 167 225 This includes Sponda-owned properties where the property owner is responsible for waste management. Sustainability Review 2019 36 Year 2019 Sustainability Key figures Principles of the report 53 Total like-for-like waste volumes and recovery Waste volumes by main segment of Sponda’s rates of Sponda’s properties in Finland properties in Finland in 2019 2019 2018 t Office properties Shopping centres % t % t Energy recovery 2,108 1,518 Total like-for-like waste weight 6,690 6,769 Material recovery 1,710 2,365 Energy recovery, like-for-like 46.8 3,128 51.3 3,473 Final treatment 7 0.1 Material Recovery, like-for-like 53.1 3,555 48.7 3,296 Final treatment, like-for-like 0.1 7 0.0 0 Waste volumes and recovery rates of Sponda’s head office 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 % t % t % t % t % t Total 66.0 65.6 66.9 71.7 76.9 Energy recovery 31 20.3 47 30.7 46 30.9 43 31.0 40 30.9 Material recovery 69 45.5 53 34.7 54 35.9 57 40.6 60 45.9 Final treatment 0 0.2 0 0.1 0 0.0 0 0.0 0 0.0 Total waste volumes Electricity, heating, water and Electricity, heating, water and Carbon footprint arising from of the properties* district cooling consumption district cooling consumption the energy consumption t of the properties* intensity of the properties* of the properties* 9,000 MWh | m 3 kWh/GFAm 2 | l/GFAm 2 t CO 2 500,000 300 80,000 250 6,000 400,000 200 60,000 300,000 150 3,000 200,000 40,000 100 100,000 50 0 20,000 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Energy recovery 0 Material recovery Electricity Electricity 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Final treatment Heating, normalised Heating, normalised Heating, measured Heating, measured Electricity * Sponda’s properties in Finland District cooling District cooling Heating Water, m 3 Water, ltr/GFAm 2 District cooling Total * Sponda’s properties in Finland * Sponda’s properties in Finland * Sponda’s properties in Finland Sustainability Review 2019 37 Year 2019 Sustainability Key figures Principles of the report 53 Social responsibility key figures Key figures for the personnel 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Parent Parent Parent Group SRE* Russia Group SRE* Russia Group company Russia Group company Russia Group company Russia Personnel at the year-end 131 122 125 117 106 102 3 102 96 3 103 96 7 Personnel in average 136 127 119 110 106 101 3 107 98 5 103 94 9 Average age at the year-end 41.79 42.29 43.23 43.67 46.35 46.4 50.5 45.68 46.3 42.67 44.55 44.8 41.14 Sick leave, days in average 7.80 4.88 4.98 4.87 5.67 5.83 0 2.64 2.8 0 2.41 2.55 0.43 Sick leave, % of working hours 1.44 1.35 2.03 2.58 1.23 1.12 Training days per employee in average 0.71 0.72 1.23 1.23 1.91 1.75 8 1.92 1.79 8 2.30 2.07 5.43 Training hours per employee 5.42 5.74 9.33 9.33 14.33 13.13 60 14.41 13.44 60 17.26 15.55 40.69 Training, % of working hours 0.30 0.31 0.59 0.77 0.79 0.91 * Sponda Real Estate Ltd, established in 1 January 2018 Collective bargaining agreements and employee turnover Days of training by personnel group* % % of working hours Total Men Women Men Women Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements* 100 Turnover, Finland (Sponda Real Estate Ltd) 26.46 Middle management 24.6 0.2 24.4 0.01 0.89 In employment relationships that are valid indefinitely 94.12 Experts 51.3 19.1 32.1 0.23 0.44 In fixed-term employment relationship** 5.88 Total 97.5 19.3 78.1 0.31 In full-time employment relationship 96.32 Only personnel groups with three women and three men at minimum reported. * Sponda Real Estate Ltd In part-time employment relationship 3.68 * The collective labor agreement covers all personnel in Finland excluding the Executive Board. ** Fixed-term employment relationships are project-specific substitutions exceeding 6 months in duration. Sick days by personnel group* % of working hours Total Men Women Men Women Middle management 62 12 50 0.16 0.67 Experts 257 126 131 0.56 0.58 Parent company, total 598 154 444 1.35 Only personnel groups with three women and three men at minimum reported. * Sponda Real Estate Ltd Sustainability Review 2019 38 Year 2019 Sustainability Key figures Principles of the report 53 Job satisfaction and security, Finland* Employees that left the company in 2019, Finland* Age group Total Men Women Accident frequency under 0.0001 Under 20 1 0 1 Occupational diseases 0 20 24 5 1 4 Fatalities 0 25 29 2 1 1 Number of discrimination cases, their handling and related corrective 30 34 7 1 6 action, amount of cases 0 35 39 5 3 2 * Sponda Real Estate Ltd 40 44 5 3 2 45 49 10 4 6 Employees hired in 2019, Finland* 50 54 4 0 4 Age group Total Men Women Over 55 8 2 6 20 24 4 1 3 Total 47 15 32 25 29 7 2 5 * Sponda Real Estate Ltd 30 34 6 3 3 35 39 11 5 6 40 44 8 5 3 Comparison of salaries and rewarding of men and women 45 49 5 1 4 Comparison group I, experts 50 54 2 0 2 The salary of women is % of the corresponding salary of men Basic salary Rewarding Over 55 2 0 2 2019 92.15 93.21 Total 45 17 28 2018 94.65 62.77 * Sponda Real Estate Ltd 2017 89.91 69.93 Personnel Groups* Comparison group II, middle management Persons 31-Dec-19 31-Dec-18 The salary of women is % of the corresponding salary of men Basic salary Rewarding Administration 56 48 2019 79.16 130.45 Active Property Management ** 22 12 2018 86.13 87.22 Transactions and Portfolio Management 15 15 2017 90.82 74.07 Shopping Centres 18 16 The comparison includes task-specific groups with three women and three men at minimum. The comparison figure has been calculated on the principle of how many per cent the average salary and rewarding for women is of the corresponding salary Office Properties 25 26 and rewarding for men. * Sponda Real Estate Ltd * Sponda Real Estate Ltd ** New business unit established in 2019. Sustainability Review 2019 39 Year 2019 Sustainability Key figures Principles of the report 53 Economic responsibility key figures Group key figures* Key financial figures 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 Key figures per share 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 Income statement key figures 13. B  asic and diluted earnings per 1. Total revenue, M€ 244.5 259.2 263.7 259.0 230.5 share attributable to parent company equity holders, € (EPS) 0.22 0.1 0.21 0.41 0.78 2. Operating profit, M€ 146.4 155.1 173.5 206.7 178.1 14. Equity per share, € 2.89 3.67 3.97 5.16 5.26 3. % of total revenue 59.9 59.8 65.8 79.8 77.3 4. Total amount of financial income and expenses, M€ -95.6 -107.9 -75.2 -51.2 -48.9 5. Profit/loss for the period, M€ 74.9 33.8 76.6 137.5 227.2 6. % of total revenue 30.6 13.0 29.0 53.1 98.6 Balance sheet key figures 7. Shareholders’ equity, M€ 984.1 1,247.4 1,350.1 1,849.9 1,585.0 8. Investment properties, M€ 3,092.3 3,755.8 3,935.3 3,755.5 3,101.7 9. Total liabilities, M€ 2,724.0 2,948.6 3,404.7 2,066.6 1,856.0 10. Interest-bearing liabilities, M€ 2,514.1 2,705.9 3,186.4 1,862.5 1,660.9 11. Interest-bearing net liabilities, M€ 2,409.5 2,599.2 2,457.3 1,849.6 1,440.9 Profitability and financial key figures 12. Equity ratio, % 26.6 29.8 28.5 47.4 46.2 * The financial figures related to the reporting year are comprehensively presented in the company financial statements 2019, which is available at Sponda’s website https://www.sponda.fi/sites/default/files/financial_statements_release_2019.pdf Sustainability Review 2019 40 46 Principles of the report Description and scope of the report 41 Management approach 44 Independent Practitioner’s Limited Assurance Report 45 GRI index 47 Sustainability Review 2019 41 Year 2019 Sustainability Key figures Principles of the report 53 Description and scope of the report This review has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiativen (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards: Core option. This Sustainability Review contains general information about the economic, social and environmental impact of Sponda’s operations between 1 January and 31 December 2019, unless otherwise indicated. Sponda’s Sustainability Review is divided into the reporting guidelines have also been applied in this Assurance following main sections: report. In particular, the CRE indicators related to the Selected information from the Finnish version of the real estate sector are reported on where applicable. Sustainability Review regarding energy, emissions • The strategic significance of responsibility to and waste management has been assured by an Sponda and Sponda’s approach to corporate Sponda’s annual sustainability review also serves independent third party, PricewaterhouseCoopers responsibility are discussed in the Responsibilas a Communication on Progress (COP) report on Oy, and congruence between the Finnish and ity section of this report and the Responsibility the implementation of the UN Global Compact English versions has been checked. The assured section of Sponda’s website. principles. Sponda’s Consolidated Financial Stateinformation is identified in the GRI Content Index. • The Responsibility targets and results at ments are IFRS (International Financial Reporting The external assurance report is provided in the Sponda in 2019 section covers Sponda’s susStandards) compliant. Principles of the report section of this Sustainability tainability-related actions and results in 2019. Review on pages 45-46. • The Key figures section covers key sustainabilThe scope of reporting and ity indicators pertaining to environmental, social calculation principles Calculation principles for and economic responsibility. The figures that appear in the report are based environmental reporting • The scope and principles of the report, the GRI on the figures for Sponda’s operations in Finland, The calculation of environmental indicators takes index and the independent assurance report unless otherwise indicated. Figures for the compainto account properties located in Finland in which are found in the Scope of reporting and ny’s subsidiaries are mentioned separately. Unless Sponda’s ownership is at least 50 per cent.1 calculation principles section. otherwise indicated, there have been no changes • The reporting boundaries corresponding to from the previous report with regard to the scope or In addition to total consumption, Sponda’s key envimaterial aspects of corporate sustainability are method of calculation of the reporting principles. ronmental indicators are also reported separately presented on Sponda’s website. 1 The reporting does not cover properties in which Sponda is not responsible for property maintenance, energy purchasing or waste This review has been prepared in accordance management. An exception to this limitation of ownership is the Zeppelin shopping centre, which is reported in full even for the real with the GRI Standards: Core option. The GRI G4 estate companies in which Sponda’s ownership is less than 50 per cent. As of 1 October 2019, Sponda outsourced the asset management of 14 logistics properties to an external party. Of these, 10 were included in energy and water consumption monitoring, and they Construction and Real Estate Sector Disclosures are taken into account in annual reporting until the date of transfer, 31 October 2019. Sustainability Review 2019 42 Year 2019 Sustainability Key figures Principles of the report 53 for shopping centres and offices. Logistics properronmental indicators. For this reason, environmental produced on site. During the reporting year, Sponda ties are reported as part of the office segment. indicators are reported for all properties as well as had on-site solar power production at one property. comparable properties2. The scope of environmental indicators as a share A total of 102 (128) of Sponda’s wholly or partially of the completed properties owned by Sponda is Energy and water consumption as well as CO2 owned real estate companies were subject to presented separately for each reporting section emissions are presented also as key intensity figenergy consumption monitoring in 2019, representbelow. ures proportioned to the gross floor area (GFAm2). ing 92 (97) per cent of Sponda’s property portfolio3. Properties that were sold or bought and properties Of these, 100 (121) are subject to hourly monitoring, Sponda’s reportable environmental indicators are under renovation are not included in the calculawhile consumption at 3 (3) properties is monitored related to energy consumption, water consumption, tions on key intensity figures. by means of manual meter reading. carbon dioxide emissions and waste management. Sponda monitors the development of the enviCooling is monitored separately for those properties The primary reporting period for environmental ronmental indicators for its head office separately. that use district cooling. If cooling is performed indicators is five years, consisting of the reporting The consumption figures for the head office are by compressors, it is included in the electricity year and the four preceding years. The following presented in separate tables in the report. consumption. exceptions apply to the reporting periods: Sponda monitors the development of environThe unit used in monitoring the consumption of • Like-for-like consumption figures are presented mental indicators separately for the properties in purchased energy is the MWh. Total energy confor two years. which the customers are Sponda’s environmental sumption is also reported in GJ using the conver• Segment-specific consumption figures are prepartners. The calculation is based on Sponda’s sion rate 1 MWh = 3.6 GJ (Source: IEA, International sented for two years. environmental partners on 31 December 2019. Energy Agency). There is a certain degree of annual variability Energy The energy efficiency programme includes 80 (117) in Sponda’s property portfolio due to sales and The energy consumption of Sponda’s properties properties, covering 83 (87) of Sponda’s wholly purchases as well as extensive renovation projects, consists of purchased energy, electricity, heatowned properties. which affect the comparability of the annual enviing and district cooling, as well as solar power ” S ponda’s energy efficiency programme covers 80 properties, which represents 83 per cent of 2 Like-for-like consumption is reported separately for the following environmental indicators: energy consumption, water consumption, carbon footprint, total waste management volumes and recovery rates. Sponda’s wholly owned properties. 3 Energy consumption is divided by the number of Sponda’s properties excluding properties included under property development (major new construction and renovation projects). Sustainability Review 2019 43 Year 2019 Sustainability Key figures Principles of the report 53 Water country-specific emissions data (marketand per cent of Sponda’s total emissions caused by Water consumption monitoring extended to 97 (123) area-specific calculation). At present, Sponda does electricity consumption (6,190 tCO2). of Sponda’s wholly or partially owned properties not report on greenhouse gas emissions other than in 2019, representing 87 (99) per cent of Sponda’s carbon dioxide, or their global warming potential. For the sake of comparison, Sponda’s total CO2 property portfolio. Of these, 94 (118) properties are emissions are also reported using Finland’s subject to hourly monitoring, while consumption at Greenhouse gas emissions have been calculated country-specific factor for electricity and heating 3 (5) properties is monitored by means of manual for electricity and district cooling based on meaproduction (Source: Motiva Oy). Because of the meter reading. sured consumption data and, for district heating, unavailability of a country-specific factor for district based on normalised (weather-adjusted) consumpcooling production, the reporting is based on a Waste tion. The normalisation of consumption is based supplier-specific factor. Information on waste covers all properties for which on the heating requirement figures reported by the the responsibility to arrange waste management Finnish Meteorological Institute, which facilitates With respect to indirect greenhouse gas emissions lies with a Sponda-owned property or mutual real year-to-year comparisons of heat consumption. (Scope 3), Sponda reports on carbon dioxide estate company. The monitoring extended to 99 emissions from tenant electricity, waste manage(124) properties, representing 89 (94) per cent of The calculation of CO2 emissions for 2019 is based ment, business air travel and leased cars. Emissions the properties owned by Sponda at the end of on emission factors reported by the suppliers of from tenant electricity are the most significant of 2019. Waste covered by tenants’ own waste manpurchased energy in 2018. The emission factors Sponda’s Scope 3 emissions. Emissions calculaagement agreements is not included in the reportare reported in the Energy and environmental effitions for waste management cover 100 per cent ing. The reported information on waste is based on ciency section of the Annual Report. Data for other of the waste management Sponda is responsible waste volumes reported by waste management reported years have been calculated using the for, and the emissions calculations are based on service providers. actual emission factor for each year. The CO2 emisthe GHG protocol. The calculations include both sions for 2018 have been updated according to the waste transportation and treatment. Emissions from Carbon dioxide emissions emission factors for 2018. The emission intensities business air travel are based on flight miles and the Sponda has no carbon dioxide emissions resulting and origin of electricity are based on the producemission factors reported by airlines. The emissions directly from its actions. Scope 1 greenhouse gas tion breakdown of electricity produced in Finland, from leased cars are based on Sponda’s emissions emissions totalled zero during the reporting period. deducted by the amount of electricity produced data on leased cars as of the last day of the year Greenhouse gas emissions from purchased energy from renewable energy sources of verified origin. and kilometres driven per year. Indirect greenhouse (Scope 2) have been calculated by multiplying The share of guarantees of origin (certificates of origas emissions are reported at the company level. energy consumption (MWh) by the emission factor gin for Nordic wind power) and electricity produced corresponding to its production (kg CO2/MWh) The by Sponda itself from renewable energy sources The use of renewable energy sources includes emissions have been estimated using two methhas been deducted from the CO2 emissions figures solar power generated by the properties themods, based on information reported by the suppliers reported by Sponda. In 2019, they represented 16.6 selves as well as electricity and heating produced of purchased energy and based on Finland’s from renewable energy sources and purchased from energy companies. Sustainability Review 2019 44 Year 2019 Sustainability Key figures Principles of the report 53 Management approach Responsibility Transparent and Enhancing the customer Investing in Energy and environmental Property locations and priorities ethical operations experience employees efficiency taking the industry forward Objective of the Sponda’s objective is to maintain and improve its Customer health and safety are key By investing in employee training and the devel-opment The energy and water consumption of properties have With regard to property locations, Sponda management financial performance and profitability while also creating facets of the customer experience in of management practices, Sponda aims to ensure the significant environmental impacts, which is why energy strives for sustainability from the perspective of approach stakeholder value through transparent communications addition to the provision of comfortable high professional competence of its personnel, which and environmental efficiency is one of the key priorities of the economy as well as the environment. The and reporting as well as good governance and risk working environments that support is a key resource for the Group’s operations. Sponda Sponda’s sustainability efforts. Sponda aims to continuously Group also aims to develop urban environments management. Due to the large subcontracting network, customers’ operations. Sponda also strives to maintain and improve the work ability improve the energy efficiency of its properties as well as in co-operation with various parties. Sponda the responsible management of procurement activities also aims to support its customers’ and functional capacity of its personnel and ensure the waste recycling and sorting. Managing the energy efficiency is actively engaged in taking the property is also important for Sponda. Anti-cor-ruption and the responsibility objectives through its equal treatment of employees. of the extensive supply chain is also an integral part of and construction industry forward from the observance of human rights are a material aspect of the own sustainability efforts. Sponda’s sustainability. perspective of sustainable development by management of Sponda’s own operations as well as the being involved in various industry organisations, supply chain. sharing its knowledge and expertise and carrying out research and development. Reporting The effects of transparent and ethical operations are Sponda’s operations have indirect Measures related to employee health, safety, training Sponda’s energy and environmental efficiency has primarily Property locations have direct impacts on boundary directly related to Sponda’s business and the operations impacts on customer health and safety and equality have direct impacts at Sponda’s own direct impacts at the properties owned by Sponda. The Sponda’s business as well as its customers’ of its personnel. Through subcontracting, the impacts at the properties owned by the Group, business locations. impacts of waste management at properties and supplier business. Sponda’s operations also have also extend to partners at the properties owned by as external property managers are assessments are indirect and they concern Sponda’s indirect impacts on customers, partners and Sponda. responsible for the safety of properties. customers and partners. society in a broader sense through projects related to urban development and taking the industry forward. Management Sponda’s operations are based on its Code of Conduct, The continuous development of Personnel development is managed at Sponda based Energy and environmental efficiency are managed in The objectives related to property locations approach which covers good governance, responsibilities and property services and maintaining on the Group’s strategy as well as feedback from accordance with Sponda’s energy efficiency programme are managed in line with Sponda’s strategy by expectations in terms of key stakeholders, transparent effective communication and customers and stakeholders. Employees are offered as well as short-term and long-term targets. Sponda’s focusing the property portfolio on prime areas. business operations, anti-bribery and anti-corruption feedback channels are a material opportunities to participate in Sponda’s own training environmental responsibility is also guided by the Finnish The President and CEO and the Executive Board practices, environmental responsibility and responsibility aspect of Sponda’s management of programmes as well as external training. Sponda’s property sector’s energy efficiency agreement (TETS), are responsible for the achievement of these as an employer. Sponda is also committed to the UN the customer experience. Sponda’s occupational healthcare action plan has been drafted the UN Global Compact principles and the City of Helsinki objectives. Sponda engages in co-operation on Global Compact sustainability principles. The observance external property managers manage in co-operation with Terveystalo and it is updated in Climate Partners programme. urban development with partners including the of ethics in business is the responsibility of Sponda’s the safety of prop-erties by ensuring three-year intervals or more frequently. City of Helsinki and the Green Building Council The management of energy and environmental efficiency Human Resources Director and Sustainability Manager. that the contractual obligations of Finland. Sponda is also an active member of Employee diversity and equality are managed in is the responsibility of the Sustainability Manager. She the partners they use are fulfilled in the Finnish Association of Building Owners Financial performance is managed through the owner, accordance with Sponda’s equality plan. Sponda’s HR reports to the Facility Management Director, Active Property accordance with occupational safety and Construction Clients (RAKLI) and the FIBS Sponda’s strategy and targets and the financial adminismanagement in Finland complies with the appli-cable Management. regulations. corporate responsibility network. tration function. The President and CEO and the CFO are legislation, collective bargaining agreements and Energy and environmental efficiency in the supply chain in charge of the Group’s financial performance. The customer experience is managed Sponda’s human resource policy. The HR policies are is managed through purchasing agreements and the through the use of leases and the also based on Sponda’s Code of Conduct and the The responsibility of thze supply chain is managed Supplier Code of Conduct, which is incorporated into the Supplier Code of Conduct as well as principles of the UN Global Compact. through purchasing agreements and the Supplier Code agreements. Sponda’s Purchasing Manager is in charge of by applying the relevant legislation. of Conduct. It highlights responsibilities related to The HR Director is in charge of human resource manthe responsibility of purchasing. Asset Managers, Facility Managers and transparency, environmental responsibility, labour, human agement at Sponda. Activities aimed at main-taining Property Managers are in charge of the rights and safety. The Purchasing Manager is in charge of work ability are implemented in co-operation between customer experience at Sponda. managing Sponda’s supply chain. the occupational healthcare provider, occupational health and safety representatives, supervisors and management. Evaluation of the The achievement of the objectives concerning transThe enhancement of the customer Employee satisfaction and organisational effec-tiveSponda monitors energy and water consumption, carbon Progress towards the objectives related to management parent and ethical operations are monitored in Sponda’s experience is regularly evaluated ness are monitored by conducting a regular employee footprint and waste management volumes at its properties property locations are monitored by Sponda’s approach Executive Board meetings on a quarterly basis and by through customer satisfaction surveys, survey as well as through performance reviews. on a monthly, quarterly and annual basis. Sponda’s Executive Executive Board and the Board of Directors. The the Board of Directors as necessary. The sustainability property surveys and measurements. The progress and achievement of each employee’s Board monitors the progress of Group-level environmental external BREEAM® and LEED® environmental of Sponda’s operations is also evaluated annually by the Sponda has also introduced fault personal goals is assessed with the help of appraisal targets on a quarterly basis. Energy and environmental certification processes also take the location external GRESB survey. reporting channels for its properties. discussions, customer feedback and employee efficiency and related progress is also reviewed more of properties into account as one certification The health and safety of premises is surveys. The implementation of the occupational comprehensively by Sustainability Steering Group, which criterion. Sponda uses an anonymous feedback channel for reviewed regularly and the feedback healthcare action plan is also monitored regularly. meets 4–6 times per year. Sponda’s energy and environmenemployees and partners to report suspected misconduct Progress in practices aimed at taking the received from customers is used in the tal efficiency are also measured by independent third-party via the company intranet or e-mail. In 2020, Sponda Sponda has an anonymous channel for reporting industry forward is evaluated by, among other development of customer relationships assurance reports, GRESB surveys as well as LEED® and will introduce an electronic whistleblowing channel to violations of the Code of Conduct. All reports are things, participation in RAKLI and GBC Finland and co-operation with partners. BREEAM® certification processes. facilitate the anonymous reporting of misconduct. processed by Sponda’s HR Director, Chief Legal Officer activities and projects as well as the results of and the Executive Board. No reports were received via The energy and environmental efficiency of the supply chain environmental partnerships. The responsibility of the supply chain is evaluated through the reporting channel in 2019. is evaluated through regular reporting and meetings with regular reporting and meetings with partners. Separate partners. Separate audits are also carried out as necessary. audits are also carried out as necessary. Sustainability Review 2019 45 Year 2019 Sustainability Key figures Principles of the report 53 Independent Practitioner’s Limited Assurance Report To the Management of Sponda Plc the preparation of the Selected environmental Practitioner’s responsibility We have been engaged by the Management indicators that are free from material misstatement, Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance of Sponda Plc (hereinafter also the Company) whether due to fraud or error. conclusion on the Selected environmental indicato perform a limited assurance engagement on tors based on the procedures we have performed selected environmental indicators for the reporting Practitioner’s independence and the evidence we have obtained. We conducted period 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2019, disand quality control our limited assurance engagement in accordance closed in Sponda Plc’s Sustainability Review 2019 We have complied with the independence and with the International Standard on Assurance on the Company’s website (hereinafter Selected other ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (revised) “Assurance environmental indicators). The assured information Professional Accountants issued by the InternaEngagements Other than Audits or Reviews of is indicated in the Company’s GRI index 2019. tional Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, Historical Financial Information”, and, in respect of which is founded on fundamental principles of greenhouse gas emissions, International Standard Management’s responsibility integrity, objectivity, professional competence and on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3410 “AssurThe Management of Sponda Plc is responsible for due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour. ance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statepreparing the Selected environmental indicators in ments”. These Standards require that we plan and accordance with the Reporting criteria as set out PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy applies International perform the engagement to obtain limited assurin Sponda Plc’s reporting instructions (described Standard on Quality Control 1 and accordingly ance about whether the Selected environmental in Sponda’s Sustainability Review 2019), the Global maintains a comprehensive system of quality conindicators are free from material misstatement. Reporting Initiative Standards Guidelines and the trol including documented policies and procedures G4 Construction, Real Estate Sector Disclosures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, In a limited assurance engagement the evidence-­ of the Global Reporting Initiative as well as where professional standards and applicable legal and gathering procedures are more limited than for a applicable, the CRE indicators related to the real regulatory requirements. reasonable assurance engagement, and therefore estate sector. The Management of Sponda Plc is less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable also responsible for such internal control as the assurance engagement. An assurance engagemanagement determines is necessary to enable ment involves performing procedures to obtain Sustainability Review 2019 46 Year 2019 Sustainability Key figures Principles of the report 53 evidence about the amounts and other information the reporting period ended 31 December 2019 are in the Selected environmental indicators. The not properly prepared, in all material respects, in procedures selected depend on the practitioner’s accordance with the Reporting criteria. judgement, including an assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the Selected environmenWhen reading our assurance report, the inherent tal indicators. limitations to the accuracy and completeness of sustainability information should be taken into Our work consisted of, amongst others, the followconsideration. ing procedures: Our assurance report has been prepared in accor• Interviewing a representative of senior mandance with the terms of our engagement. We do agement of the Company; not accept, or assume responsibility to anyone else, • Visiting the Company’s Head Office; except to Sponda Plc for our work, for this report, or • Interviewing employees responsible for collectfor the conclusions that we have reached. ing and reporting the Selected information on environmental indicators at the Group level; Helsinki, 25 March 2020 • Assessing how Group employees apply the reporting instructions and procedures of the PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy Company; • Testing the accuracy and completeness of Sirpa Juutinen the information from original documents and Partner systems on a sample basis; Sustainability & Climate Change • Testing the consolidation of information and performing recalculations on a sample basis. Jussi Nokkala Director Limited assurance conclusion Sustainability & Climate Change Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that Sponda Plc’s Selected environmental indicators for Sustainability Review 2019 47 Year 2019 Sustainability Key figures Principles of the report 53 GRI index This review has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. The review presents the General Standard Disclosures according to the GRI Standards as well as the Topic specific content concerning the management approach, environmental, economic and social indicators. General Disclosures External Global Code GRI Standard Disclosures Included Location in the Sustainability Review assurance Compact Comments Organisation 102-1 Name of the organization Sponda in brief, p. 3 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Sponda in brief, p. 3 102-3 Location of headquarters Back cover 102-4 Location of operations Property locations, p. 25; Report by the board of directors and financial statements, p. 4 102-5 Ownership and legal form Sponda in brief, p. 3; Report by the board of directors and financial statements, p. 6 102-6 Markets served Sponda in brief, p. 3; Stakeholder cooperation, p. 14; Property locations, p. 25 102-7 Scale of the organization Sponda in brief, p. 3; Yes Economic responsibility key figures, p. 39 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Investing in employees, pp. 21–22; Yes The reported information on employees was retrieved from the Social responsibility key figures, pp. 37–38; Personec HR and Nepton systems. https://www.sponda.fi/en/responsibility/ Sponda purchases the management of property services for the spondability/supply-chain properties it owns from external property managers. Properties are maintained on behalf of Sponda by contractual partners who do not report gender-specific employee statistics to Sponda. 102-9 Supply chain Transparent and ethical operations, pp. 18–19; https://www.sponda.fi/en/responsibility/ spondability/supply-chain 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and Sponda in brief, p. 3; New President and CEO appointed. its supply chain Chief Executive’s review, pp. 5–6 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Report by the board of directors and financial Yes statements, p. 7 102-12 External initiatives Sustainability at Sponda, p. 8; Transparent and ethical operations, pp. 18–19 Sustainability Review 2019 Included Partly included 48 Year 2019 Sustainability Key figures Principles of the report 53 General Disclosures External Global Code GRI Standard Disclosures Included Location in the Sustainability Review assurance Compact Comments 102-13 Membership of associations Taking the industry forward, p. 26 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Chief Executive’s review, pp. 5–6 Yes The company’s senior management approves the report. 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Responding to trends and changes, pp. 10–11; Partially reported. The objectives and results of Sponda’s sustainability in 2019, p. 15 Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of Sustainability at Sponda, p. 8; Yes behavior https://www.sponda.fi/en/sponda-company/ strategy/vision-mission-and-values 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about Transparent and ethical operations, pp. 18–19 Yes A digital whistleblowing channel to be adopted in 2020. ethics Governance structure 102-18 Governance structure https://www.sponda.fi/en/sponda-company/ organization-and-governance; Management approach, p. 44 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body Report by the board of directors and financial and its committees statements, p. 7; https://www.sponda.fi/en/sponda-company/ organization/board-directors 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Report by the board of directors and financial The Chairman of the Board of Directors is not an executive officer in the statements, p. 7 organisation. Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder cooperation, p. 14 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Social responsibility key figures, p. 37 Yes 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Stakeholder cooperation, p. 14; Stakeholders were checked in connection with the materiality analysis https://www.sponda.fi/en/responsibility/ and stakeholder survey carried out in 2019. New goals were set for spondability/stakeholders Sponda’s sustainability on the basis of the results. 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder cooperation, p. 14 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Stakeholder cooperation, p. 14 Yes Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial Report by the board of directors and financial statements statements, pp. 57–61 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Description and scope of the report, pp. 41–43; GRI index Sustainability Review 2019 Included Partly included 49 Year 2019 Sustainability Key figures Principles of the report 53 General Disclosures External Global Code GRI Standard Disclosures Included Location in the Sustainability Review assurance Compact Comments 102-47 List of material topics The objectives and results of Sponda’s sustainability in 2019, p. 15 102-48 Restatements of information GRI index No changes. 102-49 Changes in reporting GRI index No significant changes. 102-50 Reporting period Description and scope of the report, pp. 41–43 102-51 Date of most recent report Description and scope of the report, pp. 41–43 102-52 Reporting cycle Description and scope of the report, pp. 41–43 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the GRI index Sustainability Manager Pirkko.Airaksinen(at)sponda.fi report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Description and scope of the report, pp. 41–43 Standards 102-55 GRI content index GRI index, pp. 47–53 102-56 External assurance Description and scope of the report, pp. 41–43; Certain energy, emissions and waste data in have been assured by an Independent Practitioner’s Limited Assurance independent third party. Report, pp. 45–46 Management Approach External Global Code GRI Standard Disclosures Included Location in the Sustainability Review assurance Compact Comments 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Description and scope of the report, pp. 41–43; If the Boundary is not the Sponda Group, the specific Boundary is Boundary Management approach, p. 44 indicated in connection with the table in question. 103-2 The management approach and its Sustainability at Sponda, p. 8; components Transparent and ethical operations, pp. 18–19; Management approach, p. 44 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Transparent and ethical operations, pp. 18–19; Management approach, p. 44 Economic standards External Global Code GRI Standard Disclosures Included Location in the Sustainability Review assurance Compact Comments Economic performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and Transparent and ethical operations, pp. 18–19; distributed Economic responsibility key figures, s. 39; Report by the board of directors and financial statements, p. 11 Sustainability Review 2019 Included Partly included 50 Year 2019 Sustainability Key figures Principles of the report 53 Economic standards External Global Code GRI Standard Disclosures Included Location in the Sustainability Review assurance Compact Comments 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and Responding to trends and changes, pp. 10–11; Partially reported. The implications of climate change are assessed as opportunities due to climate change https://www.sponda.fi/en/responsibility/ part of Sponda’s regular risk assessment. environment/energy-and-environmentalefficiency Indirect economic impacts 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services Property locations, p. 25; Sponda has no assessment programmes related to the needs of local supported Taking the industry forward, p. 26 communities. Evaluated during new construction and major renovation projects. 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts How we create value, pp. 12–13; The extent of impacts has not been specified. Property locations, p. 25; Taking the industry forward, p. 26 Anti-corruption 205-2 Communication and training about antiTransparent and ethical operations, pp. 18–19 Yes As part of Code of Conduct and Supplier Code of Conduct training. corruption policies and procedures Sponda does not report the Group’s internal information if either gender is represented by less than three people. 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and GRI index Yes No incidents of corruption in 2019. actions taken Environmental standards External Global Code GRI Standard Disclosures Included Location in the Sustainability Review assurance Compact Comments Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Energy and environmental efficiency, pp. 23–24; Yes Yes Sponda did not have any energy production or fuel consumption of its Environmental responsibility key figures, pp. 31–33 own during the reporting period. The share of renewable energy of total energy consumption during the reporting year was 25%. 302-3 Energy intensity Energy and environmental efficiency, pp. 23–24; Yes Yes Energy intensity refers to the energy consumption of Sponda-owned Environmental responsibility key figures, pp. 31–33 properties in proportion to the property’s gross floor area. 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Energy and environmental efficiency, pp. 23–24; Yes Yes Includes the reduction in energy consumption achieved through Description and scope of the report, pp. 42–43; Sponda's Energy efficiency programme. The monetary savings Environmental responsibility key figures, pp. 31–33 achieved through energy conservation measures are not reported. 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of Energy and environmental efficiency, pp. 23–24; Yes Yes Includes the changes in certain environmental impacts achieved products and services Description and scope of the report, pp. 42–43; through Sponda's Environmental Partnership Programme compared Environmental responsibility key figures, pp. 31–33 with the previous year. Covers Sponda’s environmental partners in 2019. Sustainability Review 2019 Included Partly included 51 Year 2019 Sustainability Key figures Principles of the report 53 Environmental standards External Global Code GRI Standard Disclosures Included Location in the Sustainability Review assurance Compact Comments Water 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Energy and environmental efficiency, pp. 23–24; Yes Yes Surveys of plumbing fixtures to improve the efficiency of water (2016) Environmental responsibility key figures, pp. 31–33 consumption at properties are part of the regular audit procedures. Plumbing fixtures that conserve water and energy are used in newly constructed properties and major renovation projects. Additionally, in environmental certification processes, attention is paid to not only increasing the efficiency of energy consumption, but also reducing water consumption. Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions GRI index Yes Yes Sponda did not have any direct greenhouse gas emissions in the reporting period. 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Description and scope of the report, p. 43; Yes Yes Covers carbon dioxide emissions during the reporting period. Is based Environmental responsibility key figures, on both the emission factors of energy suppliers and country-specific pp. 33–34 emission factors. 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Description and scope of the report, p. 43; Yes Yes Covers carbon dioxide emissions during the reporting period. Environmental responsibility key figures, pp. 33–34 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Environmental responsibility key figures, Yes Yes Greenhouse gas emissions intensity refers to the carbon dioxide pp. 33–34 emissions caused by the energy consumption (Scope 2) of Spondaowned properties in proportion to the properties’ gross floor area. 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Energy and environmental efficiency, pp. 23–24 Yes Yes Includes the reduction in carbon dioxide emissions achieved through Environmental responsibility key figures, Sponda's Environmental Partnership Programme (Scope 2). Covers pp. 33–34 Sponda’s environmental partners in 2019. Effluent and waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Energy and environmental efficiency, pp. 23–24; Yes Yes Environmental responsibility key figures, pp. 35–36 Supplier environmental assesment 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using Transparent and ethical operations, pp. 18–19; Yes No assessments. Requirements towards environmental responsibility environmental criteria https://www.sponda.fi/en/responsibility/ included in contracts with contractors. The significance of spondability/supply-chain environmental responsibility and environmental responsibility in Sponda's procurement practices are described. GRI Construction and Real Estate Sector Disclosures CRE1 Building energy intensity Energy and environmental efficiency, pp. 23–24; Environmental responsibility key figures, pp. 31–33 Sustainability Review 2019 Included Partly included 52 Year 2019 Sustainability Key figures Principles of the report 53 Environmental standards External Global Code GRI Standard Disclosures Included Location in the Sustainability Review assurance Compact Comments CRE2 Water intensity Energy and environmental efficiency, pp. 23–24; Environmental responsibility key figures, pp. 31–33 CRE3 Greenhouse gas intensity of building’s Environmental responsibility key figures, energy consumption pp. 33–34 CRE8 Certificates The objectives and results of Sponda’s sustainability in 2019, p. 17; Energy and environmental efficiency, pp. 23–24; https://www.sponda.fi/en/responsibility/ environment/environmental-certification Social Standards External Global Code GRI Standard Disclosures Included Location in the Sustainability Review assurance Compact Comments Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Social responsibility key figures, pp. 37–38 Yes Occupational health and safety 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, Social responsibility key figures, pp. 37–38 An accurate breakdown cannot be provided because of the small (2016) occupational diseases, lost days, and number of reporting groups. The reported information on employees absenteeism, and number of work-related was retrieved from the Personec HR and Nepton systems. fatalities Training and education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per Social responsibility key figures, p. 37 Yes employee 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and Investing in employees, p. 21 Yes If an employment relationship is terminated on the employer’s initiative transition assistance programs for a reason deriving from the employer, the employee is offered the opportunity to participate in employment search training and career counselling. 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular Stakeholder cooperation, p. 14; Yes Partially reported. In accordance with the Group’s strategy and performance and career development Investing in employees, p. 22 management system, all Sponda employees are covered by reviews performance reviews. Employees recruited outside the annual cycle of performance reviews are not included in the calculation. Diversity and equal opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and Investing in employees, p. 22 Yes Sponda does not report the Group’s internal information if either employees gender is represented by less than three people. 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of Social responsibility key figures, p. 38 Yes women to men Sustainability Review 2019 Included Partly included 53 Year 2019 Sustainability Key figures Principles of the report 53 Social Standards External Global Code GRI Standard Disclosures Included Location in the Sustainability Review assurance Compact Comments Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective Social responsibility key figures, p. 38 Yes No incidents of discrimination in the reporting period. actions taken Human rights assesment 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies Transparent and ethical operations, pp. 18–19 Yes As part of the Code of Conduct training for employees. or procedures Supplier social assesment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using Transparent and ethical operations, pp. 18–19 Partially reported. No assessments. Occupational safety practices social criteria in Sponda’s procurement procedure are described. Sponda’s procurement procedures and practices concerning the prevention of the grey economy and financial crime are described. Also included in Sponda’s new Supplier Code of Conduct, which is the foundation for all new subcontracting agreements. Customer heath and safety 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts Responding to trends and changes, pp. 10–11; Partially reported. No assessments. Health and safety practices in of product and service categories Enhancing the customer experience, p. 20; Sponda’s procurement procedure are described. Also included in the Management approach, p. 44; Sponda Supplier Code of Conduct. https://www.sponda.fi/en/responsibility/ spondability/supply-chain Sustainability Review 2019 Included Partly included Sponda PLC P.O. Box 940, FI-00101 Helsinki Tel. +35820 43131 www.sponda.com
