• • • • • • • • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.1. THE BIC SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM AND NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCEb 65 3.1.1 Writing the future together, a commitment for 2025, rooted inbourbhistory and convictions 65 3.1.2 Governance of policies and actions taken to prevent, reduce and correct the main CSR risks 75 3.2. RESPONSIBILITY CONCERNING OURbPRODUCTS 77 3.2.1 The products’ environmental performance 77 3.2.2 Product safety 82 3.2.3 Products designed to meet and anticipate consumers’ expectations 85 3.2.4 Optimized packaging 86 3.3. ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY CONCERNING OUR OPERATIONS 88 3.3.1 Participating in the fight against climate change 88 3.3.2 Reducing our factories and offices’ other environmental impacts 92 3.4. OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY TO OUR TEAM MEMBERS 96 3.4.1 The workforce 96 3.4.2 Sharing our Values, listening to our team members 98 3.4.3 Health/Safety in the workplace 98 3.4.4 Health and well-being inbthebworkplace 100 3.4.5 Team member development 102 3.4.6 The remuneration system 104 3.4.7 Promoting diversity 105 3.4.8 Social dialogue 107 3.5. RESPONSIBILITIES RELATED TO OUR SUPPLY CHAIN 108 3.5.1 The responsible purchasing approach 108 3.5.2 Ensuring respect for Human Rights in the workplace 109 3.5.3 Ethics and the fight against corruptionb 111 3.6. SOCIETAL BENEFITS RELATED TO BIC® PRODUCTS 113 3.6.1 Writing the Future, Together– #5bImproving lives through education 113 3.6.2 Philanthropic actions by BIC and its subsidiaries 114 3.6.3 Making our products affordable toball 116 3.6.4 Experimenting with innovative alternative distribution modes through a Social Business initiative 116 3.7. MILESTONES 117 3.7.1 Extra-financial ratings 117 3.7.2 Perimeter and selection ofbindicators 117 3.7.3 Indicators table 120 3.7.4 Report of one of the Statutory Auditors, appointed as independent third party, on the consolidated non-financial statement 123 • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 63 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY How to read BIC’s non-financial information and Non-Financial Performance Statement BIC has decided to present the various elements of information required by French executive order No.2017-1265 of August 9, 2017 (1) in different chapters of its management report in order to facilitate the reader’s comprehension. Consequently, BIC's business model is presented in the extracts from the integrated report, page 8. The CSR risks identified under the NFPS are listed and described in paragraph 3.1.1.5, those of which are also major risks for BIC, are equally presented in chapter 2.1. Chapter 3, Our environmental, social and societal responsibility, presents: ● in the “Challenges, risks and opportunities” sections: the key issues as identified using the materiality matrix (2) or during the analyses of CSR risks and opportunities for the Group; ● in the “Policy, approach and measures implemented” sections: a description of the policies instituted and actions taken by the Group, including, where necessary, the due diligence procedures implemented to identify, prevent and reduce the occurrence of those risks, or to take advantage of the identified opportunities; ● in the “Progress made in 2019” and “Performance” sections: the results achieved by these policies, including key performance indicators. BIC identifies information expressly required in the Non-Financial Performance Statement with the initials [NFPS]. Firmly convinced of the value of the BIC Sustainable Development Program, which has been in effect for more than 15 years, the Group has also decided to continue presenting all of the action plans implemented as part of this program, including those that do not directly help prevent or reduce a major risk. However, the Group has reorganized this chapter to give priority to the elements relating directly to the Non-Financial Performance Statement. A summary table of the Non-Financial Performance Statement is also available in section 3.1.1.5. (1) For the application of decree No.b2017-1180 dated Julyb19, 2017 concerning the disclosure of non-financial information by certain large companies and corporate groups. (2) Published in the 2017 Registration document. 64 • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY The BIC Sustainable Development Program and non-financial performanceb[NFPS] 3.1. THE BIC SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM AND NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCEb[NFPS] The story of BIC is first and foremost a story about our vision: “To provide simple, inventive and reliable choices for everyone, everywhere, every time”. Since the very beginning, sustainability has been deeply rooted in BIC’s values as an integral part of its day-to-day operations. For nearly 15 years, it has played a fundamental role in BIC’s strategy, helping guide its various endeavors, especially its social and societal actions. The ambition of BIC is to ensure that the Group limits its impact on the environment and society and makes a meaningful contribution to the lives of its team members and the planet over the long term. Through its “Writing the Future, Together” program, BIC seeks to build on its longstanding involvement in sustainable development and to bolster its engagement by pledging to five commitments for the period of 2018 to 2025. 3.1.1 WRITING THE FUTURE TOGETHER, A COMMITMENT FOR 2025, ROOTED INbOURbHISTORY AND CONVICTIONS 3.1.1.1 The history of BIC’s Sustainable Development Program Launch of the BIC Publication of the 1st consultation 2008-Launch of 2nd BIC SD 3rd BIC 'HĆQLWLRQ Launch of Sustainable 1st BIC with the the 1st BIC SD Barometer Barometer of the ambition WRITING THE Development Sustainable Stakeholders Barometer for 2025, FUTURE, Program, Development Panel Progress from Progress from with goals TOGETHER with all functions, report Progress made 0 to 8.6/10 0 to 9/10 and action plans categories toward reaching and continents goals: from 58% involved in its to 79% implementation 2003 2004 2005 2008-2010 2011-2013 2014-2016 2017 2018 2025 Based on the principles of its Sustainable Development Program ● #1 Fostering sustainable innovation in BIC® products: By (see box on the following page), namely studying the materiality of 2025, the environmental and/or societal footprint of BIC® the issues, incorporating the UN Sustainable Development Goals products will be improved; and feedback from the BIC Sustainable Development Barometer, ● #2 Acting against climate change: By 2025, BIC will use 80% but also taking into account regulatory requirements and renewable electricity; consultations with stakeholders, as well as lessons drawn from ● #3 Committing to a safe work environment: By 2025, BIC regular benchmarks, in 2017 BIC defined ambitious commitments aims for zero accidents across all operations; that will enable it to create value over the long term for the benefit of all of its stakeholders. ● #4 Proactively involving suppliers: By 2025, BIC will work responsibly with its strategic suppliers to ensure the most The vision thus defined is expressed in the signature “Writing the secure, innovative and efficient sourcing; Future, Together”, driven by BIC’s ambition for sustainability (see 3.1.1.2) and comprising five ambitious commitments. These ● #5 Improving lives through education: By 2025, BIC will commitments are an integral part of the Group’s strategy: improve learning conditions for 250 million children globally. • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 65 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY The BIC Sustainable Development Program and non-financial performanceb[NFPS] THE BIC SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM Launched in 2003, the BIC Sustainable Development Program has continued to evolve and expand, incorporating major environmental and human issues as well as the expectations of stakeholders, but also benefiting from advances in R&D, innovations, and evolutions in the Group’s operations. This exhaustive program encompasses all key sustainability issues as well as the related risks (1) to which BIC, in order to fulfill its corporate responsibility, must respond. A specific reporting system is used to monitor the Group’s performance as part of a dynamic of ongoing improvement. Since 2018, the BIC Program has been guided by the five ambitious commitments that comprise “Writing the Future, Together”. Through its Sustainable Development Program, the Group also contributes to the global Sustainable Development Goals adopted by the UN in its successive programs (the Millennium Development Goals until 2015 and the Sustainable Development Goals since then) (see also page 70). 3.1.1.2 BIC’s ambition “At BIC, we believe in providing simple, inventive, reliable We believe that improving our environmental and societal choices for everyone, everywhere, every time. And we believe product footprint, acting against climate change, providing our in doing so responsibly with the planet, society and future team members with a safe workplace, making our supply chain generations in mind. more responsible and reinforcing our commitment to education are key in shaping our business tomorrow so that Our approach to sustainability is deeply rooted in our Values we can write a sustainable future for all. and is an integral part of our day-to-day operations. Staying true to our philosophy of honoring the past and inventing the The next chapter of our sustainability journey starts here. future, we want our ongoing commitment to sustainable With you. Today.” development to be long-lasting and far-reaching. Gonzalve Bich – CEO Our ambition is to ensure that we limit our impact on the planet and make a meaningful contribution to the lives of the people we employ and society in the long term, simply because it is the right thing to do. (1) The main CSR risks related to the activities and use of BIC Group’s goods and services are presented in the Chapter “Risks management” on page 43. 66 • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY The BIC Sustainable Development Program and non-financial performanceb[NFPS] 3.1.1.3 Writing the Future, Together – Progress chart[NFPS] WRITING THE FUTURE, TOGETHER Progress as of Dec. Issues and risks 5bcommitments 2019 Other factors: approach and performance Pages UN SDG(1) addressed(2) By 2025, the At the end of 2019, The product evaluation and improvement process is 80 Quality and environmental the process and managed by a dedicated software program for all product safety. and/or societal criteria for product existing BIC® products as well as future Compliance with footprint of BIC® evaluation and developments. regulations. products will be improvement have Other factors of the approach: improved. been defined and Responsible aligned for all BIC® • 7.78% of all BIC® stationery products made from products. product categories. alternative materials; Consumption 90%(3) of the BIC® • 6% of the plastics used in the manufacturing of and raw product portfolio BIC® Stationery products are recycled plastics; materials evaluated. • 19 BIC® products with the NF Environnement dependency. ecolabel; [NFPS Risk 3]: • At least 50% of BIC® products have risks related to environmental benefits; products safety and consumers • At the end of 2019, more than 46 million pens health and collected through TerraCycle. safety. [NFPS Risk 1]: risks related to plastics. [NFPS Risk 2]: risks related to climate change. By 2025, BIC will 76% of electricity is The use of renewable energy by BIC is part of a 88 Energy and use 80% of renewable origin. global approach to energy that also covers energy climate change. renewable efficiency in operations. When it comes to using Consumption electricity renewable energy, the approach is based on a and raw Group roadmap and takes into account local materials opportunities and constraints. dependency. The use of certified renewable electricity is [NFPS Risk 2]: expected to help reduce BIC’s GHG emissions by risks related to 50% by 2025 (market-based). climate change. Since 2018, all BIC® products manufactured in [NFPS Risk 1]: France are produced using renewable electricity. risks related to Other factors of the approach: plastics. • In terms of energy efficiency, the Group is continuing its efforts. Thus over the last 10 years, energy consumption per ton of products has decreased by 12.5%. (1) UN Sustainable Development Goals. (2) Issues from the materiality matrix updated in 2015 and published in the 2017 Registration document and risks identified within the framework of the NFPS. (3) Based on 2018 sales volumes. • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 67 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY The BIC Sustainable Development Program and non-financial performanceb[NFPS] WRITING THE FUTURE, TOGETHER Progress as of Dec. Issues and risks 5bcommitments 2019 Other factors: approach and performance Pages UN SDG(1) addressed(2) By 2025, BIC aims At the end of 2019, The Group belongs to “Vision 0”, a program of the 99 Health and for zero accidents BIC integrates its International Social Security Association. Safety. across all Health-Safety Every month, the factory Directors and their EH&S [NFPS Risk 4]: operations. approach in the key managers participate in a conference call to assess Risks related to departments of its progress made and share feedback from the health and new organization. experience. safety of team In 2019, a second series of Stationery factory members. assessments was carried out according to the internal EH&S maturity reference system. The behavioral observation visits program is deployed at all Stationery factories. 167 managers have taken “Managing Safely” training. More than 46,000 hours of safety training have been delivered in 2019. (1) (2) By 2025, BIC will At the end of 2019, BIC has adopted a new organization, with a single 108 Purchasing, work responsibly the strategic buyer in charge of each purchasing family, subcontractors with its strategic suppliers, risks and developed a guide for the assessment and selection and suppliers. suppliers to actions have been of strategic suppliers based on their CSR Consumption ensure the most identified and the approaches and performance, and introduced a and raw secure, innovative organization and responsible purchasing training program as part of materials and efficient tools implemented. the global training curriculum for buyers. dependency. sourcing Other factors of the approach: [NFPS Risk 5]: • ESG evaluations (EcoVadis tool) of strategic Risks related to suppliers since 2011; non-respect of • Program for CSR auditing of global or local Human Rights contract manufacturers; (child labor, international • 292 strategic suppliers identified; conventions and • 10 purchasing categories evaluated; ILO). • 95 risks identified; • 31 action categories identified; • 43% of contract manufacturers audited in 2019. (1) UN Sustainable Development Goals. (2) Issues from the materiality matrix updated in 2015 and published in the 2017 Registration document and risks identified within the framework of the NFPS. 68 • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY The BIC Sustainable Development Program and non-financial performanceb[NFPS] WRITING THE FUTURE, TOGETHER Progress as of Dec. Issues and risks 5bcommitments 2019 Other factors: approach and performance Pages UN SDG(1) addressed(2) By 2025, BIC will Learning conditions 2nd BIC Global Education Week: 113 Communities improve learning for more than • 76 participating BIC sites; and sponsorship. conditions for 61 million children Local 250 million were improved since • 50 countries; socio-economic children globally. 2018 through direct • Nearly 4 times more children saw their learning footprint. actions with children conditions improved during this 2nd edition or with teachers and versus last year. (1) (2) Social Business. parents. Customers and Other factors of the approach: consumers. • 63% of philanthropic contributions (product or financial donations, skills) undertaken by local entities for local communities or by the BIC Corporate Foundation promote education (75% in financial value).(3) (1) UN Sustainable Development Goals. (2) Issues from the materiality matrix updated in 2015 and published in the 2017 Registration document and risks identified within the framework of the NFPS. (3) For this indicator, all philanthropic actions in favor of education, including those carried out under commitment # 5, are taken into consideration. • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 69 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY The BIC Sustainable Development Program and non-financial performanceb[NFPS] 3.1.1.4 With Writing the Future, Together, BIC contributes to the UN Sustainable Development Goals 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 By 2025, the environmental and/or societal footprint of BIC® products will be improved. By 2025, BIC will use 80% renewable electricity. By 2025, BIC aims for zero accidents across all operations. By 2025, BIC will work responsibly with its strategic suppliers to ensure the most secure, innovative and HIĆFLHQWVRXUFLQJ By 2025, BIC will improve learning conditions for 250 million children, globally. The table shown above charts the ways in which “Writing the particular through the products that it manufactures and markets in Future, Together” contributes to the UN SDGs. To create it, BIC more than 160 countries, reflecting its vision of offering “simple, evaluated its contribution to the targets defined by the UN for its inventive and reliable choices for everyone, everywhere, every 17 major goals. The Group contributes mainly to two goals, in time”: 70 • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY The BIC Sustainable Development Program and non-financial performanceb[NFPS] SDG 8. Decent work and economic growth. BIC contributes 3.1.1.5 The main CSR risks resulting from BIC’s through the development of products and production modes that operations and the use of its goods and favor the efficient use of resources, including recycled materials (see pages 77 to 87 and 88 to 95). servicesb[NFPS] SDG 12. Responsible consumption and production. BIC BIC identifies 9 non-financial risks resulting from its operations and contributes through the Company’s eco-design program, which the use of its goods and services: provides consumers with information to help them make their ● risks related to plastics: plastic waste and resource purchasing choices, and through its monitoring and compliance depletion [NFPS risk 1]; program, which ensures that the products it markets are safe and ● risks related to climate changeb[NFPS risk 2]; comply with health and environmental standards (see pages 77 to 85). ● risks related to product safety and consumer health and safety [NFPS risk 3]; Within the direct scope of its operations or its sphere of direct influence – by making simple, reliable products that meet essential ● risks related to health and safety of team members [NFPS needs available to everyone, undertaking initiatives that provide riskb4]; support for its team members, offering various products and ● risks related to non-respect of human rights (child labor, programs to promote access to education, reducing the international conventions, ILO) [NFPS risk 5]; environmental impacts of its factories, ensuring respect for Human ● risks related to unfair practices (corruption) [NFPS risk 6]; Rights in its own factories and by its suppliers and subcontractors, ● risks related to our operations and the environment [NFPS and through the actions of its Corporate Foundation – the Group riskb7]; also contributes to the following UN Sustainable Development Goals: ● risks related to reputation and brand [NFPS risk 8]; ● risks related to experienced team members and skills [NFPS SDG 1. End poverty; risk 9]. SDG 3. Good health and well-being; Risks related to tax evasion are not identified as major CSR risks for SDG 4. Quality education; the Group. SDG 5. Gender equality; The method for identifying these risks and evaluating their degree SDG 6. Clean water and sanitation; of criticality is described in Chapter 2 of the present Universal SDG 7. Affordable and clean energy; Registration Document. SDG 9. Industry, innovation and infrastructure; Below, the summary table of the Non-Financial Performance SDG 10. Reduced inequalities; Statement summarizes the elements required by French executive order No. 2017-1265 dated August 9, 2017 (for the application of SDG 13. Climate action; decree No. 2017-1180 dated July 19, 2017 concerning the SDG 15. Life on land; disclosure of non-financial information by certain large companies SDG 16. Peace, justice and strong institutions. and corporate groups). Chapter 3 of the present Universal Registration Document presents these elements in detail, plus other elements of the CSR approach, concerning key areas that represent promising opportunities for the Group. The indications [NFPS] and [NFPS riskbx] allow the reader to identify elements of the Group’s regulatory responses within the overall presentation of its sustainable development approach. • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 71 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY The BIC Sustainable Development Program and non-financial performanceb[NFPS] SUMMARY TABLE OF THE NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE STATEMENT Non-financial risks Description of the risks Opportunities Policies and actions taken Results/Indicators R1 Risks related to On the one hand, plastics risk is To establish circular economy BIC’s policies • 7.78% of BIC® stationery plastics: plastic incurred upstream, with the use loops involving the collection Writing the Future, Together: products are made from waste and of this material in BIC® products, of used products for recycling #1 Fostering sustainable alternative materials resource contributing to the depletion of a and reuse. innovation in BIC® products. • 6% of the plastics used in depletion. non-renewable resource, and Based on the feedback from the manufacturing of BIC® therefore subject to rarefaction Writing the Future, Together: this experience, to establish #2 Acting against climate Stationery products are and price volatility, and on the well-adapted, appropriate recycled plastics other hand, it occurs downstream change. systems for each product and • 19 BIC® products have with the growing problems of country, while improving the BIC’s approaches pollution related to plastic waste. earned the NF products and their use. Eco-design approach. Environnement label In addition to these issues, there is also the growing regulatory To stand out on its markets Developing an innovative • At least, 50% of BIC® environment regarding the use of through BIC® products that circular economy model. products offer plastics and the perception of offer environmental and environmental benefits Partnerships for innovation consumers and citizens. social benefits. approach. • At the end of 2019, more than 46 million pens collected through TerraCycle • 194 alternative materials tested R2 Risks related to Major risks related to Climate To develop production BIC’s policies • 12.59 Ratio of annual climate change. Change are: centers closer to the Group's Writing the Future, Together: energy consumption • increasing global regulation of markets, supporting local #1 Fostering sustainable normalized to production – carbon and energy directly or economic development and innovation in BIC® products. BIC Group – in indirectly impacting BIC's know-how in the countries gigajoules/ton where the Group has Writing the Future, Together: operations or those of its #2 Acting against climate • 76% Share of renewable suppliers and contract operations, while at the same energy – as % of total time limiting the products’ change. manufacturers; consumption – BIC Group environmental footprint and Environment, Health & Safety • disruption or interruption of the physical risks linked to Policy. • 97,710 (location-based) production activities due to climate change. 45,827 (market-based) extreme weather conditions BIC’s approaches Annual direct and indirect or availability of natural To stand out on its markets by greenhouse gas emissions Purchasing electricity from resources (water, energy, etc.) offering BIC products with a ® renewable sources. (scopes 1 and 2, directly impacting BIC's reduced carbon footprint. location-based and Eco-design approach. factories or those of its To innovate in order to make market-based) – in teqCO2 suppliers and sub-contractors; the Group’s materials and Action plan with measures to – BIC Group products more responsible. mitigate climate-related risks at • development of new • 1.07 Ratio of annual direct the sites. regulations and standards To optimize production costs and indirect greenhouse regarding product by limiting the use of energy Environmental management gas emissions (scopes 1 environmental impact resources. systems at the sites. and 2) normalized to assessment and Energy efficiency approach. production – in communication (including teqCO2/ton – BIC Group carbon impact) as well as • Breakdown of tonnages consumer behavior changes shipped by mode of impacting the Group’s sales. transport – as % of total: Road: 43.08%; Air: 0.66%; Sea: 56.26% • Breakdown of GHG emissions by mode of transport – as % of total: Road: 23.61%; Air: 51.18%; Sea: 25.21% • 0.75% Share of air freight (in tons/kilometers) – as % of total 72 • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY The BIC Sustainable Development Program and non-financial performanceb[NFPS] Non-financial risks Description of the risks Opportunities Policies and actions taken Results/Indicators R3 Risks related to The risk related to product safety To establish BIC as a brand of BIC’s policies • 306 products have been product safety and consumer health and safety reference in terms of the Writing the Future, Together: tested by independent and consumer is a risk of placing non-compliant quality and safety of its #1 Fostering sustainable laboratories health and or unsafe products on the products, meeting or innovation in BIC® products. safety. market. surpassing the regulatory requirements on each market. Product Safety Policy. To develop expertise in the The seven BIC commitments to evaluation of materials, ensure the quality and safety of especially for recycled and its lighters. alternative materials. BIC’s approaches Regulatory watch and compliance. Process for marketing safe products that comply with health and environmental standards. Process for evaluating recycled materials. Systematic testing and evaluation programs. R4 Risks related to BIC’s operations, both industrial To position the Group as a BIC’s policies • 1.87 On-site accident health and and commercial, expose its desirable employer through Environment, Health and incidence rate – BIC team safety of team workers to various professional an ambitious health and Safety (EH&S) Policy. members and temporary members. risks (physical, chemical, safety policy. employees psychosocial, biological, Writing the Future, Together: #3 Committing to a safe work • 0.06 Severity rate of ergonomic) that differ from on-site accidents – per function to function environment. thousand hours worked – (headquarters, factories, sales BIC’s approaches BIC team members force). For the Group, workplace Deployment of the EH&S Suite safety means ensuring its team platform. members’ physical and mental well-being by preventing Health-Safety reporting. accidents and occupational Environment-Healthdiseases. Safety guidelines. Safety watch. Safety certification (OHSAS 18001) for four Stationery factories. “Quality of Life at Work” program. R5 Risks related to Non-compliance with To highlight the culture of BIC’s policies • Permanent workforce by non-respect of fundamental human rights such control over quality, costs and BIC Group Code of Conduct. category of country in human rights as child labor, discrimination or production conditions that relation to human rights (child labor, forced labor may result in legal BIC has pursued since its Responsible Purchasing risk – BIC Group: Free international action against the Group and founding (92% of BIC Charter. countries: 87%; Partly free conventions, major consequences in terms of products are manufactured in Writing the Future, Together: countries: 11%; Not free ILO). reputation and attractiveness. its own factories). #4 Proactively involving countries: 2% To strengthen relations with suppliers. • Number of contract the Group’s strategic BIC’s approaches manufacturers by country suppliers. in relation to human rights Social audit program. risk – BIC Group: Free EcoVadis evaluation. countries 33%; Partially Guide explaining BIC Code of free countries 8.5%; Conduct for Brazilian transport Non-free countries 58.5% carriers. (source: Freedom House) • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 73 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY The BIC Sustainable Development Program and non-financial performanceb[NFPS] Non-financial risks Description of the risks Opportunities Policies and actions taken Results/Indicators R6 Risks related to The risk of corruption and unfair To further develop BIC’s BIC’s policies • 32% of BIC sales unfair practices practices can lead to legal action culture of ethics within the BIC Group Code of Ethics. generated in countries (corruption). against the Group and major Group. considered to have a high consequences in terms of BIC Group anti-corruption or very high risk of reputation and attractiveness. policy. corruption (Brazil, Mexico, BIC’s approaches India, Italy, Argentina) Anti-corruption training. Deployment of the Group’s Code of Ethics. R7 Risks related to The nature of BIC’s To optimize production costs BIC’s policies • 4.87 Ratio of annual water our operations manufacturing operations, by limiting the consumption of Environment, Health & Safety consumption normalized to and the primarily the molding and resources (water, energy, etc.) (EH&S) Policy. production – BIC Group – environment. assembly of plastic products and and the production of factory in m3/ton printing of products, has a local waste. BIC’s approaches • Ratio of annual industrial environmental impact that To facilitate the factories’ Environmental management waste production remains relatively low compared integration in their local systems at the sites. normalized to production – with other manufacturing surroundings by reducing tons per ton – BIC Group: ISO 14001, ISO 50001, sectors. their environmental footprint, Hazardous waste: 0.039; European Water Stewardship adopting exemplary practices Gold, BREEAM and LEED Non-hazardous waste: and initiating outreach actions certifications for the factories. 0.181 to benefit the local • Breakdown of hazardous Water consumption reduction populations. industrial waste by approach. treatment method – % of Waste reduction approach. total expressed in tons – See also Risk 2. BIC Group: Recycled: 21%; Incinerated with energy recovery: 32%; Incinerated without energy recovery: 21%; Sent to land disposal: 5%; Sent to other form of treatment disposal: 21% • Breakdown of non-hazardous industrial waste by treatment method – % of total expressed in tons – BIC Group: Recycled: 74%/Incinerated with energy recovery: 13%/Incinerated without energy recovery: 2%/Sent to land disposal: 10%/Sent to other form of treatment disposal: 1% 74 • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY The BIC Sustainable Development Program and non-financial performanceb[NFPS] Non-financial risks Description of the risks Opportunities Policies and actions taken Results/Indicators R8 Risks related to In the context of increasing To position BIC as a brand BIC’s policies BIC® products’ performance reputation and environmental awareness, the that delivers quality and Writing the Future, Together: in use: brand. brand image could be associated safety and as a responsible #1 Fostering sustainable • more than 2-km of writing with disposable products, leading brand, emphasizing its innovation in BIC® products for a ballpoint pen to customer disaffection for BIC® long-term commitment and products. ambitious programs. Responsible Communication • up to 3,000 flames for a Charter. lighter To launch innovative products that counter BIC®’s image as a BIC’s approaches • 17 shaves for a triple-blade maker of disposable products: Eco-design approach. shaver multi-use products designed • 19 BIC® products have to use minimum materials and earned the NF last a long time. Environnement ecolabel To stand out on the Group’s • 100% of the environmental markets through BIC® claims for BIC® products products that offer on packaging, in catalogs environmental and social and on websites are benefits. validated by the Legal Department R9 Risks related to BIC has specific skills thanks to To develop programs that BIC’s approaches • 59% Rate of promotion of experienced its experienced team members, favor the employability of our Succession Plans. managers within the team members especially in manufacturing team members in the Company (levels 3, 4, 5 and and skills. processes and business practices. Company and outside the Team members training. 6) – BIC Group The loss of experienced team Company. • 16,629 Number of training members could slow down the days – permanent and implementation of the Group’s temporary employees development plans. It could also result in the inability to • Number of training hours implement the Group’s strategy. (per subject) – BIC Group – permanent and temporary employees: technical training: 100,725; Health and well-being training: 5,607; BIC Culture: 11,814; Leadership skills: 14,889. 3.1.2 GOVERNANCE OF POLICIES AND ACTIONS TAKEN TO PREVENT, REDUCEbANDbCORRECT THE MAIN CSR RISKSb[NFPS] 3.1.2.1 Sustainable development as a key factor in the decision-making process The issues of sustainable development are considered in the plastics and the circular economy, and the sharing of strategic Company’s decision-making process from the perspective of risks to orientations. be controlled and opportunities to be seized. A Sustainable The BIC Sustainable Development Program’s goals and progress Development Steering Committee was formed in 2019, including are presented at least once a year to the Board of Directors and at the Group Supply Chain Officer, Group Insights and Innovation the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. In addition, the Audit Committee Officer, General Manager Lighters, Group Commercial Officer and is kept abreast of the policies and programs implemented by the Group Sustainable Development Director. It met three times during Group. 2019 with the following agenda: alignment with the shortand long-term sustainable development strategy, progress review of the Since 2017, the Nominations, Governance and Corporate Social “Writing the Future, Together” program and other Sustainable Responsibility (CSR) Committee reviews the actions taken by the Development Programs (responsible communication, responsible Group as part of its Sustainable Development Program and products, emerging issues, etc.), information on topics related to monitors the deployment of the “Writing the Future, Together” strategy. • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 75 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY The BIC Sustainable Development Program and non-financial performanceb[NFPS] 3.1.2.2 Our operational structure Managing sustainable development at BIC is based on a continuous For the definition of the “Writing the Future, Together” program, improvement approach that has been deployed across the entire “Champions” were designated for each topic in order to coordinate Group since 2003. The risk-based approach, as it is understood in the tasks of defining the commitments, implementing the roadmaps particular for the presentation of regulatory information, is and achieving the goals set for 2025. Relying on the “Champions” as systematically combined with a strategic approach geared toward well as the active involvement of Management, this new seizing opportunities related to environmental and social organization reflects the “integrated” approach that the Group challenges. seeks to adopt in order to fulfill its commitments. BOARD OF DIRECTORS NOMINATIONS, GOVERNANCE AND CSR COMMITTEE • To review the report on social, societal and environmental responsibility, the actions taken by the Group and its policy • To review the progress made against the strategy and commitments taken EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT STEERING COMMITTEE 'HĆQHVVWUDWHJLHVIRUWKH6XVWDLQDEOH Development Program Decisions Proposals COUNTRIES FUNCTIONS • $SSO\WKH6XVWDLQDEOH 6XSSRUW SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT 6XSSRUW • Integrate sustainable Development Program locally: • Develops proposals and action plans development in certain projects WRPHHWWKHQHHGVRI ï/HDGVDQGFRRUGLQDWHVWKH6XVWDLQDEOH'HYHORSPHQW3URJUDP ï&RQWULEXWHWRWKHUHSRUWLQJRI customers and other ï&RQWULEXWHVWRFRPPXQLFDWLRQWDUJHWLQJWKH65,FRPPXQLW\  H[WUDĆQDQFLDOGDWD stakeholders and other targets taking local cultures and ï&DUULHVRXWVXUYH\VDQGH[SORUDWRU\SURMHFWV regulations into account Contribution • Manages regulatory monitoring Contribution • Contribute to the reporting to the to the RIH[WUDĆQDQFLDOGDWD ï&RQWULEXWHVWRWKHFRQVROLGDWLRQRIH[WUDĆQDQFLDOGDWD program program Leadership and Coordination Proposals CHAMPIONS • Propose and supervise the action plans As part of BIC’s transformation plan, “BIC 2022 – Invent the 3.1.2.3 Highlighting non-financial performance Future”, the Sustainable Development Department is now to Shareholders and investors integrated into the Group Insights & Innovation division, focusing on products and innovation. This gives the Sustainable As part of its ongoing dialogue with the financial community, BIC Development Teams closer involvement with Stationery and strives to provide all relevant information and indicators and to Shavers product design, allowing them to maximize their leverage to show how its Sustainable Development Program has allowed the improve the products’ environmental and/or societal footprint. The Group to seize opportunities and control the associated risks. The Sustainable Development Department provides support for progress of the “Writing the Future, Together” program was operations and for the Lighters category, whose commitments presented to the Shareholders at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting correspond to the specific challenges of that type of product and are on May 22, 2019. aligned with those of the Group. 76 • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Responsibility concerning ourbproductsb[NFPS] 3.2. RESPONSIBILITY CONCERNING OURbPRODUCTSb[NFPS] BIC produces and markets consumer products that are lightweight, have a long performance life, and are affordable by everyone. Right from the start, BIC® products have been designed and made with just what’s necessary in terms of raw materials, leaving out anything that is superfluous. To attain this goal, the Group has always pursued an approach that is based on innovation and emphasizes economy of materials. Through its “Writing the Future, Together” program, BIC is reinforcing its commitment with the creation of a “Sustainable Scorecard”, conceived to improve the environmental, social and societal performance of all BIC® products. BIC also contributes to the emergence of the circular economy by initiating partnerships for the supply of secondary raw materials, and participating in the creation of a pilot recycling program for writing products. BIC® products are designed to meet and anticipate the expectations of all consumers in developed as well as developing countries. In addition, the Group takes all necessary measures to uphold its brand image and preserve its reputation. 3.2.1 THE PRODUCTS’ ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCEb[NFPS] 3.2.1.1 Challenges, risks and opportunities related to the products’ environmental performanceb[NFPS] To manufacture its products, BIC uses raw materials (plastics, inks, packaging and metals, etc.) and resources (water and energy), and generates waste. Breakdown of raw material purchases in 2019 Analysis of product environmental performance (LCA) shows that a product’s weight/performance life ratio is a pertinent indicator for 13% Other environmental performance. In fact, the more lightweight a product 18.2% Metals is and the longer it lasts, the better its environmental performance. Life cycle studies of its products confirm that the environmental impact of a product is mainly due to raw material usage in its manufacturing. The challenge for BIC is to minimize its products’ primary environmental impact, namely the use of these raw materials. Starting in 1994, when BIC conducted its first life cycle 29.4% Packaging studies, the Group defined its founding principle of “just what’s 39.3% necessary” (1) in order to offer fairly priced products with less Plastics environmental impact. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE MEASUREMENTS FOR THREE MAIN BIC® PRODUCTS(2) Life cycle analysis approach – ReCiPe (version 1.12) Endpoint (H/A) Europe Raw materials Production Distribution End of life BIC® Cristal® ball pen 81% 12% 4% 3% BIC® Maxi lighter 81% 11% 5% 3% BIC® Classic single-blade shaver 79% 14% 4% 3% [NFPS risk 1] BIC identifies risks related to plastics – plastic waste plastic waste. In addition to these issues, there is also the growing and resource depletion – among the major RSE risks resulting from regulatory environment regarding the use of plastics and the its operations. On the one hand, plastics risk is incurred upstream, perception of consumers and citizens. with the use of this material in BIC® products, contributing to the [NFPS risk 2] Through its approach for minimizing the use of raw depletion of a non-renewable resource, and therefore subject to materials, BIC also responds to the risks related to climate change rarefaction and price volatility, and on the other hand, it occurs insofar as they concern BIC® products (see also section 3.3.1.1). downstream with the growing problems of pollution related to (1) “Il y aura l’âge des choses légères” by Thierry Kazazian, Victoires Éditions, 2003. (2) BIC analysis • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 77 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Responsibility concerning ourbproductsb[NFPS] For many years, long before the current growing concern about ● communication to inform customers and consumers of the plastic pollution, the Group has been committed to combating this products’ environmental benefits in order to help them make form of pollution: more responsible choices. ● by minimizing the quantity of plastic materials it uses and offering products with long-lasting performance (see page 79); 3.2.1.2 Policies: BIC’s three eco-design ● by using alternative materials (recycled and bio-sourced solutionsb[NFPS] plastics) (see page 79). To minimize the consumption of non-renewable raw materials, BIC For BIC, the challenges related to plastic waste and resource has developed an eco-design approach based on three points: depletion also offer opportunities, such as: ● minimizing the quantity of materials used in the manufacturing ● differentiation on the markets by offering products with of each product, while ensuring long-lasting performance; environmental benefits; ● using alternative materials of either vegetable or recycled ● innovation in materials and products, backed up by the close origin; monitoring of technical and regulatory developments ● developing refillable products. concerning plastics; ● the implementation of a recycling channel, paving the way toward the circular economy, and making use of feedback on this experience to initiate other similar systems adapted to each country; TOOLS TO FACILITATE THE ECO-DESIGN PROCESS Measuring products’ environmental performance Starting in 1994, BIC launched product life cycle studies in order to determine how its products impact the environment and to implement an effective policy to limit their impact. To evaluate its products’ environmental performances, BIC focuses on life cycle phases where it can take action. For shavers, an approach incorporating the usage phase shows that this step – involving water consumption, water heating and the disposal of shaving cream packaging – plays a key role (78% of the total environmental impact, according to certain estimations), underlining the importance of consumer awareness. From 2008 to 2014, BIC monitored measurement of the environmental performances of its products. This measurement is now completely integrated in the processes for designing or modifying a product. In Stationery, 100% of new products are thus subject to eco-measurement. LCA The practice of measuring the products’ environmental performance has been extended by the Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) approach, a method for assessing a product’s total environmental impact in each successive phase in its life. BIC often uses the simplified method of the life cycle approach, which is similar to Life Cycle Analysis except that it does not include the final independent verification phase. From the very beginning of its Sustainable Development Program, BIC Group has been committed to the life cycle approach to verify that it is making steady progress in all pertinent areas. The product design teams are equipped with an array of tools (software, design interfaces, product environmental profiles, eco-design and LCA guides) that allow them to carry out comprehensive, detailed environmental assessments as well as rapid analyses to facilitate decision-making during the design process. 78 • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Responsibility concerning ourbproductsb[NFPS] Economy of materials to this adaptation. Exemplifying this approach, the BIC® Ecolutions® BIC has always sought to optimize its use of raw materials as much range is a complete stationery line that consists of products as possible. As an expert in the processing of plastics, BIC exercises manufactured using recycled materials (at least 50%) in compliance its responsibility above all by minimizing its use of these materials. with the standard ISO 14021. The BIC® Matic Ecolutions® mechanical pencil, for example, contains 65% recycled materials. All In the Stationery category, the BIC® Cristal® ball pen, one of the stationery lines now include at least one product made with Group’s flagship products, exemplifies this approach. Even though alternative (in particular recycled) materials. its design already optimized the use of materials in 1950, it continues to benefit from ongoing research to minimize the BIC at the heart of an innovation community quantity of material used: Over the years, BIC has cultivated more than 100 strategic ● it has a minimum writing length of more than 2-km; partnerships in research and development with startups, companies ● it uses only 2.9 grams of material per kilometer of writing, at the forefront of innovation, universities, research institutes and compared with 6.6 grams for a competing product with external laboratories, playing a leading role in a community with comparable characteristics. which it pursues long-term prospective and development programs. In the Shavers category, BIC achieves very good performance on its For example, the Group works closely with a number of French markets due to its highly competitive price/quality ratio. For each startups, like Pilibio and Inofib, specializing respectively in the product range, this price/quality ratio is made possible by the production of inks from microorganisms and in natural cellulose development of products with an optimal quantity of materials and fibers. Since 2012, the Group has also been a member of Matériaux keeping them as simple as possible. Chimie, Chimie Verte (formerly called MAUD), a competitiveness cluster based in Villeneuve-d’Ascq that backs innovative projects in For example, the BIC® Simply Soleil® shaver is designed to weigh as materials, chemistry, green chemistry and sustainable development. little as possible. Although it is hollow, its handle nonetheless The projects sponsored by the cluster concern multifunctional, ensures a high level of performance, quality and comfort in shaving. eco-designed and bio-sourced materials, high-efficiency processes and clean technologies. Integrating alternative materials To further its involvement in sustainable development, BIC has Research & Development joined Bio-speed, a consortium bringing together multiple groups, Regarding new materials, the BIC Research and Development including Danone, Faurecia, Lego, Michelin, L’Oréal and Quicksilver, teams, in collaboration with the Purchasing departments, focus on for the purpose of accelerating the emergence of a biomass two approaches: economy. Its goal is to reduce fossil fuel dependency and the ● the use of existing innovative materials. An inventory of environmental footprint of manufactured products by promoting innovative materials available for industrial use is kept up to the conversion of non-food biomass into polymers. date. From this list, engineers select materials that correspond to industrial and economic requirements with the objective of Developing refillable and hybrid products conducting feasibility tests. In the absence of a simple, BIC makes an ongoing effort to launch refillable products due to economical solution to develop a material based on biological their environmental advantages. However, in the case of low-end material from plants, recycled materials are chosen; stationery products, the consumer demand for refills is virtually ● collaborative research with suppliers to identify new materials non-existent. (e.g. plant-based or recycled, etc.), new concepts or hybrid In the Stationery category, BIC continues to offer refillable pens. materials. Many materials are considered and then analyzed. For example, the BIC® Gel-ocity® line of refillable gel ink pens, the These have included potato starch, sugarcane, plant fibers, 4-Color™ and 4-Color™ 3+1, which combine three ink colors and a woodchips, etc. Once a formulation is ready, it is tested to mechanical pencil, are all refillable. On the U.S. market, pen refills ensure that it meets industrial specifications for quality and are available on a dedicated website: www.shopbic.com. They are safety, sometimes going all the way to the finished product also available on the website www.bicworld.com, which links to a qualification stage. European e-commerce site offering the BIC® refill range. Integrating alternative or recycled materials into Stationery In the Shaver category, the BIC® Hybrid shaver is sold as a handle products with four-to-six heads. The underside of the handle is also ribbed to reduce the use of plastic without altering the shaver’s ergonomic Since 2014, BIC has been conducting a research program to characteristics, which are the same as those of a conventional maximize the use of recycled and alternative materials in handle. Because it comes with four-to-ten heads, the product’s BIC® products. To achieve this, the research teams have identified performance life is at least four times that of a standard all BIC® products whose design could be modified or adapted for non-refillable shaver. Over its entire life cycle and for one year of production using alternative/recycled materials without sacrificing shaving, the environmental impact of the BIC® Hybrid shaver is 28% quality. The challenge is, first of all, to ensure a perennial source of less than that of a similar non-refillable BIC® model, like the such materials that meet the specifications and are available on the BIC® Comfort 3® Action®. market, and secondly, to convert any products that lend themselves • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 79 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Responsibility concerning ourbproductsb[NFPS] 3.2.1.3 Policies: Writing the Future, Together – #1bFostering sustainable innovation in BIC® productsb[NFPS] To go even further, BIC has set the goal of fostering sustainable (described below) the focal point of product development at BIC, product innovation and has codified this ambition in the following establishing its guidelines as unconditional principles. commitment: By 2025, the environmental and/or societal footprint This Sustainable Scorecard was developed in 2018 by transversal of BIC® products will be improved. working groups uniting the different Group departments BIC has created a “Sustainable Scorecard” defining the process and (Innovation, Marketing, Sustainable Development, etc.) and BIC® criteria for the evaluation and improvement of its products. product categories (Stationery, Lighters, Shavers). Conceived to stimulate and facilitate sustainable innovation within In 2019 a special computer tool was developed to facilitate product the Group, it unites all of the R&D work conducted at BIC for the evaluation, directly connected to the existing eco-design tools purpose of product improvement. The criteria defined in the (e-DEA and SimaPro). An initial evaluation of 90% (1) of the BIC® Sustainable Scorecard will be applied to all products (both new and product portfolio has been completed (see page 118 for detail of updated existing products) and to all the steps in the product the scope of this indicator). development process. To evaluate the products’ environmental and societal footprint, the performance of eight criteria (light and long The roll-out of improvement plans in all three BIC® product lasting, recycled plastic, ability to be recycled at end-of-life, green categories is scheduled for 2020. Progress will be assessed chemistry, responsible chemistry, efficient manufacturing, according to an indicator showing the percentage of BIC® products affordability, benefits for society) is evaluated. This tool makes the improved in comparison with the year of reference, 2019. eco-design approach developed the the Group many years ago BIC JOINS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY 100 INITIATIVE In 2019, BIC became a partner in the Circular Economy 100 initiative of the Ellen MacArthur Foundation. Its various programs will enable BIC’s teams to expand their knowledge, develop their skills, build a network and collaborate with key organizations on topics related to the circular economy. 3.2.1.4 BIC’s eco-design approach: actions taken and results[NFPS] Writing the Future, Together – #1bFostering sustainable Economy of materials and the circular economy innovation in BIC® products BIC has signed a partnership with LOOP, the circular economy 90%(1) of the BIC® product portfolio have been evaluated using the e-commerce platform created by Terracycle, the world leader in the Sustainable Scorecard. recycling of wastes that are considered difficult to recycle. LOOP offers a practical, affordable circular economy e-commerce solution Eco-design approach based on sustainable and refillable products and containers. It Since 2015, 100% of the new Stationery products have undergone reduces dependency on packaging through home delivery, eco-measurement. In 2019, at least 50% of the products sold by returnable packaging and supply based on actual consumption. each of the three BIC® product categories offered at least one Three BIC® products are carried by LOOP, all three listed as environmental benefit. approved school supplies: the BIC® Gel-ocity® Illusion™ erasable gel pen and its cartridges, the BIC® Criterium™ refillable mechanical BIC has defined the environmental benefits for its products by pencil and its six-lead refill case, and a box of 10 woodless colored complying with at least one of the following: pencils, for which consumers can reorder single pencils of a specific • lightweight and long-lasting (writing instruments ≤ 3 g/km; color. correction products ≤ 1.8 g/m; lighters ≤ 8 g/1,000 flames; shavers ≤ 1 g/shave); Integration of alternative materials • made from alternative materials (recycled, vegetable origin, etc.); The Velleda whiteboard, containing 50% pencil production residue, was launched in France at the start of the school year last fall. • refillable; 194 alternative materials tested including: 66 recycled plastics; 47 • eco-labeled (NFbEnvironnement, etc.). hybrid materials; 81 materials from renewable resources. This indicator is calculated on the number of units and concerns the Stationery: 6% of the plastics used in the stationery manufacturing products of the three main categories (except PIMACO and Cello are recycled plastics. Pens activities). (1) Based on 2018 sales volumes. 80 • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Responsibility concerning ourbproductsb[NFPS] Development of refillable and hybrid products BIC’s partnership with TerraCycle for the collection of used Shavers writing instruments: since 2011, the BIC-TerraCycle program has been offering the collection and recycling of used writing • Two launches in North America: the BIC® Flex 2 Hybrid in a instruments in Europe. A pioneer in this field, the program allows pack containing one handle and ten heads, and the BIC® Soleil users of these products to organize at their consumption sites the Click 5, a five-blade women’s shaver sold as a handle and three collection of all types of writing instruments, whether BIC® branded heads; or not, to be recycled. For each instrument collected, one euro cent • One launch in the United States: in partnership with a major is donated to a charity or non-profit association of the organizer’s e-tailer, the “Made For You” brand of refillable five-blade choice or, in the case of schools, directly to the school to finance an shavers, sold online only; educational project. As of the end of 2019, more than 46 million • One launch in Europe (Italy): the BIC® Soleil Click, a pens had been collected and 615,000 euros in donations made. This three-blade women’s shaver sold as a lightweight hollow program, funded entirely by BIC, enables the Group to gain a better handle and six heads; understanding of the mechanisms of selective collection and to promote the habit of waste sorting at the site of consumption. • Two launches in Latin America: the BIC® Soleil Click, a three-blade women’s shaver sold as a lightweight hollow A partnership with Govaplast and Plas Eco for the design, handle and six heads, and the BIC® Flex 3 Hybrid, sold as a manufacture and distribution of “Ubicuity™, the ‘write’ kind of handle and five heads; bench™” furniture. Used pens are collected, sorted and shredded by • Two launches in the Middle East-Africa zone: the BIC® Flex 3 a recycler. The plastic materials are shipped to Govaplast, which Hybrid, a three-blade shaver sold with four heads, and the converts them into recycled plastic boards. The boards are in turn BIC® Flex 5 Hybrid, a five-blade shaver sold with four heads. used by Plas Eco, which designs, manufactures, distributes and markets the products in the Ubicuity™ line. This range comprises seven models. Made entirely from recycled plastic, these products 3.2.1.5 Perspectives: BIC’s eco-design approach are themselves recyclable, resistant to rot, ultraviolet radiation and Building on the momentum of recent years, BIC plans to expand the graffiti as well as very durable (guaranteed 10 years). Long-lasting distribution of its men’s and women’s hybrid shavers in 2020, with: and easy to maintain – qualities in keeping with the Values of BIC® products – they have a smaller environmental footprint than ● the launch of the new BIC® Soleil Click Sensitive and the outdoor furniture made from farmed wood. deployment of the BIC® Flex 2 Hybrid in Europe; BIC wishes to develop this pioneering recycling sector with its ● expansion of the distribution of the BIC® Flex 3 Hybrid and partners by seeking to finance the extension of the collection BIC® Flex 5 Hybrid systems in Eastern Europe, the Middle East program for used pens and long-term solutions for financing and Africa; collection. This innovative sector provides solutions that meet ● expansion of the distribution of the BIC® Flex 3 Hybrid and citizens’ expectations by showing them the outcome and the BIC® Soleil 3 Click systems in Latin America. practical usefulness of their sorting gesture: by collecting used pens, they participate in their transformation into outdoor furniture to 3.2.1.6 Opportunities: BIC’s innovative equip local authorities and schoolyards. Through this experiment, contribution to the circular economy BIC and its partners are accelerating the process of recycling post-consumer waste and are working to remove the technological ❯ Challenges obstacles to plastic recycling. Understanding the end of life of products by exploring the recyclability or otherwise and by experimenting with new recycling ❯ Progress made in 2019 and results channels is one of the major challenges of the 21st century. It means In 2019, building on the positive response to the TerraCycle bringing about a real circular economy, decoupling economic program, BIC launched an action plan to expand the network of growth and waste production. collection points to include public spaces, thus covering the territory more completely and effectively. An interactive map of the ❯ Approach collection points has been created in order to make each collection point as user-friendly as possible. BIC has always been committed to the preservation of resources, offering high-quality products with a long service life. Putting this In February 2019, the Ubicuity™ product range won the Students’ commitment into action through its eco-design approach, the Group Special Mention award in the fourth edition of the ESSEC business is constantly renewing its goal of always using a minimum of school’s Grand Prix for Responsible Consumer Goods. materials and experimenting with alternatives, in particular recycled In August 2019, the BIC TerraCycle program for the collection and materials. recycling of writing instruments expanded to Australia and New Since 2011, BIC has been exploring the development of channels Zealand, with the goal of collecting writing products at consumption for the recycling of its products, thus becoming active in the field of sites, primarily schools and businesses. waste management, a completely new activity for the Group in At the end of 2019, Ubicuity™ posted good sales results in France relation to its core business. Taking part in a collaborative effort (more than 450 pieces of outdoor furniture in two years), reflecting with different stakeholders, BIC is the initiator of an independent steady growth for the past two years. Following up on the success of recycling industry, which offers a circular economy model unique in Ubicuity™, Plas Eco and BIC developed a new line of products for France. This circular economy sector relies on two major kindergartens in 2019, to be launched in 2020. Educational, fun and partnerships: constructive, these products provide the basic function of seating while developing the children’s imagination (pirate ship). • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 81 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Responsibility concerning ourbproductsb[NFPS] ❯ Perspectives The positive reaction of BtoB customers to the concept of sorting Australia and New Zealand in 2019. The priority today is to and to the “Ubicuity™, the ‘write’ kind of bench™” product range has overcome the economic obstacles to the collection of now been confirmed. BIC hopes that this product line and the post-consumer waste and the technological obstacles encountered circular economy channel that spawned it will grow rapidly in the in its recycling. years to come, as exemplified by the program’s extension to 3.2.2 PRODUCT SAFETYb[NFPS] 3.2.2.1 Challenges, risks and opportunities The Product Safety Policy, introduced in 2001, specifies the related to product safety and consumer 10 commitments adopted to ensure that the products developed and manufactured by BIC are safe for human health and the health and safetyb[NFPS] environment. They include: BIC seeks to offer safe products that meet consumer expectations ● a systematic program of pre-market product qualification and comply with all pertinent safety requirements and standards. testing; This entails the integration of consumer health and safety concerns ● a global approach, resulting in products that often exceed the in the design and production of its products. Consumers want to be safety requirements of local markets; assured that the products they buy are free of certain substances and safe for their health and the environment. The Group also ● expecting BIC suppliers to comply with safety standards; strives to strictly comply with all regulations and the increasingly ● incorporating safety considerations from the earliest stages of stringent, constantly evolving restrictions concerning product usage product design, including toxicological evaluations and tests to and chemical substances. assess potential physical and chemical hazards; [NFPS riskb3] Product safety and consumer health-safety risks are ● the anticipation of product safety requirements through active one of the major CSR risks identified by BIC, i.e. the risk of placing regulatory monitoring at national and international levels, in non-compliant or unsafe products on the market. close cooperation with industry associations that share their members’ expertise with the appropriate authorities; The various actions taken to ensure the products’ safety and the protection of consumers’ health and safety constitute an ● the integration of innovations in product safety processes; opportunity for the Group to establish itself as a reference brand in ● building awareness among all stakeholders about safety and terms of the quality and safety of its products, meeting or the appropriate use of BIC® products; surpassing the regulatory requirements on each market. ● carefully reviewing all incidents involving the safety of BIC® products; 3.2.2.2 BIC Group policies for product ● appropriate measures for product recall in the case of an safetyb[NFPS] incident; The topics of product safety and the protection of consumer health ● the implementation of this Policy by a Product Safety are of strategic importance for the Group. With the primary goal of Department. offering products that comply with all pertinent safety requirements and standards, BIC integrates regulatory compliance [NFPS – the well-being of animals] In its position on animal testing, and risk management concerning product safety into its strategy BIC specifies that it strives systematically not to resort to animal through a body of documents defining its commitment, and through testing as a first solution. However, such tests can be necessary if: strict processes conceived to ensure that it markets only safe products compliant with safety requirements and standards. As a ● the alternatives cannot provide sufficient guarantees that a result, each day, BIC supplies millions of products while maintaining new product is harmless for the consumer; consistent quality, checked through a vast array of tests and in ● the alternatives to animal testing are not recognized by compliance with national and international safety requirements. regulations. More specifically, BIC is also developing seven commitments to ensure the quality and safety of lighters (see the box on the following page). 82 • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Responsibility concerning ourbproductsb[NFPS] BIC’S SEVEN COMMITMENTS TO ENSURE THE QUALITY AND SAFETY OF ITS LIGHTERS 1. All BIC® lighter plants are ISO 9001 certified production plants. BIC® lighter products meet or exceed the ISO 9994 international safety standard requirements. 2. BIC is an active member of various organizations (such as the European Federation of Lighter Manufacturers, working groups and technical committees for ISO and CEN and numerous other national standardization bodies) to provide the latest and most reliable quality and safety information to its customers. 3. Each BIC® lighter undergoes more than 50 separate automatic quality checks. Additionally, BIC conducts regular post-market product tests of its lighters. 4. BIC continuously develops and improves exclusive technology to ensure the quality and safety of all BIC® lighters, including factors like flame height and stability, extinction time, and a reservoir that can resist extreme drop tests and exposure to elevated temperatures. 5. BIC has an integrated production process, designs and develops much of its own machinery and uses all the latest manufacturing technologies, from basic materials right down to the packaged lighter. 6. BIC employees are all guided by three principles: Method-Precision-Discipline. Each employee in the lighter plants spends nearly 25% of his or her time checking product conformity and proper operation of the control equipment. 7. BIC has been committed to sustainable, long-term safety programs for over 30 years. 3.2.2.3 Actions takenb[NFPS] substances to be restricted or replaced in BIC® products by 2025. The evaluation involved 249 product ranges, 443 formulas and 45 Regulatory monitoring and compliance specific tests. BIC has a comprehensive monitoring system based on formalized BIC, as a member or Executive Committee member of numerous regulatory watch procedures in addition to internal and external sectoral organizations and industry associations (1), actively resources – in particular, the product safety teams’ specific participates in regulatory watch and interactions with local knowledge of BIC® products, their components and the materials regulatory authorities, an important activity for staying abreast of used. In 2018, a BIC Watch List was created to extend the Group’s new requirements. monitoring system to include non-official lists defined by NGOs, In order to keep pace with future regulatory challenges, in 2019 the future regulations and controversial substances that are not already Product Safety teams participated in various events in Europe and banned. The Group always strives to anticipate the substitution of around the world on themes concerning the safety of cosmetics, regulated substances. By its very nature open-ended, this Watch chemicals and consumer goods, in particular: Congrès Parfums et List will be expanded to include requirements and controversies Cosmétiques, Chemsec, REACH Conference DII, The International reported from outside of Europe. In 2019, the BIC Watch List was Consumer Product Health and Safety Organization. made more operational for the work teams and more precise, targeting risks related to BIC® products and the Group’s customers. To comply with the CLP regulation, BIC began preparing for the EU During the large-scale product evaluation campaign conducted in toxicovigilance statements and the adoption of the UFI (Unique 2019 as part of commitment #1 of “Writing the Future, Together,” Formula Identifier) number on the packaging of its products the BIC Watch List was used to establish an overview of the current covered by the regulation. situation, identifying directions for improvement concerning COMPLIANCE WITH THE REACH REGULATION The European REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals) regulation establishes the regulatory framework for chemical substances and places responsibility on manufacturers to demonstrate the safety of the chemicals they use. To address these requirements, BIC created a dedicated organization to allow the integration of the REACH topics. At Group level, an expert was appointed who, with the support of specialized firms, monitors the regulation, evaluates the impacts for the Group and creates the administrative files. This person is the contact person for all entities on this topic. Since 2008, in response to REACH, BIC has preregistered 168 substances for six of its legal entities. In compliance with the law, registration has been completed for all substances that needed to be registered. After the deadline of 2018 for products representing 1 to 100 tons per year, the authorities are now evaluating the compliance of the registration files received. BIC remains on the lookout for potential impacts on the files submitted. (1) In particular, BIC is a member of EWIMA (European Writing Instrument Manufacturers Association), WIMA (Writing Instrument Manufacturers Association), ACMI (Art & Creative Materials Institute), TIE (Toy Industries of Europe), EFLM (European Federation of Lighter Manufacturers), and the Fédération des Entreprises de la Beauté in France. • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 83 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Responsibility concerning ourbproductsb[NFPS] Marketing compliant products that are safe for human In 2010, emphasizing the consequences for consumer safety, BIC health and the environment filed a complaint against the Netherlands with the European Commission for non-enforcement of EU safety standards for To guarantee consumer safety, the Group Insights & Innovation lighters. As a result, the Commission opened an infringement Officer, the Group Supply Chain Officer and the Group Lighter procedure against the Netherlands. In March 2012 and then in General Manager are responsible for marketing safe products that July 2014, the country was served formal notice to explain its comply with regulations. To this end, they rely on: failure. The procedure remains pending. ● BIC Group’s commitment to ensure that its products comply In April 2019, the Association des Brûlés de France (French burn with regulations and are safe for health and the environment victims’ association) participated in a hearing with the European (see above); Parliament after petitioning the European Commission regarding ● monitoring by dedicated regulatory watch teams (see above); the lack of progress in the regulatory compliance of lighters in ● a product safety qualification process for all products before Europe. In July, BIC lodged a complaint with the European they are launched in the market (see below). Ombudsman concerning the European Commission’s misadministration of the infringement proceedings initiated in 2010 This solid, longstanding organization is constantly being adapted against the Netherlands. The Ombudsman deemed the complaint and expanded to take changing regulations into account. The admissible and has begun an investigation to determine whether Executive Committee and management teams are systematically the Commission has taken an undue amount of time to address the kept abreast of new developments in product safety and case. regulations. In 2019, in parallel with the launch of the Bodymark™ by BIC® temporary tattoo marker, the Group developed a process for the 3.2.2.4 Results of the product safety qualification of cosmetic products. approachb[NFPS] The Product Safety teams have also developed a process for Writing the Future, Together – #1bFostering sustainable approving the use of recycled plastic raw materials in the innovation in BIC® products production of BIC® products. These materials are recuperated from Assessment according to the Sustainable Scorecard: a very wide range of consumer products, making it impossible to provide traceability for the substances they contain. This new • 249 product ranges; process allows the Group to qualify each batch of recycled material • 443 formulas; before it is used in BIC® products, helping ensure consumer safety. • 45 specific tests. Systematic testing and evaluation programs Systematic testing Before they arrive on the market, all BIC® products, including 306 products have been tested by independent laboratories. modified products, must pass a full program of safety qualification tests. These tests and evaluations make it possible to assess potential hazards and to identify the chemical substances present, 3.2.2.5 Perspectives: The product safety evaluate their risk level, verify their compliance with standards, and approach identify any adaptations of the formulas or substitutions that might In the coming years, the Group will continue to adapt its working be needed to reduce risks. methods and means to maintain its own standards and level of BIC faces competition from several low-cost lighters that too often compliance concerning product safety. BIC will continue to expand do not comply with international safety standards. According to its regulatory watch activities to remain ready to adapt its tests conducted by independent accredited laboratories, more than processes, products and formulas as needed. three-quarters of the lighter models in the European market fail to In 2020, as part of the Group’s transformation plan, training will be meet standards. The Group has initiated actions to raise awareness offered on regulatory obligations and product safety. Training will among the various parties involved. continue on an international scale, at the industrial sites in South Africa and Tunisia (Bizerte) and in China at the sales office in Shanghai. 84 • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Responsibility concerning ourbproductsb[NFPS] 3.2.3 PRODUCTS DESIGNED TO MEET show how they are helping to reduce the global environmental and societal impact of their operations, and impose increasingly strict AND ANTICIPATE CONSUMERS’ requirements on the packaging of the products that they carry. EXPECTATIONSb[NFPS] [NFPS risk 8] Among its main CSR risks, BIC has identified risks related to reputation and brand. In the context of increasing 3.2.3.1 Challenges, risks and opportunities environmental awareness, the brand image could be associated with related to consumers’ expectationsb[NFPS] disposable single-use products, leading to customer disaffection for BIC® products. In addition, BIC seeks to improve its communication BIC is a maker of mass-market consumer goods. Since its founding, operations, in particular concerning its products’ environmental and the Group has believed that its products should satisfy and social performance, to ensure that they allow the Group to retain anticipate the expectations of all of its consumers, in both the confidence of its stakeholders. developed countries and developing countries. Meeting consumer expectations is also a source of opportunities for BIC distinguishes its “customers” (i.e. companies, public BIC, such as: administrations and office supply distributors, as well as major mass-market retailers) from its “consumers”, the end users of its ● positioning BIC as a responsible brand that delivers quality and products. Customers are becoming increasingly demanding in terms safety through its long-term commitment and ambitious of the environmental and social performance of the products they programs; buy, as well as the evaluation of their suppliers’ Sustainable ● highlighting its products’ environmental and social benefits, Development Policies. They submit many questionnaires addressing standing out on the brand’s markets and overcoming the increasingly specific and diversified topics. Retailers and disposable/sustainable contradiction; wholesalers also want their collaborators in the distribution chain to ● innovating in order to make BIC® products affordable to all. OVERCOMING THE DISPOSABLE/SUSTAINABLE CONTRADICTION BIC® products are very often stigmatized as “disposable”. Although not all of them are refillable, neither are they used just once. On the contrary, most of them offer long-lasting performance: more than 2-km of writing for a ball pen, up to 3,000 flames produced for a lighter and 17 shaves for a triple-blade shaver. In addition, most of them are designed with no superfluous parts or features, using a minimum of raw materials, and BIC makes an ongoing effort to reduce their environmental impact in daily use. Each of the various products on the market, whether refillable or not, meets a specific consumer need. 3.2.3.2 Policies and actions taken to meet ● in addition to responding to its customers’ specific customer and consumer questionnaires on its CSR approach, BIC discusses all pertinent topics with them, including sustainable development expectationsb[NFPS] issues, as part of its commercial relations. In certain cases Since its founding, BIC has strive to develop and offer simple, these relations can take the form of partnerships. All the affordable products, leaving out anything superfluous, that meet professional functions involved (marketing, communication, consumers’ expectations, especially in terms of environmental and sales) are equipped with the tools they need to explain BIC’s social performance. To that end, the Group develops various Sustainable Development Program; programs and policies: ● BIC strives to make its products affordable to all. ● Writing the Future, Together #1: Fostering sustainable innovation in BIC® products (see page 80); Encouraging consumers to adopt more responsible ● the product eco-design approach (see page 78); consumption habits ● communication on the products’ environmental benefits in All the products that use recycled materials display the Moebius order to encourage more responsible consumption (see strip symbol as well as information to help consumers make their below); purchasing decisions. Some BIC® products are NF Environnement ● defined in 2013, the Responsible Communication Charter certified, while others supply information on their environmental and social qualities (eco-values) to help consumers choose products formalizes BIC Group’s integration of the Value of that meet their expectations. The most appropriate approach is Responsibility in its communication. This Charter expresses chosen for each continent or category. For example, the BIC’s intention to share reliable information and release clear, communication in Europe emphasizes the NF Environnement accurate messages; it applies to all communication undertaken ecolabel certification of a given product, where it was by the Group around the world towards all of its stakeholders; manufactured, the amount of recycled materials in it or its writing ● BIC participates in Walmart’s Sustainability Index (for shavers length. In the Lighter category, the packaging for the BIC® Maxi, the and writing instruments), which assesses suppliers’ world’s bestselling lighter, mentions the number of flames (“Up to sustainability performance according to indicators established 3,000 lights” or “Up to 2x more lights”) and the website by the Sustainability Consortium. BIC also carries out specific www.mybiclighter.com includes a section on performance. reporting for Walmart every year through the CDP Supply Chain; • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 85 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Responsibility concerning ourbproductsb[NFPS] In 2019, BIC in North America became a member of How2Recycle, an organization that promotes the use of clear, concise and 65 % consistent recycling labels. A program to introduce “H2R” labels on Made in France BIC’s product packaging for the North American market will begin in 2020. BIC® WRITING PRODUCTS EARN THE NFbENVIRONNEMENT ÉCOLABEL For equal performance in use, the NF Environnement ecolabel granted in France by AFNOR Certification certifies products that have a reduced impact on the environment. To obtain this ecolabel, a product must comply with certain functional and ecological guidelines conceived to reduce its environmental impact throughout its life cycle. In the case of BIC® writing products, the main criteria for receiving the ecolabel are limited quantities of raw materials or the use of recycled materials, a long performance life and the strength of the pencil leads. BIC was the first manufacturer of writing instruments to earn NF Environnement certification. Today, a full range of 19 BIC® products has been granted this ecolabel, including historical products like the BIC® Cristal® and the BIC® 4-Color™ ballpoint pen, as well as the pens in the BIC® Ecolutions® line. In France, BIC is a member of the ADEME-Quantis platform and 3.2.4 OPTIMIZED PACKAGING participates in the joint effort now underway on environmental labeling of products. To this end, in 2012 the Group launched a test score posting in the form of a dedicated website (1) that shows the ❯ Challenges ecological footprint of the BIC® Flex 3 and BIC® Flexi Lady shavers Packaging is needed at several stages in the life cycle of BIC® and proposes eco-habits that allow consumers to help reduce the products: for their protection, shipping, storage and sale, and for footprint. promotional support. BIC’s packaging consists primarily of boxes Since 2015, in compliance with French law, BIC has been offering and cases made of plastic, paper and cardboard. This packaging has consumers sorting instructions for its packaging. This information is an environmental impact during its manufacturing and shipping, and posted in a dedicated section of the Group’s website. at its end of life. 3.2.3.3 Results and perspectivesb[NFPS] ❯ Approach and progress made in 2019 Historically, BIC promotes selling products without consumer ● 100% of the environmental claims that appear on the packaging or in value packs. In Europe, 69% of writing products are packaging, in the catalogs and on the websites for BIC® packaged in boxes, trays or pouches of at least 10 products (79% in products are approved by the Legal Department. North America), 79% of lighters are sold in trays of at least 50 (71% ● 19 BIC® writing instruments received the French ecolabel in North America) and 67% of shavers are marketed in pouches of NFbEnvironnement (NF 400). five, 10 or more (49% in North America). Responsible products are a permanent and ever-growing feature of BIC’s product range. In the coming years the Group will continue BIC Group Packaging Community integrating these products into its corporate strategy, in particular The “Packaging Community” was formed to promote a packaging through commitment #1 of Writing the Future, Together: fostering approach that takes sustainable development into account and sustainable innovation in BIC® products, while giving them greater demonstrates its utility for the Group, by pursuing shared goals and visibility by pursuing the efforts undertaken to improve the by defining a strategy for the Group in response to major trends. To communication of its range of responsible products. that end, it unites a network of packaging experts from around the world. In 2019, the Packaging Community focused its efforts on the following: completing the transition of the last 1% of PVC still used in Europe and the United States; joining the How2Recycle organization for the Group’s operations in the United States; introducing sorting logos on BIC packaging; increasing the share of recycled materials in the Group’s primary packaging; and monitoring the key indicators for packaging optimization. (1) www.bicworld.com/fr/affichage-environnemental. 86 • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Responsibility concerning ourbproductsb[NFPS] Three priorities for reducing the impact of our packaging In Brazil: Priority #1: Selecting responsible packaging materials ● lighters became the first category to achieve 100% PVC-free With the aim of reducing its environmental footprint resulting from packaging; the production of packaging, the Group has set two goals, one on ● a project was launched to replace the plastic packaging of the cardboard packaging and one on plastic packaging: BIC® 4-Color™ Fine and BIC® 4-Color™ Metallic with ● maintaining the level of 90% of BIC’s cardboard packaging cardboard while increasing the number of pens per box. The coming from certified and/or recycled sources; production of this new packaging will begin in 2020, for an estimated savings of about 1.2 tons of plastic. ● targeting the level of 90% of BIC’s plastic packaging being PVC-free. Priority #2: Reducing the quantity of packaging per product sold Certified and/or recycled sourcing for cardboard packaging BIC Group actively seeks to reduce the weight and volume of its In order to increase the use of certified or recycled cellulose fiber in packaging through multiple targeted actions around the world in its packaging, BIC works closely with its packaging suppliers to help accordance with local distribution models. them obtain certification and improve their supply processes. In Europe, 14 tons of cardboard were saved by the introduction of Certifications can be: FSC (Forest Stewardship Council), SFI large cardboard sheets that can be reused as many as ten times, (Sustainable Forestry Initiative) or PEFC (Pan European Forest replacing small, single-use sheets. Certification). As of January 2014, the Group has reached its previously defined Priority #3: Reducing packaging waste goal of having 90% of its packaging come from certified sources and/or containing more than 50% recycled fibers. At the end of The Group is taking action to increase the recycling rate of 2019, the Group’s rate was 95.7% overall. This result reflects the packaging production waste in the packaging center facilities. The efforts made on several continents and in the concerned factories Charlotte site in the U.S. has already reached the program’s goal of to select suppliers that are engaged in a long-term responsible 100% waste recycling. The site is now focusing on the reduction of approach. waste due to packaging obsolescence. In 2019, BIC in North America launched a program to transition the The “Packaging Community” also seeks to reduce the amount of materials used in its primary packaging toward more recycled waste generated by the destruction of stocks of obsolete packaging. materials. In Australia, since 2013, BIC has been a member of the Australian PVC-free plastic packaging Packaging Covenant (APC), a governmental initiative to promote the development of more sustainable packaging systems, increase The elimination of PVC in BIC Group packaging was completed recycling and reduce packaging waste – three priorities shared by several years ago for the factories in Europe and in the U.S., where BIC Group. BIC Australia has defined several goals in this area. 99% of the packaging is now PVC-free. The elimination of PVC packaging is also well advanced in Mexico. All products packaged locally in South Africa now use PVC-free packaging. ❯ Performance (1) 94.3% 94.2% 95.7% Depending on the type of packaging, the transition from PVC to 92.1% 88.5% 87.9% PET can entail a few simple adjustments of the machine settings or, in other cases, a complete reworking of the packaging system. For this reason, the “Packaging Community” works with the factories and R&D, getting the marketing teams involved as far upstream as possible. This transition, initiated by BIC many years ago, allows the Group to meet the demands of certain distributors. For example, one major distributor in the U.K. will no longer stock products whose packaging contains PVC. BIC takes advantage of every opportunity to replace plastic packaging by cardboard in its products. A few examples of progress made in 2019 exemplify the Group’s learning curve in this area: In Europe: 2017 2018 2019 ● the BIC® 4-Color™ gift packs sold as a limited edition on BIC.com and e-tail sites are made of 100% FSC certified 3HUFHQWDJHRIFDUGERDUGSDFNDJLQJIURPFHUWLĆHG cardboard; and/or recycled sources(1) Percentage of plastic packaging that is PVC-free(1) ● the new display unit for the BIC® Intensity Medium felt-tip pen is 100% cardboard; ● the new permanent display unit for lighters is made of 100% These indicators cover all packaged BIC® products delivered to the FSC certified wood. Group’s customers all over the world (except pallets): consumer packaging (pouch, blister, cardboard box), outer/inner, shrink-wrap, displays, etc. It is calculated on material weight. ❯ Perspectives BIC intends to pursue its programs to promote the use of packaging materials with reduced environmental footprints (paper or recycled PET for blister packs), reduce the packaging for its products and reduce packaging waste in its factories. (1) Cello Pens excluded • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 87 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Environmental responsibility concerning our operationsb[NFPS] 3.3. ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY CONCERNING OUR OPERATIONSb[NFPS] As an industrial leader in the manufacture of consumer products, BIC is committed to ensuring that its sites, including both factories and offices, operate in an environmentally responsible way. BIC Group strives to reduce the impact of its manufacturing operations and optimize the shipping of its products. BIC exerts good environmental control over its entire manufacturing chain, in particular due to two factors. First, it favors in-house production over contract manufacturing: 92% of the Group’s net sales are generated by products manufactured in its own factories. Secondly, 81% of its products sold in Europe are also manufactured there. 3.3.1 PARTICIPATING IN THE FIGHT AGAINST CLIMATE CHANGEb[NFPS] 3.3.1.1 Challenges, risks and opportunitiesb[NFPS] ● the disruption or interruption of production activities due to extreme weather conditions or availability of natural resources [NFPS risk 2] Among its main CSR risks, BIC has identified the (water, energy, etc.) directly impacting the Group’s factories or following risks related to climate change: those of its suppliers and contract manufacturers; ● increasing regulation on carbon or energy directly impacting ● the development of new regulations and standards regarding the Group’s operations or those of its suppliers and contract product environmental impact assessment and communication manufacturers; (including carbon impact) as well as consumer behavior changes impacting the Group’s sales. EVALUATING THE PHYSICAL RISKS FOR BIC REGARDING CLIMATE CHANGE In 2018, using an analysis model based on risk statistics and the geographic locations of the sites, the physical risks linked to climate change (risks resulting from high temperatures, flooding, storms and typhoons, hydric stress and rising sea levels) were evaluated for each BIC site and for certain subcontractors and major suppliers. For the sites most at risk, the Group plans to define an appropriate action plan, incorporating any measures already implemented to counter the risk. The challenge related to global warming is also a source of BIC codifies this ambition in the following commitment: by 2025, opportunities for BIC, such as: BIC will use 80% renewable electricity. ● innovating in terms of energy supply, in particular through Building on the experience acquired in recent years at certain of its “Writing the Future Together” commitment #2: Acting against sites, BIC defined a roadmap for its goal of 80% renewable energy climate change, and by streamlining energy costs; by 2025, as part of a long-term vision of achieving 100% renewable ● improving the products’ environmental performance, in electricity. This roadmap reflects a strategy in which each country particular through “Writing the Future Together” or site examines its opportunities for sourcing renewable electricity, commitment #1: Fostering sustainable innovation in BIC® taking their regulatory and operational constraints into account. It products; serves as a guide for the countries and sites, which must also keep pace with the frequent market and regulatory evolutions that affect ● standing out on the markets by offering products with a this business sector. To bring about a far-reaching change in its reduced carbon footprint. purchasing process for electricity, BIC is putting the focus on renewable energy certificates (1), green contracts and long-term 3.3.1.2 Policies: Writing the Future, Together – Power Purchase Agreements, and is investigating the production #2bActing against climate changeb[NFPS] potential of certain sites. Fighting climate change has always been an integral part of BIC’s In addition to the use of renewable electricity, BIC is pursuing its Sustainable Development Program. In 2019, BIC renewed its investments and actions to improve its sites’ energy efficiency and signing of the French Business Pledge, joining 98 other French strives to limit its GHG emissions from other significant sources companies in a pledge to fight climate change. (scope 3), in particular by optimizing its transportation activities (see sectionb3.3.1.6 Our transportation activities). (1) Renewable electricity is defined as electricity generated by biomass sources (including biogas), geothermal, solar, water (including hydroelectrical) or wind power. 88 • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Environmental responsibility concerning our operationsb[NFPS] 3.3.1.3 Actions taken to reduce our operations’ Energy efficiency programs at Group sites also included the contribution to climate change (scopes 1 installation of more efficient production machinery, the optimization of lighting towards more efficient solutions and the and 2)b[NFPS] awareness-raising among team members. For the past several years Using renewable energy the Group has been pursuing a program to replace its hydraulic injection machines with more energy-efficient electrical machines. ● 80% of the electricity that BIC uses will be from renewable sources by 2025, as a step toward its long-term vision of Since the main BIC offices are equipped with servers, the achieving 100% renewable electricity. This commitment is a sustainable development approach adopted by the IT support key part of the Group’s strategy as part of its “Writing the departments has a direct impact on the sites’ environmental Future, Together” program. footprint. After several years of effort on this issue: ● As of 2019, BIC’s percentage of renewable electricity stood at ● the virtualization of the Group’s internal and external servers 76%, a significant proportion that reflects the Group’s has now reached the optimal level of about 80%. In 2019, the commitment to fighting climate change. number of physical servers at the Clichy site was further reduced by 25%; ● BIC estimates that its use of renewable energy will allow it to reduce its GHG emissions by nearly 50% by 2025 in ● the specifications for the renewal of the workstations comparison with 2015. This will enable BIC to promote the incorporate two sustainable development guidelines: the development of renewable energy sources in the countries quality of the suppliers’ sustainable development approach and where it has operations, and to reduce its indirect, so-called the energy efficiency of the equipment. The difference in “market-based” (scope 2) emissions. energy consumption between the old and new workstations is estimated at approximately 20%; In 2019: ● since 2019, the Group has been reconditioning and reselling ● with the adoption of a renewable electricity supply by the BIC its replaced equipment. Obsolete equipment that cannot be (Nantong) Plastic Products factory in China, 100% of the reconditioned is destroyed, according to accepted practice, by Group’s lighters factories are now powered by “green” energy; an expert service provider, which ensures the proper ● in the United States, the purchase of renewable wind energy processing of each material; certificates (U.S. RECs), which has covered the energy needs of ● since 2013, in the Europe and Middle East-Africa zones, 100% the Shelton head office and the Milford factory since 2012, of the team members who use a computer (some 6,800 in all) was expanded to 6 sites, bringing the coverage to 100% for have been equipped with Skype for business, a set of solutions BIC’s American factories. for remote collaboration. In 2019, BIC logged nearly 3,000 In addition, BIC has continued using renewable energy sources routine meetings via Skype. adopted in recent years: ● in Brazil, the Manaus site has been using wind energy since 3.3.1.4 Measuring the effect on climate change 2018 through the purchase of iREC certificates. This factory of other significant sources of GHG produces about 1 billion products per year for the South emissions American market, covering all three BIC® product categories; ● in Spain, the BIC Iberia and BIC Graphic Europe sites have BIC has been responding to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) been using renewable electricity through the purchase of for more than ten years. In line with the good performance of certificates (GoO) since 2018; previous years, in 2019, BIC received an Arating in the Climate questionnaire and was awarded “Leadership Level”, which ● in France, BIC buys renewable electricity certificates recognizes companies that are leaders in the effort to fight climate (Guarantees of Origin, or GoO) for all of its factories plus the change. BIC also received an Arating in the “Supplier Engagement Clichy headquarters. This means that the BIC® products Rating” for its supply chain actions. manufactured in France are produced using renewable electricity; The 2016 study of the main causes of greenhouse gas emissions related to the Group’s operations and consumption of goods and ● in Greece, the purchase of GoO certificates has covered all of services (covering factories and offices, excluding Cello Pens) was the BIC Violex site’s electrical consumption since 2016; based on a carbon footprint study of the Clichy headquarters ● in India, the roof of one of BIC’s eight factories is equipped (France) and two factories (BIC Amazonia in Brazil and BIC Rasoirs with photovoltaic solar panels (15 kW). in France) using the ADEME Bilan Carbone® method. The study demonstrated that in addition to direct emissions (scope 1) and Optimizing energy consumption indirect emissions (scope 2), the main sources of other indirect (scope 3) emissions are: the purchase of products and services, +3.8% energy consumption per ton of production between 2019 upstream and downstream transport, and product end of life. Direct and 2018. (scope 1) and indirect (scope 2) emissions plus these three main This increase is sometimes due to machine maintenance or other causes of scope 3 emissions account for more than 80% of the requirements such as heating. Some factories also have molding Group’s total GHG emissions. Studies are being conducted to machines which consume energy. Some sites also use diesel during include a greater perimeter to calculate the scope 3 emissions. power cuts, or activity transfers. • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 89 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Environmental responsibility concerning our operationsb[NFPS] 3.3.1.5 Results of actions to reduce the ● a 0.58% drop in the total quantity of direct and indirect (scopes contribution to climate changeb[NFPS] 1 and 2) GHG emissions, in particular due to variations in national emission factors (scope 2), which fell for certain Between 2018 and 2019, within the perimeter of its industrial sites countries; and main offices, the Group’s performance regarding GHG ● a 22% drop in market-based emissions due to the Group’s emissions, both direct and indirect (scopes 1 and 2) as well as from increased use of renewable electricity; the purchase of materials and transport (scope 3), was as follows: ● a 10% increase in GHG emissions related to purchases of raw ● a 5.44% decrease in direct (scope 1) GHG emissions from the materials due to an increase in purchases of certain metals reduction of combustion of fossil fuels, mostly natural gas and and/or an update of the emission factors related to the fuel oil used primarily for heating buildings; production of certain raw materials; ● a 0.04% drop in indirect (scope 2) GHG emissions from the ● a 7.6% decrease in emissions related to intra-company production of electricity consumed by the Group’s industrial transport due to update of emission factors related to each sites; type of transport, but also to reduction of air freight distances ANNUAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION NORMALIZED TO BIC GROUP SHARE OF RENEWABLE ENERGY – AS % OF TOTAL CONSUMPTION – PRODUCTION – IN GIGAJOULES/TON BIC GROUP 12.59 11.98 12.14 80% 76% 68% 24% 23% 2017 2018 2019 2016 2017 2018 2019 2025 BREAKDOWN OF BIC GROUP ENERGY CONSUMPTION ANNUAL DIRECT AND INDIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (SCOPES 1 AND 2) LOCATION-BASED AND MARKET-BASED – INbTONS OF CO2 EQUIVALENT – BIC GROUP <1% <1% 1% 13% 15% 15% 102,681 98,283 97,711 68,524 58,646 86% 84% 85% 45,827 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Fuel oil Location-based Gas Market-based Electricity 90 • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Environmental responsibility concerning our operationsb[NFPS] ANNUAL DIRECT AND INDIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Raising awareness and measuring emissions (SCOPES 1 AND 2) NORMALIZED TO PRODUCTION – IN TONS OF CO2 EQUIVALENT/TON – BIC GROUP Like any function involving the supply chain, the optimization of 1,070 shipping is a responsibility shared by several teams within BIC, from 1,033 1,014 production to delivery, as well as sales and warehouse management. Since 2014, the “Transport Community” has been working closely with the categories (Stationery, Lighters, Shavers) and a steering working group tasked with identifying solutions to achieve significant and long-term reductions in air freight. In 2019, the Transport Community continued to consult with experts and work in cooperation with customers. Transport companies that are committed to sustainable development are also regularly consulted. The specific monitoring of air transport was introduced in 2014, with quarterly reports to the management teams in each zone. With this regular monitoring, the Transport Community is focused on this issue at the highest levels. A detailed analysis of these reports has allowed the Transport Community to identify worldwide flows and 2017 2018 2019 to define three key actions for their optimization. Cost and flow optimization and the promotion of initiatives to foster sustainable 3.3.1.6 Reducing the carbon footprint of our development are included in the criteria for choosing transport transportation activities service providers in new calls for tenders. ❯ Challenges Optimizing shipments and routes The objective of BIC’s shipping management system is to ensure the In shipping, the main leverage points for decreasing emissions are availability of its products to around 4 million points of sale all over the reduction of the distances traveled, the choice of transportation the world, thus maximizing customer satisfaction, while at the same mode and load optimization. BIC’s logistical teams work on all three time reducing the environmental impact of its transport activities points in cooperation with other departments within the Group, and optimizing costs. such as Production and Sales, and service providers. Following the BIC engages in two types of transport for its products: completion of a project to map all intra-Group flows, a study is being conducted to pool shipments on a Group-wide scale. Certain flows ● “Inter-site shipping” which refers to factory-factory and were optimized in 2019, and the Group’s new organization should factory-warehouse shipments (interand intra-continental); make it possible to expand this optimization considerably. ● “Distribution shipping” which refers to shipments from the factories or warehouses to the end customer. Selecting responsible carriers Due to the environmental and financial impact of air freight, the key challenge for the Group is to use this form of shipping as little as Logistical operations are carried out by transport companies chosen possible. Even though it accounts for only 0.66% of the total by BIC. Therefore, their equipment, methods and management tonnage shipped, air freight is the transport method that generates systems are determining factors in the level of GHG emissions, the most GHG: in 2019 it represented 51% of the Group’s total including the age of the vehicles, training in the techniques of emissions from transport. eco-driving, the use of speed governors, tire technology, emission measurement capacities, etc. ❯ Approach and progress made in 2019 In conjunction with the Group’s responsible purchasing policy, BIC selects carriers that can reduce the ecological footprint of its shipping BIC Group has factories all over the world, which tends to limit the operations. For example, in the U.S. and Canada, the Group only need for shipping its products. For example, 81% of the products works with carriers that have received SmartWay® certification, a sold in Europe are manufactured on that continent. program designed by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. In addition, BIC has chosen to outsource its transport operations To encourage its transport service providers to adopt responsible while maintaining a high level of internal expertise in the management practices, BIC has incorporated the reduction of GHG emissions in of service providers, flow engineering and transport management its criteria for selecting carriers. tools. A specific effort focused on each transport flow is the best way to provide high-quality, competitive shipping while reducing the Lastly, to foster its carriers’ commitment to corporate responsibility, environmental impact. BIC extended its Code of Conduct to logistics service providers. The amended Code was made available to all the Group’s transport Led by BIC’s Transport Community, which unites the Group’s teams worldwide, to be put into practice with their service shipping managers, the approach is comprised of three main tactics: providers. To support their carriers’ efforts, in 2015 the Brazilian ● raising awareness and controlling emissions; teams developed a methodology for auditing a transporter’s ● optimizing shipments and routes; commitment in relation to the requirements of the BIC Code of Conduct, with the goal of rewarding the most committed carriers. ● selecting responsible carriers. BIC pays close attention to the proportion of this type of transport, with the goal of continuing to keep it below 2.3% for intra-company transport. In 2019, the share of air freight, in tons/kilometer, was 0.75%. • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 91 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Environmental responsibility concerning our operationsb[NFPS] 3.3.2 REDUCING OUR FACTORIES AND OFFICES’ OTHER In 100% of the new Group's calls for transport ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTSb[NFPS] tenders, sustainable development is a criterion forbselection. 3.3.2.1 Challenges, risks and opportunities related to our operationsb[NFPS] To manufacture its products, BIC uses raw materials (plastics, inks, ❯ Performance paperboard, metals, etc.), consumes resources (water, energy) and BREAKDOWN OF TONNAGE SHIPPED BY MODE OF TRANSPORT – AS % produces waste. The Group is aware of the environmental impact of OF TOTAL its production activity and is committed to minimizing it. While the need for raw materials is determined mainly by the design of the 0.66% Air products (see sectionb3.2.1 Our products’ environmental performance), the factories that manufacture BIC® products assume the important responsibilities of optimizing their water and energy consumption, as well as reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and waste production. Road 43.08% [NFPS risk 7] Among its main CSR risks, BIC has identified risks related to its operations and the environment: the nature of the 56.26% Sea Group’s manufacturing operations, primarily the molding and assembly of plastic products and printing of products, has a local environmental impact that remains relatively low compared with other manufacturing sectors. Reducing its factories’ environmental footprint is also a source of BREAKDOWN OF GHG EMISSIONS BY MODE OF TRANSPORT – AS% OF opportunities for BIC, such as: TOTAL ● optimizing production costs by limiting the consumption of Road 23.61% resources (water, energy, etc.) and the production of factory waste; ● facilitating the factories’ integration in their local surroundings by reducing their environmental footprint, adopting exemplary 51.18% Air practices and initiating outreach actions to benefit the local communities. Sea 25.21% 3.3.2.2 Policies: management systems, certifications and external auditsb[NFPS] The Environment, Health & Safety (EH&S) Policy, defined in 2005 SHARE OF AIR FREIGHT AS % OF TOTAL (IN TONS/KILOMETER) and signed by the Chairman and CEO, codifies the Group’s commitment to minimizing the environmental and safety impacts 1.92% that result from our operations, from production to distribution, in order to better protect the environment. The Policy specifies BIC’s dedication to: ● pollution prevention; ● health and safety risk prevention; ● regulatory compliance; 0.93% ● continuous improvement; 0.75% ● awareness and involvement. Since 2010, the EH&S Policy is deployed at all BIC Group industrial sites. BIC maintains a formal procedure to review the BIC EH&S Policy to ensure that it remains pertinent and appropriate to the business. This procedure describes a periodic assessment and revision of the Policy to ensure that it is still appropriate for any changes in the Group’s activities and products, including 2017 2018 2019 acquisitions and changing stakeholder expectations. ❯ Perspectives In addition, since 2018, all BIC sites (factories, packaging or distribution centers, head offices and other offices and installations) Starting in 2020, the Group’s new organization will make it possible have been equipped with a system for documenting and managing to expand and pool the logistics teams’ actions and to carry out safety incidents, as part of the implementation of commitment #3 more Group-wide transversal actions to further reduce the Writing the Future, Together: Committing to a safe work environmental footprint of BIC’s transport operations. environment (see page 99). 92 • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Environmental responsibility concerning our operationsb[NFPS] At the industrial sites ● 2018: BIC Violex (Greece) was granted BREEAM (Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method) The Group’s Policy on Environment, Health & Safety (EH&S) certification for one of its buildings. requires factories to implement pragmatic management systems designed to involve all stakeholders, as well as to drive continuous ● 2018: BIC Shavers Mexico obtained ISO 14001 certification improvement of operational performance. Every BIC factory has a and nine other sites renewed their certification, giving BIC a local EH&S manager in charge of deploying these management total of 12 industrial sites that have met the criteria of this systems. In addition, the Stationery category, which has the most environmental standard. sites around the world, employs a central EH&S manager who guides and coordinates the network of EH&S managers in this In the offices category. He also ensures that all facilities comply with the Group’s For the sake of exemplarity, the BIC sustainable development Policy and objectives, and monitors site performance by approach covers all of its operations, including office activities, even consolidating, analyzing and communicating the results achieved. though they represent a non-significant part of the Group’s The environmental management system helps ensure compliance environmental impact. The environmental performances of the of the activity with applicable laws and regulations concerning Group’s three main offices (Clichy in France, Shelton in the U.S. and the environment. This may include daily or periodic controls, to Cajamar in Brazil), which have been monitored for the past five comply with local regulations, that are carried out internally or with years, are presented in consolidated form with the performances of the assistance of an independent external company. An action plan the Group’s industrial sites. is established to correct any identified compliance issues. Initiatives have been undertaken at these sites to reduce their Within the framework of the management systems, an in-depth environmental footprint. The Shelton (U.S.) offices were granted review of all aspects of the site’s activities and environmental LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) impacts (water, air, soil, noise, etc.) is performed and action plans certification in 2009 and are powered by electricity from renewable are defined to limit these environmental impacts. Simple sources. The Clichy site (France) also purchases electricity from improvement targets are set for the factories to contribute to the renewable sources. Group’s overall environmental performance while meeting their own specific challenges (production, resources, geographic In the supply chain location, etc.). Beyond the accounting of its own environmental impacts, BIC The environmental management systems deployed at the Group’s Group also considers the impacts of its supply chain. Since 2014, industrial sites call for contingency plans to deal with pollution the Workplace Conditions Assessment (WCA) platform for auditing accidents with off-site consequences. Emergency prevention and subcontractors’ working conditions (see page 109) has included a response plans have been established in locations where there is an comprehensive questionnaire on environmental performance, identified risk of an accident with consequences beyond plant accounting for 6% of the total number of questions posed. Of the boundaries. 35 suppliers who were active and audited in 2019, 10 suppliers had In particular, in France, the two SEVESO plants have emergency deficiencies relating to the environment. A total of 17 deficiencies procedure protocols (Plan d’Opération Interne and Plan Particulier were identified, 65% of which were minor and 35% moderate. d’Intervention), and a major hazard prevention policy (Politique de Prévention des Accidents Majeurs). They have also implemented a 3.3.2.3 Reducing water consumption Safety Management System. andbassessing the scarcity of the Outside France, some Group plants have equivalent emergency resource: resultsb[NFPS] plans that address risks with potential off-site consequences. For example, plants in the U.S. maintain an Emergency Response Plan BIC consumed 444,840 m3 of water worldwide in 2019. In addition that includes prevention and management of the off-site to the volumes consumed, it is essential to consider where this consequences of any accidents. consumption takes place. It can occur in so-called “water stress” In 2019, the implementation rate for BIC management systems at zones where water is a scarce resource. The uneven distribution of BIC industrial sites was 80% complete for the environment and water across the planet, and limited access to it, may give rise to 86% complete for health and safety. These rates for management severe political and social tensions. system implementation vary every year as plants join or leave the ● An 8.4% drop in water consumption per ton of production scope and others make progress, but rates remain consistently high. between 2019 and 2019. Over this same period, BIC’s total water consumption dropped by 14% while production dropped Certifications by 5.8%, in particular due to the implementation of programs BIC’s continued and steady progress in systems registrations to optimize the Group’s industrial processes and equipment. underscores the Group’s commitment to the highest standards of ● Eight sites show a moderate risk of water stress (in Europe, the environmental protection and health and safety. United States, India, Africa, Mexico and Brazil) according to a global risk assessment on water and its future availability ● 2019: BIC Iberia (Spain): the Stationery factory was granted conducted by BIC in 2018. The Group will continue striving to Imprim’Vert eco-certification. improve its water consumption ratios, taking the scarcity of this resource into account in order to prioritize its action plans for the reduction of water consumption. • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 93 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Environmental responsibility concerning our operationsb[NFPS] ANNUAL WATER CONSUMPTION NORMALIZED TO BIC FACTORIES Hazardous industrial waste PRODUCTION – BIC GROUP – IN M3/TON ● A 3.65% increase in the quantity of hazardous waste per ton of 5.46 5.32 production between 2018 and 2019, often resulting from the 4.87 disposal of large quantities of obsolete stock. Some factories are equipped with wastewater treatment plants to treat hazardous waste, such as that from the surface treatment workshops, transforming it into metal hydroxide sludge that can be processed to eliminate almost all risk to the environment. BREAKDOWN OF HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT – %bOF TOTAL EXPRESSED IN TONS – BIC GROUP (a) 15% 13% 21% 2017 2018 2019 31% 27% 32% 3.3.2.4 Reducing waste production: resultsb[NFPS] 26% Hazardous and non-hazardous Industrial waste 11% 21% ● A 3.7% increase in the quantity of waste generated per ton of 43% production between 2018 and 2019, resulting from an 5% 29% 5% increase (+4%) in the ratio of non-hazardous waste generated 21% per ton of production, which represents 82% of the Group’s waste, and an increase (+3.65%) in the ratio of hazardous waste. 2017 2018 2019 ANNUAL PRODUCTION OF WASTE NORMALIZED TO PRODUCTION – Recycled IN TONS/TON – BIC GROUP Incinerated with energy recovery Incinerated without energy recovery(a) Sent to land disposal 0.183 0.181 Sent to other form of treatment disposal 0.174 0.033 0.037 0.039 2017 2018 2019 Hazardous waste Non-hazardous waste (a) The category “Incinerated without energy recovery” was created in 2018. In 2017 this waste was reported under the “Sent to other form of treatment or disposal” category. 94 • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Environmental responsibility concerning our operationsb[NFPS] Non-hazardous industrial waste Better recovery of waste, promoting recycling andbreducing ● A 4% increase in the quantity of non-hazardous industrial waste to landfill waste per ton of production. ● The percentage of recovered waste (recycled or incinerated ● In the main offices, waste production reached 176 tons, an with energy recuperation) at 81% increased between 2018 increase of 37% in comparison with 2018 in particular due to and 2019. The increase of 3% is due to an increase in recycled the rise in paper waste at the Clichy site. non-hazardous waste. ● The percentage of recycled industrial waste remained stable at BREAKDOWN OF NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE – %bOF TOTAL EXPRESSED 64.7% between 2018 and 2019. The slight increase of less IN TONS – BIC GROUP (a) than 1% is due to the industrial sites which have continued to take action to promote recycling, in particular through 73% 75% 74% awareness-raising and improved internal waste monitoring. ● Eight sites reported zero waste to landfill in 2019. In addition, efforts continue to determine the reasons for the landfill disposal of certain types of waste at the Group’s sites. In particular, these reasons can include regulatory obligations or the lack of waste processing channels in remote areas. 12% 12% 13% 10% 2% 2% 5% 9% 10% 2% 1% 2017 2018 2019 Recycled Incinerated with energy recovery Incinerated without energy recovery(a) Sent to land disposal Sent to other form of treatment disposal (a) The category “Incinerated without energy recovery” was created in 2018. In 2017 this waste was reported under the “Sent to other form of treatment or disposal” category. • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 95 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Our social responsibility to our team membersb[NFPS] 3.4. OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY TO OUR TEAM MEMBERSb[NFPS] The women and men who make up BIC Group have been the key to its success from the very beginning. With factories all around the world, distribution teams in 57 countries and with approximately 4 million sales outlets spanning the globe, BIC thrives on a shared corporate culture, enriched by local specificities. The challenge for its Human Resources is to continue to nurture this common culture, founded on BIC’s Values and philosophy, across geographic, professional and organizational borders. Shared protocols, based on the Group’s history and built to serve its industrial and commercial goals both present and future, are deployed to develop the skills and strengthen the commitment of everyone in the Company, while protecting and improving their health, safety and well-being. Working with its social partners, BIC strives to create a favorable environment for the long-term development of its team members, and of the Group as a whole. 3.4.1 THE WORKFORCE 3.4.1.1 Breakdown of the workforce by region and activity For the year ending December 31, 2019, BIC Group had Changes in staff numbers by region are shown below: 12,777 permanent team members and 4,017 temporary staff. The following sections describe BIC’s workforce in 2019 and the evolution. WORKFORCE BY REGION – IN FULL-TIME EQUIVALENTS AS OF DECEMBERb31 Workforce by region Decemberb2017 Decemberb2018 Decemberb2019 Variation 2019/2018 Europe 4,014 4,061 3,935 -3.1% North America 805 740 746 +0.8% Developing markets 10,117 8,863 8,554 -3.5% TOTAL PERMANENT STAFF 14,936 13,664 12,777 -6.5% Temporary staff 3,912 3,291 4,017 +22.1% TOTAL 18,848 16,955 16,794 -1.0% In 2019, permanent team members decreased by 6.5% (887 team As of December 31, 2019, the number of temporary workers was members). higher than December 31, 2018 by 726 (4,017 versus 3,291). In addition to the India increase mentioned previously, Mexico also This reflects the decrease of headcount in Cello Pens in India saw an increase in temporary workers by 209. (859 fewer team members between December 2018 (5,665 team members) and December 2019 (4,806 team members)). This BIC grew in Africa through acquisitions in Kenya (206 team decrease in permanent headcount is linked to productivity members plus 98 temporary team members) and Nigeria improvements in the factories and a move to a more flexible (18 permanent team members). workforce in order to address changing business demands. The Temporary workers are employed primarily in manufacturing plus increase in temporary workers in India, (377 more than in 2018 for some in sales support, distribution, and administration. The use of a total of 2,400), is indicative of this flexible workforce. In all other temporary workers is essentially due to the highly seasonal nature BIC subsidiaries, the permanent workforce remained broadly of BIC’s activities. constant. Permanent team members (with a permanent employment contract) accounted for 76% of the Group’s total workforce. Temporary workers accounted for 24% of the Group’s total workforce; split across temporary staff, fixed-period contracts, and university interns. 96 • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Our social responsibility to our team membersb[NFPS] PERMANENT TEAM MEMBERS BY ACTIVITY BIC GROUP Managers accounted for 22% of permanent BIC Group team 1,693 1,723 1,631 members in 2019. For BIC Group, the main characteristic of a 11% 13% 13% manager is that he/she coordinates a range of resources for which 1,783 he/she is responsible, with a degree of autonomy and responsibility 1,701 1,719 12% necessary for the achievement of objectives on at least an annual 12% 13% basis. Management might refer to a team, a project, a process, a technique, or a customer or supplier portfolio. 3.4.1.4 Recruitment and terminations For recruitment purposes, the Group has, over recent years, developed a mobility policy and an active internal promotion policy 11,458 10,240 9,426 backed by career management tools (Individual Development Plan, 77% 75% 74% Succession Plan, talent accelerators, etc.). The Group recruited 1,680 external candidates (an increase of 8% versus 1,563 in 2018), including 381 for management positions. The external recruitment rate was 13% versus 11% in 2018 (the 2017 2018 2019 rate was 14% for managers). The Group enhances awareness of the Company in the international employment market through the use of tools such as Distribution, Marketing and G&A LinkedIn and also partners with internationally renowned Sales and Customer Service specialized recruitment companies. Over recent years, the Group Manufacturing and R&D has reinforced its managers’ expertise in recruitment techniques and has developed a more efficient selection and tracking process. Voluntary departures were 1,784, 13% of total permanent 3.4.1.2 Breakdown of the workforce by age headcount versus 2,044 (14%) in 2018. There were 789 involuntary departures versus 791 in 2018, (6% of permanent All ages are represented in BIC headcount in each year). The rate of voluntary departures continues to be highest in APAC at BREAKDOWN OF THE WORKFORCE BY AGE GROUP 19% and India at 25%. In Middle East/Africa and North America, 75% 76% voluntary turnover saw a decline. Middle East/Africa dropped from 73% 10% to 8% and North America saw a decline from 11% to 9%. Although Europe continues to have a lower voluntary turnover rate, there was a slight increase in 2019 from 5.6% to 6%. Latin America turnover in 2019 was 10%. Globally, in the event of staff restructuring that results in job cuts and terminations of profiles that are not adapted to the future business, Group policy is to respect local legal obligations as a 20% 18% minimum, in cooperation with social partners. Moreover, BIC 16% strives to reassign team members whenever possible. 8% 6% 7% Under 30 years 30 to 55 years Over 55 years 2017 2018 2019 3.4.1.3 Breakdown of the workforce bybcategory PERMANENT HEADCOUNT BY CATEGORY Variation Decemberb2018 Decemberb2019 2019/2018 Managers 2,787 (20%) 2,814 (22%) +1.0% Non-managers 10,877 (80%) 9,963 (78%) -8.4% • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 97 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Our social responsibility to our team membersb[NFPS] 3.4.2 SHARING OUR VALUES, ❯ Perspectives LISTENING TO OUR TEAM BIC will continue its program of in-house surveys, with the goal of MEMBERS being attentive to its team members and implementing plans for improvement. ❯ Challenges The Group’s philosophy “Honor the past, Invent the future” symbolizes for BIC a respect for its heritage, which is one of the keys to its success, as well as the way in which its team members 3.4.3 HEALTH/SAFETY IN THE build the future of the Group together. BIC’s heritage encompasses WORKPLACEb[NFPS] many aspects: an entrepreneurial spirit, products that have become icons within their markets, irreproachable quality, attention to detail, and the commitment of the team members who have built the 3.4.3.1 Challenges, risks and opportunities BIC® brand. related to team members health and This philosophy constitutes a central element of BIC’s culture and safetyb[NFPS] arises from the following five shared Values: Ethics, Responsibility, For the Group, workplace safety means ensuring its team members’ Teamwork, Simplicity and Ingenuity. physical and mental well-being by preventing accidents and BIC Values the opinions of all its team members and regularly seeks occupational diseases. their views on the Group, their work environment and their [NFPS Risk 4] BIC has identified the “health/safety in the workplace” perception of the Group’s programs. risk as one of the major CSR risks resulting from its operations. BIC’s operations, both industrial and commercial, expose its ❯ Approach workers to various professional risks (physical, chemical, psychosocial, biological, ergonomic) that differ from function to Since 2005, surveys on engagement and adherence to values have function (headquarters, factories, sales force). been used to measure regularly the difference between the values as they are defined in the communication tools and as they are truly For the Group, a commitment to improving safety in the workplace experienced by team members in the workplace, as well as the team is a key factor for team members engagement, helping build loyalty members’ engagement and related factors like working conditions, among the work teams. individual recognition, independence, career opportunities and The information presented in this chapter on health and safety in management effectiveness. the workplace concerns all of the Group’s activities. ❯ Performance The Engagement and Adherence to Values Survey The Engagement and Adherence to Values Survey in 2018 covered 11,053 team members (permanent and temporary team members under contract) with a participation rate of 93%. 2018 saw an 84.3% overall engagement index versus 83% in 2016 (+1.3 point). Special tools were developed, and coaching was offered to help managers define local action plans in response to the survey results. TEAM MEMBERS SECURITY RELATED TO GEOPOLITICAL RISKS Since 2018, BIC Middle East has launched Travel Tracker, a service provided in partnership with International SOS. This service offers team members comprehensive information and support before and during travel, automatically linked to their travel booking. It prepares them for their visit by providing information on any potential health, security, political or climate risks. It also includes emergency services through which BIC can be notified in case an unforeseen event occurs while an employee is traveling. Team members can also seek help if they find themselves in danger, have questions or need medical support during their trip. This initiative is part of a proactive strategy to mitigate risk by keeping safety and security top of mind. 98 • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Our social responsibility to our team membersb[NFPS] 3.4.3.2 Writing the Future, Together – ● safety reporting extended to all BIC sites (factories and #3 Committing to a safe work headquarters); environmentb[NFPS] ● an Environment, Health & Safety reference system, also called the EH&S maturity reference system; Safety in the workplace is a fundamental priority for BIC. ● safety watches (behavioral observation visits) are conducted BIC has set the goal of taking action for safety in the workplace, as in the Stationery factories. Carried out with the team stated in the following commitment: By 2025, BIC aims for zero members, these visits consist of questioning unexpected accidents across all operations. behavior in a spirit of ongoing improvement and dialogue; The Group deploys all useful means: health and safety management, ● Global Safety Call, a monthly teleconference bringing ongoing improvement of working environments and the together the factory Directors, their EH&S managers and the organization of working hours, and actions to raise team members’ Global Supply Chain management team. awareness of safety issues. In the Shavers category, since 2011 three of the four factories have Inspired by the “Vision Zero” approach developed by the earned triple certification for their development and deployment of International Social Security Association(1), the Group is developing the EH&S Policy: Safety (OHSAS 18001), Quality (ISO 9001) and a program that integrates the dimensions of safety, health, and Environment (ISO 14001). This year, the Manaus and Violex well-being at work, at every level, with the goal of achieving zero factories obtained ISO 45001 certification, which replaces sick leave days due to on-site accidents for everyone who works for OHSAS 18001. BIC. It is based on the ISSA’s Seven Golden Rules: take leadership – demonstrate commitment; identify hazards – control risks; define 3.4.3.4 Actions taken and resultsb[NFPS] targets – develop programmes; ensure a safe and healthy system – be well-organized; ensure safety and health in machines, equipment The transformation to zero accidents continues in 2019 with and workplaces; improve qualifications – develop competence; concrete achievements: invest in people – motivate by participation. ● the first global EH&S meeting was held at BIC Violex in Greece This “zero accidents” goal implies an intensification of the Group’s in April 2019; safety culture and policies in all of its operations, and includes the ● safety orientation was introduced for all newly hired office implementation of specific local actions. staff; In 2018, building on the approach already adopted over the past ● the sharing of good practices was expanded with a Group-wide several years in the Stationery category, BIC began extending and “Best In Class” communication campaign; adapting that category’s health-safety roadmap to the other ● the Stationery factories underwent a second series of evaluations categories and continents. In 2019, this roadmap was presented to based on the internal EH&S maturity reference system; all continents and the Country Directors General and global actions ● certain actions implemented by the Stationery category in will continue in 2020. 2018 were duplicated in the Shavers category, including training for managers in “Managing Safely”, “safety talks”, and 3.4.3.3 BIC Group’s Environment, Health & self-evaluations based on the Environment, Health & Safety Safety Policyb[NFPS] reference system; ● managers at the headquarters were given awareness training BIC adopts a Health & Safety program that allows it to guarantee a on psycho-social risks, and prevention committees for this type working environment that protects its team members’ physical of risk were formed at the two factories in Mexico. integrity. In keeping with its Environment, Health & Safety (EH&S) Policy, BIC strives to prevent or at least reduce health and safety In 2019, health and safety management systems were operational risks for its team members, subcontractors and people who live or at 86% of BIC’s sites. work near its production sites. In all BIC sites, accidents resulting in lost work time for BIC team The Group deploys safety management systems at its production members are mainly caused by the handling of materials and sites. Each site has an EH&S manager in charge of the deployment machines. The frequency rate decreased in 2019 from 2.09 to 1.85. of the EH&S Policy and follow-up of programs for reducing the team The development and implementation of actions plans will continue members’ health and safety risks, under the responsibility of the in 2019 and should lead to an increased safety culture and a Industrial Directors. decrease of this rate. The severity rate decreased to 0.06. In addition, 55 sites reported no accidents with lost work time in 2019, The Group’s health-safety program is based on a number of tools including 10 factories. that evolve to keep pace with the organization’s needs: Over the full organization in 2019, there were 68 accidents ● the “e-EHS Suite” platform, which monitors and manages involving BIC Group team members and 6 for external temporary workers’ accidents (evaluating risks, recording and workers. The incident rate for BIC team members and temporary documenting accidents, defining corrective action plans), workers reached 1.87 in 2019. allowing each entity in the organization to define an effective action plan; Most of the occupational diseases, which so far have only been monitored in France, are related to musculoskeletal disorders. (1) The International Social Security Association (ISSA) is an international organization uniting social security administrations and institutions around the world. • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 99 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Our social responsibility to our team membersb[NFPS] INCIDENT RATE: NUMBER OF ACCIDENTS LEADING TO LOSS OF WORK To this end, in conjunction with the above-mentioned approaches to TIME – PER MILLION HOURS WORKED BIC WORKFORCE AND organization and health-safety in the workplace, programs to TEMPORARY WORKERS promote well-being at work are coordinated Group-wide and deployed locally depending on each site’s specific needs. 2.09 2.14 1.87 1.85 1.87 1.80 ❯ Approach The Group’s worldwide program called “Quality of Life at Work”, launched for the purpose of defining goals and a global strategy for improving quality of life in the workplace, continues to be developed at many sites. As part of this worldwide program, action plans have been defined and implemented locally based on past initiatives deployed in various countries. Through this program, BIC seeks to promote wellness at work in the interest of its team members and their engagement. In this way, the Group will help limit the effects of professional or personal stress on its team members’ health. This program promotes both shortand long-term initiatives and 2017 2018 2019 action plans based on a combination of reactive and preventive approaches. It includes a section dedicated to the “Role of BIC team members Managers”. “Quality of Life at Work” also examines team members’ BIC team members and temps job responsibilities and the quality of their working environment. The efforts focus on four main areas: ● health and well-being: safety, physical exercise, nutrition; SEVERITY RATE: NUMBER OF CALENDAR DAYS LOST DUE TO AN ● the manager’s role: stress management and prevention as ACCIDENT – PER THOUSAND HOURS WORKED – BIC WORKFORCE well as the new skills required for team leaders; 0.08 0.08 ● workspace and workstations: ergonomics, configuration of 0.06 workspaces and common areas; ● team member services: to make everyday life easier and help team members deal with personal and professional difficulties. In each of the four above-mentioned fields, new initiatives have been undertaken and the programs developed over the past several years in various countries are being continued. The most significant 2017 2018 2019 programs are described below. ❯ Progress made in 2019: health and well-being 3.4.3.5 Perspectives Prevention/awareness campaigns in all of the Group’s In 2020, the roll-out of the safety culture and implementation of the geographic zones health-safety roadmaps will resume, in particular including: Prevention, screening and awareness campaigns are carried out in ● the introduction of safety relays at the Group’s largest all of the countries where BIC has operations: factories; ● in South Africa, the program to combat HIV/AIDS has ● the establishment of a centralized health-safety management continued every year since it was launched in 2000, including a system; dedicated dispensary and educators, coverage of treatments ● the development of skills in the EH&S network, with increased for seropositive team members who request it, vaccination discussion and interaction within the network; against hepatitis B, and the hosting of a presentation each year on World AIDS Day. The dispensary continues to provide ● the updating of the EH&S maturity reference system. primary health care and screening for all of the site’s team members; ● in Argentina, 64% of all BIC team members participated in screening operations. In all, 34% of the team members in 3.4.4 HEALTH AND WELL-BEING Argentina and Uruguay received flu vaccinations; INbTHEbWORKPLACE ❯ Challenges For BIC Group, team member health and well-being are also a matter of reducing the incidence of work-related diseases, primarily musculoskeletal disorders and psychosocial risks (PSR) such as stress. BIC keeps a close watch on these issues and constantly strives to reduce all forms of job-related suffering. 100 • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Our social responsibility to our team membersb[NFPS] ● in Australia and New Zealand, team members benefit from skin All people managers are trained on the Performance Evaluation and cancer screening and prevention operations. One Australian Development Module, which consists of: warehouse also organized a campaign on the prevention of ● explanation of the performance model; occupational accidents and risks related to manual materials handling; ● how to give and receive feedback; ● in Brazil, weekly exercise sessions help prevent stress and ● writing a development plan; and musculoskeletal disorders; ● how to successfully evaluate team members, encompassing ● in the United States, the Group is pursuing its partnership with not only the accomplishment of business goals but also how OneExchange, a private healthcare company offering a broad each team member demonstrates BIC’s Core Values, Core range of services in compliance with US healthcare reform. In Competencies and Functional Competencies. 2019, 80% of BIC’s American team members subscribed to In 2019, BIC University participated in the launch of the “Invent the OneExchange. Events were held on site in Shelton, Future” transformation plan by offering training in organizational Connecticut, in Charlotte, North Carolina, and in Gaffney, transition management, specifically designed to help managers and South Carolina, highlighting preventive measures such as flu team members facilitate the transformation process for themselves vaccinations and biometric screening. The latter gives team and their teams. Customized workshops, that included leadership members an overview of their current state of health, enabling assimilations, team formation and goal setting initiatives, helped the them to identify potential opportunities for improving their newly formed teams in quickly forming strong collaborative health and well-being. A newly launched benefits portal allows relationships. team members to log in and access their health and well-being benefits, using either a computer or a smartphone for ❯ Progress made in 2019: team member services maximum convenience; ● in Morocco, following up on the good results achieved in the An Employee Assistance Program (EAP) has been in operation for several years in the United States (at BIC CORPORATION), in past three years, the “Joy Ministers” continue to conduct France (the PASS program), in the Asia-Pacific zone and in Latin workplace well-being programs, including yoga, running, America. Set up for the benefit of BIC team members and their fitness sessions and outdoor activities for team members and families, this service offers a 24-hour helpline plus the possibility of their families; face-to-face meetings with professionals. ● in Mexico, two sites proposed screening programs (with 70% team members participation) and flu vaccinations (50% of team members vaccinated). ❯ Performance In 2019, 3 occupational diseases were declared in France and 2 in ❯ Progress made in 2019: the role of the manager Mexico. The managers’ attitudes and behavior are the cornerstone of any effort to combat psychosocial risks (PSR). As a responsible ABSENTEEISM (EXCLUDING ON-SITE ACCIDENTS ANDbMATERNITY) – BIC GROUP PERMANENT WORKFORCE company, BIC trains its managers in the ability to acquire and apply new managerial skills and in their fundamental role as the providers 0.9% of a positive environment for themselves and for their teams. They 0.8% 0.8% also have a clearly stated mission to be on the lookout for the subtle signals indicating that a team member is in distress and are trained to detect those signals. The “Managing Others@BIC” and “Leader@BIC” training modules, created to help managers deal effectively with the challenges they face as team leaders, increasingly incorporate the aspect of well-being at work as well as stress management in their programs. 2017 2018 2019 Absenteeism (excluding on-site accidents and maternity) remained stable. Absenteeism (including on-site accidents and maternity) was 1.5% in 2019 • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 101 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Our social responsibility to our team membersb[NFPS] 3.4.5 TEAM MEMBER ● learning from others (20%): developing a feedback culture, every team member has opportunities to receive and offer DEVELOPMENTb[NFPS] further feedback, either to build on a strong point or to strengthen a developmental point; 3.4.5.1 Challenges, risks and opportunities ● learning from training (10%): by increasing access to the BIC related to team member University programs, as well as locally developed training developmentb[NFPS] programs. In 2019, with the launch of the “Invent the Future” transformation The Talent Development team makes this model available to all plan, 140 managers from across the Group worked to identify the teams. It is for example used to structure BIC tools like the Taleo types of behavior needed for the plan to succeed: system and the People Acceleration Plan, etc. 1. A clear vision of transformation: crafting and developing a BIC Group’s competencies framework specifies the Core vivid and compelling vision of the future and describing how Competencies that all team members around the world must to get there. cultivate to ensure BIC’s success: “Displays Strategic Agility”, “Drives for Results”, “Champions MPD” (Method, Precision, 2. Consumer-centricity: instilling the conviction that the Discipline), “Engages Others”, “Acts with Courage” and “Develops consumer and end user must be the focal point of all Self and Others”. These Core Competencies are embedded in all business discussions and actions. BIC University training programs and are included in the 3. Innovation: BIC University is currently partnering with the pre-employment testing process. business in identifying best practices to develop training with a focus on innovation and change management which will transform the way people learn, manage change and 3.4.5.3 Actions taken to promote team member solve complex problems. developmentb[NFPS] 4. Business and people performance: achieving high Numerous actions were undertaken to encourage the use of the performance through systematic performance management, 70/20/10 model. Some examples are given below. skill building and flexible career paths based on performance and potential. Learning from new professional experiences ( 70) [NFPS risk 9] In addition, among its primary CSR risks, BIC identifies risks related to experienced team members and their skills: BIC New Performance Review Model rollout relies on the specific skills of its experienced team members, in Operational performance and improvement are two pillars of particular in industrial operations and the execution of professional Group’s success. The process for evaluating each team member’s functions. The loss of experienced team members could slow the performance is essential for enabling the Group to achieve its deployment of the Group’s development plans and prevent the development goals. Group from implementing its strategy. 2019 was the first full year of implementation for the new BIC performance review model. The results show: 3.4.5.2 Policy: the 70/20/10 development ● good roll-out of the culture of recognizing team members for principleb[NFPS] outstanding performance; The priority for 2020 is not only the dissemination of skills and ● better balanced evaluations; sharing of core values, but also team member development in these ● more constructive and beneficial discussions between aspects of behavioral change. managers and their team members. To that end, the Group will continue to apply the 70/20/10 principle In 2019, 191 managers and human resource team members were and to promote team member development based on the BIC asked to evaluate the new performance review model. It was rated University training programs. very highly, with 89% of the respondents expressing their satisfaction. Regardless of function, level of responsibility, and type and length of contract, all BIC team members will be given opportunities to Also, in 2019, the Executive Development Program was once again increase their external and internal employability. That is the a success, offering the designated high-potential exposure to the employability commitment of BIC to its team members. Executive Committee and Extended Leadership Team members who provided a structured approach in their developing leadership To achieve its commitment to team member development, BIC aims skills. at being a learning environment for its team members based on the 70/20/10 model, which boosts development by combining three dimensions: Mobility and succession plans The “Open Positions Review” sessions facilitated by the Group ● learning from new professional experiences (70%): BIC Talent Development Team are designed to facilitate the mobility offers opportunities for team members to work in process. During these meetings, open positions are discussed along multi-functional teams or individual stretch assignments; with role requirements and potential matches suggested in an effort to offer team members the best options for their own development and for the business. Open positions are shared globally in an effort to make optimal use of the available talents. In addition to the Open Positions Review discussions, BIC conducts a formal detailed review of high potential team members and potential succession to key positions. 102 • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Our social responsibility to our team membersb[NFPS] Learning from others ( 20 ) For the past several years the Group has been striving to perpetuate its key technical skills. For example, in Tarragona (Spain), Given the success of the Executive Mentoring Program, BIC the Lighter category is recruiting new team members through University launched Mentoring@BIC, a global program that offers apprenticeship programs in partnership with two schools. In France, team members the experience of being mentored by leaders at BIC. the “Training for Industrial Professionals” (TIP) program trains Mentors and Mentees participate in a one-year journey that young people in the technical functions of mechanics, tool setting provides support (coaching and training) to both groups ensuing and plastics technology, for which there is a shortage on the labor developmental needs are met. Mid-way through the program, 273 market. hours of mentor-mentee training was tracked. BIC’s Core Competency of Develops Self & Others was the most often Since 2016, 13 apprentices have been recruited as part of this discussed. The overall satisfaction rate for the mentoring program program in those three categories, and 10 trainees have completed was 4.1 out of 5. Relationship satisfaction from both mentors and their training in Tarragona (Spain) and at Violex (Greece). mentees was 4.7 out of 5 and 4.5 out of 5 respectfully. The program In Manaus (Brazil), BIC University enables team members to has been a great success and BIC University will launch a 2nd cohort receive training and earn certification. In addition, the in 2020. Manufacturing School has been relaunched with the objective of developing technical skills and competencies for team members in Learning from training ( 10 ) technical careers. The main changes were: a new training matrix was created taking into account the needs per job, new content was The programs developed by BIC University created to meet those needs, and 10 internal voluntary facilitators Created in 1998, the mission of BIC University is to “Develop and were certified with the appropriate methodology and competencies evolve learning solutions that meet business needs and for building to multiply knowledge and train others. The School’s primary goal is the workforce for the future”. to be recognized as a key program for professional and technical With plants and sales teams in 57 countries, it is critical for BIC to career growth, relying on BIC know-how and the facilitators´ make training accessible to everyone, everywhere in the world. In knowledge and experience. 40 team members across categories order to achieve this challenge, BIC University has a team of five were enrolled in the first module, which focused on Problem dedicated people based in France and North America as well as a Solving. A new Languages Program was also launched in 2018 in network of 12 BIC University Ambassadors all over the world. The order to improve English skills across categories and support areas. community of Ambassadors promotes, leverages and delivers BIC Individual assessments were carried out to identify proficiency University solutions. In addition, BIC University relies on an internal levels and organize the classes. There are now five classes for network of more than 71 trainers, experts in their fields with a 36 team members running at BIC after work, in partnership with an genuine passion for sharing BIC’s culture and the BIC experience. English business school. Gradually, BIC University is expanding its presence, most notably in 2019 to the countries of the Asia-Pacific zone, including Japan, 3.4.5.4 Resultsb[NFPS] South Korea and China. Learning from new professional experiences (“70”) In 2019, BIC University’s catalogue was once again expanded and continued to receive above-average evaluations, with an 82% INTERNAL DEVELOPMENT MOVES AND PROMOTION RATE BIC GROUP positive impact rate and 82% overall satisfaction. The catalogue was made available to all team members on the Group’s website. This portal also hosts all of the Group’s compliance training (BIC Group 30% Code of Ethics and Anti-Corruption Policy). 25% 25% Among the notable achievements of 2019: ● more than 150 managers of different nationalities were trained in skill management and leadership; ● 50 team members participated in a training program on BIC Fundamentals. Technical/functional training The technical training for BIC’s specific industrial operations is developed locally: each entity invests in a program to build the 2017 2018 2019 technical and functional skills it needs. This indicator measures the number of manager and non-manager positions filled internally, compared with the total number of positions filled within the Group over the same period. It includes promotions (level change) and developments (change of position, geographic zone or entity). • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 103 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Our social responsibility to our team membersb[NFPS] RATE OF INTERNAL PROMOTION AMONG MANAGERS (LEVELSb3, 4, 5 NUMBER OF TRAINING HOURS (PER THEME) – BIC GROUP -2019 – AND 6) – BIC GROUP PERMANENT AND TEMPORARY WORKFORCE 69% 62% 59% 14,889 Leadership skills 11,814 BIC culture 41% 5,607 38% Health 31% and well-being training 100,725 Technical training 2017 2018 2019 Internal recruitment External recruitment In 2019, the number of movements in the four top manager levels 3.4.6 THE REMUNERATION SYSTEM was 140 versus 126 in 2018. 41% were via external recruitments versus 38% in 2018. ❯ Challenges and approach BIC seeks to develop a fair and motivating remuneration system Learning from training (“10”) that can make the Group both competitive and appealing to current In 2019, 10,002 team members received training (60% of and potential team members. headcount present on December 31, 2019). BIC Group’s remuneration policy is determined every year by the Human Resources Department in agreement with the Executive NUMBER OF TRAINING DAYS – BIC GROUP – PERMANENT AND Committee. It is based on three principles: TEMPORARY WORKFORCE ● pay for individual and/or collective performance; ● internal equity; 19,511 ● external competitiveness. 17,732 The acknowledgement of the performance of the individuals and 16,629 the teams is an essential element in BIC Group’s remuneration policy. Thus, for managers, salary increases reflect individual merit (except in certain countries where legal obligations require general increases). In 2019, variable remuneration relating to performance represented an average of 14% of fixed remuneration for Group team members. For non-managers, BIC guarantees an appropriate remuneration and respects minimum salaries determined by local laws and which 2017 2018 2019 is inspired by local and international companies locally. Human Resources teams worldwide are responsible for implementing BIC Group’s remuneration policy and for ensuring that it is adhered to. 104 • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Our social responsibility to our team membersb[NFPS] ❯ Performance 3.4.7 PROMOTING DIVERSITY The average annual cost (including payroll taxes) of each team member totaled: 36,512 euros in 2019, increasing by 8% versus ❯ Challenges 2018, at actual exchange rates. In keeping with the Group’s vision of offering “simple, inventive and Analysis using constant exchange rates shows an increase of 9% reliable choices for everyone, everywhere, every time”, its goal is to compared with 2018. Overall, this variance in the average annual represent the communities in which it operates and the consumers cost of each team member is due to: whose everyday lives it seeks to improve. This ambition entails: ● a 6% increase in average fixed remuneration; ● taking action to ensure that its teams reflect as closely as ● an 11% increase in variable remuneration; possible the diversity of the Group’s customers and consumers around the world; ● a 1% decrease in payroll taxes and other benefits. ● welcoming its team members and giving them a sense of Information on Senior Management remuneration is provided on responsibility through a culture of inclusion founded on page 150. practices of responsible leadership and management; An analysis of the external competitiveness of BIC managers’ base ● encouraging the diversity and dynamism of its teams as drivers salaries is conducted on a periodic basis. This competitiveness for innovation and a key factor for its success. analysis conducted at end-2017 shows that, on average, BIC managers’ base salaries are positioned at their local market median. ❯ Approach COMPARISON OF MANAGERS’ SALARIES WITH THE MARKET – The new BIC Diversity & Inclusion Credo, which was signed by the STATISTICAL BREAKDOWN OF COMPARISON RATIOS (INb2017) CEO and the CHRO in May 2019, reinforces BIC’s commitment to Diversity and Inclusion by appreciating that the blending of 114 different backgrounds, experiences and perspective in a 101 collaborative environment which values open perspectives, will 91 make the organization stronger and better prepared for the challenges ahead. It is shared by all of the Group’s entities worldwide and has been translated into the main languages spoken in the Group. ❯ Progress made in 2019 and performance Celebrating diversity As part of its Diversity & Inclusion strategy, BIC conducted a campaign entitled “Celebrate Diversity” throughout the year, with special diversity days, weeks and months. The campaign was Quartile 1 Median Quartile 3 launched to: ● reinforce the organization’s commitment to Diversity and The difference in pay between team members reflects Inclusion and create an environment that values open responsibilities, experience, performance, potential and considers participation from diverse viewpoints and where everyone can the characteristics of local markets. unlock their true potential ● build goodwill with team members and make BIC an attractive place to work for candidates; ● enhance BIC’s reputation on a topic that companies are increasingly becoming vocal about. Launched on March 8, 2019, to coincide with International Women’s Day, the program encouraged all team members to show their support for gender equality. On May 21, 2019, World Day for Cultural Diversity, BIC launched an LGBTQ pride month. On the same day, Gonzalve Bich announced the Group’s endorsement of the UN global Standards of Conduct for Business, conceived to combat discrimination against LGBTI people in the workplace. Unconscious bias training In June 2019, 50 of BIC’s senior executives met for a leadership summit. One of the many items on the agenda was an interactive training exercise on unconscious bias, which enabled the team to gain better self-awareness and understand how past experience shapes each person’s mindset and personality, and how that can impact the effectiveness of their leadership behaviors. • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 105 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Our social responsibility to our team membersb[NFPS] Male/Female equality NUMBER OF DISABLED WORKERS ON THE PERMANENT AND TEMPORARY WORKFORCE – BIC GROUP PERCENTAGE OF WOMEN IN THE PERMANENT WORKFORCE BY LEVEL – BIC GROUP 174 50% 152 148 40% 25% 13% 20% 24% 32% 32% 33% 34% 36% 37% 53% 51% 2017 2018 2019 2018 2019 Non-managers In 2019, disabled workers at the Group’s largest sites totaled 174 Level 1 to 6 (excluding indirect jobs associated with outsourcing). They Level 2 to 6 numbered 56 in Europe, 24 in North America, 71 in Latin America Level 3 to 6 and 23 in the rest of world (Middle East, Africa, India, Oceania, and Level 4 to 6 Asia). Executive Committee (excl. CEO) Board of Directors Intergenerational equity The aging of the population and its consequences will be a major In 2019, women accounted for 48% of permanent team members in issue in the years to come, especially in regions like Europe and the the Group: 36% in Europe, 42% in North America, 48% in Latin U.S. To ensure the transmission of skills and continuity of the America and Asia, 39% in Middle East/Africa, 41% in Company’s know-how, an analysis of the age structure and seniority Asia-Pacific/Oceania, and 60% in India. has been made in the Group’s factories. Compared with 2018, the proportion of women in the headcount In this context, BIC seeks to promote: remains globally stable. ● cooperation among generations; ● professional motivation for seniors, and their employability Disabled team members throughout their careers; BIC Group is committed to promoting employment for the disabled. ● the transmission of knowledge and skills. Its entities conduct short-term and long-term initiatives in this direction at the local level, reflected in particular by training and employment assistance programs for disabled workers. 106 • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Our social responsibility to our team membersb[NFPS] 3.4.8 SOCIAL DIALOGUE strives, insofar as its resources allow, to improve working conditions by offering wages above the legal minimums, through superior team member benefits, or through investments to improve the working ❯ Challenges environment. BIC strives to use all the means available to engage in dialog with its These types of social progress are a subject of prior dialog, and the team members. In this spirit, it sets up the initiatives on listening to team members and their representatives are kept informed to team members as mentioned on page 98. To maintain its team ensure optimal communication. members’ engagement and remain attentive to their expectations, the Group strives to cultivate a high-quality social dialog, either directly with the management or with the team members ❯ Progress made in 2019 themselves, their representatives, or labor union representatives at The topics discussed in the negotiations are related either to local unionized sites. obligations or to the previously mentioned management points. For example, many mechanisms to promote safety and health in the ❯ Approach workplace have been initiated through social dialog. In every country where the Group has operations, it complies with The following table gives a few examples of such agreements. all applicable collective agreements. In addition, each subsidiary Perimeter Topics France, all entities In compliance with new French legislation, in 2019 a single staff representative body was designated for each legal entity concerned. Called the Social and Economic Committee (“CSE” in French), it combines all of the previous committees – including the works council (“CE”), the workplace health, safety and working conditions committee (“CHSCT”) and staff delegates (“DP”) – and unites all of their missions and prerogatives. The negotiations with social partners for effecting this change, as well as the elections for choosing representatives, took place throughout the year in the different companies within the Group. France Research and innovation are increasingly important challenges for BIC. In order to foster innovation, the compensation policy for researchers was reviewed in order to simplify it, make it clearer and fairer, and ensure that it effectively encourages inventiveness and creativity. A five-year agreement signed with all union organizations representing BIC team members in all French entities has enabled the Group to achieve this key goal. Clichy (France) As a result of the Invent the Future project and the impact of the related reorganizations on the BIC Services teams, a majority collective agreement was signed in 2019 concerning the implementation of the economic redundancy plan. The labor unions and BIC signed an agreement on the conditions for supporting team members affected by the reorganization. Australia (Consumer Products) For the sake of collective performance and individual development, while ensuring consistency across the Company, BIC decided to extend the new Performance Evaluation process to team members covered by the BIC Australia Pty. Ltd. Enterprise Agreement. BIC Australia has presented the process to the National Unions of Workers and held discussions with them on a question/answer mode for implementing it. Mexico (Stationery) In order to meet production needs, it was necessary to modify the working time agreement in force with the aim of having around 200 team members work on different shift patterns. After lengthy discussions, an agreement was reached to meet the Group’s needs, while guaranteeing progress for the team members concerned. ❯ Performance ❯ Perspectives An audit conducted in 2014 showed that nearly 63% of Group team This culture of remaining attentive to its personnel and taking members were covered by a form of employee representation collective requests into consideration is vital for the Group and will through Works Councils or committees, Health and Safety be maintained in the years to come through contacts with both Committees, trade unions and collective agreements or equivalent. labor unions and employee representatives. In 2020, the Group This representation takes place through regular meetings plans to: presenting the monthly or annual financial results, describing the ● renegotiate the three-year agreements now in force for BIC Company’s strategy, answering questions, etc. Iberia (Spain) and Milford (United States); Team members in Manaus (Brazil) can make their observations and ● following the reorganization of BIC Services, continue expectations known through the “HR & You” program. This new negotiations on important issues such as the quality of life at communication channel allows team members to dialog with human work, gender equality, etc.; resources staff via a questionnaire focusing on leadership ● open negotiations for a new profit-sharing agreement for effectiveness, communication, remuneration and engagement. The DAPE74, the previous agreement having expired on Leadership members are also questioned in order to highlight any December 31, 2019. convergences or gaps that might arise between the two groups. Action plans are then defined to address the critical points thus Lastly, the Group also intends to review and update the staff identified. representation systems in all of its entities. • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 107 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Responsibilities related to our supply chainb[NFPS] 3.5. RESPONSIBILITIES RELATED TO OUR SUPPLY CHAINb[NFPS] In September 2015, the United Nations adopted a new Sustainable Development Program comprising 17 worldwide goals for combating poverty, inequality and injustice. These goals emphasize the crucial role of universal access to education and hygiene. The Group strives to meet these challenges through its local economic presence, with about four million points of sale offering BIC® products worldwide, and through its global presence: BIC manufactures and distributes its products in 160 countries, supplying the most developed marketplaces as well as some of the most impoverished ones. The societal challenges undertaken by BIC also include respect for ethics and Human Rights in the workplace and the fight against corruption. To meet these challenges, BIC’s operations and subcontracting activities integrate its Code of Conduct, Code of Ethics and, since 2016, its Anti-Corruption Policy. Lastly, BIC seeks to support local communities through the development of philanthropic policies that favor involvement at both the Group and the individual level. 3.5.1 THE RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING The ambition of the purchasing strategy is to maximize purchasing’s contribution to the creation of value for BIC, its suppliers and APPROACH subcontractors by: ● securing the created value: ensuring continuous supply and 3.5.1.1 Challenges and opportunities related to consistent quality, consumer safety, regulatory compliance, responsible purchasing brand protection; In the course of its operations, BIC works with more than ● increasing the created value: performance and costs, 15,000 suppliers and subcontractors. For the Group, being a manufacturing processes, the development of new customer responsible company means maintaining control over the entire benefits with no technological or material disruption; value chain. The Purchasing Departments analyze all risks: stock ● creating additional value: innovation that benefits levels, diversification of suppliers and sourcing zones, risks consumers, overhaul of the processes. associated with the country and the rarity of the resource. A complete review of the supplier database was carried out in 2019 in order to identify suppliers that are considered strategic for BIC 3.5.1.2 The Responsible Purchasing Charter based on four criteria: The Group seeks to cultivate long-term commercial relationships ● representing high volumes of purchases for BIC; with its suppliers, establishing responsible relations with them and ● continuity of operations if the supplier ceases to function; upholding its commitment to Responsible Purchasing. BIC’s ● single-source supply; Responsible Purchasing Charter, finalized in 2014, codifies the Group’s relations with its suppliers in keeping with its five shared ● a significant impact on BIC’s growth. Values: Ethics, Responsibility, Teamwork, Simplicity and Ingenuity. As a result of this review, the Group has identified 292 strategic This charter applies to relations with suppliers and contract suppliers among the 15,000 suppliers in its database. manufacturers involved in the production or shipping of BIC® products. ❯ Progress made in 2019 Through the Responsible Purchasing Charter, the Group reminds In 2019, BIC Purchasing department reached the second its suppliers and subcontractors that all of the commitments that benchmark in fulfilling commitment #4 of “Writing the Future, BIC has made concerning its own operations apply to their activities Together”, proactively involving suppliers, with the following as well. This charter is submitted to all suppliers and subcontractors measures: to whom it is applicable. ● a new organization that designates a single buyer for each purchasing family in charge of supervising all phases of 3.5.1.3 Writing the Future, Together – supplier relations; #4bProactively involving suppliers ● the introduction of a guide for assessing and selecting ❯ Approach strategic suppliers based on their approach and CSR performance. For each purchasing family, this guide lists the Beyond the stipulations of its Responsible Purchasing Charter, BIC CSR challenges, the stipulations to include in the specifications has set the goal of involving its suppliers proactively and has and the criteria for evaluating the supplier’s response. Each codified this ambition in the following commitment: by 2025, BIC supplier is given a “CSR rating”, which is used to select the will work responsibly with its strategic suppliers to ensure the most suppliers who make the strongest contribution to the Group’s secure, innovative and efficient sourcing. purchasing strategy; 108 • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Responsibilities related to our supply chainb[NFPS] ● a responsible purchasing training program integrated into 3.5.2.2 BIC’s human rights in the workplace the global buyers training curriculum. This program, which is policyb[NFPS] mandatory for all members of the purchasing teams, is available to all team members in the BIC University catalogue. Limiting contract manufacturing Its rollout began in late 2019 and all purchasing team members will have completed the program by the end of 2020. BIC’s reliance on contract manufacturing is relatively low. Overall, 92% of the Group’s net sales are generated by products made in its The CSR-based suppliers assessment and selection guide comes on own factories. 83% of these factories are located in countries with top of the three main tools that BIC uses to ensure compliance with no Human Rights risk according to Freedom House (1). its Responsible Purchasing Charter: BIC works with subcontractors primarily for stationery products in ● compliance with the Code of Conduct (see page 110); the Consumer business and for Advertising and Promotional ● audit programs (see page 110); Products. Subcontracting gives the Group greater flexibility. ● ESG evaluations by EcoVadis. PERMANENT WORKFORCE BY CATEGORY OF COUNTRY IN RELATION TO HUMAN RIGHTS RISKb(1) IN 2019 – BIC GROUP ❯ Perspectives In order to monitor progress toward goal #4, proactively involving suppliers, the purchasing teams intend to implement an indicator 2% specifying the percentage of strategic suppliers involved in at least Not free countries one responsible purchasing action. To that end, in 2020 they plan to 11% define pertinent “responsible purchasing actions” for each Partly free countries purchasing family in relation to the goal of ensuring “the most secure, innovative and efficient sourcing”. These responsible purchasing actions can be already underway (buyer training, assessment and selection of suppliers based on CSR 87% performance, etc.) or in development, such as innovation for the Free countries substitution of plastics in packaging, supplier awareness of BIC’s responsible purchasing approach, etc. The groundwork undertaken in 2019 will be used to define a roadmap and establish goals for each buyer in each product family. CONTRACT MANUFACTURERS BY CATEGORY OF COUNTRY IN RELATION TO HUMAN RIGHTS RISKb(1) IN 2019 – BIC GROUP 3.5.2 ENSURING RESPECT FOR HUMAN RIGHTS IN THE WORKPLACEb[NFPS] 33% Free countries 3.5.2.1 Challenges, risks and opportunities related to non-respect of human rights 58.5% in the workplaceb[NFPS] Not free countries [NFPS risk 5] Among its main CSR risks, BIC has identified risks related to the non-respect of human rights (child labor, international 8.5% conventions, ILO): non-compliance with fundamental human rights Partly free countries such as child labor, discrimination or forced labor may result in legal action against BIC and major consequences in terms of reputation and attractiveness. Controlling its value chain is also a source of opportunities for BIC, such as: ● controlling quality, cost and production conditions by manufacturing most (92%) of the Group’s products in its own factories; ● strengthening relations with strategic suppliers in order to ensure the most secure, innovative and efficient sourcing; ● identifying opportunities for partnerships in order to meet the environmental and product development challenges of tomorrow. (1) Source: “Freedom in the World 2018”, a study by the non-governmental organization Freedom House. • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 109 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Responsibilities related to our supply chainb[NFPS] An approach guided by the BIC Code of Conduct more than 15 years to ensure compliance with its Code of Conduct by contract manufacturers. The program applies to both global To ensure respect for Human Rights in the workplace, BIC has contract manufacturers and contract manufacturers under local implemented a Code of Conduct. This document comprises a set of contracts producing BIC® products for local markets for BIC professional and social principles derived from the standards of the Consumer Products and BIC Graphic (Advertising and Promotional International Labor Organization (ILO). The Group is committed to Products). Regular audits are conducted every two years to verify upholding socially responsible behavior in all its operations. The that standards are maintained at a satisfactory level. principles in this document are applied at all production facilities, whether owned by the Group or operated by contract Audits are carried out by third party Auditors. In 2014, BIC Group manufacturers, and BIC conducts audits to ensure its introduced the Workplace Condition Assessment (WCA) platform. implementation. This assessment tool is based on national laws, integrating ILO standards and existing best practices, and is consistent with the The Code of Conduct is based on the following 10 principles: Group Code of Conduct. The WCA comprises more than 180 ● a safe and healthy work environment; evaluation criteria covering a range of topics: child labor, forced ● fair wages and reasonable working hours; labor, discrimination, harassment, freedom of association, working hours, salaries, employment contracts, health and safety and ● no child labor; environmental responsibility. Contract manufacturers are audited ● no forced labor; and rated on each criterion and then given an overall score. This ● no discrimination; platform allows the Group to closely monitor a contract ● freedom of association; manufacturer’s performance in relation to each indicator. Deficiencies in each evaluation criterion are rated as major, ● legal compliance; moderate or minor, thus allowing the implementation of targeted ● no animal testing; corrective action plans where needed. It also includes global ● environmental responsibility; benchmarks for each country and each Group business sector. All contract manufacturers producing BIC® products are audited over a ● publication of the Code. two-year cycle, during which improvement programs will be This Code of Conduct applies to BIC factories, which are mainly implemented based on deficiencies identified during the located in South Africa, Brazil, Spain, the U.S., France, Greece, India assessment. BIC sees social responsibility as a partnership that and Mexico. It also applies to contract manufacturers, which are requires shared values. In this spirit, BIC favors a common primarily located in China, Brazil and Vietnam. commitment to improvement rather than breaking off relations with a partner. The box below explains the main steps in the evaluation of 3.5.2.3 Actions taken: the social audit contract manufacturers. programb[NFPS] Self-assessments were conducted by all BIC factories from 2006 through 2016. The Group was thus able to acquire a thorough Compliance with the Code of Conduct is verified by an audit understanding of the risks and to develop corrective action plans in program covering all the factories where BIC® products are cooperation with the Human Resources Department. manufactured. BIC has had a specific audit program in place for THE SIX STEPS FOR EVALUATING CONTRACT MANUFACTURERS 1. The BIC contract manufacturer signs the BIC Code of Conduct. 2. An independent external monitoring agency conducts an initial assessment of the contract manufacturer. 3. BIC presents a corrective action plan (CAP) to the contract manufacturer. 4. The contract manufacturer implements the CAP within an agreed upon, reasonable time frame. 5. The Auditor conducts follow-up assessment(s) to confirm implementation of the CAP. 6. Ongoing assessments are conducted every two years. 3.5.2.4 Results of the social audit program and that support adherence to social compliance requirements but perspectivesb[NFPS] they are not all being properly implemented: 5%; ● the facility has comprehensive employee safety processes and In 2019, 35 contract manufacturers (for Consumer Products or BIC procedures in a written manual that support adherence to Graphic) were audited, representing 43% of our active contract social compliance requirements but they are not all being manufacturers at year end. The audits directly requested and properly implemented: 5%; managed by BIC, revealed, 34 major, 189 moderate and 166 minor deficiencies, and 34 corrective action plans were implemented. The ● the facility has comprehensive emergency preparedness four biggest areas of deficiency were found in management processes and procedures in a written manual that support systems, health & safety and wages & hours: adherence to social compliance requirements but they are not all being properly implemented: 4%; ● the facility has comprehensive working hour and wages ● total overtime hours exceeds allowable limits under applicable management processes and procedures in a written manual law or agreement: 4%. 110 • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Responsibilities related to our supply chainb[NFPS] ❯ Perspectives contract, wholesalers, or consultants. The Policy describes how business must be conducted with third parties to protect against In the years to come, BIC plans to pursue its social audit program, corrupt practices and avoid their occurrence. BIC Group does not which will be incorporated in the BIC strategy “Writing the Future, tolerate any kind of corruption or bribery and has made a Together” and its commitment #4, Proactively involving suppliers. commitment to fight corruption in all of its forms. The Anti-Corruption Policy covers the following topics: ● interactions with government officials, private entities and persons who are not government officials; 3.5.3 ETHICS AND THE FIGHT AGAINST ● gifts, corporate gifts and sponsorship; CORRUPTIONb[NFPS] ● relations with stakeholders; ● donations, contributions to communities and political parties; 3.5.3.1 Challenges and risks related to ethics ● conflicts of interest; and the fight against corruptionb[NFPS] ● monitoring, record keeping and reporting of any breaches of BIC generates 32% of its sales in countries where the risk of anti-corruption laws. corruption is considered high or very high (Brazil, Mexico, India, Team members are offered training on the Code of Ethics and the Italy and Argentina) and 68% in countries with a medium or low risk fight against harassment. of corruption according to Transparency International, including “BIC Speak Up”, the Group’s anonymous and confidential reporting France, the United States and Spain. system, is accessible by telephone and Internet to all current and [NFPS risk 6] Among its main CSR risks, BIC has identified risks former BIC team members 24 hours a day and is available in more related to corruption: the risk of corruption and unfair practices can than 200 languages. lead to legal actions against the Group and major consequences in BIC is committing to ensure the confidentiality of the information terms of reputation and attractiveness. gathered as well as to ensure that no sanction is taken against a team member who reported in good faith a breach of the Group 3.5.3.2 Ethics and anti-corruption policiesb[NFPS] Anti-Corruption Policy or of the Group Code of Ethics. BIC Code of Ethics Additionally, as part of BIC’s continuing efforts to ensure compliance with the Group Anti-Corruption Policy, the Group Code Since 2007, the Group Code of Ethics has defined the fundamental of Ethics and other legal and ethical policies, the alert hotline ethical principles that the Group asks all of its team members to became accessible to third parties in 2019. follow under all circumstances and everywhere in the world. The objective is to build and sustain an authentic corporate culture of The alert hotline is featured on the home page of the BIC Intranet, integrity, honesty and fairness. The Code of Ethics comprises: the central hub of information for all team members worldwide. It is now being improved and updated for easier accessibility. ● 14 standards covering the following aspects: respect for fundamental Human Rights, respect for the environment, This alert mechanism aims to prevent the actions or conducts that compliance with the law, listening and communicating, and the would be contrary to integrity, honesty or equity. prevention of any form of active or passive corruption; It is the responsibility of the entities’ CFOs or equivalent Officers to ● 13 principles governing the behavior of BIC team members to assess the entities’ tax positions and manage all tax filings. The control risks arising from conflicts of interest, the protection of Group Tax Department provides broader support to all entities. In the Group’s assets, professional commitments, and 2019, the internal control procedures did not detect any case of tax relationships with its stakeholders; evasion linked to the activities of the Group. ● a Guide listing the questions that all BIC team members must ask themselves to assess their level of compliance with the 3.5.3.3 Actions taken and perspectivesb[NFPS] Code of Ethics and facilitate its understanding and implementation. In 2019, BIC continued to expand its mandatory training programs on ethics and the fight against corruption. An e-learning module is The Code of Ethics, as approved by the Board of Directors and the online and live training sessions are offered for team members in CEO, and its guide are available in 15 languages. The text of the Latin America, Africa, the Middle East and the Asia Pacific Zone. Code is available to all team members on the Group Intranet. In the years to come, BIC will continue to enhance its third-party risk management, relying on the supplier risk management BIC Anti-Corruption Policy mechanisms already in place and extending its due diligence, risk Since 2016, the Group Anti-Corruption Policy has defined the assessments and risk mitigation measures for key customers. appropriate conduct mandatory for all BIC personnel, including Additionally, new training programs will be introduced by BIC to team members, managers or Directors, and for all parties acting on cover other aspects of compliance, in particular duty of care, the the Group’s behalf: subsidiaries, affiliate companies, partners under fight against anti-competitive practices and data privacy. • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 111 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Responsibilities related to our supply chainb[NFPS] 3.5.3.4 Responsible lobbying and participation Lobbying activities can also take the form of direct contacts with the in sector working groups pertinent authorities, institutions, governmental agencies and NGOs. ❯ Challenges The Group’s subsidiaries also cultivate direct relations with the BIC Group considers lobbying to be a positive action, making good national authorities in their countries of operation. However, the use of its industrial expertise and knowledge of the market in its Group has no professional lobbyists on its payroll. relationships with the public authorities. For the Group, lobbying is quite simply the communication, targeted towards decision-makers Clearly identified lobbying responsibilities and important players on key issues, and the lessons learned from At the highest level within the Group, CEO Gonzalve Bich and the its experience to help establish the necessary balances. Its purpose members of the Executive Committee are responsible for steering is to help improve the effectiveness of the authorities’ regulatory and monitoring all lobbying actions on a regular basis. actions, to improve the safety of the products available on the market, thus improving consumer safety and ensuring fair The operational responsibility for BIC’s relationships with public competition. In this way, BIC seeks to be recognized and consulted authorities and institutions is delegated to a small number of as a stakeholder in all decisions and actions that affect its specifically identified managers, who have been named to represent operations. the Group in the above-mentioned proceedings. The members of the Executive Committee are kept informed of the progress of laws and regulations that affect their operations. ❯ Approach BIC Group ensures strict compliance with local laws and regulations Participation in sector dialogue in the pursuit of its lobbying activities. Like all the Group’s activities, BIC Group pursues its lobbying activities in a responsible, ethical lobbying is governed by the Anti-Corruption Policy and the BIC way to ensure that the legal and regulatory decisions, as well as the Code of Ethics, which names the persons to be notified in case of actions undertaken to enforce the rules, have realistic and effective violation. technical and economic consequences, maintaining or restoring fair and honest relations among all the market players. Team members awareness Although BIC has no tradition of making public statements on major The latest developments concerning lighters are shared with the industrial or societal topics, the Group does address the public Group’s team members during the results presentations. The when this type of action seems necessary. It also participates in General Managers and Marketing Managers are also kept directly sector dialogue and seeks to exert its influence in four key areas abreast of BIC’s lobbying actions on lighters. that are directly related to its commitments as a responsible corporation: product safety, the fight against counterfeiting, the ❯ Progress made in 2019 fight against unfair competition and environmental protection. In 2019, BIC focused its lobbying activity on the monitoring of BIC carries out its lobbying primarily as a member of various pending regulations and standards concerning stationery products organizations, participating as needed in their working groups and (EU directives and regulations: REACH, CLP, Toy Safety), lighters the conception of their positions: (safety standards and market surveillance, CLP, e-commerce), and ● French, European and American professional federations; lighters and shavers (legislation in Spain’s autonomous communities ● standardization committees for toys, lighters and writing concerning product typologies and end-of-life management). instruments; ● French watchdog groups and intra-sector associations. BIC is a member of the Executive Committees of the main industry associations, and in some cases, has been for many years. 112 • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Societal benefits related to BIC® products 3.6. SOCIETAL BENEFITS RELATED TO BIC® PRODUCTS 3.6.1 WRITING THE FUTURE, 3.6.1.1 The BIC Corporate Foundation TOGETHER– #5bIMPROVING LIVES The BIC Corporate Foundation was born out of the Group’s desire THROUGH EDUCATION to promote its civic activities and structure its philanthropic approach while bolstering BIC team members’ sense of pride and ❯ Challenges and opportunities belonging. Its mission is to support access to education and good quality instruction, putting the emphasis, over the long term, on the The UN Sustainable Development Goal No. 4 is “to ensure inclusive funding of social entrepreneurship and innovation in education. It and equitable quality education and to promote lifelong learning focuses on two main fields, namely reducing the school dropout rate opportunities for all”. It underlines the two key challenges regarding and promoting equal access to education for boys and girls, as well education: access to education and equity in learning. The latest as the advancement of environmental education. UIS (1) report shows that today: The BIC Corporate Foundation Board of Directors consists of nine ● access to education remains a major problem: 263 million members, six from BIC plus three external experts: school-age children do not have access to primary or secondary education. Access to primary education has not ● Runa Khan, founder and President of the NGO Friendship; increased in the past decade, with 9% of all children of primary ● Marine de Bazelaire, Head of Sustainability Continental school age remaining outside of the scholastic system since Europe, HSBC; 2008; ● Jean-Marc Guesné: Associate, Azao Consulting. ● the quality of the instruction is a critical problem: more than Supporting a total of 26 projects in 15 countries, the BIC Corporate 617 million children and teenagers fail to acquire minimum Foundation reached its annual engagement goal in 2019. It also skills in reading and mathematics, even though two-thirds of renewed its annual call for projects for the third time and developed them are in school. communication tools to raise awareness of its actions both within and outside the Group. Upon their request, the Foundation also ❯ Approach contributes its expertise to help BIC teams that want to enter into partnerships to promote educational causes, in particular helping Through its activities of designing, manufacturing and distributing them choose appropriate, reliable partners (NGOs, non-profit writing instruments, BIC Group has long been involved in the organizations, etc.). promotion of education. Firmly convinced that education is crucial for the development of free will and independence, and to combat Examples of projects backed by the BIC Corporate Foundation in poverty, BIC has in particular been an active advocate of writing by each of its main fields of action: hand, even before its importance in the structuring of children’s thought processes was proven. BIC has set the goal of improving Reducing the school dropout rate lives through education and has codified this ambition in the following commitment: By 2025, BIC will improve learning In France, AFEV (Association de la Fondation Étudiante pour la Ville) conditions for 250 million children, globally. seeks to combat inequality, in particular among children and young people who are experiencing social or scholastic difficulties. The The Group acts through three channels: BIC Corporate Foundation supports programs in three cities: ● actions undertaken by the BIC Corporate Foundation; ● in Brest, extension of the individual tutoring program for ● philanthropic actions (donations of products, funding and children and young people who need scholastic help and/or skills) undertaken by local entities for the benefit of their who recently arrived in France; communities (detailed in section 3.6.2); ● in Bordeaux, improvement of the individual tutoring program ● actions to help improve learning conditions, including by developing new courses and educational tools and awareness of the benefits of writing by hand in the learning expanding to a new neighborhood; and memorization processes. ● in Reims, development of an individual tutoring program in two At the end 2019, BIC estimated the number of children whose new underprivileged neighborhoods. learning conditions have been improved through direct actions with A program in a fourth city, Rennes, will be added for the 2020-2022 children or through actions with teachers and parents at 61 million. period. (1) Unesco Institute for Statistics. • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 113 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Societal benefits related to BIC® products Educational opportunities for girls and women 3.6.2 PHILANTHROPIC ACTIONS BY BIC Laboratoria (Latin America) aims to give women from AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES underprivileged areas access to careers in computer technology. By targeting women, Laboratoria also seeks to promote gender ❯ Challenges and opportunities equality in a largely male-dominated sector. In March 2019, the NGO celebrated its 1,000th graduate with an international The philanthropic actions of BIC and its subsidiaries can take three “hackathon” called #hackinginequality. In April 2019, Laboratoria forms: the donation of products, monetary gifts and volunteer opened its new training center in Mexico City. The BIC Corporate work/skills sponsorship. BIC and its subsidiaries favor operations Foundation provides support for the further development of a that benefit local populations near its sites. six-month training program in computer coding that includes participation in projects carried out directly in the workplace, ❯ Approach leading to recruitment by partner companies. Each year, BIC develops and markets charity-linked products, some of which are useful in education. For the consumer, these products Environmental education offer the possibility of spending the same amount of money while Nébéday (Senegal). In Senegal, a country where the current making a humanitarian gesture, because part of the purchase price deforestation rate is the equivalent of 300 football fields every day, is donated to a charitable organization. The organization in turn can the association Nébéday seeks to promote the participative diversify its funding sources and benefit from additional publicity. management of natural resources by and for the local communities And for BIC, it is an opportunity to underline the Group’s civic through education and the responsible development of commitment and boost sales. income-generating activities. The project backed by the BIC In Morocco, BIC launched its second BiblioBIC in 2019 as part of an Corporate Foundation aims to improve environmental education in initiative to renovate libraries in order to give schoolchildren and schools and raise awareness among children through a older students spaces conducive to studying, learning and reforestation campaign. The project will be implemented in Fatick, a knowledge expansion. coastal region that is vulnerable to soil erosion and desertification. In keeping with its commitment to promote education, BIC East Africa worked in Kenya with the association Carolina for Kibera to 3.6.1.2 Awareness and coaching actions donate BIC® pens and BIC® Evolution Red pencils to 171 schools, for the benefit of more than 59,000 underprivileged students in In the learning process, writing by hand is a basic skill that helps Kibera, Nairobi’s largest shantytown. structure the thought process. For this reason, writing instruments are indispensable tools for advancing the improvement of learning In 2019, BIC South Africa renewed its large-scale “Buy a Pen, conditions. In recent years, BIC teams have taken action to support Donate a Pen” charity products campaign. South Africa is a country and facilitate handwriting and promote its importance in children’s that faces enormous educational challenges: more than 2 million of development, especially through: its citizens are illiterate and its unemployment rate exceeds 27%. For this campaign, for each product purchased, BIC South Africa ● initiatives in schools in a number of countries (Côte d’Ivoire, donates one pen to the NGO READ Educational Trust, which Ghana, Morocco, South Africa, Cameroon, Egypt, Spain, India, distributes them to underprivileged children. As in previous years, Morocco, Nigeria, the Philippines, etc.) such as: building the operation was a huge success, with 1.5 million pens once again awareness of the importance of education and writing, the donated, bringing the overall total to 10 million pens in seven years. production of written materials or workshops to offer teachers resources that they can use in class; In the United States, BIC is a national sponsor of the Kids In Need ● for the second time in 2019, a special week was dedicated to Foundation, a non-profit organization whose goal is give every child education. Called “BIC Global Education Week” the opportunity to learn and succeed in school, providing school (November 5-8), the event offered all BIC team members the supplies free of charge to those most in need. For the 16 million opportunity to donate a day of their time to improving learning children living in conditions of extreme poverty, obtaining school conditions in their local community; supplies can be a determining factor in their future success. Every year, KINF helps more than 200,000 teachers and 6.2 million pupils ● BIC Group inaugurated its first ever BIC Cello vocational in the U.S. In its 23 years of existence, KINF has distributed more training center in Karembeli, India. After 500 hours of training than 1 billion U.S. dollars (in retail value) worth of school supplies to and an official exam, students were awarded a certificate. Two children who have no other way to obtain them. cohorts graduated during 2019 and all of them found jobs, at BIC or elsewhere. The third cohort is currently undergoing In India, BIC Cello launched in September 2018, ‘Cello training. The course delivers a state-recognized diploma and is Write-to-Win’, a school initiative aimed at promoting a healthy approved by Center for Entrepreneur Development, Gujarat attitude towards learning and education. The stress and fear of Govt. school failure can often adversely affect children’s social, emotional and academic success. The ‘Cello Write-to-Win’ program has been designed to train students to use handwriting as a tool to learn ❯ Perspectives more efficiently and help them manage the stress levels that come In 2020, BIC will pursue its efforts, continuing to work with key with exams. Since its launch last year, the program has impacted people to promote successful education, as well as pupils and almost 4 million students across India. students, teachers and parents. 114 • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Societal benefits related to BIC® products The program includes two workshops that were developed by a FINANCIAL BREAKDOWN OF ACTIONS – BIC GROUP – 2019 team comprised of certified handwriting analysts and experts from the field of education training. The first workshop, ‘Secret to Education 75% handwriting’, engages students from the 4th to the 6th grade. The session teaches them the techniques they need to develop and enhance their handwriting skills, helping them manage the transition from pencil to pen. The second workshop, Making Exams Stress Free ’, targets older 11% students from the 7th to the 9th grade. The session teaches students Health and four cognitive techniques that help them to enhance their learning emergency aid and memorization skills and enable them to prepare better for their exams. The workshop also trains students on writing with speed 14% while maintaining precision. Other (environment, sports, etc.) BIC also continues to support various sponsorship actions in the fields of health, emergency aid and in favor of sports. ❯ Performance BREAKDOWN OF ACTIONS BY NUMBER – BIC GROUP – 2019 In 2019, product donations and financial aid worldwide represented 2 million euros (internal valuation), primarily in education (1), health and emergency aid. These two sectors represent 84% of BIC’s community activities in number and 86% in financial value. Education 63% 21% Health and emergency aid Group objective achieved: thebcontribution toward communities isbmore than 0.70% of pretax profit. 16% Other (environment, sports, etc.) 208 philanthropic projects involving volunteer work, product donations andbfinancial aid carried out worldwide inb2019 (all fields combined). (1) For this indicator, all philanthropic actions in favor of education, including those carried out under commitmentb# 5, are considered • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 115 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Societal benefits related to BIC® products 3.6.3 MAKING OUR PRODUCTS 3.6.4 EXPERIMENTING WITH AFFORDABLE TObALL INNOVATIVE ALTERNATIVE DISTRIBUTION MODES THROUGH ❯ Challenges and opportunities A SOCIAL BUSINESS INITIATIVE BIC Group is guided by a vision: “To offer simple, inventive and reliable choices for everyone, everywhere, every time”. For BIC ❯ Challenges and opportunities Group, making products that everyone can afford means adapting The expression “bottom of the pyramid” (BOP) designates the them to markets in developing countries. The pens and shavers lowest-income populations, for whom most consumer goods remain marketed by BIC in more than 160 countries promote access to unaffordable, primarily because they are designed for more affluent education and personal care. BIC is thus contributing to social populations at the “top of the pyramid”. Today it is estimated that progress around the world. more than three billion people in the world live on less than three In 2019, 32% of the Group’s turnover came from these growth U.S. dollars per day. In keeping with its vision of offering “simple, markets. inventive and reliable choices for everyone, everywhere, every time”, BIC Group explores ways to make products available that ❯ Approach and progress made in 2019 meet the needs of BOP populations. Its longstanding commitment to sustainable development and the BIC® brand’s reputation for BIC Group’s approach consists of adapting all possible parameters offering high-quality products at an affordable price are among the to make its products affordable: Group’s key assets for playing an active role in these markets. ● building close relations between its production units and their distribution markets. In 2019, BIC strengthened its position in ❯ Approach Africa with the acquisition of a 100% share in Lucky Stationery Nigeria Ltd, Nigeria’s leading manufacturer of writing An internal qualitative study conducted in 2018 showed that, apart instruments. With this acquisition, BIC is bolstering its from a few niches, BIC® products are mostly well-suited for the presence on the Tanzanian, Ethiopian and Ugandan markets; widest possible public, and that BIC team members are convinced that inclusive distribution is a useful leverage point for meeting the ● creating products for growth markets; needs of consumers at the bottom of the pyramid. The Group’s ● adapting BIC® products to the buying power of emerging approach is based on the launch of nine financially viable inclusive countries; distribution projects, with the aim of identifying three to be ● completely rethinking the packaging, in order to market maintained over the long term. products in packs of only one or two items; To that end, BIC is focusing on the development of partnerships ● offering the best functionality at the best price, setting an with major companies that have established their own distribution optimal fair price for BIC® products in collaboration with local modes. retailers, in consideration of local consumption trends and selling price thresholds; ❯ Progress made in 2019 ● developing innovative distribution models, relying on local retailers to develop appropriate distribution channels, such as In 2019, BIC initiated the creation of an application that will record individual kiosks, micro-shops or service outlets near schools. sales in real time for each point of sale. In Madagascar, BIC has developed a project for a network of itinerant vendors. The project in Senegal was improved in preparation for the deployment of the real-time sales monitoring application, and other projects are ongoing in Ghana, Cameroon and Morocco. 116 • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Milestonesb[NFPS] 3.7. MILESTONESb[NFPS] 3.7.1 EXTRA-FINANCIAL RATINGS and best environmental practices. When appropriate or when required by law, BIC carries out studies of the soil and subsoil, In 2019, BIC was listed on the following socially responsible although most sites are not subject to compulsory examination. investment indexes: Studies of pollution at European plants that had been in operation for many years demonstrate that the Group’s activities do not have ● CDP Climat 2019: Leadership Level A(see page 89); a significant impact on soil and subsoil. For French plants subject to ● CDP Supplier Engagement Rating 2019: Leadership Level A-; specific regulatory requirements, the policy for preventing the risk ● The FTSE4Good Index; of soil pollution is an integral part of the operating plan. ● The Ethibel Pioneer and Ethibel Excellence Investment Noise and odor impact Registers; Odor is considered an insignificant aspect in the Group’s product ● The Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) Excellence Europe; molding, assembly and printing activities. ● The STOXX Global ESG Leaders Index. Concerning noise impact, measures are taken within the property limits in order to fulfill administrative requirements according to local regulations. If any noise pollution is brought to the Group’s attention in the future, studies will be conducted and any 3.7.2 PERIMETER AND SELECTION appropriate corrective actions implemented. OFbINDICATORS Fighting against food waste, combating food insecurity and promoting responsible, fair trade, sustainable food The reporting period covered by the present report is from January 1 to December 31, 2019. Although these are not key issues for BIC, the Group holds regular awareness events for team members in its company restaurants, especially in Brazil and France. 3.7.2.1 Information not included in the Non-Financial Performance Statement 3.7.2.2 Reporting perimeter of indicators In compliance with article L. 225-102-1 of the French Commercial Regarding the indicators that refer to human resources, the Code, BIC does not include the following topics in its Non-Financial reporting perimeter encompasses all permanent employees of all Performance Statement, because they do not represent major French and foreign operational units within the Group, with the challenges, risks or opportunities for the Group. exception of information on training and the disabled, for which temporary employees are included. In 2018, the activities of Cello Impact on biodiversity Pens have been included in the reporting perimeter for these The Group’s effect on biodiversity takes place primarily through its indicators. land use (industrial, logistical and administrative sites). To evaluate The environment indicators concern the operations that have a this impact, BIC relies on a “site approach”. A cartographic analysis significant impact, namely the industrial activities owned by the of the physical surroundings of each BIC(1) factory was carried out in Group. These indicators therefore concern BIC factories that 2011. The majority of BIC’s factories are in non-sensitive (in most produce finished or semi-finished products, as well as its cases industrial) zones, and neither their land use, nor their engineering units and packaging operations of more than operations, pose any evident risk to their surroundings. In places 50 employees or whose operations are regulated by government where there are specific obligations, the management systems directives such as SEVESO (EU), PSM or RMP (U.S.). Group address the problem and enable follow-up. headquarters with more than 200 permanent employees are also included in the reporting. Air, water and soil release that seriously affect the environment In 2019, the Cello Karambeli stationery factory was added to the The nature of Group’s manufacturing operations, primarily the perimeter. molding and assembly of plastic products and printing of products, has a relatively low local environmental impact compared with other For health and safety indicators, all Group sites (offices or industrial manufacturing sectors. Nevertheless, the BIC Sustainable sites) are included in the perimeter. Development Program, based on the EH&S Policy, requires each In 2019, two Cello sites, Cello Plastic Products and Cello Stationery site to measure, evaluate and reduce their significant environmental Division, were removed from the environment-health-safety impacts. perimeter, and in China, the China Test Lab-STL Team office was closed. The Cello Karambeli site was added to the reporting Conditions for use of soil perimeter. In Europe and the United States, where most of the Group’s sites HACO Industries Kenya entity is excluded from the perimeter for are located, whenever an industrial site is closed, BIC ensures that all indicators. plant decommissioning is performed in accordance with local laws (1) The study perimeter does not include Cello Pens. • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 117 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Milestonesb[NFPS] 3.7.2.3 Indicators Percentage of BIC® products with at least one environmental benefit The published indicators are chosen to best represent BIC’s main social and environmental challenges. BIC has defined environmental benefits for its products by complying with at least one of the following criteria as follows: The inventory of BIC’s activities for the benefit of communities is compiled from information and data sent annually by the ● light and long lasting (writing instrument ≤ 3 g per km; management of each subsidiary. This reporting is an estimate of correction tape ≤ 1.8 g per m; lighter ≤ 8 g per 1,000 flames; project numbers and value. shaver ≤ 1 g per shaving); The financial indicators, those referring to Human Resources, ● made from alternative materials (recycled, vegetable workers’ accidents and the environment are compiled using several origin, etc.); data collection systems that give preference to the use of dedicated ● refillable; Intranet tools, under the responsibility of their respective ● ecolabeled (NF Environnement, etc.). departments. The consistency of the data is verified before This indicator is calculated on the number of units and concerns the consolidation. products of the three main categories (excluding PIMACO and Concerning environmental and health and safety reporting, and for Cello Pens activities). For the Lighters category, only lighters are packaging data, to ensure that the published data is more reliable, considered. For the Stationery and Shavers categories, refills are information from previous years may be corrected when necessary. considered in the calculation. The environmental indicators are normalized to production so that their measurements are less affected by variations in production Share of the BIC® product portfolio assessed using the volumes. However, it should be noted that these indicators also Sustainable Scorcard include elements that are not correlated to production, such as In 2019, the perimeter of application for this indicator is as follows: energy consumption for the heating and lighting of buildings, which correlates more closely to climatic conditions. ● Stationery: all writing, marking, coloring and correction products excluding: Cello® products, Sheaffer® products, In addition, for BIC, the term “water consumption” is understood to products under license, unbranded writing instruments, sticky mean total water withdrawal, regardless of any subsequent notes, certain specific writing products (Stypen Easy Clic, treatment or emissions of wastewater. Fountain Xpen, Gilbert products, Velleda® whiteboards), some Concerning environmental indicators, the classification of the type coloring products (paints, gouache, glitter pens); of waste treatment is based on the channels to which they are ● Shavers: one-piece products, hybrid products excluding directed. products in the System family; Concerning the reporting of greenhouse gases emissions, the ● Lighters: pocket lighters, and excluding products from the conversion factors for scope 1 are from the French Environment Utility family. and Energy Management Agency (ADEME) carbon database (version 2.20.0). Conversion factors for scope 2 “location based” Percentage of responsible materials for packaging emissions are those proposed annually by the International Energy Agency (IEA). Unless otherwise indicated, the indirect emissions This indicator includes all packaged BIC® products delivered to the correspond to scope 2 emissions using a location-based approach. Group’s customers all over the world (except pallets): consumer packaging (pouch, blister, cardboard box), outer/inner, shrink-wrap, In addition, to ensure transparency, some indicators have been lighter displays, etc. It is calculated on material weight and concerns more specifically detailed below: the products of the three main categories (excluding PIMACO, BIC Ecuador, BIC Nantong and Cello Pens activities). Greenhouse gas emissions related to purchase of raw materials Percentage of air freight This indicator includes the main raw materials used in the products The scope of this indicator is the inter-site shipping, i.e. all the of the three main categories, including Cello (since 2018) and the factory to factory and factory to warehouse shipments Stationery activity of BIC Sport (France) and in the packaging (BIC factories and warehouses, contract manufacturers; inter and reported in the indicator “Percentage of responsible materials for intra-continental). It is expressed in tons/kilometer and concerns all packaging” for the three main categories (excluding PIMACO, BIC Group activities. In 2018, the activities of Cello Pens were included Ecuador, BIC Nantong and Cello Pens activities). in the reporting perimeter for this indicator. Emission factors were updated in 2019: The emission factors used are taken from the French Environment and Energy Management Agency (ADEME) carbon database (version 2.20.0). Percentage of contract manufacturers audited The indicator applies to all contract manufacturers of finished products. The rating system measures the level of performance of each contract manufacturer based on the social indicators of the Group Code of Conduct. This indicator concerns all Group activities except Cello Pens. 118 • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Milestonesb[NFPS] Writing the Future, Together –b#5 Improving lives This corresponds to the impact of the action on a teacher for at least through education 3 years and to the worldwide average of a class of 30 children (3 x 30 = 90 children per teacher). The number of children whose learning conditions have been improved by BIC is an estimation of children reached by direct As a result, the 2018 impact figure was also revised and increased actions and/or impacted through actions towards teachers, deans to 30.6 million children impacted or parents. This number is a minimum because some of the actions carried by BIC may not be reported. The present report follows the methodological recommendations of In 2019, the methodology for estimating the number of children the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The GRI indicators used in the affected by an action through teachers changed: 1 teacher directly report are referenced in the cross-reference table for impacted is reported as 90 children (indirect impact). environmental and social indicators (page 324). • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 119 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Milestonesb[NFPS] 3.7.3 INDICATORS TABLE Environmental indicators Unit 2017 2018 2019 Management systems of factories Factories with environmental and health & safety management systems (or with implementation under way) % 84.0 83.0 83.0 Energy consumption Annual energy consumption Gigajoules 1,190,167 1,176,465 1,149,930 Share of electricity of renewable origin % 23 68 76 Annual energy consumption normalized to production Gigajoules per ton 11.98 12.14 12.59 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions Total amount of annual GHG emissions (location based) tCO2eq 102,681 98,283 97,711 • Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) (location based) tCO2eq 8,637 9,813 9,278 • Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) (location based) tCO2eq 94,043 88,470 88,432 Total amount of annual GHG emissions GES (market based) tCO2eq 68,524 58,646 45,827 • Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) market-based tCO2eq 59,887 48,829 36,549 Total ratio of annual GHG emissions to production tCO2eq/ton 1.033 1.014 1.070 GHG emissions related to raw material purchase tCO2eq 276,000 316,000 347,000 GHG emissions related to intra-company transport(1) tCO2eq 67,000 37,000 34,000 Water consumption Annual water consumption m3 542,290 515,296 444,840 Ratio of annual water consumption to production m per ton 3 5.46 5.32 4.87 Waste production Annual waste production Tons 21,430 20,515 20, 049 • Non-hazardous industrial waste Tons 18,171 16,908 16,526 • Hazardous industrial waste Tons 3,259 3,607 3,522 Ratio of annual production of industrial waste to production Tons/tons 0.216 0.212 0.220 Recycled waste % 64 64 65 Recovered waste (recycled or incinerated with energy recovery) % 79 78 81 Transportation GHG emissions related to intra-company transport (1) tCO2eq/ton 0.536 0.345 0.291 Intra-company transport operated without air freight % 98.08 99.07 99.25 Products Number of products certified with the French NF Environnement ecolabel 19 19 19 Number of products that have at least one environmental benefit(2) % >50.0 >50.0 >50.0 Packaging BIC cardboard packaging from a certified and/or recycled source % 94.34 94.16 95.7 BIC plastic packaging PVC free % 88.46 87.90 92.1 Other Indicators Provisions and guarantees for environmental risks(3) Million euros Compensation paid during the fiscal year under court order Million euros (1) Not taking into account transport by road in sea and air travels. (2) Excluding Cello Pens. (3) Guarantees received regarding the environment are listed in Note 26 “Off-balance sheet commitments: sureties, deposits and guarantees” to the consolidated financial statements for the year. 120 • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Milestonesb[NFPS] Social indicators Unit 2017 2018 2019 Group workforce Total workforce (full-time equivalent) 18,848 16,955 16,794 • Permanent employees 14,936 13,664 12,777 • Temporary workers 3,912 3,291 4,017 Voluntary turnover % 8 14 13 Permanent workforce by region Percentage of permanent workforce by region • Europe % 26.9 30.0 31.0 • North America % 5.4 5.0 6.0 • Developing countries % 67.7 65.0 63.0 Permanent workforce by activity Percentage of permanent workforce by activity • Manufacturing and R&D % 77 75 74 • Distribution, marketing et G&A % 11 13 13 • Sales force and customer service % 12 12 13 Training, career management and engagement Percentage of employees that have received training % 75(1) 68 60 Number of training days Days 17,732(1) 19,511 16,629 Number of training days per employee Days 2.2(1) 2.0 2.2 Number of training hours per theme Hours 141,859(1) 220,042(1) 133,035 • Technical training Hours 91,189(1) 154,564(1) 100,725 • Leadership skills Hours 16,985(1) 27,827(1) 5,607 • BIC culture Hours 27,110 (1) 23,738 (1) 11,814 • Health & Wellbeing Hours 6,575(1) 13,905(1) 14,889 Internal promotion rate among managers (highest levels: 3 to 6) • External recruitment % 31 38 41 • Internal recruitment % 69 62 59 Participation rate in surveys % NA 93 NA Internal development moves and promotion rate % 30 25 25 Diversity Percentage of women in management and workforce % 40(1) 49 48 • Board of Directors % 40(1) 40 50 • Executive Committee % 13(1) 14 25 • Managers (highest levels: 3 to 6) % 29(1) 32 32 Safety Incidence rate of workers’ accidents – BIC workforce (accidents with Number/million temporary or permanent incapacity) hours worked 1.87 2.09 1.85 Incidence rate of workers’ accidents – BIC workforce and temporary Number/million workers (accidents with temporary or permanent incapacity) hours worked 1.80 2.14 1.87 Severity rate of workers’ accidents – BIC workforce (days of Number/thousand temporary incapacity) hours worked 0.08 0.08 0.06 Absenteeism Absenteeism rate (excluding on-site accidents and maternity) % 0.8 0.8 0.9 (1) Excluding Cello Pens. • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 121 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Milestonesb[NFPS] Societal indicators Unit 2017 2018 2019 Respect for Human Right in the workplace Net sales from BIC® products manufactured in its own factories % 90 92 92 BIC permanent employees working in countries with no Human Rights risk (1) % 80 87 87 BIC factories located in countries with no Human Rights risk (1) % 91 87 83 Contract manufacturers located in countries with no Human Rights risk (1) % 36 32 33 Net sales in countries with no Human Rights risk (1) % 84.9 84.0 83.0 Sponsorship Contribution to communities (percentage of the Group’s pretax profit) % >0.5 >0.5 >0.7 (1) Source: Freedom House 122 • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Milestonesb[NFPS] 3.7.4 REPORT OF ONE OF THE STATUTORY AUDITORS, APPOINTED AS INDEPENDENT THIRD PARTY, ON THE CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English-speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional standards applicable in France. Société BIC However, it is not our responsibility to provide any conclusion on: Société Anonyme ● the Company’s compliance with other applicable legal and regulatory provisions, particularly with regard to the duty of 14, rue Jeanne d’Asnières vigilance, anti-corruption and taxation nor on the compliance 92611 Clichy Cedex of products and services with the applicable regulations. For the year ended December 31, 2019 Nature and scope of procedures To the Shareholders, We performed our work in accordance with Articles A. 225 1 et seq. of the French Commercial Code defining the conditions under which In our capacity as Statutory Auditor of BIC SA, appointed as the independent third party performs its engagement and the independent third party and accredited by COFRAC under number professional guidance issued by the French Institute of Statutory 3-1048 (scope of accreditation available at www.cofrac.fr), we Auditors (Compagnie nationale des commissaires aux comptes) hereby report to you on the consolidated non financial statement for relating to this engagement and with ISAE 3000 (Assurance the year ended December 31, 2019 (hereinafter the “Statement”), engagements other than audits or reviews of historical financial presented in the group management report pursuant to the legal and information). regulatory provisions of Articles L. 225 102-1, R. 225-105 and R. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce). We conducted procedures in order to assess the Statement's compliance with regulatory provisions, and the fairness of the Information: Company’s responsibility ● we familiarized ourselves with the Group’s business activity The Board of Directors is responsible for preparing a Statement and the description of the principal risks associated. pursuant to legal and regulatory provisions, including a presentation ● we assessed the suitability of the Guidelines with respect to of the business model, a description of the main extra-financial risks, their relevance, completeness, reliability, neutrality and clarity, a presentation of the policies implemented with respect to these taking into account, where appropriate, best practices within risks as well as the results of these policies, including key the sector. performance indicators. The Statement has been prepared by applying the company’s procedures (hereinafter the “Guidelines”), ● we verified that the Statement covers each category of summarized in the Statement and available on request from its information stipulated in section III of Article L. 225 102 1 headquarters. governing social and environmental affairs, the respect for human rights and the fight against corruption and tax evasion. ● we verified that the Statement provides the information Independence and quality control required under article R. 225-105 II of the French Commercial Our independence is defined by the requirements of article L. Code, where relevant with respect to the principal risks, and 822-11-3 of the French Commercial Code and the French Code of includes, where applicable, an explanation for the absence of Ethics for Statutory Auditors (Code de déontologie). In addition, we the information required under article L. 225-102-1 III, have implemented a system of quality control including documented paragraph 2 of the French Commercial Code. policies and procedures regarding compliance with the ethical ● we verified that the Statement presents the business model requirements, French professional standards and applicable legal and a description of principal risks associated with all the and regulatory requirements. entity’s activities, including where relevant and proportionate, the risks associated with its business relationships, its products Responsibility of the statutory auditor appointed as or services, as well as its policies, measures and the outcomes thereof, including key performance indicators associated to independent third party the principal risks. Based on our work, our responsibility is to express a limited ● we referred to documentary sources and conducted assurance conclusion on: interviews to: ● the compliance of the Statement with the requirement of • assess the process used to identify and confirm the principal article R. 225-105 of the French Commercial Code; risks as well as the consistency of the outcomes, including ● the fairness of the information provided pursuant to part 3 of the key performance indicators used, with respect to the sections I and II of Article R. 225-105 of the French principal risks and the policies presented, and Commercial Code, i.e. the outcomes of policies, including key performance indicators, and measures relating to the main risks, hereinafter the “Information.” • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 123 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,bAND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Milestonesb[NFPS] • corroborate the qualitative information (measures and Means and resources outcomes) that we considered to be the most important(1); concerning the information related to the risk of corruption Our work engaged the skills of six people between September 2019 and non-respect of human rights, and for the other and March 2020. qualitative information, our work was carried out on the To assist us in conducting our work, we referred to our corporate consolidating entity; social responsibility and sustainable development experts. We ● we verified that the Statement covers the consolidated scope, conducted around a dozen of interviews with people responsible for i.e. all companies within the consolidation scope in accordance preparing the Statement. with Article L. 233-16, with the limits specified in the Statement. Conclusion ● we obtained an understanding of internal control and risk management procedures the entity has put in place and Based on our work, nothing has come to our attention that cause us assessed the data collection process to ensure the to believe that the non financial statement does not comply with the completeness and fairness of the Information. applicable regulatory provisions and that the Information, taken as a whole, is not fairly presented in accordance with the Guidelines. ● we carried out, for the key performance indicators and other quantitative outcomes(2) that in our judgment were of most significance: Comments • analytical procedures that consisted in verifying the correct Without qualifying the conclusion expressed above and in consolidation of collected data as well as the consistency of accordance with Article A. 225-3 of the French Commercial Code, changes thereto, we make the following comment: • substantive tests, on a sampling basis, that consisted in ● as mentioned in the methodological milestones of the verifying the proper application of definitions and non-financial statement, the reporting perimeter is limited for procedures and reconciling data with supporting some indicators (including those related to packaging, to the documents. These procedures were conducted for a products that have at least one environmental benefit and to selection of contributing entities(3) and covered between the audits of contract manufacturers that do not cover Cello 26% and all the consolidated data for the key performance Pens). indicators and outcomes selected for these tests; ● we assessed the overall consistency of the Statement in relation to our knowledge of the company. Paris-La Défense, March 23, 2020 We believe that the procedures we have performed, based on our professional judgment, are sufficient to provide a basis for a limited assurance conclusion; a higher level of assurance would have required us to carry out more extensive procedures. One of the Statutory Auditors, Deloitte & Associés Jean-Pierre Agazzi Julien Rivals Partner, Audit Partner, Sustainability Services (1) Progress of the Writing the Future, Together program in 2019: Evaluation of the environmental and/or societal footprint of products (commitmentb#1), Responsible sourcing involving strategic suppliers (commitment #4) Other qualitative information: Evaluation of indirect greenhouse gas emissions (scope 3) and approach to limit these emissions, Measures for team member development, Ethics and anti-corruption approach (2) Progress of the Writing the Future, Together program in 2019: Share of electricity of renewable origin (commitment #2), Incidence rates of workers’ accidents for BIC workforce and temporary workers (commitment #3), Estimated number of children whose learning conditions have been improved (commitment #5); Other quantitative information: Products and packaging: Percentage of BIC® products with at least one environmental benefit, Percentage of recycled plastics used in the manufacturing of Stationery products, Percentage of cardboard packaging from a certified and/or recycled source, Percentage of plastic packaging PVC free; Environment: Annual energy consumption normalized to production, Percentage of intra-company transport operated without air freight, Direct (scope 1) and indirect (scope 2) GHG emissions (location-based and market-based), GHG emissions related to intra-company transport (scope 3), GHG emissions related to raw materials purchase (scope 3), Ratio of annual production of non-hazardous and hazardous industrial waste to production, Percentage of recovered waste (recycled or incinerated with energy recovery); Safety: Severity rate of workers’ accidents for BIC workforce; Human resources: Workforce as of December 31st, Percentage of women managers, Number of recruitments and terminations, Percentage of employees that have received training, Absenteeism rate (3) BJ75 Redon (France), BIC Stationery Mexico (Mexico), BIC Shavers Mexico (Mexico), Toreo office (Mexico), BIC South Africa (South Africa), Cello Pens (India) 124 • BIC GROUP 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT •
