2019 Corporate Social Responsibility TABLE OF CONTENTS 3 LETTER FROM THE CEO 5 SNAPSHOT OF SAS IMPACT 6 EDUCATION & PHILANTHROPY 15 DATA FOR GOOD 22 ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM 41 EMPLOYEES & CULTURE 48 GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT 57 ABOUT THIS REPORT 62 GRI INDEX LETTER FROM THE CEO As the world pulled together to combat the immediacy of the COVID-19 pandemic, we were reminded of our interconnection and the global ripple effect we all have with one another. This realization should inspire humanity to see how critical it is to look long-term and rise together to protect our planet and our communities. At SAS, we believe when there’s strength in numbers, we can do great things. Technology is key to make changes that can have a real impact in our data-rich world – something we have seen through our decades-long work of connecting analytics and advocacy. For decades, SAS has combined corporate social responsibility and innovation with our software to address economic, social and environmental issues. Our support for the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals is visible in our efforts to ensure quality education for students worldwide, to improve overall health and well-being, and to promote climate action. Each of these initiatives are highlighted in this year’s report, which spotlights our continued efforts to advocate for education, sustainability and work/life integration. Even in the midst of the pandemic, SAS quickly stepped up to provide a data analytics resource hub to help businesses and individuals combat the virus through free tools and resources as well as no-cost online learning offerings. SAS’ dedication to social innovation initiatives and focus on education began early: Our company started as a university project in 1967 contributing to improving farming practices. So it’s no surprise that our greatest philanthropic spotlight targets education. SAS is committed to integrating technology into all levels of education to bridge the skills gap, starting with K-12 students. We have developed relevant resources for data literacy, computational thinking and coding to educate the future data scientists of the world. In fact, education was a key pillar of our $1 billion artificial intelligence investment, announced in 2019. With technology rapidly changing, we are focused on helping a new generation gain the skills needed to adapt in the competitive landscape and succeed. Making a difference in the world is the cornerstone of our long-running Data for Good effort, where we are committed to helping solve critical global issues using data and analytics. This includes SAS’ free GatherIQ™ app, where users can learn about the 17 global Sustainable Development Goals and what organizations are doing to address them. As part of our social innovaLetter from the CEO / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 4 tion initiative, SAS works to find creative ways to accelerate global progress and move the world toward a more sustainable future, from helping children who’ve lost their parents and eliminating water poverty to protecting biodiversity and saving the Amazon rainforest. This dedication to serving the greater good and our community begins with taking care of our employees. Our diverse workforce brings unique talents and inspires teams to create software that can change the world. In times where racial inequity has risen to the forefront, we strengthen our commitment to diversity and inclusion by looking for ways to take action such as providing Racism and Unconscious Bias training, expanding employee listening sessions, implementing a Diversity & Inclusion Action Board, and re-evaluating our employee programs and practices, to name a few. Challenging situations afford us the opportunity for learning, growing and making positive change. To create and innovate, employees must feel free to be their authentic selves. We rely on our diversity of thought, background and perspectives to deliver great software that can solve our customers’ biggest challenges. This belief has garnered recognition for SAS’ culture for both its innovative environment and as a best employer for diversity. In addition to helping customers with their sustainability efforts, we also use our analytics to help drive SAS’ sustainability at our campus headquarters and global offices. From energy conservation and solar projects connected by our smart campus technology to green buildings, recycling and boosting bee populations, we continue to foster a sustainable workplace while reducing our environmental footprint. As an update to our company’s climate strategy, SAS has committed to achieving net-zero carbon emissions by 2050. While we all are trying to adapt to our new normal amidst COVID-19, SAS’ values still hold true – we treat people like they matter and work together with each other and our customers to make a better, safer world. I am proud to share the highlights of our environmental, social and economic efforts in this year’s Corporate Social Responsibility report. SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2020, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. G119642_US.0720 SNAPSHOT OF SAS IMPACT Education & Philanthropy • Education was a key pillar of the company’s $1 billion AI investAlso, more than 130,000 people registered for free e-learning ment, announced in 2019. courses in statistics and programming. • For preschool-12, SAS offers free digital tools, resources and • The SAS Education division provides training and teaching apps through Curriculum Pathways.® More than 2.5 million materials to help professors and instructors incorporate SAS educators and students used the resources in 2019. into their teaching. In 2019, 8,575 no-cost teaching kits were • In 2019, SAS volunteers conducted Hours of Code that downloaded and used by educators across the globe. introduced more than 2,000 students to careers in STEM • SAS donated more than $222 million in total to nonprofits during national Computer Science Education Week. across the globe in 2019, including $221 million of in-kind • Downloads and registrations of the no-cost registrations of training, software, hardware, services, volunteer time, and free SAS® software for academics topped 2 million in 2019. surplus equipment and furniture. Data for Good • With GatherIQ,™ SAS is bringing global issues into the classroom. • Improved fundraising efforts for vital cancer research. The free app details 17 Global Goals set by the United Nations • Built a legacy of inclusion at the Special Olympics World Games for a better world and can inspire the next generation of with data-driven technology. changemakers to help solve sustainability issues. • Advanced mental health care with predictive analytics. • Operationalized analytics to track, treat and inhibit the spread of • Used technology to protect vulnerable children. COVID-19. • Increased speed and accuracy of tumor evaluations. • Helped NatureServe protect biodiversity with artificial intelligence. Environment • Achieved 2020 goal of adding 50% more charging stations at • Carbon use intensity for office buildings decreased 10.1% to 10.4 SAS headquarters, from 42 to 65 — a 55% increase. CO2 pounds per square foot. The 58% improvement exceeds • SAS earned LEED certifications for its Toronto location (PlatiSAS’ 2025 goal of 50% over the 2010 intensities base year. num) and for its largest office building, which opened in 2019 • Diverted 49% of operational and construction waste from at world headquarters (Gold) and was also recognized with a landfills globally. Sustainable Business Award by the US Green Business Council. • Generated 3.8 million kWh of clean, renewably sourced energy • At the end of 2019, SAS emissions dropped 3.9%– 23.5% lower from rooftop and ground-mounted solar systems. than its 2011 baseline year. • Energy use intensity for office buildings decreased 5.1% and 14.5 kWh per square foot — a 37.4% improvement over the 2010 intensities base year. Employees & Culture • Commitment to diversity and inclusion through CEO Action • In the US, the average SAS employee tenure is 12.4 years, for Diversity and Inclusion pledge, Employee Inclusion Groups, compared to an industry average of 4.2 years. diversity and inclusion programs and partnerships. • At the end of 2019, SAS had 14,026 employees • Forbes ranked SAS as one of America’s Best Employers worldwide and hired 1,423 employees during the year. for Diversity. • Approximately 96% of employees participated in • SAS won many workplace awards including ranking in the top professional training, totaling 183,500 hours. 10 of the World’s Best Workplace by Great Place to Work® and Fast Company’s Best Workplace for Innovators. SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2020, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. G119646_US.0720 EDUCATION & PHILANTHROPY Meeting the challenges of tomorrow The rise of new technologies demands a new generation of skills. For decades, SAS has supported education at all levels to shrink the analytics skills gap and prepare more students for college, work and success in the analytics economy. Education was a key pillar of the company’s $1 billion AI investment, announced in 2019. SAS has deep roots in academia. Its founders were part of a consortium of eight universities to analyze vast amounts of agricultural data. These bold minds were pioneers in using data for the greater good. Decades later, education is still its primary philanthropic focus. From preschoolers to graduate students, SAS supports countless educational programs to help students from all backgrounds reach their full potential as future leaders and innovators. As an essential part of its commitment to education and philanthropy, SAS contributes to charitable initiatives in the US and abroad to build stronger foundations for brighter futures. By driving efforts to improve education and society, SAS embraces its role in the greater global community. Preschool 12 Education Data is everywhere and is the driving force behind much of today’s innovation, but rarely do students have the opportunity to work with data in authentic, meaningful experiences beyond the math classroom. Thus, many students are not achieving data literacy. As the global analytics leader, SAS is uniquely positioned to be a pioneer in educating students on data literacy and computer science. SAS is committed to developing relevant resources for data literacy, computational thinking and coding to educate future data scientists. Examples include the free app CodeSnaps, which teaches fundamentals of coding using robots and is perfect for classroom lessons. Another is Math Stretch, which provides a suite of activities that develops elementary math skills and number sense. For preschool-12, SAS offers free digital tools, resources and apps through Curriculum Pathways.® More than 2.5 million educators and students used the resources in 2019. SAS is also bringing global issues into the classroom with GatherIQ.™ The free app is based on the 17 global Sustainable Development Goals set by the United Nations for a better world. Users can download the app to learn more about the goals while exploring global issues through interactive data visualizations, quizzes and other multimedia activities. Education & Philanthropy / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 7 In 2019, SAS participated in a book drive at a Raleigh, NC, elementary school, benefiting Wake Up and Read, to show how the power of data literacy can drive meaningful results and pique the curiosity of young learners. Leading up to the book drive, SAS posed data-driven questions to students about what types and genres of books kids preferred. By understanding the value of data in the problem-solving process, students were able to consider the types of books donated rather than the number of books collected. At the end of the book drive, not only did the students beat last year’s donations, but they were able to collect nearly 3,000 books of interest to students. It should come as no surprise that teaching children to read at an early age sets them up for greater success in school. In fact, students who can’t read proficiently by the end of third grade are four times more likely to leave school before graduating. SAS is a strong advocate for better reading proficiency among young children and for providing more 4year-olds access to high-quality pre-kindergarten classrooms. “Providing kids from lower-income families with a good education is a path out of poverty.” Jim Goodnight, SAS CEO Global and National Efforts Support for STEM Careers SAS STEM Career Day –in conjunction with Hour of Code, STEM Career Showcase for Students with Disabilities, and Computer Science Education Week – saw SAS volunteers venturing into classrooms to generate enthusiasm about careers in STEM. Employees engaged students with realworld examples, shared insights from their own careers and emphasized how school prepared them for success. In 2019, SAS volunteers conducting Hours of Code introduced more than 2,000 students to this national effort. SAS also supports other organizations devoted to improving the quality of education, including the Institute for Emerging Issues, BEST NC, NC Public School Forum, Business Roundtable and other nonprofit organizations. Discover. Lead. Solve. SAS has always been passionate about enabling curious Global Education Initiatives and capable people to transform the world. To stir the Employees at offices around the world participated in kind of curiosity that leads to transformation, people need several preschool-12 projects that supported education to be reached early on – long before students ever enter initiatives. Here are a few examples: the workforce. In 2019, 120 high school students traveled • SAS has tapped into its global employee population to to SAS world headquarters to attend Discover. Lead. help kids around the world learn the fundamentals of Solve., an annual event designed for students taking SAS® computer programming. SAS offices in 21 countries and programming courses to see beyond code and connect five US states have received CodeSnaps kits so that to the broader impact of SAS technology. With the help employees can conduct coding lessons with local schools of SAS employees, students walked away with a better and nonprofits. CodeSnaps is a free app that teaches understanding of why SAS skills are so important – not just coding basics by enticing students to actively work as a resume builder but to help them change the world. Education & Philanthropy / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 8 together to control Sphero, an app-enabled robotic ball º A program to help intellectually disabled students that students command using code and an iPad.® to become more confident and independent. • SAS Canada participated in helping students through Projects included donations to help create a programs such as the Market Lane Reading Buddies vocational training center and day care facility and Program and the Junior Achievers Governors Gala. to address transportation needs. Employees also purchased goods made by the students. • SAS China donated books to elementary school students. • SAS Middle East launched its first diversity and inclusion • SAS India built a new science lab for a local organization initiative in the Middle East to promote Women In Tech. that provides quality education to several villages by They organized an event for high school girls to encourage Rohida Fort. SAS R&D India also has many educational their interest in STEM careers. The event was met with great programs including: feedback and the office plans to conduct more in the º A partnership with Sumati Balwan, a school for future with additional schools. underprivileged and/or orphaned students, is • SAS Poland donated 21 computers to a local school in need. supporting construction of a new building and outdoor classroom to be completed in 2020. • SAS Spain participated in an initiative to promote interest Employees also introduced the students to in STEM careers to at-risk children. coding using robots and CodeSnaps. • SAS United Kingdom/Ireland donated IT equipment to local schools. Local Efforts STEM Career Showcase for SAS Education Policy Priorities Students With Disabilities To increase third-grade reading proficiency in North Carolina, SAS partnered with the North Carolina Museum of Natural SAS is leading a group of North Carolina business leaders who Sciences to create an annual event where students with are advocating for policy changes to increase early literacy. disabilities in grades six through 12 interact with college This effort resulted in significant increases in state funding for students and professionals with a variety of disabilities who NC Pre-K, a high-quality program for four-year-olds. NC Pre-K have forged successful career paths in STEM fields. Students has proven, lasting results such as increased reading and math network with role models who are pushing the boundaries of proficiency and reductions in special education placements knowledge, building innovative products and creating the and the likelihood of being held back a grade. technologies of the future. The 2019 event was attended by In addition, SAS is focused on helping pre-service and approximately 500 students and chaperones. in-service educators understand the importance of early Triangle High Five Math Collaborative reading and math skills, identifying ways for educators to be This collaborative effort has helped mathematics teachers more effective in their instruction. SAS is participating in an identify and engage in highly effective instructional practices Education Preparation Program Advisory Group, spearheadand address disparities in math achievement related to race ed by the University of North Carolina System, to work with and income. Schools in the Triangle High Five partnership, the system’s 15 colleges of education to improve the way in which includes five public school districts, are striving to which pre-service teachers are taught to teach reading to prepare more students to be successful in math and achieve young students. their highest potential. In 2019, the Triangle Math Alliance SAS is supporting the Early Learning and Literacy Impact Summit, held annually since 2010, attracted more than 600 Coalition, facilitated by Deans for Impact. This group of five elementary and middle school teachers for a two-day invited North Carolina colleges of education to explore professional development event. Held at SAS for the first ways to strengthen preparation of pre-service early learning seven years, it is now hosted by fellow partner NC State teachers for children ages 0-8. This ensured these teachers University. SAS remained a sponsor of the 2019 summit. are ready for the classroom on day one. Education & Philanthropy / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 9 SAS has an appointed member on the state entity – the B-3 • Increasing third-grade reading proficiency, including Interagency Council – charged with developing a compremore access to the state’s high-quality NC Pre-K program hensive system for children (from birth through third grade) for four-year-olds, where the foundations for reading to ensure they are on the path to grade level reading profiproficiency are laid. ciency. SAS is also advising the council on how to develop a • Increasing educational attainment by bringing more statewide birth-through-third-grade data system, tied to career relevance into North Carolina classrooms, such as other statewide systems, to capture data relevant to child dual enrollment and early college high schools, to get development and proficiency in both reading and math, students more interested in post-secondary education providing early indicators for success in school and beyond. and training, especially in the STEM fields. SAS is chairing the Workforce Readiness Committee of the As a member of the board of myFutureNC, a 501(c)(3) North Carolina Chamber of Commerce, whose priorities for nonprofit organization, SAS seeks to work with business, strengthening education in North Carolina are: education and philanthropic leaders across North Carolina to achieve a new statewide educational attainment goal to meet the skills needs of North Carolina businesses. Higher Education Preparing the Next Generation Big data has created an unprecedented demand for analytics talent that outpaces qualified applicants. To address that skills gap, SAS Academic Programs offers free software, university partnerships and compelling user communities focused on helping students gain new skills and fostering more education and career opportunities. SAS has helped launch more than 300 joint programs in analytics and related disciplines. Free Software for Higher Education and Adult Learners Educators, students, researchers and independent learners have free access to SAS software for teaching and learning valuable analytics skills. Downloads and registrations of free SAS software for academics topped 2 million in 2019. Also, more than 130,000 people registered for free e-learning courses in statistics and programming. Education & Philanthropy / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 10 In 2019, the company launched SAS® Viya® for Learners, • SAS Germany participated in a Girls Day 2019 event where which offers free access to AI and machine learning software female students learned more about technical professions, for higher education educators and students. By learning including participating in a hands-on robotic project. with SAS Viya – the company’s most advanced, open • In India, a SAS lab at the Pune Institute of Computer Techsoftware offering – learners will gain experience with the nology (PICT) conducts a faculty development program for latest in data management, visual analytics, predictive PICT professors. The SAS R&D India office also provides analytics and text mining. guest lecturers to universities and community colleges at Support to Universities and Community Colleges no cost. In addition, the office works with an organization The SAS Education division provides training and that focuses on the higher education and learning needs of teaching materials to help professors and instructors the visually challenged. Through this partnership, the office incorporate SAS into their teaching. Resources include created an app to help these students be more indepenslides, data sets and printable/editable files of the dent, which has benefited more than 600 students so far. student manual. These materials are provided free of Employees have also purchased laptops for the students, charge, with copyright permission for professors to use and sponsored room and board expenses for 40 students. any of the content in their own class notes. In 2019, 8,575 • SAS Italy set up an education initiative for employees’ teaching kits were downloaded and used by educators children that hosted 20 teenagers at the SAS offices for one across the globe. SAS also provides numerous guest week in June, with classes ranging from artificial intelligence lecturers to universities and community colleges – at no and business operations to communications management cost to the institutions. and public speaking. Analytics Degree Programs • SAS Portugal participated in many initiatives to help higher SAS partners with traditional and nontraditional graduate education, ranging from job fairs to reschooling programs and undergraduate programs around the world to create to meet-up events and interview preparation sessions. degree and certificate programs that generate the analytiEmployees also volunteered to teach analytics and business cal talent organizations need to make the most of big data. intelligence courses at universities. A reschooling project in New programs in 2019 include ones at Appalachian State collaboration with IPS (Instituto Politécnico de Setúbal) and University, Macquarie University (Australia), Sacred Heart IEFP (Portuguese unemployment agency) employed SAS University, University of Maryland and York University (UK). Viya for Learners in classes about data visualization and SAS Student Programs and Scholarships analysis. Two participants in the program will be selected SAS has many programs that recognize, support and propel to complete a three-month trainee period beginning in students toward a career in analytics or other STEM fields. September, where they will work on projects for SAS. Through opportunities such as the SAS Student Ambassador • Employees from SAS Russia mentored 30 students to Program, SAS Global Forum Student Symposium and others, become SAS specialists. The students found positions with students receive valuable assistance, experience, networking customers as trainees/young professionals. The office also and professional exposure. continued its support of the SAS Department at Moscow’s Global Education Initiatives Higher School of Economics. Employees at SAS offices around the world participated in • SAS South Africa donated free software and established numerous projects that supported education initiatives. SAS certification programs at several universities. The office Here are a few examples: also sponsored events and prizes for students and teachers • SAS China provided free SAS programming and modeling in partnership with the South African Statistics Association. training to nearly 3,000 college students. In addition, • SAS Spain participated in an event to promote job SAS Beijing R&D set up a statistical analysis course at opportunities and build interview skills for at-risk women. Tsinghua University and Peking University that included SAS employees as teachers. • SAS Denmark provides free access to SAS for scientists and free access to SAS certification for students. Employees volunteer to teach at universities and help support students with internships and assistance in writing thesis papers. Education & Philanthropy / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 11 Philanthropy The cornerstone of SAS’ philanthropic efforts is education. • Deans for Impact, preparing educators to measurably SAS believes education can change what’s possible by improve student learning. empowering each new generation. SAS supports global • DonorsChoose.org, a national nonprofit that connects donors education initiatives that promote early learning and literacy with classrooms in need. Each year, SAS matches employee for all, foster STEM skills and build diversity in a technologycontributions to the cause. In 2019, the total impact was more driven workforce. than $122,400, which funded 535 classroom projects and As part of its’ philanthropic efforts, SAS provides in-kind benefitted 18,725 students in 42 states. donations of computer hardware, software, office equipment • EdNC. and other tangible items to nonprofit organizations in the • EDGE 5 Raleigh Chamber of Commerce, spearheading community. SAS offers free digital tools, resources and apps economic development and growth for Raleigh, Wake to students of all ages – and the company partners with County and the local community. colleges and universities around the world to prepare more graduates to succeed in analytics and data science careers. • Leadership NC, supporting improvements in government, education, health and human services, economic developPrograms must generate a long-term impact and affect ment and the environment. significant numbers of people, and not discriminate on the • Louisiana State University Foundation. basis of race, color, national origin, sex, gender identity, sexual orientation, age, or disability. Examples include: • Mapping the Nation, an online resource that reveals the importance of a globally competent workforce and citizenry. • #GivingTuesday, a global day of giving. Since its inception • Morehead Planetarium and Science Center. in 2012, the movement has raised over $1 billion in the US alone. • NC Science Fair Foundation. • Communities in Schools, the nation’s largest dropout • NC Science Olympiad. prevention organization. • NC State College of Education Math Summit, promoting • Computer Science Education Week, including Hour of equity and excellence in math education and providing Code. This is a national effort that SAS joins by providing teachers with an opportunity to network, develop leadervolunteers with training, activities and materials to work ship skills and share ideas. with students and pique their interest in computer science. • NC State Student Aid Association. Education & Philanthropy / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 12 • NC State University Foundation. • University of North Carolina Educator Quality Dashboard, an interactive online tool built with SAS data visualization • North Carolina K-12 State Chess Championships, which software that enables citizens to analyze and display data encourages young people to take up chess, a known on the UNC system’s efforts to prepare more and highergateway to STEM careers. quality teachers and school leaders for the state’s • North Carolina Science Festival, a statewide showcase of public schools. science activities. • Wake Ed Partnership. • Public School Forum of NC. • Wake Technical Community College Foundation. • Student U, empowering students in the Durham Public • YMCA of the Triangle, strengthening communities through Schools to succeed in college and beyond. nurturing youth development, improving health and • University of North Carolina Data Dashboard, an interacwell-being and fostering a sense of social responsibility. tive online database built by SAS that gives students, parents, policymakers and taxpayers expanded access to detailed UNC system data to track system performance. 2019 DATA As shown below, SAS donated more than $222 million in total to nonprofits across the globe in 2019, including $221 million of in-kind training, software, hardware, services, volunteer time, and surplus equipment and furniture. 2019 DONATIONS TYPE GLOBAL TOTAL Cash donations Worldwide cash $1,105,086 Software, hardware, etc. $18,750,691 Additional JMP® software $485,000 In-kind Value of in-kind global training $202,009,040 Surplus equipment, etc. $116,750 Total $222,466,467 Community Engagement As an integral part of SAS culture, the company encourages employees to donate their talent, time and/or finances to projects supporting education, the environment and social welfare. Offices across the globe manage programs tailored to fit the needs of their communities and the interests of SAS employees. To foster a culture of volunteerism at SAS, the company provides regular full-time and part-time employees with paid hours to volunteer with the organization(s) of their choice. SAS also managed the Employee Volunteer Fund, a program that contributes cash to education-based nonprofit organizations after an employee has provided at least 50 hours of volunteer support in a 12-month period. From August 2018 – December 2019, employees in the US volunteered more than 27,000 hours, resulting in $114,750 paid to schools across the country. Education & Philanthropy / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 13 Some examples include: • SAS Canada participated in several initiatives and fund-raising such as the Toronto Humane Society, St. Michael’s Hospital, Movember and annual food drives and tournaments. • SAS India participated in blood drives and organ donation events. Employees also support an organization that helps individuals who are physically challenged. • SAS Italy prepared more than 25,000 meals through the Rise Against Hunger organization. • SAS Portugal employees volunteered with organizations such as Help Portrait and also donated book and clothes to SAS Greece employees donated 100 kilograms of children and families in need. food to a local charity. • SAS Spain employees donated food to those in need and also participate in a garden that assists the mentally disabled community. • SAS South Africa participated in Mandela Day where employees spent time volunteering at a home for disabled children and pledging donations. • SAS Taiwan collaborated with the Legal Aid Foundation to help those lacking financial means to receive proper legal protection. • SAS United Kingdom and Ireland employees supported Mental Health UK as their charity of choice for 2019 and also sponsored a number of local community events. In China, employees donated 576 kilograms of food and milk to orphans and impoverished 2019 DATA students. On #GivingTuesday, SAS employees in every corner of the globe rallied to help the less fortunate in their communities. In addition to SAS world headquarters, offices around the world and across the US embraced giving efforts that not only helped those in need but brought employees together for a common good. At SAS world headquarters, employees participated in the below activities: • Collected 2,600 children’s books to donate to four NC childhood literacy organizations. • Provided clothes and toys for 484 Salvation Army Angels. To celebrate GivingTuesday, SAS R&D India set up • Donated 117 units of blood at the American a charity fair to raise funds where stalls included Red Cross blood drive. food, games, and arts and crafts. Education & Philanthropy / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 14 Community Board Membership SAS staff members carry the company’s corporate responsibility values outside the office by serving on the boards of community organizations that support education, disaster relief, the arts, science innovation, environmental conservation and other issues important to employees. 2019 DATA • SAS executives served on numerous boards, includand Systems Engineering Advisory Board ing the following: • North Carolina State University School of • Business Council Business HR Advisory Board • Business Roundtable • North Carolina Museum of Art • BEST-NC (Business for Educational Success and • North Carolina Museum of Natural Transformation in North Carolina) Sciences – Friends • Cary Academy Board of Directors • North Carolina Science Festival • CEO Roundtable on Cancer • North Carolina State University Board of Trustees • CSC Strategic Advisory Board at North • Oklahoma State University Corporate Carolina State University – Board Emeritus Advisory Board • Dix Conservancy • Smithsonian National Museum • Friday Institute for Educational Innovation of Natural History, Advisory Board (North Carolina State University) • WildTrack • Inter-Faith Food Shuttle • World Wildlife Fund US • Lipscomb University Computing • YMCA of the Triangle and Technology Board • Youth Thrive • Meredith College Board of Trustees • myFutureNC • North Carolina State University Industrial Download Education & Philanthropy SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2020, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. G119648_US.0720 DATA FOR GOOD Using data to serve the greater good There is widespread evidence that big data analytics helps achieve shortand long-term development goals around the world. As the global leader in analytics, SAS seeks out opportunities where it can help create a brighter future for all. SAS has always been an organization motivated by challenges to use its technology to build a better world. As the UN Sustainable Development Goals work to reduce inequalities and ensure healthy living, SAS’ social innovation initiative works to find creative ways to accelerate global progress and move the world toward a more sustainable future. One of the ways that SAS supports this goal is through the Data for Good movement, which encourages using data in meaningful ways to solve humanitarian issues around poverty, health, human rights, education and the environment. From helping equip orphans to overcome life-threatening poverty to using analytics to help keep Special Olympics athletes safe during competitions, SAS is contributing to building a better world for the people and the planet. SAS’ social impact programs would be impossible without the passion and willingness of SAS employees. With their analytical expertise and desire to contribute to the greater good, SAS® technology is able to help solve the world’s most pressing needs. Data for Good / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 16 Operationalizing analytics to track, treat and inhibit the spread of COVID-19 Though the COVID-19 pandemic poses unprecedented challenges, analytics provides vital insights based on reliable, timely data. Forecasting medical demand and optimizing response resources are essential to combat COVID-19 and mitigate its devastation. Cleveland Clinic, renowned global health care provider, is on the front lines of the pandemic, determined to optimize hospital preparedness before, during and after regional peaks. Cleveland Clinic partnered with SAS to create innovative models that help forecast patient volume, bed capacity, medical equipment availability and more. Armed with this information, Cleveland Clinic is better positioned to support its decision making, addressing the COVID-19 challenges it’s facing today as well as planning for future demands. As the pandemic evolves, the models can adjust in real time – like taking social distancing into account to “flatten the curve.” The models, which are freely available via GitHub, create worst-case, best-case and most-likely scenarios, informing resource planners to adequately prepare for what’s next. For example, Cleveland Clinic activated a plan that prepared it for the worst-case scenario – it built a 1,000-bed surge hospital on its education campus in Cleveland for COVID-19 patients who don’t need ICU care. “These predictive models were developed jointly by two organizations that understand patient populations, data and modeling. We are sharing the models publicly so health systems and government agencies globally can use them in their own communities. Our hope is that others contribute their ideas and improvements to the models as well.” Chris Donovan Executive Director of Enterprise Information Management and Analytics, Cleveland Clinic Data for Good / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 17 Helping to protect biodiversity with artificial intelligence With the world currently facing an unprecedented rate of extinction, NatureServe needed to make its assessments more automated and reliable since they have the best biodiversity data in North America. With SAS, NatureServe can accomplish this while gaining significant efficiencies and cost savings in the complex task of analyzing over 7 million known species of plants and animals on Earth. To explore new ways to use SAS technology to help, SAS held its inaugural Social Innovation Summit, where employees gathered to brainstorm and participate in design thinking around NatureServe’s biodiversity conservation effort. Through AI and advanced analytics, an R&D team is working on accelerating NatureServe’s manual review process from up to 100 hours per species to possibly just a few. Not only are results achieved faster, but assessments that were previously repeated every five to 10 years can be done more frequently – to better document the extinction crisis and direct conservation action. NatureServe can now interact with analytic results from all the different sources of analysis such as text, forecasting, geospatial and other systems. Working with SAS, the organization efficiently gathers and aggregates spatial data from numerous sources and can now partially automate the process of filtering records and calculating rare species information, such as the location and concentration of populations. In addition to helping visualize collections over a time scale, SAS also checks and flags consistency errors, missing data and uncertainty metrics. “With this highly organized, centralized source of insights, our experts can greatly simplify the complex task of assessing the endangered plant and animal species on the Earth. With SAS, we have the potential to set a new global standard on how the world evaluates the condition of biodiversity.” Sean O’Brien President and CEO, NatureServe Data for Good / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 18 GatherIQ ™ With GatherIQ, SAS is bringing global issues into the hands of students through a free app that details 17 global Sustainable Development Goals set by the United Nations for a better world. By introducing young learners to data through the lens of the world’s biggest problems, GatherIQ aims to educate and inspire students to turn those insights into action within their own communities. The app includes interactive data visualizations, quizzes and other multimedia activities to help groups like Girls Who Code, Rise Against Hunger, Water for Good and Zoe Empowers. “Zoe Empowers equips orphans with tools and training to overcome life-threatening poverty. When Zoe needed to showcase the effectiveness of its solutions, SAS helped to develop and conduct a systematic program analysis. We also promote our work and methodology through GatherIQ to bring awareness to the issues of, and solutions to, extreme poverty. Now, Zoe can show specific outcomes in each intervention area that can be used to improve the program and demonstrate measurable results with partners.” Gaston Warner CEO, Zoe Empowers Improving fundraising efforts for vital cancer research Cancer research is a costly endeavor. Identifying better treatments, building capabilities and developing support programs are all resource-intensive and time-consuming. To truly make an impact with its financial contributions, The Kids’ Cancer Project needed a better way to grow its donation pool and operate more effectively. By using a powerful analytics solution from SAS, the organization has improved the efficiency of its donor management process. With SAS, The Kids’ Cancer Project had a cleaner database to make better decisions and automate financial reports. Reporting time dropped from eight days to just two hours – significant operational savings the charity could funnel into helping sick children. By optimizing each donor’s journey, the charity was able to grow its regular giving totals to AUD$1.2 million in FY2019 – a 34% increase over the previous year and the first time the regular giving program raised over $1 million in a 12-month period. “Analytics gives us the insight to know whether we need to go wider or tighter in our donor communication. Every dollar we raise means more money channeled to fighting childhood cancers, finding less intensive treatments and finding a cure.” Owen Finegan CEO, The Kids’ Cancer Project Data for Good / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 19 Building a legacy of inclusion with data-driven technology In 2019, over 7,500 athletes from 190 countries competed in the Special Olympics World Games in Abu Dhabi. For the organizers, there were challenges to providing an extraordinary experience, such as scheduling transport and accommodation, maintaining spectator satisfaction and ensuring athlete health and safety. The Special Olympics partnered with SAS to address these challenges with an artificial intelligence, advanced analytics and data management platform. During the games, athletes wore a smart watch that streamed IoT-level data to a central dashboard that medical professionals observed. Organizers applied SAS AI solutions to streamline the data to predict when health issues might arise, allowing them to strategically position health personnel near certain athletes. When serious incidents like seizures and asthma attacks occurred, quick response times aided by analytics were crucial. Organizers used real-time data streaming from ticketing, travel and guest management systems to send the 500,000 spectators personalized tips and recommendations. Organizers analyzed fan sentiment with text analytics software that combed through 68 billion social media impressions, allowing for improved communications during the event and data-driven policies after the event. “Using the latest data-gathering methods to monitor our athletes and other constituents enables us not only to deliver excellence at the World Games, but it creates a legacy of valuable data that will help us redefine the future of the Special Olympics movement.” Peter Wheeler CEO, Special Olympics World Games Abu Dhabi 2019 Data for Good / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 20 Advancing mental health care with predictive analytics The Centre for Addiction and Mental Health (CAMH), Canada’s largest mental health teaching hospital, is working to remove the stigma from mental illness and addiction while providing world-class care to those in need. With the goal of improving clinical outcomes and streamlining operations, CAMH started using SAS Analytics to manage, model and visualize its data across various projects. CAMH analyzed emergency department activity and discovered visits had jumped 82% in the last six years. Then, it began modeling Ministry of Health population data to predict future activity, allowing officials to devise the right care models and process optimization projects to accommodate future needs. The team also used SAS to optimize care for alternate level of care (ALC) “Our partnership with SAS has really patients – people who occupy acute care hospital beds but no longer helped us give people a very strong require hospital care. The predictive model they built was 80% accurate, impression of the ‘art of the possible’ streamlining treatment for ALC patients and optimizing bed space. when it comes to data.” The organization forecasted the expected number of patients and Rebecca Comrie operational needs for a new bridging clinic. The analysis helped secure Executive Director of Performance 100% government funding. Improvement, CAMH Using technology to protect vulnerable children The largest city in New Hanover County, Wilmington, NC, has the highest opioid abuse rate in America. And children are paying the price. The number of children taken into permanent custody because of opioids has doubled in the county since 2013. Opioids now account for nearly 30% of interventions by the New Hanover County’s Department of Social Services (DSS). The New Hanover DSS connected with SAS to address child abuse with predictive analytics. The cloud-based platform is anchored by SAS Visual Investigator, a solution commonly used by fraud departments to detect anomalies and streamline investigations. The “When I see a happy and healthy child solution is similarly effective in New Hanover County, where caseas a result of this program, there’s no workers are alerted to relevant changes to risks affecting children in better feeling in life.” their care. Now, by combining data across local sources and applying analytics-based risk scoring, caseworkers have a centralized Wanda Marino system to reassess risk on a daily basis and uncover hidden connecAssistant Director, New Hanover tions between people, events and places within seconds – critical County Department of Social Services time savings when lives are at stake. Data for Good / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 21 Increasing speed and accuracy of tumor evaluations With one of Europe’s largest academic oncology centers, Amsterdam UMC strives for every patient to contribute to the care of the next patient. This is done by collecting enormous amounts of data on each patient, including biomarkers, DNA and genomic data. Amsterdam UMC speeds this analysis by using AI to evaluate liver tumors preand post-systemic therapy. The organization also gives thousands of cancer researchers access to SAS’ cutting-edge analytics to improve research and collaboration. Together with SAS, Amsterdam UMC is transforming tumor evaluations with AI. It uses computer vision technology and deep learning models to increase the speed and accuracy of chemotherapy response assessments. Data scientists also take advantage of the opportunity to create deep learning models. Capabilities like automatic segmentation help doctors quickly identify changes in the shape and size of tumors and note their color. Outside the clinic, the SAS Platform is also available to more than 1,100 Amsterdam UMC cancer researchers to enhance their research efforts. With SAS, they can quickly spot hidden trends and perform advanced analytics and predictive modeling. Researchers have an open analytics platform to collaborate and obtain innovative results faster. Now, biologists, doctors, medical students and even business analysts working to improve the patient journey can benefit from analytics regardless of their data skills or coding language preference. “Our opportunity is to use AI to help us with our ever-growing data volumes. We’re now capable of fully automating the response evaluation, and that’s really big news. The process is not only faster but more accurate than when it’s conducted by humans.” Download Dr. Geert Kazemier Data for Good Professor of Surgery and Director of Surgical Oncology, Amsterdam UMC SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2020, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. G119649_US.0720 ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM Innovation through workplace sustainability While SAS helps more than 80,000 customers innovate for the future, the company itself is a sustainability innovator, from streaming data to improve operations through its smart campus project to powering office buildings with clean energy from its solar farms. SAS works closely with employees, suppliers and customers to reduce its environmental footprint with programs focused on energy conservation, emissions management, pollution mitigation, water conservation, green building and others. See how SAS uses its own software to collect, manage, calculate and report its global environmental footprint through these environmental performance reports that use SAS® Visual Analytics. In addition to its own sustainable initiatives, customers use SAS’ analytic expertise and powerful software solutions to support the UN Sustainable Development Goals. SAS is proud of its top 2019 achievements listed below and is committed to accomplishing the following environmental goals. Greenhouse Gas Energy Efficiency Carbon Efficiency CO2 23.5% 37.4% 58% Carbon use intensity Absolute greenhouse gas Energy use intensity improvement improvement for reduction from 2011 base year for office buildings office buildings Paper Conservation LEED Certification 73% 82% Reduction in paper use LEED-certified office space per employee at headquarters Environmental Program / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 23 TARGET BASE STATUS CATEGORY Category TARGET YEAR YEAR 2019 PROGRESS Carbon neutrality for 2050 2011 Emissions dropped 4% in 2019 On Target Scope 1 and 2 emissions 23.5% lower than 2011 25% greenhouse gas 2025 2011 2025 milestone to carbon On Target emissions reduction neutrality 50% greenhouse gas 2030 2011 2030 milestone to carbon On Target emissions reduction neutrality EMISSIONS 75% greenhouse gas 2040 2011 2040 milestone to carbon On Target emissions reduction neutrality 50% office building carbon 2025 2010 Achieved US office only goal and Achieved use intensity (CUI) restated to include global offices. & restated improvement Global CUI has improved 43% from 2010 base year – down 9.2% the past year to 11.5 CO2 pounds per square foot Establish SBTi science2021 N/A Submitted SBTi commitment On Target based targets letter and working to establish targets 40% office building 2025 2010 Restated goal to include global On Target energy use intensity offices. Global EUI has improved & restated (EUI) improvement 30% from 2010 base year – down 6.1% the past year to 14.5 kWh per square foot Achieve 1.35 power usage ANNUAL N/A Achieved for 9th consecutive year Achieved effectiveness rate for data centers ENERGY Generate 3.5 million kWh ANNUAL N/A Renewable energy generation Achieved from solar installations from solar installations totaled almost 3.9 million kWh Support the Paris Ongoing 2016 SAS is committed to supporting On Target Climate Agreement the aim of the Paris Agreement, to limit global temperature rise to 1.5°C above preindustrial levels and reach net-zero by 2050 GOVERNMENT & POLICY Support the NC Clean Ongoing 2017 Participated in stakeholder On Target Energy Plan development meetings to help develop Plan recommended clean energy and carbon policy designs LEED Gold minimum for all Ongoing N/A SAS Toronto earned LEED Achieved new construction projects Platinum certification – the highest USGBC award level. SAS also achieved LEED Gold certification for its newest and largest building GREEN BUILDINGS Energy Star certification for 2025 2018 Initiated certifications for 12 On Target all primary office buildings primary office buildings in 2019 (HQ Only) Environmental Program / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 24 Category TARGET BASE Category TARGET YEAR YEAR 2019 PROGRESS STATUS 75% employee paper use 2025 2009 Pages used per employee has On Target rate reduction dropped from 2,631 to 702 pages – a 73% base year decrease and unchanged for 2019 30% average post-consumer ANNUAL N/A Average recycled content for Needs recycled content for all all purchased paper was 25% attention purchased paper for 2019 PAPER 70% paper consumption 2025 2009 Print on demand and digital On Target reduction document delivery technologies has helped reduce paper use by 68% since 2011–status unchanged for 2019 50% increase in electric Installed 23 charging stations in Achieved vehicle charging stations 2020 2017 2019 – a 55% increase TRANSPORTATION 50% landfill diversion rate ANNUAL N/A Diverted 49% of operational and Needs construction waste (868 metric attention tons) from landfills 100% e-waste diversion ANNUAL N/A Diverted 100% of e-waste from Achieved rate from landfills landfills by repurposing equipment, recycling through certified vendors and donations to educational institutions 50% reduction of operational 2025 2012 Waste volumes have decreased On Target waste processed for disposal 48% since 2012, from 3,512 to 1,831 metric tons – a 1% improvement in 2019 75% paper & commingled 2025 2012 Paper and single-use plastics On Target volume reduction volumes have decreased 74% since 2012, from 442 to 114 WASTE & RECYCLE metric tons – a 28% improvement in 2019 70% of construction waste ANNUAL N/A Construction projects at world Achieved diverted from landfills headquarters achieved a 74% landfill diversion rate on more than 34 metric tons 0% hazardous waste spills ANNUAL N/A SAS did not have any hazardous Achieved material spills or environmental compliance fines in 2019 Office building WUI has 20% Water Use Efficiency 2011 2030 improved to 9.56 gallons per (WUI) improvement On Target square foot — 2% prior year and WATER 14% base year improvements At least 30% of Strategic Initiated 2020 sustainability Sourcing and Procurement ANNUAL N/A training plan for Strategic Initiated training will address Sourcing & Procurement PROCUREMENT sustainable procurement employees Environmental Program / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 25 Environmental Achievements Environmental Governance Building on its corporate sustainability leadership and IoT SAS’ sustainability performance is reviewed by executive technology prowess, SAS continued progress on its smart leadership to provide guidance on conducting global campus project at its Cary, NC, headquarters. Through operations in a sustainable manner. SAS’ advanced, real-time analytics, the smart campus Implementing environmental goals and strategies is largely project is improving energy usage while proactively the domain of the SAS Corporate Services Division Environmonitoring equipment performance to boost operational mental Management Program. The program facilitates longevity. Starting with a handful of buildings and two onenvironmental efforts at company headquarters in the US, site solar farms, the project will eventually span across collects and reports key environmental performance most of the 25 buildings on campus. By using analytics to indicators for global operations, conducts environmental help SAS operate more efficiently and identify ways to risk and impact assessments and provides guidance and make improvements on campus, the company can pass support to all offices worldwide. Offices around the globe on the firsthand insight of products and best practices to have personnel who manage site-specific environmental customers for their smart city related initiatives. initiatives. SAS’ top 2019 environmental program achievements include: Environmental Policy • SAS and CEO Jim Goodnight were featured in the Business SAS recognizes that its most material environmental issues Roundtable CEO Embracing Sustainability Challenge, are related to the use of energy and related greenhouse gas which included a sustainability video and highlights of the emissions from site operations, data centers and the company’s CSR initiatives and environmental goals. development of software solutions. • Achieved 2020 goal of adding 50% more charging stations SAS requires its operations around the world to support at SAS headquarters, from 42 to 65 — a 55% increase. corporate environmental goals and to minimize environmental impact by conducting business in a manner that • SAS earned LEED certifications for its Toronto location continually optimizes operational efficiencies, reduces (Platinum) and for its largest office building, which opened harmful emissions and air pollutions, responsibly sources in 2019 at world headquarters (Gold) and was also materials, reduces waste, increases recycling, and complies recognized with a Sustainable Business Award by the US with all environmental regulations. Employees are additionGreen Business Council. ally asked to abide by the following mandates. • SAS installed weight, temperature, audio and motion Environmental Mandates sensors on its beehives at campus headquarters where a SAS conducts business in accordance with the Ten Princidedicated team collects the IoT data and uses SAS analytics ples of the United Nations (UN) Global Compact and to learn more about bee behaviors. supports their Sustainable Development Goals. The • At the end of 2019, SAS emissions dropped 3.9%–23.5% following corporate mandates provide guidance for lower than the 2011 baseline year. adhering to policy and establishing priorities for environmental initiatives. • Energy use intensity for office buildings decreased 6.1% and 14.5 kWh per square foot — a 30% improvement over the • Corporate priority: Establish policies, goals, programs and 2010 intensities base year. practices for conducting operations in an environmentally sound manner. • Carbon use intensity for office buildings decreased 9.2% to 11.5 CO2 pounds per square foot. SAS exceeded the • Integrated management: Integrate environmental policies, 50% goal for US offices and restated goal to include all programs and practices into all functions, business units offices globally. and global office locations. • Diverted 49% of operational and construction waste from • Continual improvement: Continue to raise the bar on landfills globally. performance, aligning with technological developments, scientific understanding and stakeholder expectations. Environmental Program / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 26 • Assessment: Conduct impact assessments of existing and • Employee education: Educate, train and motivate planned operations to understand environmental impact. employees to conduct activities in an environmentally responsible manner. • Facilities and operations: Conduct business operations with ongoing consideration for minimizing resource consump• Customer support: Advise and educate customers, tion, environmental pollution and other adverse environdistributors and the public in the safe and environmentally mental impacts, and ensuring waste is handled responsibly. responsible use, transportation, storage and disposal of SAS products. • Products and services: Provide products and services that have no undue environmental impact throughout • Suppliers and contractors: Promote the SAS principles the product life cycle — from material sourcing, product of sustainable procurement to all suppliers and development and delivery, to ensuring responsible use contractors–encouraging and (where appropriate) and disposal. requiring improvements. ISO Compliance The Environmental Management Program applies best practice ISO 14001 Environmental Management System processes and structure to drive continual improvement across business operations, and in the development of solutions and services to address its environmental impacts. These include: • Using SAS software solutions and other tools to measure, • Providing global direction about addressing environmental report and improve environmental performance. concerns through the allocation of resources, assignment of responsibility, and ongoing evaluation of practices, • Ensuring environmental affairs are addressed by procedures and processes. executive management. • Enabling continual improvement of environmental processes. • Addressing short-immediate and long-term impacts of products, services and processes on the environment. SAS uses its own technology to measure and analyze the performance of its sustainability initiatives. SAS software calculates the company’s global carbon footprint and the impacts of business processes and mitigation initiatives. SAS solutions support the application of global standards such as the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and the Global Reporting Initiative. Precautionary Approach Aligning with UN Global Compact Principle 7, SAS supports a precautionary approach to environmental challenges and minimizing anthropogenic impacts from business operations. This aligns with SAS’ philosophy in five meaningful ways: 1. To ensure business operations do not expose the 4. To promote environmental awareness via increased public and environment to harm. transparency and access to meaningful data so analytics can be used to make intelligent and responsible decisions. 2. To comply with all environmental regulations. 5. To show that environmental responsibility is not just about 3. To encourage the development and diffusion of environgoodwill; it makes good business sense. mentally friendly technologies. Environmental Program / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 27 Energy and Emissions SAS’ Environmental Management Program assigns top priority to minimizing energy consumption and related emissions from its operations. Key energy and emissions mitigation initiatives include establishing energy and emission reduction goals, building and maintaining facilities to LEED® guidelines, installing electric vehicle charging stations, investing in renewable energy, pursuing smart energy-efficient technologies for operating buildings and data centers, encouraging teleconferencing to limit travel, and proactively maintaining SAS-owned facilities to the highest efficiency standards. SAS software improves processes for collecting, understanding and managing energy and emissions requirements for facilities worldwide, increasing the ability to report and proactively influence consumption trends. The environmental reporting program uses SAS software to identify reduction strategies; develop and monitor performance indicators; understand relationships between measures; determine initiatives with the greatest effect; and communicate strategy, goals and objectives to facilitate execution. Click here to access dynamic environmental reporting using SAS Visual Analytics. In support of UN Sustainable Development Goal 7: Affordable and Clean Energy and Goal 13: Climate Action, SAS actively advocates for the deployment of renewable energy and the economic and environmental benefits of clean energy. After the SAS solar farm was selected as the site for North Carolina Governor Roy Cooper to sign an Executive Order for a clean energy economy and support for the Paris Agreement, SAS has continued to participate in stakeholder meetings to help develop clean energy and carbon policy designs as recommended in NC’s Clean Energy Plan. Aligning with UN Sustainable Development Goal 11: Sustainable Cities and Communities, SAS also partners with organizations such as The Smart Cities Council, Envision America and the Research Triangle Region Cleantech Cluster (RTCC) to help municipalities become smarter by harnessing the explosion of data sourced from connected devices, social media and the Internet of Things (IoT). Increasing the understanding of interdependent technologies such as artificial intelligence (AI), broadband wireless, cloud computing and IoT networks will help improve efficiencies, reduce costs, identify opportunities and mitigate the impacts of climate change. Forecast Emissions Greenhouse Gas Emissions Trend (t CO2-e) 60,000 50,000 25% Greenhouse gas reduction target 40,000 30,000 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 2022 2024 2026 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Trend (t CO2-e) (Model) Greenhouse Gas Emissions Trend (t CO2-e) (Actual) 95% forecast confidence. Charts created by SAS Visual Analytics Environmental Program / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 28 Energy Global Energy Use and Variance by Region Regions Group 2019 (GJ) 2018 (GJ) 2017 (GJ) 2019-18 Variance 2019-18 Var. % Data Center 112,482 121,502 123,406 -9,020 -7.4% EMEA 84,820 89,624 90,864 -4,803 -5.4% AP 29,566 31,722 30,022 -2,156 -6.8% CALA 15,261 15,228 15,885 33 0.2% US 215,563 209,431 197,134 6,132 2.9% Total 457,694 467,507 457,311 -9,813 -2.1% Global Energy Use by Region and Source Energy (GJ) 200,000 150,000 100,000 50,000 0 AP Data Center US AP Data Center US AP Data Center US CALA EMEA CALA EMEA CALA EMEA Year 2019 2018 2017 Energy Source Group Electricity Natural Gas Other Emissions Global Greenhouse Gas Emissions by Region Regions Group 2019 (t CO2-e) 2018 (t CO2-e) 2017 (t CO2-e) 2019-18 Em. Var. 2019-18 Em.Var. % AP 5,159 5,640 5,345 -481 -8.5% CALA 851 850 894 1 0.1% Data Center 11,482 12,402 12,597 -921 -7.4% EMEA 7,348 7,687 7,826 -340 -4.4% US 18,841 18,849 17,935 -9 -0.0% Total 43,680 45,429 44,597 -1,749 -3.8% Global Emissions by Region and Scope Emissions (t CO2-e) 20,000 15,000 10,000 5,000 0 US Data Center AP US Data Center AP US Data Center AP EMEA CALA EMEA CALA EMEA CALA Year 2019 2018 2017 Scope Type Scope 2 Scope 1 Charts created by SAS Visual Analytics Environmental Program / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 29 Emissions Management and Emissions Mitigation SAS’ smart campus project and use of advanced, real-time analytics helps to improve energy usage while proactively identifying ways to make improvements on campus. SAS decreased energy consumption by 2.2% and emissions 3.9% in 2019, despite adding almost 450,000 square feet of office space – a 10% growth in facilities. SAS is on a trajectory for achieving its 25% 2025 emission reduction goal by 2021. Since 2011, emissions are down 23.5%. Energy Efficiency SAS analyzes operational data to optimize development and delivery of its products and services to customers. The efficiency charts below highlight a sustainable trend of decreasing energy growth against increasing revenues. In 2019, SAS’ revenue was approximately the same as 2018, but overall energy consumption decreased 2.2%. SAS’ long-term progress is resulting in a reduced environmental impact for the solutions it provides to customers. SAS’ office energy use intensity has improved by 30% from its 2010 baseline year – a reduction of 6.1% this past year to 14.5 kilowatt hours per square foot. Emissions per square foot have decreased 43% from the base year – down to 11.5 CO2 pounds per square foot. These trends support SAS’ 2025 goals of improving energy efficiency per square foot of office space by 40% and emissions efficiency by 50%. Environmental Surveys SAS annually completes the CDP and EcoVadis Supply Chain surveys to show its customers how environmental and social responsibility is incorporated across operations. In 2019, SAS achieved CDP climate change and water security performance scores of B-. SAS achieved Silver recognition and is ranked in the top 12% of all suppliers on the EcoVadis supplier assessment. Data Center Operations Energy for data center operations is the largest contributor to SAS’ environmental footprint. A core growth area for SAS is its cloud and managed hosting business. SAS is deploying software for its customers in a variety of cloud-friendly configurations. This entails hosting data and solutions for those customers on infrastructure in its data centers, as well as on public cloud infrastructure. SAS invests in the highest-efficiency technologies in its dedicated computing facility at its world headquarters –emphasizing efficiency, flexibility and sustainability. SAS data center operations regularly achieve an average power usage effectiveness (PUE) of 1.35 or better. A PUE closer to 1.0 indicates greater efficiency – as every watt above 1.0 is consumed in support of the IT equipment – for cooling and power distribution. Environmental Program / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 30 Revenue/Energy Energy Efficiency Compared to Revenue Growth Energy Variance Percent Revenue (billions) 20% 3.4 15% 3.2 10% 3.0 5% 2.8 0% 2.6 -5% 2.4 -10% 2.2 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Energy Variance Percent Revenue Office Space Energy Use Intensity (EUI) EUI (kWh/sqft) 20 10 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Region Cary Campus HQ Global Operations Intensity PDF Energy Use Intensity (EUI): kWh/sqft 20 15 Goal: Improve Office Building Energy Efficiency 40% 10 5 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 2022 2024 2026 Energy Use Intensity (EUI): kWh/sqft (Model) Energy Use Intensity (EUI): kWh/sqft (Actual) 95% forecast confidence. CO2 Use Intensity (CUI): lbs/sqft 20 Goal: Improve Office Building Emissions Efficiency 50% 10 0 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 2022 2024 2026 CO2 Use Intensity (CUI): lbs/sqft (Model) CO2 Use Intensity (CUI): lbs/sqft (Actual) 95% forecast confidence. Charts created by SAS Visual Analytics Environmental Program / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 31 Solar and Renewable Energy Electric Vehicle Support and Since 2008, when SAS broke the solar energy 1 megawatt the Eco-Commuter Program barrier for the southeast US, the capacity of solar installations The SAS Eco-Commuter Parking Program encourages in North Carolina has grown to 6,152 MW – ranking the state employees to mitigate the environmental impacts of their No. 2 nationally. The Clean Energy Industry in North Carolina daily commute by providing specially marked preferred now boasts participation by approximately 1,700 companies, parking spaces for plug-in electric vehicles (PEVs), provides more than 43,000 jobs, and generates over $14 low-emission vehicles and active carpool participants. billion in annual revenue. SAS proved solar was viable, and Eco-Commuter parking includes designated PEV spaces with the community responded. access to 115 charging stations. SAS provides free charging for all employees and visitors at most of its buildings at the SAS’ nine global solar installations generated 13,910 Cary, NC headquarters and many global office locations. gigajoules of clean renewable energy. Since 2008, SAS has generated more than 136,000 gigajoules of solar energy – Employees share the charging station infrastructure by approximately 85% was sold to North Carolina utilities in following the SAS Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Use support of the state’s Renewable Energy Portfolio Standard. Policy and Guidelines. At a combined 2.3 MW in capacity, SAS’ solar farms are The SAS Eco-Commuter Program also provides subsidized located on 12 acres at world headquarters in Cary, NC. employee vanpools and bike racks at all office buildings. SAS The photovoltaic (PV) solar arrays generate 3.8 million Belgium has free electrical bikes for employee use to either kilowatt-hours of clean, renewable energy each year. commute or run errands during the workday. 2019 DATA • SAS’ environmental footprint was mitigated by ongoing • SAS data centers decreased energy consumption by 7.4%. investment in energy-efficient technologies, smart energy • SAS Toronto was awarded LEED Platinum certification – the sensors, solar, retro-commissioning of primary office buildings, highest award level from the USGBC. and adoption of LEED best practices. • SAS achieved LEED Gold certification for its newest and largest • Global scope 1 and scope 2 emissions decreased 3.9%, from office building at world headquarters. 45,429 to 43,679 CO2e T. • SAS renewable energy generation from solar installations • Global scope 3 emissions from commercial air travel decreased totaled almost 3.9 million kWh. 7%, from 19,901 to 18,492 CO2e T. • SAS continued support for plug-in electric vehicles by installing • Achieved 2020 goal of adding 50% more charging stations at 23 charging stations. SAS now has 115 electric vehicle charging SAS headquarters, from 42 to 65 a 55% increase. stations with plans for more. • Carbon use intensity for office buildings decreased • In 2019, 77.4% of SAS energy consumption was sourced from 10.1% to 10.4 CO2 pounds per square foot. The 58% electricity suppliers and on-site solar generation. Approximately improvement exceeds its 2025 goal of 50% over the 2010 28% was used for building heating, ventilation and cooling. intensities base year. Environmental Program / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 32 Landfill Diversion Operational Waste by Region Region 2019 (Metric Tons) 2018 (Metric Tons) 2017 (Metric Tons) 2019-18 Var. 2019-18 Var. % LA 42 40 46 1 3% CAN 51 58 66 -7 -12% AP 228 209 243 19 9% EMEA 457 457 524 0 0% US 1,053 1,663 2,207 -611 -37% Total 1,831 2,428 3,086 -597 -25% US/Global Recycle Rates 2019 Waste Type (Metric Tons) Construction Recycle 60% E-Waste Commingled & Paper 40% Other 20% Landfill 1.8K 0% Cardboard 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 US / Global Global US Charts created by SAS Visual Analytics Landfill Diversion • SAS strongly encourages the use of biodegradable, compostable and recyclable materials, and minimizing SAS is careful to operate its business in alignment with UN single-use plastics. Sustainable Development Goal 12: To ensure sustainable • Building construction projects regularly exceed 85% waste consumption and production. The company’s Waste diversion from landfills. Management Program measures and monitors the waste • Grassroots programs for employees reduce waste and stream, with significant environmental benefits resulting from encourage recycling efforts. efforts at individual and local levels. For example: • Since 2009, operational waste diverted from landfills has • SAS provides on-site recycling for aluminum, batteries, increased from 26% to approximately 50%. cardboard, electronics, magazines, glass, newspaper, pallets, paper, plastic bottles, printer cartridges, scrap • Innovative examples from SAS country offices include: metal and more. • SAS offices in the south Europe, Middle East and Africa • Strives for 100% e-waste recycling from landfills. (EMEA) region rolled out a plastic-free initiative which aims to eliminate plastic bottles and glasses in all 20 south EMEA • While SAS software is primarily delivered online, physical countries. The program distributed a SAS-branded glass product deliveries are packaged with recyclable materials. water bottle to all employees. The offices pledge to use • Polystyrene-based disposables have been replaced with only ecological glasses and cups. compostable options. • SAS Chile participates in the Recycling to Clean Point • Cafeteria food waste is composted and used by SAS program where it hosts recycling centers for paper, Tetra landscapers; waste vegetable oil is recycled and converted Pak containers, plastic bottles and glass containers. into biodiesel fuel. • Online resources significantly reduce paper • SAS Denmark donates old IT equipment for recycling consumption globally. purposes and purchases sustainable office supplies. Environmental Program / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 33 • SAS Russia joined a project to collect and recycle plastic • SAS United Kingdom headquarters in Marlow recycled bottle caps, gathering 12 boxes of plastic caps or about 60% of office waste. They also installed a zero-waste box in 100 kilos. the kitchen for single-use plastics and snacks packaging. The office continues to host a clothes and shoe recycling bank on-site for employees and operate a zero waste to landfill service. Paper US and Global Paper Use by Year Metric Tons 150 100 50 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 US / Global Global US Sheets of Paper Used per Employee 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2,750 2,372 2,194 2,149 1,918 1,562 1,299 1,164 768 882 Charts created by SAS Visual Analytics Paper Consumption Like most businesses, SAS depends on paper products to conduct business operations, but SAS embraces the three R’s — reduce, reuse and recycle — to help minimize impact of paper consumption. Reduce. SAS has significantly reduced print volumes by delivering less physical media to customers. This includes reducing inventories and increasing efficiencies by using a print-on-demand model, convenient access to online documentation, education and awareness campaigns, and personal choices. Since 2009, the average annual pages of paper used per employee has dropped from 2,631 to 702 – a 73% decrease. Globally, SAS used 84.9 metric tons of paper for printing in 2019. This is 61% less than SAS’ base year of 2009. Environmental Program / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 34 Reuse. When SAS does print, employees are encouraged to find creative ways to reuse scrap paper. Ideas include using scrap paper for notes, reprinting, packaging material for shipping and on-site composting. Recycle. SAS recycled 68 metric tons of paper materials in 2019 – the 30% reduction from 2018 is due to employees using less paper. In 2019, the average recycled content for all paper at SAS headquarters is 25%. 2019 DATA • Globally, SAS disposed of 1,796 metric tons of operational waste, including paper, food, cardboard, composting, aluminum and plastic, and other non-construction waste material. This amount is 1%, or 21 metric tons, less than 2018. Highlights from 2019 include: • SAS diverted 100% of e-waste from landfills by repurposing equipment for internal use, recycling and donating to • SAS diverted 49% of operational and construction waste educational institutions. (868 metric tons) from landfills through recycling and waste management worldwide. • When the sphagnum moss used by Facilities as a chemicalfree cooling tower water treatment needs replacement, it is • Construction projects at world headquarters achieved a 74% then repurposed by landscaping as a soil amendment and landfill diversion rate on more than 34 metric tons of waste. grass seed topdressing. SAS had 94% (576 metric tons) less construction waste in 2019 due to the completion of its largest building at campus Click here to access dynamic environmental reporting using headquarters in 2018. SAS Visual Analytics. Water Conservation Water conservation is of paramount importance to SAS, with many facilities operating in communities where water shortages and water use restrictions are standard. SAS strives to operate its business in alignment with UN Sustainable Development Goal 6: Ensure access to water and sanitation for all. At SAS headquarters, coupling water-saving technologies and practice with increased employee awareness has resulted in significant savings. For example: • Low-flow and electronically activated plumbing fixtures • Reducing and customizing irrigation schedules avoids greatly reduce employee water consumption, saving 63% overwatering plants. more compared to standard fixtures. • Collecting rainwater in retention ponds and cisterns • Sphagnum moss, a naturally replenishable water treatment minimizes stormwater runoff and provides water for option for building cooling towers, increases equipment landscape irrigation. efficiency and reduces potable water consumption. • Native and drought-resistant plants and warm-season • Rooftop rainwater collection systems capture water for use grasses require less frequent irrigation. in bathrooms. • Timely repair of leaking pipes and the installation of low-flow • Cooling towers are replaced with high-efficiency models toilets, shower heads and faucet aerators save at least 1 that use reclaimed water. million gallons each year. • Wastewater options, such as reclaimed and gray water, lower potable water consumption. Environmental Program / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 35 2019 DATA • SAS water use increased by 6.5% globally in 2019 primarily due • Adopted the use of sphagnum moss as the primary to adding almost 450,000 square feet of office space – a 10% water treatment option in building cooling towers at growth in facilities. The 18,479 cubic meter increase was also due campus headquarters. Data from its pilot project to higher than normal 2018 rainfall totals, which greatly reduced indicated this solution improved overall water quality, demand at SAS’ campus headquarters. increased equipment efficiency, removed corrosive organic material, reduced potable water consumption, • Overall building efficiency improvements contributed to a lower and minimized the need for chemical treatments. employee water use intensity rate of 15.4 gallons per square foot — a 1.9% decrease from 2018. Click here to access dynamic environmental reporting using SAS Visual Analytics. • Returned 52% (130,629 cubic meters) of municipal water for treatment by local utilities. Hazardous Materials Water Discharge Management Preservation of ecosystems in proximity to its operations is standard business practice for SAS and common across all operations. Facilities staff work closely with local water utilities to ensure compliance with all environmental regulations and are trained to manage storm water runoff and pollution prevention. The Neuse River Basin is the primary water source for SAS headquarters and has the greatest risk of impacts from discharges and storm water runoff. As a software company, SAS does not handle raw materials, conflict minerals, hazardous wastes or related supplies typical of traditional manufacturing. While risks are minimal, SAS places the utmost importance in abiding by industry best practices and governing regulations, including: • Compliance with all Occupational Safety and Health Administration regulations for handling hazardous materials. • Plans for the Spill Prevention, Control and Countermeasure rule that meet US Environmental Protection Agency regulations. 2019 DATA • SAS did not have any spills of hazardous materials, oil, fuel, waste or chemicals, and did not have any fines for noncompliance with environmental legislation. SAS is very careful to minimize environmental impact as the company continues to grow. The company strictly adheres to environmental regulations. • All reports are based on actual resource data collected from owned and leased offices, and intensity metrics applied to approximately 25% of leased office space that does not have access to actual data Environmental Program / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 36 Water Global Water Use by Region Regions 2019 (Cubic Meters) 2018 (Cubic Meters) 2017 (Cubic Meters) 2019-18 Variance 2019-18 Var. % US 221,253 195,362 201,547 25,891 13.3% LA 3,134 3,081 2,812 53 1.7% EMEA 48,900 58,362 56,952 -9,462 -16.2% CAN 5,280 5,813 5,599 -533 -9.2% AP 22,732 20,093 18,838 2,639 13.1% Total 301,299 282,711 285,747 18,588 6.6% Global Water Use by Region and Source Cubic Meters 200,000 150,000 100,000 50,000 0 Global United States Global United States Global United States Year 2019 2018 2017 Source Ground water Municipal Rainwater Surface water Charts created by SAS Visual Analytics Green Building Practices SAS strives to be a leader in environmental sustainability and is committed to making a difference around the world. To achieve this goal, SAS embraces Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED®) guidelines for new construction, and remodeling and retrofitting existing buildings. SAS holds a Silver level national membership with the US Green Building Council (USGBC). Since 2005, all new office buildings and data centers at world headquarters have achieved LEED certification. For offices located in countries that do not use LEED, SAS is incorporating country-specific best practices and pursuing equivalent certifications for new construction and maintenance. SAS has 11 LEED certified buildings, including: World Headquarters: Building A — LEED Gold Certified Office Building At 419,924 square feet, Building A is SAS’ largest building. It has 999 offices, a Global Education Center and a 700-seat capacity café with a bakery. Approximately 50% of its electricity needs are supplied by a 1-megawatt capacity on-site solar farm. It has 17 electric vehicle charging stations providing free electricity. Building A uses an innovative smart building analytics software solution co-developed by SAS to optimize building performance and improve energy and water efficiencies. The solution streams live data from equipment and sensors connected to the building management system to provide insights into how the building is performing. The USGBC Sustainable Business Awards recognized SAS Building A as the Most Innovative Project under the Building Design and Construction category for 2019. World Headquarters: Building C — LEED Platinum Certified Office Building Building C includes the Executive Briefing Center, café and an office tower for employees. The Executive Briefing Center uses cutting-edge technologies to help customers learn about SAS software. Building C achieved LEED Platinum certificaEnvironmental Program / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 37 tion for water and energy conservation, the first for any building in Wake County and only the fifth in North Carolina in 2011. The building consumes 40% less energy and 50% less water by integrating highly efficient technologies and sustainable features such as: photovoltaic panels that generate 100,000 kWh annually to support lighting and building systems; solar thermal panels provide hot water for the café; thermal slab floor cooling uses water cooled in off-peak hours by building chillers to help maximize air conditioning efficiency; and a rainwater collection system with two 20,000-gallon cisterns captures water for use in bathrooms. World Headquarters: Building Q — LEED Gold Certified Office Building The 220,660-square-foot office building features rooftop solar photovoltaic panels, highly insulated exterior wall and roofing systems, highly efficient heating and air conditioning, mechanical systems, energy recovery units and a water-side heat exchanger, extensive use of LED lighting, and reclaimed water use for cooling towers, irrigation and toilets. The parking lot has 12 spaces designated for plug-in electric vehicles with access to electric vehicle charging stations. Solna, Sweden: LEED Gold Certified Office Building Sweden’s newest office building was awarded LEED Gold certification. The facility features geothermal energy wells for efficient heating and cooling, rooftop solar photovoltaic panels, a sedum-covered green roof, and even on-site beehives, which provide natural honey for the cafeteria. Toronto: LEED Platinum Certified Office Building Toronto was the first LEED-certified new office building in Canada. With rainwater harvesting and energy conservation measures saving more than 6 million kWh of energy per year, the SAS building has served as an inspiration for many other new buildings in Toronto. 2019 DATA • Achieved LEED Gold certification for its newest and largest • SAS Toronto was awarded LEED Platinum certification office building. Occupied in early 2019, SAS Building A for Existing Buildings: Operations & Maintenance, by receives approximately 50% of its electricity from one of the USGBC. the SAS solar farms. Building A uses reclaimed water for • Approximately 1.9 million square feet (82%) of office irrigation and toilets, and all lighting is LED. It also features a and data center space at campus headquarters is now LEED smart building analytics platform, electric vehicle charging certified. stations and a rooftop garden. During construction, 78% of on-site waste was diverted from landfills. • SAS received a LEED Innovation Sustainability award from the USGBC Sustainable Business Awards, which showcased LEED projects from both North and South Carolina. Environmental Program / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 38 Biodiversity SAS is careful to minimize impact on biodiversity and surrounding habitats as it grows and expands its operational footprint. Aligning with UN Sustainable Development Goal 15: Life on Land, SAS adheres to the US Green Building Council LEED guidelines for protecting natural environments and promoting biodiversity in areas where the company operates. Of approximately 900 acres at SAS headquarters, about 150 acres feature buildings, roads or other impervious surfaces. The remaining 750 acres are retained as old-growth woodland, lakes and streams, farmland, natural areas and approximately 60 acres of maintained lawns, primarily for employee recreation and landscaping. The company applies LEED best practice guidelines for new and existing building projects, smart land use planning and campus landscaping, such as: • Preserving large areas of open space in construction • Using sheep to naturally control vegetation growth under projects to minimize disruption to local ecosystems. the company’s solar panels. • Reducing the heat island effect by installing white reflective • Planting pollinator-friendly plants as a source of food for materials and planting sedum, grasses and various plant local honeybees and other insects and preserving local types on rooftops. Roof plantings increase insulation, milkweed and nectar plants to help migrating Monarch minimize stormwater runoff and provide habitats for wildlife. butterflies. • Collecting rainwater from rooftop systems, retention ponds and cisterns to minimize stormwater runoff and provide water for restrooms and landscape irrigation. • Restoring land disturbed by construction projects with native and adaptive drought-tolerant plants that help local ecosystems thrive and reduce dependence on water and chemicals. • Growing local produce for SAS cafeterias in organically maintained on-site gardens. • Hosting on-site apiaries at several SAS office locations to help promote the repopulation of bees in urban locations. 2019 DATA • SAS earned LEED Gold certification for its newest and largest office building at world headquarters. Adoption of green building practices included a substantial effort to minimize environmental impact for both construction and ongoing operation. Building design and construction processes ensured a minimal site footprint, higher than mandated erosion and stormwater controls and maximized green space. • SAS United Kingdom completed a biodiversity survey for the Marlow-based headquarters, identifying the many varieties of wildlife and plant species inhabiting the grounds. Environmental Program / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 39 Awareness and Engagement In addition to employing sustainability measures globally, SAS promotes environmental education and awareness. Activities include advocacy for clean energy, educational campaigns, speaking engagements, SAS solar farm visits, companywide Earth Day activities, articles on the internal green website, white papers and webcasts. By engaging with customers, employees, industry and world leaders, SAS seeks to extend the reach of its sustainability initiatives. Forbes even featured SAS sustainability initiatives among efforts that attract and retain top millennial talent. SAS works with leading international organizations to apply technology to address greenhouse gas emissions, as well as other environmental and social concerns. Customers use SAS software to generate power efficiently, promote better use of critical resources, minimize waste, assist environmental protection agencies, and improve the production and delivery of goods. 2019 DATA • Published an internal SAS Environmental Sustainability º Endorsed and celebrated the release of North Carolina’s Handbook to provide employees around the world with first Clean Energy Plan, also mentioned on Twitter guidance for increasing environmental stewardship across SAS operations. • Learning from bees: º SAS installed weight, temperature, audio and motion • The SAS Data for Good movement encourages using sensors on its beehives at campus headquarters. A data in meaningful ways to solve humanitarian issues dedicated IoT of Bees team is collecting data and using around poverty, health, human rights, education and the SAS analytics to learn more about bee behaviors. The environment. Using GatherIQ, a free app, everyone from team is also collaborating with local beekeepers. students to social advocates can learn about the United Nations’ 17 Global Goals and take action to make the world º SAS Canada, France and UK offices installed 12 a better place. beehives to promote the repopulation of bees in urban locations. SAS now has 48 beehives including • AS believes ongoing advocacy for sound climate policies on-site apiaries at its Cary, France, Sweden and resulting from unbiased data, research and collaboration Netherlands offices. will help establish a course of action that benefits sustainº Throughout the year, employees donned bee suits and able, long-term health. Examples include: experienced hands-on tours of the apiary to learn more º P  articipated in NC’s Clean Energy stakeholder plan about beekeeping and the importance development workshops. This was the first step in a of pollinators in the ecosystem. process to develop NC’s Clean Energy Plan after the º SAS employees helped harvest 120 pounds of honey from signing of a clean energy economy executive order the SAS apiary. A 71% increase from 2018. hosted at the SAS Solar Farms. º In addition to tours and harvesting, SAS hosted a threeº Participated  in stakeholder meetings to help develop clean part, deep-learning Bee Biology series for employees to energy and carbon policy designs as learn about the fascinating world recommended in NC’s Clean Energy Plan. of honeybees. Environmental Program / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 40 2019 DATA • At headquarters in Cary, NC, SAS Eco Advocates, an monetary donations. Coffee capsules are also recycled to employee volunteer group that supports environmental fertilize fields that contribute to Food Bank donations. activities, participated in numerous events: º SAS Sweden held an annual Earth Week event, where ºS AS hosted NatureServe, a biodiversity nonprofit, at a they raised awareness on how to live a more sustainable Social Innovation Summit, where employees gathered for life and shared insights on ecological footprints made at a day to brainstorm and participate in design thinking home and in the office. The office also arranged an around NatureServe’s biodiversity external event called “AI and the Environment,” where conservation efforts. select customers and partners were invited to discuss º The National Audubon Society President and CEO led a and learn more about how AI can help solve many group of SAS employees on a Great Backyard Bird Count sustainability challenges. celebration walk. º SAS United Kingdom refurbished its Marlow headquarters º SAS  is a regular participant in the EarthShare NC annual with rooftop solar panels and an intelligent lighting Corporate Earth Day Challenge. This year a group of SAS system, which automatically reviews the lighting levels and Eco Advocates painted a barn and mulched gardens at adjusts to achieve optimal levels. All fixtures are LED and the Durham Public Schools Hub Farm. outfitted with motion detectors for maximum efficiency. This lighting plan is being adopted in the regional offices º Eco Advocates also collected tiger footprint data from where possible. Carolina Tiger Rescue to improve techniques for identifying endangered tiger species in the wild. º Hosted a LEED graduate school class and tour to help students learn about the importance of environmentally friendly buildings. º For Earth Day, employees learned about electric vehicles at an on-site technology showcase event. • SAS’ country offices also participated in a variety of events: º SAS Canada participated in a shoreline cleanup where employees cleaned a local Toronto beach to pick up 24 kilograms of trash and recycled what they could. º SAS Denmark provides company bikes for employee use, encourages sustainable travel including electric vehicle taxi service and participates in the national “Bike to Work” event. º SAS India participates in an annual tree planting event – with around 1,200 trees being planted since 2010. The offices invest in sustainable office supplies and water reduction technologies and encourage employees to participate in activities like reducing food waste, turning off lights when not in use and printing double-sided. º SAS Poland switched all office lighting to LED. In addition to being plastic-free, they also participated in recycling ink cartridges, toners and mobile phones, resulting in Download Environmental Program SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2020, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved.G119648.0720 EMPLOYEES & CULTURE World-changing innovation starts with happy employees SAS’ culture has always been an integral part of who it is as a company, connecting the curious nature that started SAS and the spirit of innovation that moves it forward. Originating at its North Carolina headquarters and spreading to more than 150 global offices, SAS cultivates an award-winning culture anchored by meaningful work, empowering leadership and a world-class work environment. Fostering the integration of work and life continues to make great business sense. So in support of the UN Sustainable Development Goal of providing good health and well-being, SAS remains strongly committed to promoting a world-class environment that inspires innovation. Throughout more than 40 years of analytics innovation, SAS has invested heavily in its workplace culture to make employees feel inspired and energized. Diversity and Inclusion At SAS, it’s not about fitting into the culture, it’s about adding to it. Diversity and inclusion at SAS is multidimensional. SAS’ culture blends the different backgrounds, experiences, perspectives and abilities from employees in nearly 60 countries around the world. As innovators, the company relies on employees’ unique creativity and differences to create great software that can change the world. From the technology SAS designs to the conversations shared, SAS’ diversity is a creative asset. Forbes even ranked SAS as one of America’s Best Employers for Diversity in 2020. Employees & Culture / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 42 SAS Employee Inclusion Groups Women’s Initiative Network (WIN) is dedicated to inspiring, encouraging and empowering women through networking, career development and community service. Young Professionals Network (YPN) provides ongoing opportunities for professional development, engaging with the community through volunteerism, and social networking for the younger employee population – and “the young at heart.” Black Initiatives Group (BIG) is an inclusive group of employees who identify as Black, African, AfricanAmerican, West Indian, Copper Skinned, Indigenous, American Indian, Afro-Latinx or of African descent, and those interested in the mission to advance SAS’ global diversity initiatives and support the interests and professional development of SAS employees, the STEM field and our communities. SAS Military Network (VETS) engages SAS employee service members, veterans, family members and supporters of the US military by providing an inclusive community that focuses on employee professional development and networking, customer engagement, and community involvement while supporting SAS’ strategic goals. SAS LGBTQ+ and Allies (PRIDE) fosters an LGBTQinclusive culture that creates an environment where everyone is comfortable bringing their authentic self to work every day. SAS International Connection (SASIC) has been dedicated to fostering, supporting and promoting international inclusiveness at SAS for more than 25 years. Employees & Culture / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 43 Diversity and Inclusion Programs • The “Tribe” – started by the Accessibility and Applied Assistive Technology Team and comprised of employees from all divisions in the organization – believes everyone should be able to work with and benefit from data. They are fundamentally changing the way people interact with data by developing innovative technology that makes data visualizations like charts, graphs and maps accessible to all, regardless of technical savvy or physical abilities. This online community shares resources and best practices, and serves as a forum to ask questions. • The SAS intern program, ranked No. 11 Best Tech & Engineering Internship by Vault, is a mechanism for the company to cultivate diverse talent throughout its organization and build a SAS programming pipeline for its customers. SAS cultivates a diverse talent pool through university outreach and engagement with the student organizations at colleges and universities throughout the United States. Two signature programs that foster diversity through SAS’ internship program include: º The Autism Spectrum Internship Program helps to bridge the gap between academic and on-the-job learning for autistic students by providing an inclusive interviewing process and training program that addresses the challenges and barriers often encountered in obtaining meaningful employment. º T  he Veteran Employment, Training and Support (VETS) Internship Program provides an internship experience for uniformed service members, veterans and military spouses who are pursuing an accredited degree, in various roles throughout SAS. • SAS HBCU STEM Connect with North Carolina historically black colleges and universities (HBCUs). • STEM Career Showcase for students with disabilities. • Executive Women’s Day during the SAS Championship golf tournament. • Diversity recruitment events. º Grace Hopper Celebration. º HBCU Career Development Marketplace. º Student Veterans of America. º Service Academy Career Conference. º Women in Data Science and Statistics. º WomenHACK. Employees & Culture / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 44 Diversity and Inclusion Partnerships • Triangle Women in STEM is a partnership among companies in the Research Triangle Park area between Durham and Raleigh that is focused on increasing representation of women in the workforce with distinctive programs promoting inclusion and pathways to success by recruiting, retaining and advancing women in STEM fields. SAS participates every year by hosting an annual event for summer interns and by engaging in their yearly programming. • SAS is proud to participate in Pride in the Triangle, a collaboration of Triangle area LGBTQ+ employees and allies from various organizations that come together to share best practices, work together on LGBTQ+ issues in their corporations and in North Carolina, and network with other out employees and allies. Through networking and community events as well as thought leadership opportunities, the goal is to create a more inclusive LGBTQ+ friendly work environment together. • For more than 20 years, SAS has partnered with the UNC TEACCH Autism program through the supported employment initiative, which provides job coaches for long-term autistic employees who work in SAS’ cafes. In addition, SAS has partnered with TEACCH to provide manager and mentor training for employees participating in the Autism Spectrum Internship Program. • Students from Wake County Public Schools receive credit toward their Occupational Course of Study diploma by volunteering with corporate mentors from SAS to learn basic workplace skills. • SAS has been involved with the programming and sponsorship of Statfest and the Diversity Mentoring program run by the American Statistical Association’s Committee on minorities in statistics to increase representation in the field. In addition, SAS partners with the International Biometric Society’s Eastern North American Region conference to help foster diversity in biostatistics through conferences and workshops. • SAS partners with many nonprofit organizations to provide mentorship and career development resources for veterans transitioning to civilian life. In addition to the VETS internship program that provides valuable work experience for military personnel pursing an IT degree, SAS joined forces with the Institute for Veterans and Military Families in 2017 to offer free SAS programming courses to transitioning service members and their families. Equal Employment Opportunity At world headquarters and across all of its country offices, SAS is committed to providing an equal employment opportunity that treats all employees and applicants equally based on merit and experience – without regard to age, race, color, gender identity, religion, creed, ancestry, national origin, citizenship, marital status, sexual orientation, disability, medical condition, veteran status, pregnancy or any other protected class as defined by federal, state or local law. SAS recruits, hires, trains and promotes without regard to protected characteristics and ensure that all its employment decisions are based only on valid job requirements. Employees & Culture / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 45 Hiring and Retaining Staff SAS cultivates the optimal environment for creativity, encouraging employees to take risks and exceed expectations while helping them balance work and life. SAS not only invests in employee career development, but also health and well-being through several services, programs and benefits. For example, SAS offers up to 12 weeks of paid parental leave for birth mothers, fathers, domestic partners and adoptive parents to provide employees with paid time off to bond with and care for newborns or a newly adopted child. 2019 DATA SAS won many workplace awards including ranking in the top 10 of the World’s Best Workplace by Great Place to Work® and Fast Company’s Best Workplace for Innovators. SAS maintained its perennially low turnover rate while sustaining its worldwide headcount. SAS did not have any substantiated and material negative incidents with regard to employee discrimination or harassment. At the end of 2019, SAS had 14,026 employees worldwide and 6,952 US employees. In the US, the average SAS employee tenure is 12.4 years, compared to an industry average of 4.2 years.1 Reducing turnover reduces recruitment costs, helping the company retain knowledge and deliver deeper, longer-term customer relationships. This means SAS employees spend more time on productivity and less time training new hires. SAS sees a strong connection between employee loyalty and business success. SAS’ voluntary employee turnover rate was 6.5%. The average industry voluntary turnover rate was 14.5%.2 1 US Bureau of Labor Statistics 2 Radford/Aon Hewitt Global Employee Hires by Region 2019 Voluntary US Employee Turnover 2019 Asia Pacific 409 Turnover number 450 Type Canada and Latin America 126 Turnover percentage 6.5% Europe, Middle East and Africa 421 19-31 85 United States 467 By age 32-44 153 group 45-63 181 Total Global Hires (Reg. FT & PT) 1423 64 and up 31 By Female 187 US Hire Demographics 2019 gender Male 263 19-31 176 By 32-44 157 age group 45-63 130 (US Only) 64 and up 4 By Female 183 gender Male 284 Employees & Culture / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 46 Skills Development SAS supports the idea that all employees have a natural desire to learn and grow. As part of its culture and benefits, SAS provides many development opportunities for employees, whether for specific job skills, business acumen or interpersonal competence. Training includes instructor-led classes, e-learning and live web training. SAS encourages employees at all levels to pursue training to hone their skills. Employees with sharp, updated and relevant skills offer more value to SAS customers in the dynamic, evolving world of data and analytics. 2019 DATA Approximately 96% of employees participated in professional training, totaling 183,500 hours. In addition to skills training, SAS has created a program specifically for employees pursuing leadership and management training. Courses are offered at different levels within the organization to cultivate and nurture internal talent. In 2019, SAS provided over 30 courses on leadership development, training 2,475 people. SAS offers a wide array of training options that enable employees to find their best learning method to meet work and career goals. Professional Webcast/ Average Hours 28 96% Classroom 68% 31% Reading 1% Training Video Employees & Culture / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 47 Health and Safety Around the globe, SAS provides a safe and healthy working environment for all its employees. Each SAS office manages its own health and safety programs. Resources and best practices are available from the headquarters office in the US; however, each program is designed to fit the needs of that particular location. The Security & Safety and Risk Management departments investigate any incidents that pose a danger to company employees or third parties and take measures to reduce or eliminate these hazards. These departments provide additional training and resources to help identify and prevent similar incidents from causing damage or injury to individuals. Absenteeism The Safety Team will complete a comprehensive investigation of all reportable work-related incidents and provide corrective actions when necessary. SAS also has an Ergonomics department that supports employees through personal assessments and training. The department provides further educational resources through an intranet site, which includes FAQs, tips and information about a safe work skills program for manual labor employees. It also provides an assessment request form that employees can complete for a personal work-site evaluation by one of two full-time ergonomics specialists. By providing a safe, nurturing work environment, SAS strives to keep employees productive and effective in their roles. One measure of that success is the absenteeism rate. 2019 DATA SAS recorded an absence rate of 4.79 days per full-time employee. This accounts for the following Download absence types: sick, time away medical, time away non-medical, floating holiday, school leave, jury duty, Employees & military and bereavement. SAS United Kingdom/Ireland had one minor work accident reported in 2019. Culture SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2020, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. G119647_US.0720 GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT Integrity, ethics and compliance As a good corporate citizen, SAS knows its success depends on upholding high ethical standards in dealings with colleagues, customers, suppliers and competitors. This moral compass also steers SAS’ workplace culture, which attracts and retains like-minded employees who perpetuate these high standards. Guided by its Code of Ethics, SAS is committed to maintaining its reputation as a company that conducts all aspects of the business with the utmost integrity. SAS compliance programs use training, policies, processes and audits to ensure compliance in areas such as anti-corruption, international trade and privacy. These practices have earned SAS its exceptional reputation as an ethical and responsible employer and business partner. As a result, SAS is known as a great place to work, a great company to do business with and a valued community member. SAS’ reputation is hard-earned and invaluable, so protecting it with constant diligence remains a top company priority. Governance Structure SAS is the leader in business analytics software and services. SAS is committed to employing high ethical standards in its dealings with colleagues, customers, suppliers and competitors. Company Profile SAS Institute Inc. is a North Carolina corporation that has been privately held since its inception in 1976. Headquartered in Cary, NC, the company operates through functional divisions that include Worldwide Marketing, Sales, Research and Development, Finance, Legal and Corporate Services. SAS delivers software and related services to customers throughout the world. Sales activities are conducted primarily through SAS Institute Inc. and its controlled sales subsidiaries in approximately 150 countries. The sales subsidiary entities are grouped into three regional sales divisions: the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA); and Asia Pacific. SAS’ global corporate organization, including its parent company, SAS Institute Inc., and a group of operating subsidiaries, provides software and services to customers in various geographic regions around the world. The Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific regions comprise approximately 50 standalone operating subsidiaries. Additional subsidiaries in the EMEA and Asia Pacific regions are dedicated to research and development activities. Together with several representative and branch offices of these subsidiaries, SAS maintains a corporate presence in approximately 60 international jurisdictions. Governance & Management / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 49 Industries served Automotive Health Care Media Banking Health Insurance Energy & Utilities Capital Markets Education Higher Education Retail Communications Hotels Consumer Goods Insurance Defense & Security Life Sciences Travel & Transportation Government Manufacturing Sports CEO Jim Goodnight and co-founder and Executive Vice President John Sall constitute the board of directors of SAS Institute Inc. They also serve as executive officers, overseeing corporate performance and investment decisions across environmental, social and economic interests. Goodnight and Sall are the company’s principal shareholders. Employee rights, including employment-based compliance issues, are managed through SAS’ Human Resources Division under the direction of the executive vice president and chief human resources officer. The Ethics and Compliance group in the SAS Legal Division, overseen by the vice president and general counsel for ethics and compliance, manages other compliance responsibilities, including anti-corruption, privacy, trade, lobbying, gifts and anti-aggression laws. SAS’ business continuity management efforts are additionally coordinated by a dedicated team within the Legal Division. Environmental conservation is managed through the Facilities group in the Corporate Services Division. Corporate Social Responsibility SAS maintains a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Task Force comprising employees across business functions, including legal, facilities, marketing and communications. This group meets bimonthly to advance annual goals and priorities, and to address topics related to sustainability throughout the year. The group’s function is to ensure the integration of corporate social responsibility efforts across the business. This team works closely with various departments and communicates with SAS executive leadership to ensure that CSR policies and initiatives are considered in all aspects of the business. As a signatory participant, SAS conducts business in accordance with the Ten Principles of the United Nations (UN) Global Compact and supports the UN Global Compact’s Sustainable Development Goals. Public Policy SAS engages in public policy discussions, particularly related to the role of technologies in solving larger societal issues that challenge local, state, federal and international agencies. These challenges include delivering better and safer health care while minimizing fraud, waste and abuse; ensuring that vulnerable children receive appropriate government services, including quality pre-K through third-grade education; providing better stewardship of taxpayer resources with greater government accountability; and helping governments make better use of their data to fulfill their missions, such as helping detect terrorist financing and money laundering schemes. SAS also engages in public policy discussions to help protect the valuable intellectual property resources that are the underpinning of its business. SAS also engages in discussions with legislators and regulaGovernance & Management / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 50 tors worldwide to help shape laws and policies that affect the handling of data, including discussions related to data protection and data security. For example, SAS works to educate policymakers as to the role and benefits of artificial intelligence, with an end to shaping a workable regulatory framework that encourages its use. Additionally, SAS engages with policymakers to enable reasonable rules to promote digital trade, and to ensure fair tax rules for organizations of all types. Political Contributions and Lobbying SAS abides by political contribution laws and prohibits the use of corporate funds for political contributions to individual candidates. Corporate contributions may be made to political parties if approved through established procedures. SAS records and reports all corporate political contributions in accordance with applicable local laws. SAS complies with relevant lobbying laws in its operations. Lobbyist registrations and disclosure reports are filed by SAS on a regular and timely basis. Ethics and Regulatory Compliance Guided by the Code of Ethics, SAS is committed to maintainhyperlinks to associated internal SAS policies and procedures, ing its reputation as a company that conducts all aspects of which serve as a guide for employees on specific requirements its business with integrity and reflects ethical practices. SAS to ensure and maintain compliance with the Code of Ethics compliance programs use training, policies, processes and and with SAS’ overall mission and core values. audits to ensure compliance in areas such as anti-corruption, In 2019, these SAS offices participated in the below international trade and privacy. governance and management activities: SAS is committed to demonstrating honesty, fairness and accountability in every decision and action, including each • SAS Canada incorporated policies directed toward various interaction with employees, customers, suppliers and compliance initiatives such as third party due diligence, competitors. The SAS Code of Ethics helps the company vendor screening, CASL processes and pay equity evaluation. define and maintain high standards for respect, honesty, • SAS Finland participated in a surveillance audit (Kiwa fairness and accountability for all without regard to race, Inspecta ISO/IEC 27001). ethnicity, color, sex, national origin, age, creed, religion, • SAS Portugal obtained a certification for privacy and informaancestry, citizenship status, marital status, sexual orientation, tion security (Norma ISO 27001). gender, gender identity and/or expression, disability, veteran status, or any legally identifiable status. This SAS Code of • SAS United Kingdom and Ireland continues to hold ISO Ethics applies to every employee – at every subsidiary and in 27001 security and ISO 9001 quality certifications. every region – as well as all members of the board of directors, officers appointed by the board of directors and agents. Failure to comply with the SAS Code of Ethics or other applicable policies can result in disciplinary action, up to and including termination. 2019 DATA The Code of Ethics is publicly available and linked to in this SAS did not have any substantiated, materially negative report. The Code of Ethics is made available to the public to incidents with regard to public policy, privacy, corrupdemonstrate the company’s vision and values for the benefit tion, ethics, bribery, anti-competitive actions, anti-trust of customers, suppliers and other stakeholders. The Code of violations or monopoly practices, societal impacts, the Ethics is also available to all employees on the company’s environment, labor practices, or employee discriminaintranet and is periodically promoted by the company’s tion or harassment; nor were there any sanctions or fines communications program. The content of the Code of Ethics for noncompliance. is the same in both the publicly available and employee version; however, the internal version also includes live Governance & Management / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 51 Training The Ethics and Compliance group at SAS has developed courses to help employees abide by the SAS Code of Ethics and applicable external rules and regulations. SAS provides this training to equip all employees to make the right choices when ethical and regulatory challenges arise. Online training was developed under the management and oversight of the vice president and general counsel for ethics and compliance, with input from many departments across SAS, and with ultimate approval by the chief legal officer. All global training courses developed since 2012 are available in English, simplified Chinese, French, German, Italian, Japanese, Portuguese, Russian and Spanish. How SAS monitors completion and renewal of training varies, depending on relevant policies, strategies, trainings and codes. Online training completions are tracked by the third-party vendor that helped to create them and are monitored by the Ethics and Compliance group. Automated reminders are sent to those who have not completed training as the deadline approaches, and managers are contacted as trainings become overdue. All new employees and certain contract workers are required to take some or all of the following training: • Code of Ethics • Effective Trade Compliance • Global Anti-Corruption • Information Security • Workplace Respect • Data Privacy SAS provides specialized training for personnel as needed. For example, certain California and India employees take additional anti-sexual harassment training as required by law. In-person, targeted compliance training is conducted periodically. Also, SAS United Kingdom and Ireland had a required training for fire awareness and information security awareness. SAS Denmark does a work environment assessment and SAS Norway performs an internal management review of health, safety and environment at the workplace. SAS Finland and SAS Nordic offices also performed an information security course. These courses are developed by the Ethics and Compliance group in the Legal Division with input from the relevant functional business units. For example, in 2018, SAS conducted anti-corruption training for government sales and marketing groups, privacy training for IT staff, export training for federal government sales and services, and HIPAA training for employees interacting with data in the company’s health care center or associated with its health care industry solutions. SAS provides specialized training for personnel as needed. For example, certain California and India employees take additional anti-sexual harassment training as required by law. In-person, targeted compliance training is conducted periodically. These courses are developed by the Ethics and Compliance group in the Legal Division with input from the relevant functional business units. For example, in 2018, SAS conducted anti-corruption training for government sales and marketing groups, privacy training for IT staff, export training for federal government sales and services, and HIPAA training for employees interacting with data in the company’s health care center or associated with its health care industry solutions. Governance & Management / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 52 Employee Feedback Employees are responsible for appropriately communicating concerns regarding suspected unethical or illegal conduct to a supervisor, Human Resources or the Legal Division. Specific procedures for reporting concerns are displayed on the Legal Division’s internal website. Employees may submit comments to SAS Ethics and Compliance via email, telephone or an anonymous online form. SAS does not retaliate against anyone who reports suspected violations in good faith. All reports of misconduct are investigated in a timely fashion. Unless the complaining individual chooses to remain anonymous, he or she receives feedback on the results of the investigation, to the extent allowed by applicable law. 2019 DATA 100% of complaints to SAS Ethics and Compliance were investigated and addressed as needed. Anti-Corruption SAS has an anti-corruption program to provide training and monitoring across the company. This program includes an online anti-corruption course for all new employees and certain third parties; and in-person, targeted training for sales, marketing, finance and other affected groups. In addition, SAS has implemented gift, marketing event, “revolving door,” conflict of interest, lobbying and donation policies – as well as review procedures – to comply with applicable laws and customer requirements. These documents are available to all employees on the Ethics and Compliance internal website. SAS conducts advance and ongoing due diligence on subcontractors, partners and other third parties to verify their reputability and identify and mitigate anti-corruption risks. SAS also contractually requires that its subcontractors comply with the principles set forth in its Code of Ethics, including anti-bribery provisions. SAS also conducts audits and transaction-specific due diligence measures to support compliance in high-risk transactions. Export Controls SAS maintains an export management system complete with product licensing and screening processes that include checking employees, customers and suppliers against the Office of Foreign Asset Control (OFAC) Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons list and certain other government lists of prohibited parties. SAS also files regular and timely anti-boycott reports as required by US law. SAS classifies its products according to US export laws and makes such classifications available to its customers at the SAS Current Export Designation Information page. Privacy SAS strives to ensure its use of personal data complies with applicable laws, SAS policies and customer expectations in all countries globally where SAS operates. SAS also places great importance on data security with the view to protect the confidentiality, availability and integrity of data in the control of SAS. Dedicated teams across various functions are committed to driving a “privacy by design” culture in all SAS operations internally and externally. SAS requires all its employees and certain categories of contractors to complete training on privacy and information security. SAS publishes a monthly information security awareness newsletter to inform employees about information security and privacy issues. Business Continuity Management At SAS, business continuity management (BCM) is an important global corporate initiative, addressing threats or hazards that may affect employees and customers and disrupt business operations. BCM planning supports corporate governance, information security and corporate social responsibility. Governance & Management / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 53 Supply Chain SAS strives to build long-term partnerships with both direct and indirect suppliers that can meet local, regional and global requirements. A wide range of best practices, tools and policies are used to ensure that the supply chain remains strong and the company is identifying the best fit for all sourcing needs. Direct suppliers provide products or services used in creating the products and services SAS provides to customers. These include software, software as a service, hardware, consultants and IT infrastructure. Indirect suppliers in areas such as food services, legal and accounting, real estate, facilities services and travel provide support for operating the business. SAS places a priority on contracting with local suppliers when it makes sense for the company. SAS uses mechanisms such as service level agreements, key performance indicators, benchmarking and supplier relationship management to monitor and manage suppliers’ results. Suppliers are subject to ongoing anti-corruption due diligence, which – proportionate to the level of the supplier’s business and risks presented – screens prospective suppliers and relevant or high-risk individuals within those organizations. The company also has an advance due diligence process for suppliers who assist in sales efforts and potential acquisitions. The process involves investigation of the supplier at levels that are proportionate to the risks presented by the supplier, including investigating the supplier’s background, qualifications, conflicts of interest, financial condition and history of regulatory violations. SAS has confirmed via supply chain due diligence that no conflict minerals are necessary to the functionality or production of any product manufactured by or contracted for manufacture by SAS. The supply chain compliance program also consists of contractual requirements for anti-corruption and ethics rules for all contractors and consultants. SAS also conducts in-person and online training, expense record and expenditure reviews, audits, and global outreach through organizations such as the UN Global Compact. SAS voluntarily provides supply chain information for the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and Great Place to Work. SAS uses competitive bidding to help ensure competition and fairness in the marketplace for suppliers. SAS’ standard request for proposal form emphasizes the importance of corporate social responsibility, including environmental stewardship and promotion of supplier diversity. Additionally, if the bidder is not a diverse company, SAS requests a statement regarding its active supplier diversity programs or opportunities it may subcontract to diverse suppliers. The Strategic Sourcing and Procurement Organization requires adherence to the SAS Business Partner Code of Conduct and SAS Sustainable Procurement Charter in SAS’ standard vendor agreements and purchase orders. Governance & Management / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 54 Supplier Diversity SAS’ Supplier Diversity Department was formed in 2005 out of a need to satisfy customer requirements during the sales contracting process. Over the years, responsibilities have evolved to reflect SAS’ corporate conscience and competitive advantage as a global leader in analytics software and solutions. As part of the Corporate Services Division, the manager of supplier diversity is responsible for the supplier diversity process and mission, which includes: • Reviewing RFPs and contracts and responding diversity activities and events (e.g., sponsorships, education to customers with diversity requirements. and attendance). • Preparing and providing diversity spending • Providing internal training to buyers and stakeholders reports to customers. regarding the importance and value of providing access to • Providing information and access to SAS’ procurement and utilization of diverse suppliers. opportunities by supporting and conducting various By developing and maintaining effective relationships with suppliers, SAS aims to create value throughout the life of each contract based upon economy, quality, environmental preservation and social values. SAS is a member of the National Minority Supplier Development Council, the Women’s Business Center of North Carolina, the North Carolina Veterans Business Association, the local LGTBQ Chamber of Commerce and the local chapter of Disability:IN. SAS is also represented on the boards of various diverse supplier development councils and economic development initiatives. Three examples of active board chair positions include the Carolinas Virginia Minority Supplier Development Council, Piedmont Chapter; the Carolina/Virginia Chapter of the Institute for Supply Chain Management and the North Carolina Chapter of Disability:IN. SAS believes that active participation and collaboration with these organizations fosters a strong climate for diverse business development. SAS Supplier Diversity is a member of the North Carolina MWBE Coordinators’ Network, a professional development organization for supplier diversity professionals. Membership ensures SAS’ program stays relevant on legislation and industry changes. SAS partners with the Small Business and Technology Development Center to provide procurement related educational services to small and diverse-owned businesses. SAS values extend into the community in which it lives and works. In 2019, SAS partnered with the Raleigh LGBT Chamber of Commerce to secure grant funding for much-needed development and training programs for local diverse-owned businesses. These training programs provide free and inclusive opportunities for business owners to strengthen their entrepreneurial skills and connect with corporate and government purchasing professionals. Giving back strengthens local communities and in turn strengthens the suppliers with which SAS does business. Governance & Management / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 55 Supplier Diversity Policy Statement SAS customers represent a wide range of industries, people and locations – and the company seeks this same level of diversity in its supplier community. Unlike a typical manufacturing environment, the creation of SAS® products does not require purchasing materials or component parts, but rather relies on a highly skilled staff of technical professionals. SAS complies with federal laws and regulations that prohibit discrimination in employment based on race, color, religion, gender, national origin, age, disability or veteran status, as well as sexual orientation and gender identity. As a federal contractor, SAS complies with Executive Order 11246, as amended, and the implementing rules and regulations of the Office of Federal Contract Compliance, Vietnam Era Veterans’ Readjustment Assistance Act of 1974, and the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. Regarding the procurement of goods and services to support corporate operations, SAS continually seeks ways to make business opportunities available to all certified, diverse business categories: These categories include: • Minority-Owned Business Enterprises. • LGBTQ-Owned Business Enterprises. • Women-Owned Business Enterprises. • Veteran or Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Businesses. • Disability-Owned Business Enterprises. • Federal HUB Zone-Certified Businesses. In the area of professional services offered to its customers, SAS provides small and diverse-owned businesses the opportunity to participate in the subcontracts it awards. As with all SAS suppliers, there must be a demonstrated “value-added” benefit. SAS seeks out suppliers that show a commitment to its values, innovative business solutions, cost savings and competitive pricing. SAS encourages diverse businesses interested in more information about potential working opportunities and relationships to email supplierdiversity@sas.com. Governance & Management / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 56 Suppliers and the Environment The environmental impact of business activities extends As a software company, SAS has limited risks and concerns beyond the SAS campus and work spaces to the entire in regard to raw materials, hazardous wastes and supplier supply chain, from suppliers to distribution channels to practices. Because the primary input to SAS products is product use. The Environmental Management Program intellectual property, SAS does not currently collect data on researches ways to incorporate corporate social responsibiliGHG emissions and climate change strategy from suppliers. ty into procurement efforts and reduce the environmental impact of supply chain processes. To accomplish this, SAS: • Strongly encourages employees to give consideration and preference to suppliers with environmental practices 2019 DATA and programs. SAS continued to research options for incorporating corporate social responsibility elements into procure• Promotes the adoption of environmental principles by ment processes and reducing environmental impact of contractors and suppliers, encouraging or requiring supply chain processes. As in years past, SAS completimprovements. ed its annual CDP supply chain questionnaire related to • Completes the annual CDP supply chain questionnaire. greenhouse gas emissions inventory and related • Makes extensive use of green products, such as environclimate change management, and water management mentally friendly cleaning supplies and low-emissions and stewardship. SAS achieved an overall CDP paints and products for campus buildings. The procureperformance score of B for both surveys. SAS also ment teams routinely assist with finding the most efficient received a rating of Bfor supplier engagement. and Earth-friendly options. • Maximizes investments by eliminating unnecessary purchases, extending the life of assets through repurposing and reselling outdated equipment to employees as well as donating materials to educational institutions. Only Download Governance & Management then are materials processed for responsible recycling. SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2020, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. G119651_US.0720 ABOUT THIS REPORT The SAS 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report is based on the calendar year Jan. 1 to Dec. 31, 2019, and updated annually. All data and information pertain to SAS Institute Inc., the US-based parent company for SAS, unless otherwise stated. Environmental reports are based on global operations data. The most recent report was the 2018 CSR report, which was published online in June 2018. That data has now been updated for the 2019 report. In 2019, SAS made strides to improve global reporting of its programs and initiatives, and will continue to improve reporting on offices outside of the US. There have been no other significant changes during the reporting period. The report was developed using the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards and was prepared in accordance with Core GRI requirements. SAS’ CSR efforts focus on four core areas: education and philanthropy, environment, employees, and governance and ethics. The report can be viewed in a PDF document by separate sections or as a complete report so information is more accessible and customizable. The report format allows for greater explanation and transparency on SAS’ practices and policies and provides space for updates to relevant and material topics. Over time, this report will evolve in response to the needs of stakeholders, employees, customers and the community. SAS® Visual Analytics data visualization software is used to generate charts and graphs to illustrate the data and provide additional analytics capabilities. This provides far greater visibility, transparency and accuracy in reporting SAS’ environmental impact. Charts and graphs included in the PDF documents reflect a specific time frame for gathering and analyzing data for this report. Executive leaders and other relevant internal stakeholders have reviewed content in this report. SAS welcomes your comments and questions regarding this report and its corporate responsibility efforts. For questions about this report or its contents, please email globalreporting@sas.com. Scope and Boundaries Since SAS headquarters are in Cary, NC, the scope of this CSR report focuses primarily on SAS’ United States operations. Where available, global data is provided and appropriately labeled. There have been no significant changes to the scope and boundaries for SAS; however, there have been improvements in the reporting of such boundaries. Because SAS is a software company, much of the company’s impact is related to its own operation rather than the products and services provided to customers. Externally, impacts generally occur related to the business practices of suppliers. About this report / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 58 Examples of impacts include: • Environmental: energy use in offices and data centers, waste, and construction of new buildings. • Societal: compliance with local, national and international laws; ethical treatment of employees, customers, suppliers, partners and communities; supporting and fostering a strong workforce. • Economic: creating value in communities where SAS operates; job creation and economic growth; supporting the community through philanthropy. At this time, SAS does not collect environmental information on suppliers or partners; however, the company seeks to work with organizations that have a similar approach to reducing their environmental impact. SAS’ standard procurement agreements require that suppliers must abide by required ethics and compliance rules, which can be found in the Governance & Management section under Supply Chain. Materiality Matrix The CSR Task Force, a cross-departmental sustainability team based in the US, underwent a facilitated process to determine the primary issues that affect SAS and its stakeholders. This included issues that affect the industry as a whole, peer businesses, communities, customers, employees and management. Through this process, the team determined areas where SAS has a significant environmental, social or economic impact. These issues were then rated to determine their importance to stakeholders and/or SAS’ operations. Using the GRI standards, these issues have been reported as “material topics.” Each team member then gathered information specific to these areas of impact for inclusion in this report. The focus areas of this report include: Internal: Issues Relevant to Employees and Management Great workplace Training for next generation of employees Health and safety Talent development Ethics Environment Diversity and Inclusion Workers’ rights Volunteerism and community engagement Clean energy Recycling Water Smart Campus IoT Quality of support Giving Back Ethics Environment Diversity and Inclusion Workers’ rights About this report / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 59 Volunteerism and community engagement Clean energy Recycling Water Smart Campus External: Issues Relevant to Other Stakeholders, Including Customers, Communities, Governments, Partners, Subcontractors, Suppliers, etc. IoT Quality of support Giving Back Ethics Privacy Continuity of business Global trade Environment Anti-corruption DiversityFair business practices Civic participationGift law Government relations Sustainable development goals About this report / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 60 Stakeholder Engagement SAS’ stakeholders include communities, employees, regulatory and governmental bodies, industry organizations, students and teachers, and business partners and suppliers. Engagement with stakeholders provides SAS with the opportunity to gain a greater understanding of the needs in the community and in the market. It allows the company to build strong partnerships with regulatory bodies and organizations within the industry, and lasting relationships with communities, employees, partners and suppliers. Stakeholder Engagement 2019 Employee volunteers, community DonorsChoose.org totaled more than $83,447, grants, in-kind donations and funding 400 classroom projects and benefiting 56,310 training, fundraising. students in 29 states. From August 2018 – December 2019, SAS US employees volunteered more than 27,000 hours, resulting in $114,750 donated to Communities education from the Employee Volunteer Fund. Enhance the SAS workplace culture Intranet, webcasts, videos, webzines, blogs by communicating with and and Yammer, an enterprisewide social informing employees about networking platform. company activities and internal and external programs. Employees Domestic and international policy Data protection and privacy; big data; copyright and legislation development on protections; review of legislation targeting frivolous topics that affect SAS customers and patent lawsuits; revision of administrative policies to Regulatory the development of new products. ensure strong, quality patents are issued. and government Industry associations, think Public speaking engagements, development tanks and academia. or contribution to industry position papers, and one-to-one meetings. Industry organizations Meetings, webcasts and Board memberships include Business Council, representation on boards. Business Roundtable, CEO Roundtable on Cancer and My Future NC. Business partners and suppliers About this report / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 61 Stakeholder Engagement 2019 Host ongoing dialogue with customers SAS interacts with customers through the SAS to answer questions and gather input Global Forum conference, customer advisory for product improvement. boards, self-help and assisted-help resources, focus groups, training, books, technical papers, social media, support communities, samples, Customers SAS notes and focus areas, and more. Inform and solicit feedback SAS’ Analyst Relations group is responsible for from industry analysts. informing, influencing and soliciting feedback from industry analysts and thought leaders with the purpose of validating technology and corporate direction and to provide SAS with a Analysts crucial third-party perspective. Free online and mobile curriculum Curriculum Pathways® provides free online resources resources, free SAS software, teacher and mobile apps for early learners through grade 12. and professor training, summits and SAS offers free software, training and communities meetings, classroom volunteers. for people to gain valuable analytics skills, and supports analytics degree and certificate programs at colleges and universities around the world. SAS is a Students and teachers regular convener of important education meetings, and focuses volunteer efforts on education. Build awareness and shape the Communications helps build awareness and shape SAS brand through communications. the SAS brand by influencing what others think and say about the company. SAS uses communications to guide the flow of information to educate and persuade various public stakeholders, including Communications the news media, bloggers, customers, prospects, analysts and partners. SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2020, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. G119640_US.0720 GRI INDEX gri standard disclosure description reference Governance and Management> 102-1 Name of the organization Governance Structure>Company Profile Governance and Management> 102-2 Primary brands, products and services Governance Structure>Company Profile Governance and Management> 102-3 Location of headquarters Governance Structure>Company Profile Governance and Management> 102-4 Number of countries where organization operates Governance Structure>Company Profile Governance and Management> 102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form Governance Structure>Company Profile Governance and Management> 102-6 Markets served Governance Structure>Company Profile Governance and Management> organizational 102-7 Scale of organization Governance Structure>Company Profile profile Governance and Management> 102-8 Size and composition of workforce Governance Structure>Company Profile Governance and Management> 102-9 Organization’s supply chain Supply Chain Significant organizational changes during 102-10 the reporting period None Precautionary approach or principle is Environmental Program>Environmental 102-11 addressed by the organization Governance>Precautionary Approach Externally developed economic, Governance and Management> 102-12 environmental and social charters Supply Chain Management the organization endorses 102-13 Education Philanthropy> Memberships and associations Community Engagement GRI Index / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 63 gri standard disclosure description reference strategy Statement from the most senior decision and analysis 102-14 maker of the organization From the CEO Organization’s values, codes Governance and Management> 102-16 Ethics and Regulatory Compliance of conduct and codes of ethics ethics and integrity Mechanisms for advice and concerns Governance and Management> 102-17 Ethics and Regulatory Compliance about ethics Governance and Management> 102-18 Governance Governance Structure>Company Profile Governance and Management> 102-19 Delegating authority Governance Structure>Company Profile Executive-level responsibility for economic, Governance and Management> 102-20 environmental, and social topics Governance Structure>Company Profile Consulting stakeholders on economic, Governance and Management> 102-21 environmental, and social topics Governance Structure>Company Profile Composition of the highest governance Governance and Management> 102-22 body and its committees Governance Structure>Company Profile Governance and Management> 102-25 Conflicts of interest Ethics and Regulatory Compliance governance Role of highest governance body in Governance and Management> 102-26 Governance Structure> setting purpose, values, and strategy Corporate Social Responsibility Governance Collective knowledge of Governance and Management> 102-27 highest governance body Governance Structure> Corporate Social Responsibility Governance Governance and Management> Identifying and managing economic, 102-29 Governance Structure> environmental,and social impacts Corporate Social Responsibility Governance Governance and Management> 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Governance Structure> Corporate Social Responsibility Governance Governance and Management> Nature and total number 102-34 Governance Structure> of critical concerns Corporate Social Responsibility Governance GRI Index / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 64 gri standard disclosure description reference 102-40 List of stakeholders About This Report>Stakeholder Engagement Percentage of employees covered 102-41 by collective bargaining None stakeholder Basis for identification and selection 102-42 of stakeholders with whom to engage About This Report>Stakeholder Engagement engagement 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement About This Report>Stakeholder Engagement 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised by stakeholders About This Report>Materiality Matrix Governance and Management> 102-45 List all entities and explain omissions Company Profile; About This Report 102-46 How report content was defined About This Report>Scope and Boundaries 102-47 List of material topics About This Report>Materiality Matrix 102-48 Restatements About This Report>Scope and Boundaries 102-49 Significant changes in scope or boundary About This Report>Scope and Boundaries reporting practices 102-50 Reporting Period About This Report 102-51 Date of most recent previous report About This Report 102-52 Reporting cycle About This Report 102-53 Contact point About This Report 102-54 GRI “in accordance” option About This Report 102-55 GRI content index GRI Index 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed CEO Letter; Philanthropy economiceconomic Financial implications and other risks and performance 201-2 opportunities for the organization’s activities Not applicable due to climate change economicGovernance and Management> procurement 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Supply Chain Management practices North Carolina only GRI Index / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 65 gri standard disclosure description reference Governance and Management> 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Ethics and Regulatory Compliance> Anti-Corruption Communication and training on anti-corruption Governance and Management> economic205-2 Ethics and Regulatory Compliance> anti-corruption policies and procedures Anti-Corruption Governance and Management> 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Ethics and Regulatory Compliance economicTotal number of legal actions for anti-competitive Governance and Management> anti-competitive Ethics and Regulatory Compliance 206-1 behavior, anti-trust and monopoly practices and behavior their outcomes Environmental Program> 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Energy and Emissions environmentalmaterials Environmental Program> 301-2 Recycled input materials used Landfill Diversion Environmental Program> 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Energy and Emissions Environmental Program> 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization Energy and Emissions environmentalEnvironmental Program> 302-3 Energy intensity Energy and Emissions energy Environmental Program> 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Energy and Emissions Reductions in energy requirements Environmental Program> 302-5 of products and services Energy and Emissions Environmental Program> 303-1 Total water withdrawal by source Water Conservation Water sources significantly affected Environmental Program> environmental303-2 Water Conservation – US only by withdrawal of water water Percentage and total volume of Environmental Program> 303-3 water recycled and reused Water Conservation GRI Index / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 66 gri standard disclosure description reference Operational sites owned, leased, managed in 304-1 or adjacent to protected areas and areas of Environmental Program>Biodiversity high biodiversity value outside protected areas environmentalbiodiversity Description of significant impacts of activities, Environmental Program>Biodiversity 304-2 products and services on biodiversity 304-3 Habitats protected or restored Environmental Program>Biodiversity Environmental Program> 305-1 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1) Energy and Emissions Environmental Program> 305-2 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (scope 2) Energy and Emissions environmentalEnvironmental Program> 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Energy and Emissions emissions Environmental Program> 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 13 Energy and Emissions Environmental Program> 305-5 Reduction of GhG emissions Energy and Emissions 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Environmental Program>Landfill Diversion 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Environmental Program>Landfill Diversion environmentaleffluents and waste 306-3 Significant spills Environmental Program>Landfill Diversion Water bodies affected by water discharges 306-5 Environmental Program>Landfill Diversion and/or runoff environmentalNon-compliance with environmental Governance and Management> 307-1 Ethics and Regulatory Compliance compliance laws and regulations New suppliers screened About This Report environmental308-1 using environmental criteria supplier environmental Negative environmental impacts in Environmental Program> assessment 308-2 the supply chain and actions taken Environmental Governance Employees and Culture> 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Hiring and Retaining Staff Benefits provided to full-time employees that socialare not provided to temporary or part-time Employees and Culture> 401-2 Hiring and Retaining Staff employment employees Employees and Culture> 401-3 Parental leave Hiring and Retaining Staff GRI Index / SAS Corporate Social Responsibility 67 gri standard disclosure description reference socialoccupational Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational Employees and Culture> 403-2 diseases, lost days and absenteeism Health and Safety health and safety 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Employees and Culture>Skills Development socialtraining and education Programs for upgrading employee skills and 404-2 transition assistance programs Employees and Culture>Skills Development socialTotal number of incidents of discrimination Governance and Management> 406-1 and corrective actions taken Ethics and Regulatory Compliance non-discrimination socialEmployee training on human rights Governance and Management> human rights 412-2 policies or procedures Ethics and Regulatory Compliance>Training assessment socialOperations with local community engagement, 413-1 impact assessments, and development programs Education Philanthropy; partial reporting local communities 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Governance and Management>Supply Chain socialsupplier social assessment Negative social impacts in the supply chain Governance and Management> 414-2 and actions taken Ethics and Regulatory Compliance socialGovernance and Management> 415-1 Political contributions Governance Structure>Public Policy public policy socialSubstantiated complaints concerning breaches of Governance and Management> 418-1 customer privacy and losses of customer data Ethics and Regulatory Compliance customer privacy socialNon-compliance with laws and regulations Governance and Management> socioeconomic 419-1 in the social and economic area Ethics and Regulatory Compliance compliance SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2020, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved.G119641.0720
