GREEN NETWORK COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2019 COVERS THE PERIOD FROM 01.01.2019-31.12.2019 1 Contents About this report 3 Statement from the CEO 4 A network of partners 6 Sustainable Business Partner Certification 8 Green Network Advisory 10 Overview of Results 2019 12 2 About this report In this communication on progress, we describe the actions, initiatives and work that we do in the area of corporate responsibility and sustainability. For Green Network however, this also describes what we do as a business. Green Network has since it was founded in 1994, as a public-private partnership, worked with sustainability and our goal is to enhance the capacity and practice of companies in the areas of corporate responsibility and sustainability. PARTNERSHIP: TRAINING CSR-TOOLS NETWORK BUSINESS PARTNERS DEVELOPMENT ADVISORY PROJECTS This means that what we do in cooperation with our visory services and project development. It entails business partners, is creating our strongest impact. doing concrete, custom tailored advisory service Therefore, this communication on progress descriand projects that develop new business models and bes how we work with our partners to influence, imbuild up knowledge and capacity for us and our bupact and push them in a more sustainable direction siness partners. regarding all the issues involved in both the UN GloThis report thus consists of chapters describing bal Compact as well as the UN Sustainable Developeach of our business areas and how we through ment Goals. each area seek to impact our business partners – and others – to work with the sustainability agenda, The work with our network business partners is the Global Compact and the Sustainable Developbased on a partnership model, where Green Netment Goals. work facilitates events and knowledge sharing. In addition to this, we offer more intensive training and capacity building for our partners, as well as a Sustainable Business Partner certification that our partners can achieve if they complete all 3 training modules. The last element in our business model is our ad3 Statement from the CEO The need for companies to implement measures to address their sustainability and responsibility is becoming more and more evident. The corporations play a critical role in addressing the need for a more sustainable world and hence, we observe that companies now focus on this agenda more than ever. This development legitimizes Green Network’s role as a forum for companies to gain knowledge, share best practice and find the right solutions for their sustainability and responsibility practice to fit the ever-changing conditions. This sustainability report covers the Fortunately, amid this concerning backdrop, global period from 1 January to 31 Decempublic awareness of sustainability rose. We also ber 2019. With this report, we strive look positively at the many statements from the poto provide a fair, comprehensive and litical sphere, both on a Danish and European level, relevant picture of our company. This regarding a continued effort towards green and susincludes an overview of selected activities, transpatainable investment and trust that despite the finanrent progress on KPIs set and how we strive to be a cial challenges the health crisis will cause, we will Model Company. This report represents our Comsee a strong trend towards more sustainable busimunication on Progress under the UN Global Comness models and conduct in the coming years. pact.The scope of this sustainability report and its disclosures cover most of Green Networks A/S acIt became evident that all societal stakeholders tivities. must take action and contribute to sustainable development. Building on this strong foundation, this Our Sustainability Report 2019 was written beforeport, the third of its kind in Green Network, illure and during the outbreak and subsequent rapid strates how deeply sustainability is ingrained in our spread of the Corona (COVID-19) virus. As a responbusiness. sible company, Green Network is doing its utmost to adhere to authorities’ measures and to protect employees and partners. We hope that the global situation improves soon so that people and organizations can again focus on addressing climate change challenges and take necessary actions to create a more sustainable world. Green Network is ready to play our part as we describe in the following. In the last year, we experienced a world where climate changes caused by human activity demonstrated their damaging effects. Meanwhile, a report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change showed that we can only bend the curve on global carbon emissions and avoid irreversible damage to our nature by invoking sustainable and responsible production and consumption patterns in all aspects of our society. Green Network promoting ’Go Carbon Neutral Now’ at the SDG Summit 2019 in Brussels 4 The winners of the 360 degree prize 2019 at Børsen in Copenhagen. During 2019 Green Network saw big changes and we are national partner, helped develop and promodevelopments that has made the company more te the ‘Go Carbon Neutral Now’ that helps companiagile and prepared us well for the coming years. We es raise awareness and build their zero CO2-emissihelped start a new network of associated CSR-comon programmes. panies called CSR-Advisors Denmark, that ensures our capacity to deliver in-depth advisory services of Finally, we continued our long-standing tradition of the highest quality, while being able to focus on our promoting sustainability and CSR through worksnetwork’s member companies, network events and hops and presentations for educational institutions, training. business associations, etc., in order to ensure that We also continued our collaboration with The Dawe help push society in a more sustainable directinish Business Authority, Danish Chamber of Comon. merce and the Danish Ethical Trading Initiative on the ’360 Degree’ award show hosted at Børsen in 2019 was an exciting year for Green Network and we Copenhagen. The award goes to companies with are looking very much forward to continuing our solutions adressing sustainability, innovation and work in the ‘decade of action’ where we will do all scalability and the winners were once again compawe can to help reach the Sustainable Development nies adressing all of these aspects. Goals. This year also saw Green Network’s 25th anniversary, which was marked with a celebration event looking both backwards and forwards. Few other companies have worked with environment, sustainability and health and safety for so long and we Susanne Lydholm, are proud of our long history, experience and contiManaging Director/ nued adherence to spreading sustainable business Owner principles and practices. Green Network was also engaged on the international level, as we in cooperation with LM Wind Power and through CSR Europe, an organization to which 5 A network of partners Green Network functions as a network for companies wishing to develop their capacity to work with corporate sustainability and responsibility. In 2019 the partnership-model was strengthened with more than 50 visits to partner companies and more than 260 attendees at our networking events and courses, an increase of 60 attendees compared to 2018. Supporting the overall implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals in our business, along with their increasing presence in the broader public sphere, the goals played an increasingly larger role in our events and offers. 15 In 2019 we continued our focus on the partnerships that create the basis for Green Network’s business model and our work with the EVENTS HOSTED principles of the UNGC. As stated above our work is often done “by-proxy” through enabling our partner companies to work more effectively or structured with issues relevant to the UNGC. We primarily did this by holding various events and workshops 260+ INDIVIDUALS ATTENDING with participants from a large part of our partner companies. EVENTS Electricity usage at our facilities: OUR DIRECT IMPACT 2019 3853 Kwh = 816 kg Co2 Of course, we also work with our internal and direct impacts. 2019 marked the first year where Green Being located in a shared office space the numbers Network actively worked on reducing the emissions above may show some inaccuracies, but as electrirelated to transport and our office premises. Both city usage is provided on an individual basis by the have been included in this chapter as most of our owners and we have used the official calculation courses and events are held on our premises and method from the FSR (Danish Accountants) we armost of our transportation is related to projects with gue that they give a concise representation of our partners. yearly usage in Co2-equivalents. Green Networks largest source of emissions is Due to the geographic spread of Green Network’s transportation: partner companies and our own location in Denmark’s 5th largest city, we are unfortunately not Year: Km: Co2 emissions (tonnes): always able to use public transport, as especially 2018 29.492 4,53 our larger industrial partners are located rather far 2019 15.663 2,41 from any easily accessible public transportation. Thus, personal cars will still be the primary mode Our data show that we brought down our total emisof transportation, but it is Green Networks clearsions to 2,41 tonnes Co2 per year. Down from 4,53 ly stated goal to always use public transportation the year prior this is a reduction of 53%. This result when possible. This means that transportation to is partly due to the fact that the number of visits to conferences placed in cities with a direct train-link our partner companies’ facilities was almost halved to Vejle will be conducted via train unless obvious compared to 2018 and may therefore rise again. constraints are apparent. 6 53% We have also included the SDGs in our Enviromental and Health and Safety reporting templates mentioned earlier, in order for partner companies REDUCTION IN CO2-EMISSIONS to be able to relate their work in these areas to releFROM TRANSPORT vant SDGs and targets. This is ongoing work, but we have seen some companies already 8 relating their goals and action plans to relevant targets and we expect more of this as more and more companies COMPANIES AWARDED WITH transfer to the new templates. DIPLOMAS FOR ENVIROMEN25 YEARS OF GREEN NETWORK TAL OR HEALTH & SAFETY 2019 was also a special year in Green Network as MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS we marked the 25th anniversary of the network. In this field of sustainability and CSR, that is quite UPDATED TEMPLATES FOR ENVIRONMENTa lot of years. This means that Green Network have AND OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY-REseen different agendas within this field come and PORTING go. From the environmental focus in the beginning A major focus point in 2019 was rolling out the upover the inclusion of occupational health and safedated reporting templates on environment and ty and later with the introduction of the concept of occupational health & safety management systems. CSR to today’s focus on sustainability and the SDGs. With the templates the companies can establish a management system with clear targets, action plans Green Network is of course not the same as we have and follow up within the areas in question. Compahad to evolve to these changing agendas and from nies using the templates therefore must disclose on a public organization to a private consultancy and their performance and improvements in order to network. Green Network has since the beginning receive the diplomas on the basis of their reports. had the mission of increasing companies and orBy updating the templates in-line with the new ganizations capacity to handle their responsibility and updated ISO-standards ISO 14001:2015 and ISO towards society – for the sake of the organization as 45001:2018, and by compiling some of the material well as society. into two easily accessible templates, we have enabled all first-time reporting partner companies, as To communicate this, we arranged a celebration of well as partners who have worked with the reports the anniversary in March with keynote speakers before, to work more effectively with their perforfrom our partner-companies; The LEGO Group and mance and thereby also the UNGC principles regarBlaaholm A/S, a representative from CSR Europe as ding labour rights and environmental concern. well as the interesting coffee start-up NGUVU. GreIn total 8 companies received diplomas or certificaen Network shared some insights gained through 25 tions, of which 1 company was given a diploma for years and presented our visions and plans. the first time in 2019. OBJECTIVES FOR 2020: Gain 40 new members in our network 10 events with the SDG’s as a substantial part Using public transport to lessen carbon emissions from transport when feasible 7 Sustainable Business Partner Certification The Sustainable Business Partner Certification saw increased popularity and recognition in2019. Seven companies are now recertified Sustainable Business Partners (SBP) and have demonstrated their capacity to work strategically with corporate sustainability and responsibility. Building on the foundations and SDG-assessment. This network is one of our main success of the SBP certification focus areas in 2020 with topics that are relevant for overhaul of 2018, where 6 compathe certified companies. nies were recertified, 2019 saw 7 new companies obtaining the SusThe CSR training and SBP certification is one of the tainable Business Partner-certification and a total of ways in which Green Network works with compa14 persons completing the course. nies and partners to strengthen their capacity and This means that a total of 13 companies are now cerpractice in corporate sustainability and responsibiltified as Sustainable Business Partners. ity. Through the training we can influence the companies and have an impact on their knowledge and Furthermore, the sustainable Business Partner netintegration of sustainability in the companies’ core work was set up and enhanced with dedicated netbusiness and thereby also in integrating the Global work meetings for certified partners only. 2 meetCompact principles, both directly and indirectly. ings in the network were planned and executed, one based around the Science Based Target initiaTo ensure the effect we have conducted case intertive and climate reporting the other with focus on views with participants. Read one of them here: 7 RE-CERTIFIED COMPANIES ARE 13 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PARTNERS PARTNER CERTIFIED AT THE END OF 2019 14 INDIVIDUALS MEETINGS IN THE 2 CERTIFED AS SUSTAINSUSTAINABLE BUSINESS ABLE BUSINESS PROFESSIONALS PARTNER NETWORK 8 By sending two employees on this course our company also receives a nice certification that will decorate the walls of our offices, but most importantly being a CSR-team of two rather than one is a great advantage for us. What value and tools has it provided you? The course has provided us great value and has enabled us to work constructively with the SDG’s. By using Green Network’s CSR-tool we are now able to keep working on our CSR-implementation and are able to plan and evaluate the process from beginning to end. It has given us broad knowledge of CSR-work in general and an understanding of the breadth of field of the SDG’s and CSR in general. Have you developed your personal CSR-skills and knowledge by participating? In the fall of 2019 two employees from Green NetOur company has just been sold to a major internawork’s partner company Glycom A/S participated tional company where sustainability is really at the in the Sustainable business partner training. We forefront. It is thus perfect for us to be able to enasked them a few questions about the experience. gage constructively with our new owners, Why did your company/you choose to particiand not just sit back pate in the Sustainable Business Partner trainwaiting to be taught ing modules? everything. Our We participated to gain insights into the area and at CSR-skillsets have the same time become better prepared for an ongobeen strengthened ing sales process where sustainability is one of the and we are positive focus areas. Furthermore, Glycom’s financial dethis will bring value partment was starting work on its first §99a CSR-reto us and our new port, so participating in the course was an opportuowners alike nity to also gain a better understanding of the 17 UN SDG’s and the future work regarding these. OBJECTIVES FOR 2020: 8 new certified Sustainable Business Partners 16 new Sustainable Business Partner Professionals Roll out the SDG Skyline tool to all new certified partners incl. introduction to all participants in training 9 Green Network Advisory Whenever our partners and other companies are challenged and need support for a specific task, Green Network offers customized and tailored solutions to address their challenges. In 2019 we have worked with over 10 companies in a variety of advisory service projects. 7 of our projects involved production and implementation of CSR or CSR-related policies. 2019 was also a year of changes ensure the necessary depth and quality in the work. in Green Network. With a strategic change in the setup of the Our new approach to ensuring a more agile and fosecretariat to ensure a stronger cused organization has also meant that our cooperfocus on Green Network’s partnerships, there was a ation with CEMAsys has been strengthened. As the reduction in the number of consultants on permaMeassure platform has been phased out, all current nent contracts working on advisory projects. Partly users have been invited to move their activities to as a consequence of this shift, we helped establish the CEMAsys platform through Green Network so and became partners in CSR Advisors Denmark, a that the ongoing work with securing CSR-data, supknowledge sharing and support network consisting ply chain management and due diligence can be of 5 CSR companies spread geographically througheffectively continued. By outsourcing the manageout Denmark. ment of the platform to external specialists we are confident that the effect of our partners’ activities Through CSR Advisors Denmark we have access to and their impact will be considerably heightened. a high level of expertise in different areas of CSR 11 and sustainability, access to knowledge and networks as well as the possibility of joining with our partners to work on large projects through a framework agreement. In this way we are still able to take COMPANIES RECEIVED on the larger projects we used to, while saving costs ADVISORY SERVICES FROM and being able to maintain focus on our wider partGREEN NETWORK ner network. 7 Furthermore, we have actively worked to identify and collaborate with a number of associated partners who are able to bring in expertise in fields such as work-environment, chemical safety and compliPROJECTS INVOLVED ance. By doing this we have strengthened all our CSR REPORTING partner companies’ possibilities to work more strategically with the UNGC principles. Green Network is therefore now more agile in its approach to advisory projects due to a strengthened 2 PROJECTS INVOLVED and structured use of associated partners. This means that Green Network is always able to bring in PRODUCTION OF POLICIES OR the exact expertise needed for projects and thereby CODE OF CONDUCTS 10 tainable practices to the forefront, without comprising their ability to compete and make a profit. Our early results and tests with our partners have been overwhelmingly positive. Therefore, we are ready to implement the tool in our educational as well as advisory projects from Q4 2019 and will align some of our objectives for 2020 along it. National Partner Organisation to CSR Europe As the national partner organisation to Incorporated SDG’s more and more – to be conCSR Europe, Green Network also works tinued in 2020 to ensure that Europe-wide initiatives As the Sustainable Development Goals have prolifare communicated in Denmark, and erated and come to the attention of more than 73% vice-versa. In 2019 we used our memberof all Danes, Green Network has also increasingly ship to promote the ‘Go Carbon Neutral used them in its work. By specifically developing a Now’ initiative, developed in cooperation with LM ‘SDG Skyline Tool’ we have been able to help DanWindpower and launched at the SDG Summit in ish SMV’s get a visual representation and overview Brussels. Due to our strategic shift in focus we will of current initiatives and their status related to the engage even more actively with the organisation in SDG’s. Furthermore, the model can be used as a 2020 and engage with our members to promote parbaseline for the development of a new strategy or ticipation in different relevant projects. business plan that allows companies to bring susHow we do it: A key element in many corporations’ efforts within CSR and Sustainability is reporting. Either because the companies must create a statutory report on corporate social responsibility as required cf. §99a in the Danish Financial Act, or to disclose a Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact or similar. To many smalland medium sized companies, this task is outside their usual scope of business. A substantial part of Green Networks advisory-projects are directed towards helping companies with their reporting. As an example of this we helped produce a Communication on Progress for a security-company called LF-Vagt as well as facilitate the process of their Sustainable Business Partner-certification. Specifically, Green Network helped create the structure of their first report as well as define the strategic focus for the company’s CSR efforts. We helped define the strategic focus areas in their CSR-strategy which also provided the outline and defined the different chapters of the report. Furthermore, the strategy was transformed to key actions and KPIs to measure the progress continually, thereby not only helping with the report, but also the management of the company’s entire CSR-work. OBJECTIVES FOR 2020: Implement the collaboration with CSR-Advisors Denmark Move users from Meassure platform to CEMAsys 3 new companies assisted in CSR reporting 11 Overview of Results 2019 In our Communication on Progress 2018 we set up objectives for 2019 related to the Global Compact principles in our own business. Here we present a brief overview of the results. This way we measure and evaluate how well we ourselves have worked with the principles and topics in relation to our services for our partners. OBJECTIVES 2019: RESULT: 50% Event on Human Rights and one on Anti-corruption Achieved A NETWORK OF 100% Launch of the updated templates for statements Achieved PARTNERS 100% Event on carbon neutrality Achieved 0% SUSTAINABLE BUSIN4 re-certifed Sustainable Business Partners Achieved* NES PARTNER 60% 24 new Sustainable Business Profesionals Achieved CERTIFICATION 88% 8 new Sustainable Business Partners Achieved Implement the collaboration with CEMAsys fully and com100% GREEN NETWORK municate it Achieved 40% 5 companies integrating data management ADVISORY Achieved 100% 3 new companies assisted in CSR reporting Achieved *As the new SBP-re-certification scheme was introduced in 2018, with companies required to renew every two years, no companies were required to re-certify in 2019. 12 CSR Advisory and Competencies Center Roms Hule 8, 3. sal, DK 7100 Vejle Direct: (+45) 70 25 40 70 www.greennetwork.dk 13
