COP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2020 “The most effective way to reduce waste is to not create it in the first place.” 1 LETTER FROM THE CEO September 2020 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Sprout hereby reaffirms its continuously support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, “Buy reusable Environment, and Anti-Corruption. over disposable items. In this, our third, annual Communication on Progress, September 2020 we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles Look for items that can into our business strategy, culture, and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. be reused; the little At Sprout World, we are on a journey and we hope to engage the world in our mission: things can add up.” Let’s Make the World Sprout. Through our range of small everyday innovations, we want to make sustainability visible and be a force for change. We want our products to tell stories that inspire people to reflect, change their behavior and put sustainability top of the agenda. We stive to make sustainability fun and easy-to-understand, both for adults, kids and businesses. If we all make small changes in our everyday life, together we can have a huge impact and make sure that our common planet will be a great green place for many generations to come. By planting a Sprout pencil instead of just throwing it out, you can make sustainability visible to others. And inspire them to make small changes in their daily life. Also, our new zero Plastic Sprout Spoon, will have the changes to make a positive impact, a zero plastic product. Sincerely yours, EPA (United States Environment Protection Agency) has 5 ideas on How to Reduce and Reuse. One of them says: Buy reusable over disposable items. Sidsel Lundtang Rasmussen Look for items that can be reused; the little things can add up. CEO 2 SPROUT WORLD – IN BRIEF Don't use and throw. Use and grow! Sprout’s idea of sustainability Sprout is a company that cares about the At Sprout, we work with our entire production planet by minimizing waste and developing phase; from the development of an idea to the sprouting products with a second purpose. product and the packaging, through to how We believe that small steps can make a diffethe product is treated in the use phase and rence. If you can plant a pencil stub, what else finally, how it can be recycled or included in can you do to recycle more? It’s our hope to nature's life cycle. inspire everyone to live a life with an awareOur goal is for all products to be recyclable ness of the environment and its future. to be made from recycled materials or certiTo put it in simple terms we’re passionate fied sustainable material and to be plastic-free. about turning pencil stubs into plants. At Sprout, we’re aware of our responsibilities. We must respect and preserve biodiversity Sprout Vision: and we consider in all our actions the effects Creating a more sustainable future of our operations and what impact our products have on the future generations. Sprout on a Mission What sustainability means to Sprout is to create the best possible conditions and Our mission is championing green change, but opportunities for people and the environment we know that achieving this isn’t always easy. both now and in the future. We do this, among We believe that by taking small steps using other things, through our core competence; simple innovative solutions like the plantable the development and sale of green sustainable Sprout pencil, positive change is possible. consumer products. Sprout products are for everyone to enjoy and have some fun together. They encourage How we work people to move away from the computer or cellphone and to start growing plants from Sustainability is not just something we WELCOME TO pencils. encourage our customers to promote. We incorporate it into all aspects of our business A WORLD OF SMALL Since our launch in 2013, millions of people have enjoyed receiving plantable Sprout at Sproutwe aim for zero waste products. Sprout breaks with the idea of a linear econoEVERYDAY INNOVApencils as gifts. They make a great green gift for a friend or loved one, or they can be used my that starts with the extraction of resources and ends up as waste. That’s why we produce TIONS THAT INSPIRES as a sustainable corporate gift. Choose the products with a second life, that contribute to plantable Sprout pencil and ‘Let’s make the a circular economy and thereby a more GREEN CHANGE world Sprout’. sustainable world. 3 UNFOLDING THE YEAR OF 2019 In 2018, Founder and Chairman of the Board “A German inventor came up with the idea of Plastic free Michael Stausholm bought an amazing zero the sustainable teaspoon as an alternative to plastic invention, a teabag and spoon in one. conventional plastic spoons. When one orders Fully biodegradable The spoon was invented by a young German a cup of tea on an airplane, as a rule, one is man who wished to make it part of the Sprout given a teabag, a plastic spoon and a serviette Stitched with organic cotton family. The Sprout Spoon was launched Q1 to place the used tea bag on. 2019. No artificial flavors In the case of the Sprout Spoon, none of this is needed: A tea bag is namely attached to The Sprout Spoon is different from the plantNon-toxic print and dyes the spoon that’s made of bio-degradable able Sprout pencil because it can’t be planted cardboard. After use, the tea bag is simply to have a second life. So, why make it a Sprout Renewable fibers squeezed, and the spoon is folded so that the product? Well, because this product champisurface it lies on doesn’t get wet. ons something that’s just as important as zero Organic tea blends waste products zero plastic products. This is The Sprout Spoon is imprinted using 100% a high priority at Sprout. plant-based, TÜV-tested dyes and after dispoSustainable production sal, the spoon decomposes completely within Michael Stausholm explains: two months. The Sprout Spoon is another ideal green promotional product because it can be customized with a company logo and colors.” 4 THE SPROUTING YEAR OF 2019 Results Challenges UN Global Compact 2019 had some exciting results: 2019 exceeded our expectations in many On 1st March 2016 Sprout areas. The economy was improved, and the joined the world’s largest • We achieved a 75% growth, with a turnover team was more skilled and stronger than ever CSR corporate citizenship of 34 million Danish Kroner. before. initiative; UN Global Compact. This is a clear result of the higher demand for our pencils and a well-run production The challenges of being a growing company We wish to show our responsibility to respect with very little waste in the assembly phase. is the momentum. This speed must be both the UN Global Compact’s ten principles and maintained and controlled. This work has commitment to internalize these within the • We launched our new Sprout member. been a joint effort of the entire team, with company’s strategies, policies, and operations. The Sprout Spoon, a spoon and teabag in the primary moderators being the Founder Based on a materiality analysis, we selected one. A zero-plastic product. Michael Stausholm and CEO Sidsel Lundtang four principles to focus on. • we decided to be Branded House only Rasmussen. The four principles we wish to give extra selling owned Sprout patented products. 2018 and 2019 have been years of tremendous focus to are: • We expanded our team, going from 12 growth. Growth means speed and quick deemployees in 2018 to 20 in 2019. cisions. Development and long-term strategy • Human Rights: Principle 2: make sure that have stagnated while Sprout found the right we are not complicit in human rights abuses. • We started working with a new production speed. 2020, on the other hand, will be a year partner in Poland. A small family-owned • Labor: Principle 6: the elimination of of development and long-term strategy. There company who focuses on quality, good discrimination in respect of employment will again be an increased focus on sustainabilworking conditions and sustainable and occupation. ity. Different areas will receive special focus. production. New products are coming. • Environment: Principle 8: undertake • Founder, Michael Stausholm still holds initiatives to promote greater environmental It’s a characteristic of Sprout that both our ups the stock majority. responsibility. and downs are taken together as a team. We are all passionate about our work • Anti-Corruption: Principle 10: businesses and about Sprout. should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Going to work every day and feeling that you are helping to make a difference is all that matters. This intrinsic motivation is important and a large part of the management responsibility. A subject we hold sacred and eternally top-of-mind. 5 BUSINESS & HUMAN RIGHTS Working with Human Rights at Sprout in a 4. Quality Education Chia business context is paramount. It shows in everything we do – from keeping track to transparency in our supply chain to how we hire new employees. We are aware of the risks What: SDG # 4 : Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong of discrimination in employment; and conselearning opportunities for all quently, the focus is also on equal rights and How: Through collaboration with educational institutions. Over the years, we have given opportunities for all. presentations, taught and held workshops all based on sustainability. These cover idea generation, product design, production, sales, through to the end Supporting the Sustainable consumer’s responsibility. Development Goals The 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 12. Responsible Consumption and Production Carnation are a universal call to action set by the United Nations to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure that all people enjoy peace and prosperity. IFU contributes to the SDGs by promoWhat: SDG # 12 : Responsible Consumption and Production especially 12.5 By 2030, ting private sector investments, which support substantially reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling and sustainable development in its three dimenreuse – Sprout can make a positive impact and through our products inspire both B2B sions – economic, social and environmental – businesses and end-consumers to re-think the way they use and throw out. Instead, in a balanced and integrated manner. we need to reuse/rethink and with our everyday small innovation – re-grow. How: Through Blockchain technology we can ensure transparency throughout the entire At Sprout, we work strategically with the supply chain and to the end consumer. Put simply, blockchain provides a verifiable SDGs. Therefore, we have chosen to focus record as to who buys what from whom. This means our sustainability claims can primarily on 4 SDGs, which are both important be counter-checked and verified by consumers, suppliers and partners. in our own practice, but where we can also use others with our flagship product, The Sprout More and more customers demand sustainable practices in the choice of products they pencil, as the means to inspire sustainable buy. Forbes notes that around 60% of consumers are likelier to buy products with clearly consumption. defined sustainability policies. This is most evident in the success of fashion brands like Allbirds and Veja, both of which are known for their sustainable business practices. 6 SUPPORTING THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 15. Life on Land Coriander What: SDG # 15: Protect, restore and promote the sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss. HOW: We wish to support SW4SW (Sustainable Wood 4 Sustainable World). We support their approach in making global sustainable forest value chains. Our aim is to support a small sustainable forestry and their work, through audits and help to comply with current legislation and compliance with the 10 UNGC principles, as well as conducting sustainable forestry. 17. Partnerships for the Goals Forget me not What: SDG # 17: Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development. HOW: We will aim to develop partnerships with organizations whose aim is sustainable wood and a new way of securing a global value chain. We will orchestrate collaboration across sectors, industries, brands and educational institutions to support sustainable development both in idea development, product design, procurement of materials and in general the whole process from idea to product. 7 WHAT IS A SUSTAINABLE PRODUCT? At Sprout, we continue to work hard on 1. The product is manufactured under decent working conditions. safeguarding sustainable the set-ups in relation to the principles set forth by RBE 2. The product is manufactured in compliance with or beyond what the law requires. (The Council for Sustainable Development), who has selected the following six principles 3. The product has better environmental performance than most similar products. that characterize a “sustainable product”. Our products are to be upcycled from recycled materials. Upcycling, also known as creative recycling, is the process of transforming by-products, waste, unusable or These principles are guidelines on our How unwanted products into new materials or products of better quality and that are To, working with the UNGC principles. environmentally friendly. The recycling and reuse of resources should be promoted through our product development. Existing products must be re-thought and produced from recycled materials. 4. The product is marketed based on relevant, credible and transparent product information, including information on how the product can be used sustainably. Our sustainability strategy and vision must be communicated through information and education. These include an educational context in which we must share our experiences, challenges, and opportunities. As well as through our newsletter and social media where an increased focus on sustainable consumption should have a central place. 5. Offer a high level of service to the product. 6. The product is manufactured under conditions that meet the sustainable development of local communities, including climate, environment, living conditions, ethical considerations, health etc. “At Sprout, we don’t believe that planting pencils can save the world, but our mission is to inspire everyone; children, adults and companies to make small changes in their everyday lives, which when added up, make a big difference.” 8 Europe Office USA Office Sprout Europe ApS Sprout USA, LLC Vibeholms Allé, 1st Floor 177 Huntington Ave. Sp rou tworld .com 2605 Brøndby Denmark Ste 1703 #77707 sales@sproutworld.com Boston, MA 02115-3153, USA sales@sproutworld.com 9
