BEYOND FINANCING A N N U A L S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 Annual Sustainablity Report 2019 IDLC is committed to sustainable development by creating long-term value value for our stakeholders, value for the environment and value for the community. Why Prepare a Sustainability Report The concept of long term profitability together with social development and environmental protection is fast gaining ground across organizations worldwide. These expectations will only increase and intensify as more and more customers, financers and other stakeholders realize the need to move towards a truly sustainable economy. The business climate is increasingly being influenced by governments, regulators, and the prevailing socio-political and environmental conditions. Businesses are steadily moving towards long term capital growth, and therefore are proactively engaging with a wider stakeholder set on sustainable value creation, both financial and non-financial. IDLC is adopting the principles of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) as it aligns with our strategies and objectives for creating value for all stakeholders, as well as playing a greater role in economic, social and environmental development. This is IDLC’s 10th disclosure on sustainability. It aims to provide clear and comprehensive narrative of our ability to create value in line with stakeholder needs, expectations and sustainable development goals. Table of Contents Statement from the Chairman 06 Statement from the CEO and Managing Director 08 01 About this Report Materiality Mapping 12 Deﬁning the Report Content and Aspect Boundaries 13 Reporting Parameters 13 Contact Information 13 Stakeholder Engagement 14 02 IDLC: The Company About IDLC 19 Shareholding Structure 20 Our Business 21 Scale of the Organization 21 Notable Awards and Accolades 21 Membership of Association 22 Notable Highlights 23 Business Overview 24 Products and Service 26 Sectoral Exposure 29 Ethics and Integrity 30 Policies and Guidelines 31 Corporate Governance 32 Risk Management 35 Our Supply Chain 36 03 Economic Performance Taxes to Government 39 Employment Generation 39 Economic Value Created 39 Rolling out Environmental & Social Management System (ESMS) in Business Activity 40 Procurement Practice 40 Tax 41 04 Social Development Employment 45 Employee Distribution 45 Termination 46 Salary and Remuneration 46 Employee Beneﬁts 47 Management Approach to Diversity and Equal Opportunity 49 Management Approach to Sexual Harassment 49 05 Environmental Practice Environmental Practice 52 Green Banking 52 Direct Environmental Impacts 52 In-house Environmental Management 53 06 Our Sustainability Initiative Banking for a Sustainable Future 56 Promoting Women Empowerment 57 Financial Inclusion of Unbanked Population 57 Creating Sustainable Spaces 57 Material Conservation, Waste Management and Recycling 57 07 Social Development and Community Outreach Education 61 Preventive and Curative Healthcare 65 08 GRI Standards Content Index 69 Statement from the Chairman Sustainability is an integral component of our value system. We remain strongly committed to the underlying principles of sustainable development contribute to the economic prosperity, promote environmental sustainability, and propagate equitable and inclusive societal development. 06 I am proud to announce that IDLC is It is gratifying to see our hard work publishing its 10th Sustainability Report for recognized and rewarded. We were the year 2019 by using the Global privileged to receive the ‘Euromoney Reporting Initiative (GRI)-G4 guidelines. Awards for Excellence 2019’ as the ‘Best This report conveys disclosures on IDLC’s Investment Bank in Bangladesh’ and to most critical impacts on the environment, receive the silver award for ‘Best Women society and economy. The 2019 report Friendly SME Bank of Bangladesh’ by presents our continued endeavors in ‘Global SME Finance Forum’. sustainability and ethical business practices. In alignment with the 10 principles of UN Global Compact, IDLC is committed to Sustainability is an integral component of ensure sustainable future for people and our value system. We remain strongly environment and to stand against committed to the underlying principles of corruption. Being a member of UNEP FI, sustainable development contribute to IDLC is working to improve people’s quality the economic prosperity, promote of life without compromising that of future environmental sustainability, and generations. propagate equitable and inclusive societal development. Yours Sincerely, Our approach to Corporate Social Aziz Al Mahmood Responsibility or CSR is strategic: we Chairman ensure sustainability in all our programs IDLC Finance Limited and projects. We do not limit ourselves to simple philanthropy. We have implemented various projects for the underprivileged in the area of education and healthcare. Through IDLC’s unique ‘Khushir Kheya’ campaign, employees also participated in various community based programs aimed towards improving the lives of the marginalized people. 07 Statement from the CEO and Managing Director We are proud to be a Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards Pioneer. This report serves as an annual disclosure to stakeholders on progress made in implementing the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. We understand that, the challenges we face as a company and a society will continue to evolve, but we will keep making progress. And we aim to get better every step of the way. 08 Since 1985, IDLC has long held the view innovative products and services. Our that good business ethics do not come at customer service model is deep-rooted in the price of economic performance. highest ethical standards to ensure that we Instead, we believe that good business serve our customers with integrity. ethics serve to strengthen long-term growth. We pursue prudent strategies for As society continues to increase its eﬃcient capital allocation and expectations for businesses to deliver management. Our robust governance and solutions sustainable for our planet, we risk management frameworks guide us in seek opportunities to offer solutions that doing so in an ethical manner. can help meet those expectations. We are committed to promoting sustainable Sustainability has always been a key development and are continuously success factor for the realm of our exploring opportunities that will help us business. In alignment to IDLC’s ‘Financing contribute to the SDGs through our Happiness’ philosophy, through our unique business operation and our community business model we are making difference development initiatives. in the lives of many and thereby addressing the real need of people in the We are proud to be a Global Reporting country. Initiative (GRI) Standards Pioneer. This report serves as an annual disclosure to We believe the most important investment stakeholders on progress made in we can make at IDLC is an investment in implementing the Ten Principles of the UN our team. Our team members take care of Global Compact in the areas of human our customers. They are our brand’s rights, labor, environment and greatest ambassadors and advocates. We anti-corruption. We understand that, the are investing in our team members, challenges we face as a company and a through industry-leading wage society will continue to evolve, but we will commitment, training and career keep making progress. And we aim to get development opportunities, to ensure that better every step of the way. IDLC is a place where they can grow their skills and careers, take care of themselves Thank you for your support and and their families and make a difference in endorsements. the society. Yours Sincerely, Customer-centricity is embedded in our organizational DNA and is at the core of Arif Khan, CFA, FCMA our business. We strive to address varied CEO & Managing Director needs to diverse customer groups through IDLC Finance Limited 09 “ The key to understanding the future is ” one word: sustainability. – Patrick Dixon 2019 2025 2021 2023 About This Report Materiality Mapping Our approach to sustainability is based on materiality principles of understanding what is important to our stakeholders and to achieve our long term business strategies. The materiality matrix is an outcome of an engagement with our Impact management to assess sustainability topics both from the business and stakeholders’ perspective. This data is very important to us as a company because it helps us to prioritize where we need to put our focus on. The entire Signiﬁcance of economic, diagram is presented here: environmental & social impacts Based on our Materiality Mapping we have seen that the most important issues that our management think important for our business are: Economic Performance, Employment Generation, Training and Education and Local Communities. Based on this information, IDLC management has decided on top of the universal standards, it would address topics in all three of the topic speciﬁc standards for the betterment of our stakeholders, our community and environment. A view of the topics that will be covered in this report is mentioned below: Economic • Economic Performance • Procurement Practice • Anti-Corruption • Tax Environment • Energy • Environmental Compliance Social • Employment • Training & Education • Non-discrimination • Local Communities • Customer privacy • Diversity & equal opportunity • Occupational health • Socio-economic & safety compliance 12 Deﬁning the Report Content and Aspect Boundaries IDLC is a non-banking financial institution in Bangladesh with 40 Branches, 1476 Employees at 20 geographical locations across Bangladesh. The content of the report is based on the social, environment, economic and sustainability practices relevant to the organization and its stakeholders. A materiality assessment has been conducted to define the content of the report and there has been a slight revision in the topic boundaries from the previous reporting period. Through sustainability reporting, IDLC is committed to report transparently on how it manages its economic, environmental, social and governance performance. Reporting Parameters Period: Reporting Cycle: January 1December 31, 2019 Annual Most recent previous report: GRI Guidelines followed: Annual Sustainability Report 2018 G4 Guideline In Accordance Option Chosen: In Accordance ‘Core’ Contact Information Please email your valuable suggestions and opinions at sfarhana@idlc.com or contact Farhana Sharmin, Assistant Manager, Marketing Communications and CSR, IDLC Finance Limited at 01674769507. You can also contact Khandker Nagib Anwar, Second Focal Point, Marketing Communications and CSR, IDLC Finance Limited at 01967627436 or email at nagib@idlc.com 13 Stakeholder Engagement At IDLC Stakeholder satisfaction is of very high concern to the company values and the matter is taken very sincerely. Our stakeholders include those who are associated directly or indirectly to our business. Being a business leader in our respective industry, we have set up various communication channels that ensure transparency both within and outside the organization. These channels of engagement help our stakeholders to reach us in an easy and convenient manner. IDLC finance reserves special interest in identifying all applicable stakeholders and understanding their expectations to remain sustainable in the long run. The feedback received through multiple channels help us develop appropriate strategies and plans to address the right issues today and tomorrow in a timely, effective and targeted way. IDLC is growing sustainably and we believe that a fully sustainable company will have all its stakeholders engaged in the key processes of the business. 14 IDLC’s engagement with key stakeholders is summarized in table below: Internal Stakeholders Stakeholders Group Addressing Stakeholders Expectation 01. Investing in a wide range of training programs for every member of the human capital to ensure personal and professional growth. Employees 02. Engaging employees in activities other than business as usual, to achieve a balanced productive environment which is beneficial for both. 01. IDLC preserve the lawful beneﬁts and interests of the shareholders. 02. IDLC make utmost endeavor to maximize shareholders Shareholders value through, among other things, maximizing proﬁt and increase payout ratio for the shareholders and manage the same ethically and properly. External Stakeholders Stakeholders Group Addressing Stakeholders Expectation 01. Putting in place processes, practices and controls to ensure compliance with applicable rules and regulations imposed by local and international laws and regulations. Regulators 02. Maintaining sound relation with regulators. 03. Always thriving to achieve global best practices. 01. Rigorously following internal procurement policy and upgrading the policy regularly to ensure strong control Service providers and fair treatment of suppliers. & Suppliers 15 Stakeholders Group Addressing Stakeholders Expectation 01. Spreading the geographical boundaries through opening more branches across the nation. 02. Molding existing service suits to cater to the diversiﬁed customer requirements. 03. Continuously innovating in product suite and operational process to meet customer requirements in the most eﬃcient manner. 04. Serve the customers equally, promptly and honestly; Customers 05. Ensure complete secrecy of customers affairs/account & clients information at all times unless asked by any competent court or any other lawful authority; 06. Issue notice with reasonable time in case of closure of accounts for any legitimate reason(s); 07. Keeping customers updated regarding any suspicious operations, in his account; 08. Exercise due diligence in the operation of customer accounts; 01. Implementing programs and initiatives targeted at marginalized communities and underprivileged to address the requirement of society in education/ skills development, healthcare and overall poverty alleviation Community 02. Enhancing ﬁnancial access to marginalized population 03. Adding value to the society by being a good and transparent corporate citizen. 01. Implementing Green Banking practices and ensuring compliance through Green Reporting to Bangladesh Bank Environment 02. Holding a rigid control on energy consumption to reduce wastage. 16 “ “ Sustainability is no longer about doing less harm. It’s about doing more good. – Jochen Zeitz IDLC: The Company About IDLC IDLC started as a single product lease ﬁnance company back in 1985 with 5 staff members, 34 years down the line, the company has emerged as the largest multi-product, multi-segment, non-banking ﬁnancial institution in the country. As one of the most respected ﬁnancial brands in the industry, IDLC Finance Limited holds a strong and diversiﬁed footing in Corporate, SME, Retail and Capital Market segments. Vision Mission We will be the best ﬁnancial We will focus on quality growth, brand in the country. superior customer experience and sustainable business practices. Core Values Customer Focus Integrity Trust and Respect Equal Opportunity Eco-friendly Passion Simplicity 19 Shareholding Structure As of December 31, 2019 IDLC has 377,050,780 number of shares, as per the following shareholding structure: Shareholding Composition Sponsors/Directors Institutions 56.66% 20.31% Individuals 10.78% Foreign 12.25% 20 Our Business Location of Headquarters: Location of Operations: 20 Bay’s Galleria (1st Floor), Geographical locations 57 Gulshan Avenue, Dhaka 1212 across Bangladesh Type of Business: Financial Institution Scale of the Organization 1476 BDT Million Total number Net revenue-operating of employees income-Group BDT 117,385 Million Total assets-Group Notable Award and Accolades Euromoney Awards for Excellence 2019’ has awarded IDLC Investments as the ‘Best investment Bank in Bangladesh’. IDLC won the recognition for consecutively second time. Euromoney has awarded IDLC Investments for its deal quality, outstanding ﬁnancial performance compared to other market participants, and its track record of delivering tailored and innovative solutions to clients across a range of products and services. SAFA (South Asian Federation of Accountants) awarded IDLC as Best Presented Annual Report Awards 2018 –Integrated Reporting-Certiﬁcate of merit & Best Presented Annual Report Awards 2018 –Financial Services Sector-Certiﬁcate of merit. Global SME Finance Forum awarded IDLC with silver award as ‘Best Women Friendly SME Bank of Bangladesh’. Asia Money Best Bank Awards 2019 has awarded IDLC as “Best Bank for SMEs”. 21 Membership of Association IDLC is signatory to few local and international initiatives promoting sustainable business practices to CSR activities. Although these initiatives are voluntary in nature, compliance is mandatory as per globally acceptable standards: Became Member of United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in 2007. Became a Member of United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative UNEP FI in 2011 Founding Signatory to the Principles for Responsible Banking of UNEP FI. Founding Signatory to the Collective Commitment to Climate Action of UNEP FI. Signatory to the pledge of Tobacco-free Portfolios. Member of SME Finance Forum Founding Member of CSR Centre-a private sector start-up funding to raise awareness about Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and to contribute to achieve SDGs through private sector led growth. 22 Notable Highlights 10th Annual Sustainability Report following GRI Guideline 100% retention rate of employees that took parental leave 144 training programs organized and total training hours spent amounted to 21,507 190,000+ deprived people are beneﬁted through CSR initiative’s in health 635 and education sector female business owners received loan to take their ventures to the next level Introduction of ﬁnancial inclusion of unbanked population 23 Business Overview SME Division IDLC’s SME Division, the largest segment of the company, provides various financing solutions for the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises of Bangladesh. In 2019, IFC conducted a diagnostic test on IDLC SME Division and proposed to alleviate customer segment adulteration between Medium Enterprise Finance (MEF) and Small Enterprise Finance (SEF) teams. To maximize client outreach, SME Division was restructured to increase focus on the smaller segments of SMEs. As such, clients with large exposures, along with their respective relationship managers, were shifted to our Corporate Division under the name Local Corporate. This is expected to bring increased synergy in our corporate vertical while facilitating SME Division’s strategic goal of moving towards smaller ticket loans. Consumer Division With consumer loan services such as home loan, car loan and personal loan, the Consumer Division of IDLC has been engaged in augmenting the growth of the company since 1997. We are continuously working to further enhance efficiency so that we can deliver our services within the fastest possible time. With its core focus on home loans, this division is always working on ways to leverage the positive social economic trends of the country through offering more intricate and customized solutions in the housing finance market. Corporate Division Originally the only business vertical of IDLC, the Corporate Division, mostly serves local and foreign companies operating in Bangladesh for their various business needs. Despite the deposit shortage and increase in non-performing loans in the industry, the business parameters of the Corporate Division showed upward trends in 2019, validating the strategies taken during the year. In order to bring further synergy within business processes, Medium Enterprise Finance (MEF) was brought under the Corporate Business wing with effect from October, 2019; under the name Local Corporate. IDLC’s Corporate Lending thrived on the back of efficient fund management mainly through Treasury activities, posting a growth of 10.20%. 24 IDLC Asset Management Limited IDLC Asset Management Limited, a fully owned subsidiary of IDLC Finance Limited, was incorporated in November, 2015 and awarded with an asset management license in June 2016 with an initial paid-up capital of BDT 100,000,000 (BDT one hundred million only). We expect to operate in the nascent but growing asset management industry of Bangladesh. The Company’s principal objective is to conduct the business of asset management, primarily through launching and managing mutual funds, to cater towards the diverse needs of investors. Alongside, we also manage a venture capital fund and provide related corporate advisory services. IDLC Investments Limited IDLC Finance commenced its merchant banking operations in 1999 through participating in underwriting of IPOs. Aligning with regulatory requirements, the merchant banking operation was carved-out and established as IDLC Investments Limited in 2011 as a fully-owned subsidiary of IDLC Finance. IDLC Investments provides a high standard of professional and personalized services to its local and international customers. The company possesses a proven track record of catering to a diverse set of client needs while concurrently maintaining strict compliance with the country’s laws and the highest ethical standards. IDLC Investments is positioned as one of the top-ranking merchant banking enterprises in the country, renowned for its quality in investment banking and portfolio management services. IDLC Investments has been the entrusted partner of most of the multinational companies that have been listed in Bangladesh. IDLC Securities Limited IDLC SL, one of the top brokerages of Bangladesh, commenced operations in September 2006. The company provides brokerage services to more than 15,834 retail, local & foreign institutional investors through reliable trading platforms on both the Dhaka and Chittagong stock exchanges. It also serves more than 2,500 customers of its enlisted merchant banks as a panel broker. It possesses a proven track record of delivering quality customer service while maintaining high standard of compliance and corporate ethics. The company also offers premium brokerage services, which is a bundle of research and advisory support in addition to execution brokerage, mostly targeted towards High Net Worth (HNWs) clients, as well as institutional and foreign investors. Moreover, the company has a reliable online trading system under its Order Management Unit, which was developed in-house and launched in 2010. 25 Products and Services SME Products and Services SME Term Loan/Lease Seasonal Loan IDLC Purnota-Women Entrepreneur Loan Revolving Short Term Loan (RSTL) Abashan Loan Partially Secured Loan SME Sachal Loan Small Enterprise Financing Commercial Space Loan Commercial Vehicle Loan IDLC Udbhabon Start-up Loan SME Deposit IDLC Unnati Term Loan/Lease Commercial Vehicle Financing Medium Enterprise Machinery Lease Financing Revolving Short Term Loan Commercial Space Loan Factoring of Accounts Receivables Bill/Invoice Discounting Supplier and Distributor Finance Work Order Financing Distributor Financing Consumer Division Apartment/Home Purchase Home Loan Land Purchase Building Construction 26 Commercial Space Home Equity Registra Loan IDLC ASHA IDLC ULLAS Affordable Housing Finance Scheme Brand New Car Loan Reconditioned Secured Personal Loan Unsecured Loan Against Deposit (LAD) Flexible Term Deposit Package Deposits Regular Earner Package Corporate Division Lease Financing Term Loan Financing Commercial Space Financing Project Financing Corporate Finance Short Term Loans (To meet working capital requirements) Specialized Products (for meeting seasonal demand) Debt Syndication (Local and Foreign Currency) Working Capital Syndication Structured Finance Agency & Trusteeship Solutions Fund Raising through Zero Coupon & Coupon Bearing Bonds Commercial Paper 27 Arrangement of Private Equity & Preference Shares Corporate Advisory for Mergers Over 50 products offered under Green Banking Green Banking and Sustainable Finance department as per Solutions Bangladesh Bank Green Re-finance scheme. Capital Market Operations Asset Management Limited Products • Mutual Funds • Alternative Investment Funds • Corporate Advisory IDLC Securities Limited Products Services Cash Account Trade execution through the Dhaka and Chittagong Margin Account stock exchanges Easy IPO Internet based trading facilities Premium Brokerage for High Online based IPO Application Networth Individuals (HNIs), Institutions and Foreign Custodial and CDBL services Investors Bloomberg terminal for foreign clients Research and Advisory Services IDLC Investments Limited Products Services Margin Loan Corporate Advisory Discretionary Portfolio Issue Management Management Underwriting 28 Sectoral Exposure IDLC has a well-diversified industrial portfolio in which the credit risk is spread across different sectors of the economy as detailed below: Transport Agriculture and Aviation Cement and 0.80% Allied Industry 2.20% Telecommunication and 2.27% Information Technology Electronics and 1.79% Electrical Products Trade and Commerce 0.53% Textile 21.14% Food Production and Processing Industry 3.26% 4.15% Garments and Knitwear 6.81% Ship Manufacturing Industry Glass, 0.15% Glassware and Ceramic Industry Power, gas, water and 0.90% sanitary services 0.76% Housing Plastic Industry 31.78% 1.66% Iron, Steel and Engineering Pharmaceuticals and Chemicals 3.52% 1.46% Jute and Jute products Paper, Printing and Packaging 0.21% 0.87% Leather and Leather Goods Others 15.62% 0.12% 29 Ethics and Integrity IDLC is committed to execute its business strategy which promotes transparency, ethical standards, and integrity while engaging and meeting the needs of our stakeholders, as outlined in our Codes of Conduct. To this end we developed robust mechanisms to ensure compliance with existing regulations and legal, constitutional, and industry norms. Policies and Guidelines The values of integrity, accountability, transparency and excellence in service are integral to the culture at IDLC and is an essential part of the way we conduct our business. To ensure that our all employees maintain the highest professional standards, we try to ensure that all our stakeholders do the same. In this regard, we have formulated and implemented a range of policies and guidelines. An overview of the most relevant of these is presented below: Code of Conduct The code of conduct sets the principles for the stakeholders of IDLC-Members of the Board of Directors and its committees, employees of all levels and categories, business partners and service providers and receivers to and from IDLC to uphold and promote the interest of IDLC. The code of conduct is aligned with the code of conduct guidelines issued by Bangladesh Bank for banks and financial institutions. Objectives of IDLCs Code of Conduct: i. Protect the interests of customers, owners and employees, stakeholders as well as the counter parties, in addition to the wider interests of society as a whole. ii. Ensure integrity, high ethical standards, due skill, care and diligence in all of IDLC’s business and allied activities, including the stakeholders. ii. Promote rational behavior between/amongst all of IDLC’s stakeholders. All IDLC employees are required to sign an annual declaration confirming that they have read and understood the Code of Conduct. The Human Resource department circulates the required declaration, and ensures that all employees have signed the declaration. The Internal Control and Compliance (ICC) department, through regular audits, assesses whether any employees have breached the Code of Conduct. Customer Rights Policy IDLC Customer Charter describes its commitment to service and outlines the overall standards of service a customer can expect to receive. It also draws the kind attention of the customer where there cooperation is needed. 30 Whistle Blower Policy IDLC Whistle Blower Policy was introduced in early 2019. The policy is expected to encourage and empower the employees to report any instances of misconduct witnessed within IDLC by providing for anonymity ( if the reporting employees desired so) and by guarantying them protection against any form of retaliation (where the whistleblower’s identity was disclosed). The Whistle Blower committee is comprised of the CEO and Managing Director and the Head of Internal Control and Compliance. In the event that the complaint is against any member of the Whistleblower Committee, the same would be made to the Audit Committee of IDLC. Customer Data Storage & Protection Storage of data in electronic form is regulated by the Guideline on ICT Security for Banks and Non-Bank Financial Institutions 2015. Among other things, this covers matters such as data centre security, network security, the use of cryptography to protect sensitive customer information, the establishment of monitoring systems and processes to facilitate prompt detection of unauthorized or malicious activities, as well as data backup and restore management. Procurement Policy To ensure an effective procurement of business required items, materials, commodities and services IDLC Finance Ltd. has a comprehensive Procurement Manual comprising of procurement policies, procedures & guidelines. The Procurement Manual is detailed in nature and describes most of the possible scenario relating to procurement. Highlights of the IDLC procurement policy: • The policy introduces the acts, purpose, scope, interpretation, guiding principles, methods of procurement, general procedure of vendor selection, method of financing and guidelines of general procurement. • The policy brings together vendor selection factors, RFQ method, competitive price, transparent communication, expenditure authorization, payment methods, limited tender method, cash purchase method and others. • The policy provides guidance on documentation procedure which needs to be kept for future record. • Any complain and dispute related issues are discussed and guideline is given for complain resolve procedure. 31 Corporate Governance IDLC takes part in conducting business in an open and transparent manner. Our well established governance framework represents our commitment to integrity while ensuring flexibility that allows fast decision making and effective management. Mission Board of Legal and Directors and Regulatory Committees Frameworks Visio gy ate Str n Policies and Corporate Organisational Procedures Governance Hierarchy Transparency Monitoring and and Internal Accountability Control ls oa je O ct tG b iv e ar s Sm IDLC’s six core areas emphasize its effective corporate governance strategy as demonstrated in the diagram. The company’s corporate governance model is rigorously aligned with its well-articulated vision, mission, goals and objectives. The Company’s Board of Directors are responsible for proper governance, which includes setting out the company’s strategic aims, providing the necessary leadership to implement such aims, supervising the management of the business and reporting to shareholders on their stewardship. The Board is collectively accountable to the Company’s shareholders for good governance to facilitate efficient and effective management towards delivering long-term shareholder value within appropriately established risk parameters. The 32 sustenance of effective corporate governance remains a key priority of IDLC’s Board. To exercise clarity about the Directors’ responsibilities towards shareholders, corporate governance must be dynamic and remain focused on the company’s business objectives and create a culture of openness, transparency and accountability. Keeping this in mind, clear structures and ownership supported by well understood policies and procedures to guide the activities of the company’s management have been instituted and institutionalized. IDLC is committed to continually review all its corporate governance policies and guidelines to ensure transparency in its practices and the delivery of the highest ethical standards and quality information to its stakeholders on an ongoing basis. IDLC considers that its corporate governance practices comply with all the aspects of the revised Corporate Governance Code (CGC) notification no. BSEC/CMRRCD/2006-158/207/Admin/80, dated June 3, 2018, and notification No. SEC/CMRRCD/2006-158/208/Admin/81, dated June 20, 2018, on financial reporting and disclosure issued by Bangladesh Securities and Exchange Commission (BSEC) and all aspects of Bangladesh Bank’s DFIM Circular No. 7 dated September 25, 2007 and subsequent circulars there on DFIM Circular No. 09, dated October 08, 2007, DFIM Circular No. 18, dated October 26, 2011 and DFIM Circular No. 06, dated June 17, 2012. In addition to establishing the highest standards of corporate governance, IDLC also embraces best governance practices across all its activities. The independent role of the Board of Directors, separate and independent role of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, distinct roles of the Company Secretary, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Compliance Officer and different Board Committees enable IDLC to achieve excellence in corporate governance. 33 1. Bangladesh Bank Regulators 2. Registrar of Joint Stock Companies & Firms 3. Bangladesh Securities and Exchange Commission 4. Dhaka Stock Exchange Oversight 5. Chittagong Stock Exchange 6. National Board of Revenue Approval Appointment Shareholders External Auditors Managment Committee External Auditors Chain Bangladesh Bank Other Committees Recommendation Board of Directors 1. Credit Evaluation Committee 2. Asset Liability Management Committee Audit Committee Executive Comittee 3. HR & Compensation Committee 4. Internal Control Committee Recommendation 5. Corporate Governance Committee CEO & Managing 6. BASEL Implementation Committee Director 7. Integrity Committee External Auditor’s 8. Central Compliance Unit Appointment 9. Risk Management Forum Proposal 10. ICT Steering Committee 11. ICT Security and Risk Management Committee 12. IDLC Ladies Forum Responsible to Structured SME Finance Wealth Finance Management IDLC IL SME Strategy Green Banking Business Consumer Asset Corporate Functions/ SME Division IDLC SL Division Primary Supplier Finance Large Corporate Activities Customer Experience IDLC AML Product and Channel Department Local Corporate Development Delegation of Authority Finance Human Resource Credit Risk CEO’S Management Marketing Transformation Strategic Planning Communication Supporting Team Operations Information Operational Risk & CSR Functions/ Technology Management Secondary Treasury Activities Change Internal Centrel Administration Management and Compliance Corporate Affairs Special Asset Management 34 Risk Management For effective and eﬃcient adaptation of the business climate, IDLC’s risk management approach follows strong practices of Corporate Governance in order to strengthen the enterprise risk management framework. The governance of risk management starts with the board and is interlaced around a strong management structure, information system, risk-rating system and robust policies. Alongside ensuring best industry practices of identifying, assessing and measuring risk, IDLC considers guidelines for Managing Core Risks of Financial Institutions issued by the Bangladesh Bank vide FID Circular No. 10 dated September 18, 2005 and Integrated Risk Management Guidelines for Financial Institutions issued by the Bangladesh Bank in 2016. Strong inter-department communication link on risk factors and a culture of collaboration in decision-making among the revenue generating units, independent control and support functions, committees and the senior management help the company in effective management of organizational risks. Effective management, coupled with the adoption of BASEL-II recommendations beneﬁts IDLC by augmenting capitalization and optimizing costs to risk and funding. Risks at IDLC are broadly classiﬁed into 9 categories: Credit Market Liquidity Operational Strategic Risk Risk Risk Risk Risk Environmental Reputation Legal Technology and Risk Risk Risk Social Risk Risk Management Framework: Risk Risk Risk Risk Risk Identiﬁcation Management Treatment Monitoring Reporting 35 Our Supply Chain Since IDLC is a ﬁnancial institution its doesn’t have a huge scale of supply chain like the manufacturing companies however, as IDLC is the largest NBFI of the country it has large scale of operation and for operating all the oﬃces a pool of suppliers / vendor such as land / property owner, consultation ﬁrms, architect, infrastructure development ﬁrms / builders, furniture and ﬁxtures vendor, oﬃce equipment vendor, IT vendor, electric vendor is required. Also there is a need of vehicle supplier to purchase oﬃcial vehicles and vehicle repair workshops. For regular operation there are requirement of printing items, gifts items, AC & Generator servicing and to support these types of needs IDLC has a good number of related suppliers and vendor in pool. To conduct different event IDLC also has good number of event management vendor, agreement with hotels and resorts. Also for specialized service IDLC has enlisted legal ﬁrms, recovery agents etc. Around 1000 service providers are engaged by the organization. 36 “ To maintain sustainable economic development, ” we need to shift our focus from speed to quality. – Li Yuanchao Economic Perfomance IDLC is considered to be one of the major contributors in the economy of Bangladesh both in monetary and non-monetary terms. IDLC is the largest employer, ﬁnancial service provider and taxpayer among the non-banking ﬁnancial institutions in the country. Taxes to Government In 2019, IDLC deposited BDT 1,012 million to the Government exchequer as corporate income tax and BDT 61 million as VAT against fee income; thus in total BDT 1,073 million paid as Tax and VAT against the income earned by IDLC. Also, BDT 1,167 million was collected and deposited to the Government exchequer as withholding tax (BDT 1,017 million), withholding VAT (BDT 62 million) and excise duty (BDT 88 million). Employment Generation IDLC has created economic impact by creating employment and giving appropriate training to the employees. As of December 31, 2019, IDLC Group accounts for 1,476 talented employees. During 2019, the group paid BDT 1,191 million as salaries and allowances to its employees and spent BDT 10.66 million for both local and foreign trainings. Moreover, at a time when job creation is a top priority for government, we continue to catalyze our lending to small and medium enterprises (SME), thereby helping accelerate both direct and indirect job creation. Economic Value Created 2019 Particulars (Amount in Million) Direct economic value generated: operating revenue BDT 13,022 Direct economic value distributed: employees remuneration BDT 1,191 Direct economic value distributed: payments to government as taxes BDT 868 Direct economic value distributed: To shareholders as stock dividend BDT 1,320 (cash and stock) 39 Rolling out Environmental & Social Management System (ESMS) in Business Activity Environmental and climate change risk refers to the uncertainty/probability of losses that may originate from any adverse environmental/climate change events. IDLC has been the pioneer in Bangladesh in adopting the ‘Environmental & Social Management System (ESMS)’, which is a global standard to minimize Environmental & Social Risks from the ﬁnancial operations of the organization. It has a robust ESMS system which has been developed with the assistance of FMO (the Netherlands Development Finance Company) and FI Consult. In the preparation of the ESMS system, IDLC has taken the few guidelines into consideration: Environmental & Social Risk Management (ESRM) Guideline by Bangladesh Bank, the Environment Conservation Rules 1997, IFC Performance Standards, and ADB Safeguard for Financing. Additionally, IDLC has adopted the 10 UNGC (United Nations Global Compact) principles within the organizational frameworks and is also the signatory of UNEP FI (United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiatives). Procurement Practice IDLC Finance Ltd has a procurement practice which is guided by the procurement manual. The practice which are followed in light of the procurement manual is very high in standard. Vendors are treated in an unbiased manner and according to their individual’s strength. It is paramount for IDLC Finance Ltd that all the purchase practice must comply with procurement guideline, policy and principle. Cash purchase is highly discouraged and only conducted where alternative option is not available. For all purchase, at least 3 quotations are obtained to ensure competitive cost. However, purchase of direct manufacturer, sole distributor, and speciﬁc model with no alternative vendor can be done by single quotation. In all steps of procurement high standard and transparency is maintained and procurement committee is addressed where applicable. IDLC consistently maintains the practice to procure equipment with sustainable features like inverter enabled electrical items, energy eﬃcient lighting system etc. 40 Tax Tax expense comprise of current and deferred tax. Deferred Tax The company accounts for deferred tax as per International Accounting Standard (IAS) 12: ‘Income Taxes’. Deferred tax is recognized in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for ﬁnancial reporting purposes and the amount used for taxation purposes. It is measured at the tax rates that are expected to be applied to the temporary differences when they reverse based on the laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the date of reporting of the ﬁnancial statements. The company provides disclosures based on the classes of assets and liabilities related to the temporary differences. Deferred tax assets are recognized for unused tax losses, unused tax credits and deductible temporary differences to the extent that is probable that future taxable proﬁts will be available against which they can be used. Deferred tax liabilities are recognized for all taxable temporary differences and it is probable that temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Both the deferred tax assets and liabilities are reviewed at each reporting date considering the probability of beneﬁt or determine realizable. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not offset and are presented separately as per Bangladesh Bank directive. Current Tax Current tax comprises the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable income or loss for the year and any adjustment to the tax payable or receivable in respect of previous years. The amount of current tax payable or receivable is the best estimate of the tax amount expected to be paid or received that reﬂects uncertainty related to income taxes, if any, in accordance with provisions of Income Tax Ordinance, 1984. It is measured using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date. Applicable tax rate for the Company for the year 2019 will be declared by Finance Act 2020. For the purpose of these ﬁnancial statements, management has assumed that the existing tax rates will be applicable for income year 2019 as well, which are mentioned below: 41 Regular business tax rate Rates IDLC FL Publicly traded Financial Institution 37.50% IDLC SL Private Limited Company 35.00% IDLC IL Merchant Bank 37.50% IDLC AML Private Limited Company 35.00% Other business tax rate Rates Dividend income 20.00% Asset Management fee of Mutual Funds 15.00% Capital gain on sale of ﬁxed assets 15.00% Capital gain on sale of marketable securities 10.00% The company’s existing accounting policy for uncertain income tax treatments is consistent with the requirements of IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over income Tax Treatments, which became effective on 1 January 2019. We already accounted for uncertainty of taxes and further disclosure is not required. 42 “ If everyone is moving forward together, then “ ” success takes care of itself. If everyone is moving forward – Henry Ford together, then ” success takes care of itself Social Development Employment IDLC considers its people as its greatest source of competitive advantage. We understand that, in order to be the most well regarded company we must have the most dedicated and efficient employees. In the year 2019, we hired a total of 262 people and released 182 people. We have organized 21,507 man hours of training on various topics. Overall every employee at IDLC is entitled to Hospitalization Insurance and Group Life Insurance. Along with 6 months maternity leave, since 2017, IDLC has introduced 5 days of paternity leave. All the employees at the Group are permanent. IDLC does not have any temporary employees. IDLC does have some contractual employees who are provided by third party agencies and remain in contract for 3 to 6 months depending on the requirement of the particular department. Contractual employees mostly work at CAD, CED, IT, Collection and CIB-CIF. Employee Distribution Total female Total male Total number employees employees of employees 1,476 212 (14%) 1,246 (86%) Total new hires 262 Gender distribution of hiring Age distribution of hiring 07 Female (40 – 50) 42 90 165 Male (30 40) (20 30) 220 45 Termination Total employee released 182 Age distribution of termination Gender distribution of termination 75 (20 30 ) 15 Female (40 -50 ) 21 03 (60 -70 ) 88 01 Male 161 (30 -40 ) (70 -80 ) Salary and Remuneration Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of men to women Total Average Ratio of Average Employee Basic (Male:Female) Annual Performance Bonus Scheme 937 38,992 Male 784 40,487 Female 153 29,381 1.38:1 Total Average Ratio of Average Employee Basic (Male:Female) Sales Incentive Scheme 385 8,589 Male 356 8,488 Female 29 9,824 1.16:1 46 Employee Beneﬁts Hospitalization Scheme contribution of the employees of IDLC. The objective of this fund is to provide token of IDLC Finance Limited provides appreciation or ﬁnancial assistance to the hospitalization scheme for all the employees and his / her family members conﬁrmed employees. The hospitalization for any possible reasons. scheme is also provided to the conﬁrmed employees’ immediate family members as Encashment of Annual Leave well which include wife/husband and Balance dependent sons and daughters. Children attaining 18 years of age or on getting Maximum 60 (sixty) day’s leave may be married, whichever is earlier, is not entitled encashed based on last drawn basic. to reimbursement of the cost of medical treatment. IDLC also reimburses any kind Group Life Insurance of maternity related medical bill. IDLC has a group life insurance scheme for Provident Fund all its permanent employees. Upon conﬁrmation, 10% of employee’s Parental Leave basic salary is contributed towards the Employee Provident Fund by both the All permanent employees are entitled to employee and IDLC. take up to 6 (six) months maternity leave and up to 5 (ﬁve) working days paternity Gratuity leave during the pre and post-natal period. All conﬁrmed employees, upon completion of 5 years of continuous conﬁrmed service Number of employees shall be eligible. While calculating gratuity, that took parental leave 60 6 (six) months or more may be considered in 2019 as 1 full year. Entitlement scale details: i. 5 years and above, up to 10 years: 1 Maternity Paternity (one) month’s Basic Leave Leave ii. 10 years and above, up to 15 years: 1.5 times of monthly Basic 14 46 iii. 15 years and above: 2 times of monthly Basic Return to work and retention rates Welfare Fund of employees that took 100% parental leave is IDLC provides welfare fund beneﬁt to all its permanent employees. The fund is subscribed by non-refundable annual 47 Workplace Health and Safety Education Support Scheme In the area of safety measures IDLC is IDLC provides education support scheme committed to maintain high standard and to all its conﬁrmed employees to continuous development. In IDLC oﬃces encourage employees to participate in the and branches, standard safety measures is self-development program for ensured by providing adequate number of enhancement of individual capacity. All ﬁre detection system, ﬁre extinguisher, conﬁrmed permanent employees, having emergency signage, emergency light, completed at least ﬁve (5) years of obstacle free evacuation path, ﬁre hydrant continuous service with IDLC, are eligible system and water sprinkle system. The ﬁre for applying for assistance under this safety devices are periodically checked and scheme. The education support scheme audited so that they can work effectively in includes both local and foreign programs. emergency situation. Employee Training and Education IDLC organizes training and workshops to educate and aware its employees on basic Throughout the year, employees at IDLC safety aspects such as emergency receive various types of training based on evacuation, basic ﬁreﬁghting by using ﬁre requirement. The total training hours spent extinguisher, dos and don’ts during in 2019, amounted to 21,507 hours. The emergency situation by periodic graph below shows the average training emergency evacuation drill, ﬁre safety hours in accordance with gender. training and awareness program. Total number Total Employee Health and Well-being of training participants programs Health and well-being of our employees is an integral part of our employee engagement practices. In this direction, 144 2,376 IDLC provides its employees with the opportunity to pursue their health, ﬁtness Male Female and recreational interests. In-house participants participants medical facilities are available for all IDLC employees. Housing Loan 2,148 228 The objective of the housing loan policy is Total to provide the employees of IDLC ﬁnancial man hour 21,507 assistance for acquisition and/or ownership of apartment / ﬂat / houses for residential purpose. All conﬁrmed employees having completed 5 years continuous service in IDLC are eligible for the loan. However, service length requirement in case of lateral entry will be different. 48 Percentage of Employees Receiving treatment or harassment of employees, Regular Performance and Career customers and others is a violation of the Development Reviews: company’s values. Complaints of sexual harassment will be taken seriously and treated with respect and in conﬁdence. It i. Performance Review-SIS-Monthly would be dealt with appropriate Performance Review (100%), APB-Yearly disciplinary action, which may even lead to Performance Review (100%) termination. ii. Career Development ReviewYearly Sexual harassment includes, without review only for APB (100%) limitation, any behavior, whether in person or by way of assisting other(s) or by other Management approach to diversity means such as email, phone calls etc. that and equal opportunity is offensive to individuals or groups, including unwelcome sexual advances, IDLC is committed to maintain a work uninvited suggestive remarks of a sexual environment that is free from nature, sexist or racist comments or discrimination or harassment stemming otherwise any such words or gestures from race (including color, nationality, which may be reasonably deemed as ethnicity or origin), religion, belief, gender, inappropriate if such behavior interferes age, disability, sexual orientation or any with an employee’s work performance or other characteristics. creates an threatening, hostile or offensive work environment. IDLC is also committed to equal employment opportunity and unbiased Currently IDLC is working on establishing treatment of all employees strictly based an oﬃcial sexual harassment policy to on job-related qualiﬁcations. provide a safe work environment for its employees. Management approach to sexual harassment There is no written or oﬃcial policy on sexual harassment. However, IDLC is committed to providing a safe environment for all its employees free from any kind of harassment at work. Any discriminatory 49 “ The environment is where we all meet, where all have ” a mutual interest; it is the one thing all of us share. – Lady Bird Johnson Environmental Practice Environmental Practice IDLC is focused on sustainability, shifting from the traditional ﬁnancing approach. In this regard, the company is strengthening its credit appraisal process to be much more stringent from an environment and social (E&S) perspective, evaluating all the environmental and social factors such as project impacts on the environment and the community in the long run, prior to sanction a loan. Green Banking Green Banking is the financial service that integrates Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) criteria into investment decision making process for the sustainable advantage of both clients and society at large. Green Banking Unit (GBU) of IDLC is committed towards sustainable financing by prioritizing the ESG to contribute to the country’s overall financial growth and achieving Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in the process. IDLC has developed its own Green Banking Policy which is aligned with the ‘Policy Guidelines for Green Banking’ by Bangladesh Bank. IDLC offers 52 green products under 8 categories as defined by Bangladesh Bank to cater to the specialized needs of different industries and segments. The products segments are renewable energy, waste management, recycling, environment-friendly brick production, green industry/building and others such as occupational health & safety in factories. At the end of the year 2019, the Green Banking portfolio stands at BDT 1,408.32 million and cumulative disbursement in green segment is BDT 2,295.49 million. This year, IDLC has availed refinance worth of BDT 232.50 million from Bangladesh Bank. Direct Environmental Impacts Being a service oriented industry, our environmental footprint primarily stems from large office buildings and branches, especially the use of energy to run our operations. As part of our continued focus on energy efficiency we have taken various steps to manage our environmental impacts, such as energy efficiency, material resource efficiency, and renewable energy use and employee awareness initiatives. 52 In-house Environmental Management IDLC upholds a vision to encourage and catalyze transformation towards sustainable business practices. In line with the vision, one of IDLC’s branch located in the World Trade Centre at Chattogram, achieved the prestigious LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design), Gold Certification from USGBC (United States Green Building Council) under the category of ‘commercial interiors’. This branch is first of its kind to achieve such an endorsement under the aforementioned category among the financial institutions of Bangladesh. The IDLC Green Banking Unit periodically organizes in-house training & awareness programs for the employees and provides necessary technical assistance towards strengthening organizational portfolio through Sustainable Financing. Even though Green banking is yet to take off fully in this country, Bangladesh Bank’s active participation in environmentally sustainable financing and its progress only means that it will continue to move ahead. As IDLC aligns its business strategy to be consistent with individual and social needs, we intend to play a significant role in advancing this environmentally sustainable mode of financing. 53 “ Surely we have a responsibility to leave the future generations a planet that is healthy and habitable ” by all species. – Sir David Attenborough Our Sustainability Initiative Banking for a Sustainability Future IDLC was established in 1985 as the first leasing company in the country and with its pioneering role has established and popularized lease finance as an alternative and secured source of long term finance. IDLC is the largest employer, financial service provider and taxpayer among the non-banking financial institutions in Bangladesh. IDLC’s approach to fostering sustainable economic development centers around employment generation, SME financing to accelerate both direct and indirect job creation, women entrepreneur loans and non-financial services for women, green financing and contribution towards environmental and community development. In 2007, IDLC became the member of United Nations Global Compactan initiative to unite business for a better world. This is the world’s largest corporate sustainability initiative which is a call to companies to align strategies and operations with universal principles on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption and take actions that advance societal goals. In 2019, IDLC became one of the Founding Signatories of the Principles for Responsible Banking, committing to strategically align its business with Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change. By signing the principles for Responsible Banking, IDLC Finance Limited joins a coalition of 130 banks worldwide, representing over USD 47 trillion in assets, in committing to talking on a crucial role in helping to achieve a sustainable future. IDLC is also the Founding Signatory to the Collective Commitment to Climate Action of UNEP FI. On the occasion of the UN Secretary-General’s Climate Action Summit, one day after the launch of the UN Principles for Responsible Banking, IDLC Finance along with 30 signatories with over $13 trillion in assets have announced a Collective Commitment to Climate Action. With this pledge, founding signatories of the principles are taking tangible steps towards putting their commitment to align their business with international climate goals into practice. IDLC is also a signatory to the pledge of Tobacco-free Portfolios. The Tobacco-Free Finance pledge seeks to address the financing of tobacco companies across lending, insurance and investment as it is essential to comprehensive global tobacco control efforts. It builds on key global finance initiatives such as the Investor Statement in Support of World No Tobacco Day, produced in 2017 by the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), UN Environment's Principles for Sustainable Insurance and Tobacco Free Portfolios. 56 Promoting Women Empowerment IDLC is one of the very first financial institutions in Bangladesh to realize the gender gap in the market and thus it came up with a signature product, ‘Purnota’ (a comprehensive financial and non-financial solution offering for women-owned enterprises) in 2015. Purnota-offers a comprehensive package for the female business owners to take their ventures to the next level. IDLC Purnota is a complete business solution for women entrepreneurs, which provides loan, training, dedicated helpline, digital marketing, insurance, business facilitation and many other services. Purnota Club has been established over the years with a view to capacity and skill development of the women, and advisory services like business management and vocational training. 635 women received Purnota loan and services in 2019. Financial Inclusion of Unbanked Population In 2019, IDLC Finance has created access to finance for about 450 Kitchen Market Vegetable Retailers as part of its vision of financial inclusion. Traditionally, these kitchen market vegetable retailers do not have access to formal credit mainly due to lack of proper documents and financial records. To fulfil their financial needs, they avail loans from local lenders at a very high interest rate, which is deterrent to their business growth. The objective of this initiative is to contribute to the growth of this section by meeting their financial needs. Creating Sustainable Spaces IDLC has embarked on a journey to green its facilities through the use of sustainable materials, technology and design. IDLC has achieved the LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design), and Gold Certification from USGBC (United States Green Building Council) under the category of commercial interiors for the Agrabad branch, located in WTC Center, 5th floor, 102-103 Agrabad C/A, Chattogram 4100. The facility is spread over 7,867 sq. feet and is designed by using environmentally-benign materials, and has an efficient water management system equipped with water-efficient fixtures. The facilities lighting power is designed to save approximately 20% electricity through efficient lighting and solar installation. IDLC aims to gradually transform all of its branches with green features as well. Material Conservation, Waste Management and Recycling Even though the service sector is less material-intensive compared to the manufacturing sector, resource conservation and waste management have been a key component of IDLC’s environmental strategy. Our efforts in this area focuses on use of electronics and paper. IDLC has adopted strategies to mitigate the negative environmental impact through efficient use of technology and waste management. 57 “ Many small people, in small places, ” doing small things can change the world. – Eduardo Galeano Social Development & Community Outreach The communities where we live and work sustain businesses, employees and families. We recognize that our success is intrinsically linked to their health and vitality, and so our intent is to accelerate opportunities across our business to contribute to communities’ resilience and prosperity. We apply our assets, capabilities and resources that make us successful as a businessin our communities to ensure opportunities for all. IDLC’s philanthropic efforts are rooted in our company’s purpose of helping people and our values of optimism, inclusivity and connection. Community has always been at the core of who we are. It is a commitment we are proud to uphold today. Philanthropy is one way we can address some of the toughest challenges people face in our country in education, health and environmental issues. We have three primary ways to support our communities: Partnering with non-government Employee engagement organizations Donations By investing in the communities, we hope to help create more sustainable communities for future generations and broader society. Our CSR projects target sustainability where our intended impact is to provide communities platforms to continue programs without aid in the longer term as we do not believe in offering any help that would create dependency. IDLC is proud to contribute to the achievement of United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. In 2019, IDLC’s CSR initiatives were implemented in mostly the areas of education and healthcare, while others have been conducted under the umbrella of extended responsibilities. 60 Education Striving to Provide Quality Education for All Oditiya Scholarship for Disadvantaged Female Students IDLC believes that women need to be empowered and equipped with the same opportunities that men enjoy in terms of access to fundamental rights. Our educational initiatives are designed to help improve the quality and determinants of education and the system as a whole. In 2017, IDLC initiated a scholarship program, in collaboration with Prothom Alo Trust and Asian University for Women. Under this initiative, female students who have passed the Higher Secondary School Certificate Examination and are first in their families to attain university level education and belong to very poor familiesget scholarship for 4 years to study at Asian University for Women. Each year 10 students get selected for the scholarship program and so far 26 students have come under the banner of Oditiya Scholarship. 61 Finance Olympiad 2.0 Financial Literacy Program Financial literacy is the education and understanding of various fundamental financial concepts including topics related to managing personal finance, budgeting, and investing. The lack of financial literacy may lead to making poor financial choices that can have negative consequences on the financial well-being of an individual. However, the young generation in Bangladesh do not have much knowledge on this topic. In March 2018, Bangladesh Bank asked all scheduled banks and non-bank financial institutions to launch a training program of financial literacy for the youth with the aim of implementing sustainable development goals set by the United Nations. In 2018, IDLC launched the first ever online Finance Olympiad in Bangladesh called ‘IDLC Finance Olympiad’ on basic finance understanding for students aged 14 to 24 years. More than 20,000 students registered and participated in the first online Finance Olympiad. In 2019, IDLC organized the 2nd season of National Finance Olympiad, the biggest online finance competition in the country, titled as “IDLC Finance Olympiad 2.0” went live on 15th September with a lot of enthusiasm and excitement. This competition was run by IDLC Finance Limited where 10 Minute School was the knowledge partner. More than 40,000 students from different colleges and universities across the country participated in this year’s Finance Olympiad. Among which, top 40 participated in an offline gala event hosted at Krishibid Institute Bangladesh Auditorium. Established a Primary School Latarchar Primary education, free and compulsory for all, has remained elusive for hundreds of poor children as there are no primary schools in Latarchar–a remote village in Patuakhali district. The area is filled with natural beauty, however it is deprsived from the light of education. In 2019, IDLC Finance Limited in the partnership of Obhizatrik Foundation, founded a primary school for the children of latarchar. The school was officially inaugurated on February 20th 2019. Apart from the school building, IDLC has also provided essential educational tools and stationaries for the students. The school has now 120 students and 3 teachers. 62 Established a Library at Gerda Govt. Primary School Faridpur In conformity with the saying that ‘A healthy reading habit can transform a person and access to books and reading material can transform a community’, IDLC has constructed a library for the children of Gerda Primary School located at the remote area of Faridpur with the aim of promoting reading habits among the children. On March 5, 2019, IDLC officially inaugurated the newly-constructed library, furnished with required furniture and fixtures. This initiative was taken as a part of IDLC’s one of a kind CSR platform `Khushir Kheya’. Renovation and Extension of School Building Gazipur IDLC as part of its commitment to ensure access to education for all, has completed the extension and renovation of Begum Rina Model Academy at Gazipur. On 03 March 2019, the renovated school building was officially inaugurated the newly constructed three classroom to accommodate 180 students and two washroom facilities. Renovation of School Building Sajek IDLC as part of its sustainability initiative, to enhance access to education for the remotest corners of the country, has recently completed the construction of school house for the students of Agamir Pathshala, Sajek. On 20 February 2019, the school house with its newly renovated lavatory, was officially inaugurated amidst a half-day sports event engaging all the 50 school children. 63 Established a Primary School for Bede Community Munshiganj In the district of Munshiganj not far from Dhaka, lives the bede community-in temporary homes which are mainly boats. These people have no form of permanent homes, and the children of this community have deprived of formal education. In order to help this community’s children with education, IDLC Finance Limited has established a primary school in 2019 in partnership with Alokito Shishu, a voluntary organization dedicated to educating all the underprivileged children of Bangladesh. 45 children from the disadvantaged Bede community now have access to school. We believe that these children will be the torch bearer of the bede community. This campaign is a part of IDLC’s CSR initiative `Khushir Kheya’. Provided Logistical Support for Children with Physical Disabilities Satkhira Every child, no matter what their mental or physical state should have equal rights. However the physically challenged children face a lot of obstacles and thus get deprived of education which they so desperately need. In December 2019, IDLC provided logistical support including benches for classrooms, school vans for commuting, accessories for exercise etc. to “Mir Mostak Ahmed School for physically challenged”. The school which initially started in 2017 with a small number of students is now a family of 90. 64 Preventive and Curative Healthcare Boat Ambulance Service for the People in Remote Char Areas Rangabali, Patuakhali In remote river islands, locally called char, in Rangabali, Patuakhali, where it is hard to connect people to various service centers, IDLC has come up with an initiative to introduce ‘Boat Ambulance’ to save lives when emergency healthcare service is required. The inhabitants of the char areas of Rangabali have to face a lot of risks that may even cost them their lives for lack of suitable transport facilities. Mostly pregnant women and some with postpartum complications are at serious risk and some patients even die when they fail to reach hospital in time. To serve the poeple in remote chars, a ‘Boat Ambulance’ project has been launched in 2019 in partnership with Obhijatrik Foundation. The boat ambulance was financed by IDLC and the service is provided by Obhijatrik Foundation. The boat ambulance is aimed at providing emergency transport service to around 150,000 people of Rangabali in southern district of Patuakhali. The boat ambulance can carry up to 10 people, and reach patients from any of the five unions of Rangabali to the nearest hospital within 20-30 minutes. The boat ambulance is ready is provide service for 24/7 and has emergency medical facilitiess such as oxygen and emergency medicines. The patients are accompanied by a health assistant and the pregnant women are accompanied by local mid-wives. 65 Support for the Neglected Elderlies Dhaka In Bangladesh, it has traditionally been the responsibility of the family to provide food and shelter for its elderly members. However, due to wide spread poverty and socio-economic changes, exclusion from income generating activities, we find that more and more older people from all sections of society are being neglected or even rejected by their families. Finding no other alternative to maintain their life expenses, the elderly people from poor families involve them in begging and some even commit suicide. A few homes have been established for the homeless elderly through private initiative. These homes are mostly dependent on various forms of donations for running their operation. In December 2019, IDLC extended its support to Apon Nibash old home which provides shelter to 65 homeless elderly women. IDLC organized free medical camp for all the residents of Apon Nibash old home and also provided logistical support such as washing machine, iron beds, mattress and blankets for the winter, bed sheets and first aid kit. Distributed Warm Clothes Among the Underprivileged Narayanganj Winter is one of those season when the less fortunate people of Bangladesh suffer the most. Bangladesh ranked sixth among the world’s top 10 countries most affected by extreme weather events in the last 20 years, according to the Global Climate Risk Index by think-tank Germanwatch. In 2017, Bangladesh has experienced its lowest recorded temperature in 50 years as the temperature dropped to 2.6 degree Celsius. In 2018, country’s lowest temperature was recorded at 4.5 degrees in Tetulia. Many people have died due to acute respiratory infection, diarrhea and other diseases caused by extreme cold weather. In 2019, IDLC has distributed warm clothes among 300 poor families in Sonargaon, Narayanganj in cooperation with Bikoshitoh Samaj Kallan Songstha. IDLC, as part of its continuous efforts to improve lifestyle and living of people of underprivileged communities, donated blankets to 300 families at Sonargaon. 66 Installed Water Puriﬁcation Plant in the South-West Coastal Region Dacope, Khulna Bangladesh is widely recognized among the countries which are most vulnerable to contaminated ground water. In the coastal areas of Bangladesh, the deficiency of drinking water is intense as the freshwater aquifers are not available at reasonable depths and the surface water is profoundly saline and turbid. The poor and destitute people cannot bear the cost of water technologies due to the financial crisis, thus the dwellers of that region is forced to drink the impure water. In 2019, IDLC Finance limited installed a water purification plant with the capacity of 250 LPH in Botbunia Collegiate school located in Satkhira-one of the south-west coastal region of Bangladesh. Saline contamination in the water makes it impossible for the people of the region to have access to safe and pure drinking water. This is the reason why the people there is susceptible to water-borne diseases. Through IDLC’s initiative, now the 750 students of Botbunia high school now have access to pure drinking water. 67 Multiplying the Happiness of Underprivileged on the Joyous Eve of Bengali New Year Savar On the eve of Boishakh 1426, 2019, IDLC arranged a pre-Boishakh celebration “Anondomela Sharabela” on April 12 at Jahangirnagar University Campus, Savar, in association with IBA-JU Social Welfare Club. More than 200 underprivileged children, enrolled from various education projects of four non-profit organizations Jaago Foundation, Obhizatrik Foundation, Spreeha Bangladesh Foundation and Tori, greeted the Bengali New Year where they were facilitated by IDLC to raise fund from guests, employees and external parties and they also took part in different activities. IDLC through this event set an example of fundraising for the underprivileged children by giving an opportunity for development project beneficiaries and potential benevolent benefactors to meet and greet under one roof. Amidst the festive mood, participating organizations highlighted their project activities and demonstrated avenues and areas where funding was required. 68 GRI Standards Content Index GRI 102: General Disclosures Disclosure Number Disclosure Title Page Number Organizational Proﬁle 102-1 Name of the organization 18 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 24-28 102-3 Location of headquarters 21 102-4 Location of operations 21 102-5 Ownership and legal form 20 102-6 Market served 29 102-7 Scale of the organization 20-21 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 45-49 102-9 Supply chain 36,40 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 35 102-12 External initiative 22 102-13 Membership of association 22 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision maker 06-09 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior 19, 30,31 Governance 102-18 Governance Structure 32-33 102-19 Delegating Authority 34 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body 34 and its committee Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 15-16 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 14 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 14 69 Disclosure Number Disclosure Title Page Number Reporting Practice 102-46 Deﬁning report content and topic boundaries 13 102-47 List of material topics 12 102-49 Changes in reporting 13 102-50 Reporting period 14 102-51 Date of most recent report 13 102-52 Reporting cycle 13 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 13 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with 13 the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index 69-70 102-56 External Assurance No Topic Speciﬁc Disclosure Category: Economic Disclosure Number Disclosure Title Page Number Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 39 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities 40 due to climate change 201-3 Deﬁned beneﬁt plan obligations and 47 other retirement plans Procurement Practice 204 Procurement Practices 40 Tax 207-1 Approach to tax 41-42 207-2 Tax governance, control and risk management 41-42 Category: Environment Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 52 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 53, 57 70 Category: Social Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 45-46 401-3 Parental leave 47 Occupational Health & Safety 403-6 Promotion of worker health 48 Training and Education 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and 48 transition assistance program 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance 48 and career development reviews. Diversity and Equal Opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 49 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 46 Non-discrimination 406 Non-discrimination 49 Local Communities 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, 60-68 impact assessments, and development programs 71 BEYOND FINANCING A N N U A L S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED Bay’s Galleria (1st Floor), 57 Gulshan Avenue, Gulshan -1, Dhaka-1212 Tel: +88 (02) 8834990 | Facsimile: +88 (02) 8834377 | Contact Center: 16409 E-mail: contactcenter@idlc.com | Web: www.idlc.com
