A responsible choice The Most Innovative Law Firm in Europe Welcome to Pinsent Masons Communication on Progress 2020 In this job, you’re often asked ‘what makes your firm Human Rights different?’. About two years ago we embarked on a Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect journey to articulate why we existed as an the protection of internationally proclaimed organisation, what our people thought their ‘best human rights; and day’ looked like at Pinsent Masons and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit ultimately begin a transition into a purpose-led in human rights abuses business. We have been a values-led organisation for some time. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom In looking at why we existed and what our ‘best day’ looks like we of association and the effective recognition of the uncovered a central ethos within the firm. Whether it is working with our right to collective bargaining; Richard Foley clients, each other, our suppliers or in our communities, both local and Senior Partner Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced wider, we all wanted to make business work better. and compulsory labour; Understanding why we exist, embracing and striving to have more ‘best Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; days’ and behaving in accordance with our values helps us to make longand term strategic decisions and acts as a guide to our operational day-toPrinciple 6: the elimination of discrimination in day activities. respect of employment and occupation We think this is something which distinguishes us from our peers in the Environment legal market. As Senior Partner, I see it as my primary duty to protect Principle 7: Businesses should support a this culture and purpose as we grow internationally, because that is what precautionary approach to environmental makes Pinsent Masons a responsible choice for all of our stakeholders challenges; and that includes our clients and suppliers, our people and our many community partners. Part of that duty is to uphold Pinsent Masons’ Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in greater environmental responsibility; and the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption Principle 9: encourage the development and and I am delighted to reaffirm that support. diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to Anti-Corruption continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its Principle 10: Businesses should work against principles into how we do business, our purpose and culture. We also corruption in all its forms, including extortion commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our and bribery primary channels of communication. Pinsent Masons | A responsible choice Introduction At Pinsent Masons, our business is about providing responsible advice to enable our clients to manage Contents and address risk and ultimately, to make business 01 Introduction work better for people. 02 Facts about us 04 Our clients A commitment to behaving responsibly is at our core and it extends to all aspects of our operations, whether that is through robust supply 06 Our people chain management, our long-term commitment to inspiring young lives 10 Our local community in our local communities, transparent, fair and ethical dealings with our 14 Our global community clients or our aspiration to creating an inclusive working environment 15 Our environment where all of our people can be themselves. Kate Fergusson So when it comes to writing this report and communicating our progress Head of Responsible Business to the United Nations Global Compact we decided our focus should be to share with you some stories about what we do, from the perspective of our clients, our suppliers, our people and our communities. We hope these will engage and interest you, and give you a real sense of what it’s like to work with us. Because, after all, it’s that experience which makes people feel we’re a responsible choice. 01 Pinsent Masons | A responsible choice Facts about us About us Headquartered in London, with offices around the world, we have more than 3,500 talented people working to give clients across the advanced manufacturing & technology, energy, financial services, infrastructure and real estate sectors the best legal and ethical advice. We have 26 locations across 4 continents 450+ 1,500+ 3,500+ Partners Lawyers Total workforce 02 Pinsent Masons | A responsible choice Business sectors Advanced Energy Financial Services Infrastructure Real Estate Manufacturing & Technology 14,000+ 22% Staff hours donated to Staff involved in Responsible Business Responsible Business programmes in 2019 programmes globally 03 Pinsent Masons | A responsible choice Our clients Many clients come to us for our expertise in Committed to human rights their sector. We work with many of the world’s We uphold the Universal Declaration of large multi nationals, advising them on all Human Rights and we are signatories to aspects of their business, as well as with public the UN Global Compact, UN Women’s Equality campaign and UN Standards of sector bodies and governments looking for Conduct for Business: Tackling expertise in our core areas. But what makes Discrimination against LGBTI People. them stay with us is the relationship of trust we develop from the very first meeting. Having strong, lasting relationships is the hallmark of any good firm. But clients choose their law firms for many reasons. We want to be chosen not only because we are excellent lawyers who can help clients achieve their objectives, but because we can be trusted always to temper technical expertise with sound ethical judgement. As you would expect, we are single-minded in our approach to professional ethics, and clients trust us to be open, to listen, to respond to their needs and to know their sectors as well, if not better, than they do, so we can always give advice based on real knowledge and insight. We encourage everyone we work with to uphold the same standard, including championing human rights, outlawing child and forced labour, and encouraging a culture in which people feel confident to report any instances of malpractice. And, as a service business, we work closely with our supply chain to enable them to achieve the same standard which we have set for ourselves. 04 Pinsent Masons | A responsible choice Case study: Working in Barclays takes the health and partnership with clients to wellbeing of its employees very Supporting our clients as responsible businesses seriously and that extends to our improve working practices external advisors who we view to be We recognise that we are part of our clients supply chain and we want to fulfil our commitment to being trusted an extension of our legal function. The advisers. We have published our new Global Standard of In collaboration with Barclays and Ethical Conduct in 2020. Addleshaw Goddard, we have developed take-up of the Charter from so many The Mindful Business Charter, which of our banking and legal counterparts We have a significant number of large clients who come provides institutions an opportunity to shows the power of collaboration to to us for advice on how to manage their businesses foster change. I believe it shouldn’t responsibly, in areas such as competition, anti-bribery support employees in changing the way and corruption, employment practices and environmental they work and managing the risks of workstop there. We hope that in time these issues. We advise them on everything from how to deal related stress. The Charter is brave and principles will be applied in all with bullying and harassment, to how to make the most commercial. It recognises that we cannot organisations across all sectors. of the opportunities presented by renewable energy. Philip Aiken, Managing Director, Barclays remove all sources of stress, nor will change We are committed to collaborating with our clients happen overnight – however, as a legal Professional advisers are often in a outside our chargeable work too. Because we are known community we have a responsibility to try for our commitment to inclusion, many clients have position of privilege, so it is easy to sought our advice informally on what to do for their own and do things differently. underestimate or overlook the impact people, and we frequently hold events and discussions We introduced the Charter to two additional major banks of the work they do on their where we bring together clients to share ideas, as well as wellbeing. Mental health issues giving individual clients the benefits of our expertise. and six other top law firms, and together, we committed to a set of principles centred on improved communication, impact people at all levels and in all respect for working hours and considerate delegation of sectors. Changing working practices Brook Graham tasks. Performance against these principles will be monitored as part of relationship review meetings. have increased those pressures Our acquisition of D&I consultancy, Brook significantly. It is not good enough to Graham in 2017, enables us to continue to In signing, we pledge to promote a culture of openness just accept that as the price we have provide innovative and comprehensive solutions about mental wellbeing, ensure responsible business is to pay. We have a responsibility to for our clients. By combining our legal expertise included as an area of assessment during significant procurement processes and drive forward the actions and make changes. with access to specialists in the strategic necessary change in support of the principles of the Charter. Richard Foley, Senior Partner, Pinsent Masons management of D&I, we can add further value for our clients combined. 05 Pinsent Masons | A responsible choice Our people Pinsent Masons is a place where people are Strengthening the firm through employee networks Case study: Improving the valued because they are good at their job, The only way to recruit and retain a diverse workforce is to balance of race and ethnicity ensure that everyone feels included, respected, and valued for irrespective of their background. Together, we the work they do. We have established a number of employee are a strong firm that provides excellent advice network groups at Pinsent Masons. These groups bring people In early 2018, we formally launched Sun in to clients because we have a wide range of together into communities, helping them to feel respected and our UK, Middle East and Australia offices. people with different skills and experience connected, but crucially they also help the firm as a whole Sun is an initiative established to identify the understand different points of view and bring them into the and because we aim to ensure that every one decisions we make for ourselves and for our clients. One of our barriers to recruitment and career of those people enjoys a healthy and rewarding longest established groups is our LGBT+ network – we were progression which may be faced by people career with us and has the opportunity to reach one of the first law firms to tackle discrimination based on due to their race, colour or ethnicity. The aim their potential. sexual orientation, including being the first to be listed on the of Sun is to create a better balance of race Stonewall Workplace Equality Index and in 2019, recognised as The legal sector has not traditionally been known for its Stonewall’s Top Employer, reaching number one on the index. and ethnicity within our workforce and a diversity, but ultimately, having a variety of people is far better We also have a firm wide ‘Allies’ programme with more than better workplace for all. for our clients and our firm. Research shows that organisations 250 members globally, which allows people to show their with more diverse workforces do better. Why? Because having a support for their LGBT+ colleagues. Following a comprehensive consultation carried out by D&I variety of people means there is a variety of perspectives on consultants, Brook Graham, we have developed a series of offer which helps people make better decisions, and, in our case, recommendations to be implemented across the firm. offer an innovative, more insightful service to our clients. Recommendations include the development of Cultural Confidence training (to equip people to talk about race and Strong relationships with clients are based like all good ethnicity at work) and a Cultural Competence programme relationships, on establishing rapport and building trust. And which focuses on upskilling people to better understand the with clients from every part of the globe, from differing cultures, different diversity dimensions in play across our global religions, ethnic backgrounds and walks of life, we cannot hope business. Additional actions include Reciprocal Mentoring, to build strong relationships without an in-depth understanding Group Mentoring and Role Models programmes. of the richness of different cultures and identities. In 2020/2021 we have committed to rolling out Sun to other countries, launching a new film which tackles stereotypes around race. 06 Pinsent Masons | A responsible choice This work is a clear statement that we Working with our suppliers to create an inclusive workplace Feeling a real connection with recognise the value of having a diverse We are committed to promoting diversity in our supply chain colleagues, clients and organisational and to understanding our suppliers’ commitments to D&I. We workforce and is evidence that those at use our Responsible Business Supplier Survey to evaluate culture through a true understanding of senior levels in the firm are passionate relevant suppliers at the sourcing stage and our memberships of the power of diversity within an inclusive about the issues ethnic minorities face. both WeConnect and MSDUK to assist with diversification of workplace environment is key to Alexandra Aikman, Associate, Dubai, Pinsent Masons our supply chain. establishing trust and rapport. This As part of our ongoing commitment to supporting our suppliers promotes close business relationships to We already do a lot to address the barriers develop with each other, clients and with their own D&I commitments and to creating an inclusive that exist for minority ethnic people workplace for our own people, clients, suppliers and visitors, intermediaries. Being genuinely valued joining our firm, but Sun allows us to carry suppliers from our on site services teams have been invited to and respected is empowering – people out in-depth analysis around race and join us for diversity and inclusion training on gender identity. are more focussed, less distracted, more ethnicity in our workplace. I’m not aware productive. An empowered workforce We are also pleased to be working with our recruitment of any other law firm ever having carried consultant suppliers to implement our Inclusive Recruitment translates positively straight through to out a similar review before and it allows us Charter, evidencing our mutual commitment to create fair the bottom line of profitability. to raise awareness of such issues within recruitment processes and to promoting diversity. David Rennick, Partner and Global Board Member our global workforce. Kultar Khangura, Partner, Birmingham, Pinsent Masons We monitor the diversity of our UK workforce in accordance with SRA requirements. 07 Pinsent Masons | A responsible choice Tackling the gender bias Achieving a gender balance at senior levels is a particular issue for law firms. We are committed to enabling more women to progress into senior roles, and we are pleased that women make up over 30% Case study: ‘Inspiring Girls’ & Today inspired me to fight not just for of our Board. Our commitment was demonstrated ‘Raising Your Game’ Boys women’s equality, but for everyone, and on 1 May 2017, when the firm reached its first to use my voice for the greater good. milestone of 25% female partners – a year ahead of schedule. We have since committed to continue our Conferences Student work – to achieve our aspiration of gender balance Our biannual ‘Inspiring Girls’ Conference’ and across our leadership teams and at every level of Thank you for making me a part of the ‘Raising your Game Boys’ Conference’ our partnership. event, it was equally inspiring for me. celebrate International Women’s Day and Client Volunteer International Men’s Day. 60 Yr10/11 students from our partner schools around the UK are All the students loved the experience invited to join us at our London office to hear train to London tube office from inspiring speakers. environment workshops meeting the Client volunteers assist us with an ‘Aim High’ speed networking hosts and guests. They came away with session, providing role models from different sectors to talk the ‘wow’ factor and ‘I can’ feeling about their own careers and raise aspirations. Pinsent Masons’ towards their school work and careers. global partner charity, WE Charity, supports the event and runs Teacher sessions to encourage the students to think about gender inequality around the globe and how they can play a part in helping to raise awareness and to tackle the problem. 08 Pinsent Masons | A responsible choice Supporting life outside work In addition to employee assistance programmes, a network of We want to make it as easy as possible for people to enjoy over 250 Mental Health Champions across the firm act as a work and perform as well as they can – which means helping first point of contact to signpost people to help and support them combine their work and their personal lives in whatever available. The Champions are supported by our countryway works best for them. Putting an end to presenteeism by specific mental health portal ‘Minds Matter’. The portals offering agile working solutions is particularly important – contain links to internal resources and support available from after all, it’s what people achieve that matters, not how long external organisations. they spend at their desks. Our policies and technologies are set up to enable agile working. In the UK, 74% of our offices In 2020/2021, we have committed to growing our Mental are set up to work agile. And, for the many employees who Health Champions network to support our workforce globally. have parental or carer responsibilities, our Family Support Network, which provides a range of support and advice, has been, and will continue to be, instrumental in helping working parents and carers – both men and women – lead fulfilling careers and achieve their potential with us. Wellbeing in the Workplace In 2020, we launched our 2023 Mental Health Action Plan as part of our focus on personal health and wellbeing. We are committed to maintaining inclusive and healthy workplaces where our people are supported to achieve good physical and mental health. It is important to us that we end the stigma around mental health, and to ensure that all of our people are aware of and encouraged to seek support available internally and externally when required. 09 Pinsent Masons | A responsible choice Our local community Our people are encouraged to spend Social mobility is a longstanding issue for Case study: Supporting the legal sector, yet we know that we all Hong Kong’s next generation the equivalent of three days per year working on our volunteering benefit when our workforce reflects the programmes. diversity of the communities in which we For over 10 years now we have been operate. We also know that our supporting the Tung Wah Group, one of the commercial success depends on the region’s longest established charities, which economic stability of those communities. promotes education and aims to equip young For those reasons, the focus of our community investment people with the skills they need to fulfil their programme is ‘inspiring young lives’. Our focus is on raising potential. Through our work experience aspirations and creating better life chances for children and programme for underprivileged students, we young people in some of the most disadvantaged have created some fun opportunities for communities around the world. We do this through a global volunteering programme and a series of partnerships with young people to visit our offices and work schools and charities focussed on education, employability with our team, while getting sound advice for and creating inclusive and healthy learning environments their future education and careers. where children can thrive. We know that these programmes matter to our own people and they get something out of opportunities to volunteer – they value the fact that we promote this work by encouraging them to take paid time off to do it, and the feedback we get shows that people are happier working here as a result. 10 Pinsent Masons | A responsible choice Case study: Changing • Educational support improves academic performance, and enhances learners’ analytical and problem solving skills. Young Lives Compulsory classes, three days a week, focus on supplementary Maths, Science, English and IT. Our Johannesburg office has embraced our • Extra-curricular activities including cricket, horse riding, commitment to ‘inspiring young lives’ with vaulting, show-jumping and touch rugby keep the young the launch of Project Naledi, supporting people active, whilst growing their confidence and young people from the township of Soweto strengthening the development of their social and cognitive to succeed in school, empowering them with skills that cannot be learnt in the classroom. the skills, knowledge and confidence needed • Mentoring provides motivation, role models and life-skills to to enable them to fully engage in the prepare young people for life after education including, CV economic community. writing, interview preparation and support with job/further education applications. Formally launched in 2018, we have partnered with the Soweto Equestrian Centre, Soweto Cricket Club and Sir Ramabitsa Saturday School. The project started with more than 300 pupils First and foremost, Project Naledi is registered to be part of the various programmes. enhancing the lives of the young people in the community where we are Project Naledi aims to better prepare children at high risk of operating, second it resonates hugely dropping out of school for the next stage of their education, training, employment or entrepreneurship by inspiring them to with our local team, third it creates a learn, play and dream: good reason to connect across our business and speak to colleagues in other offices involved in similar schemes or who are thinking of starting schemes, fourth our clients respond positively when we talk to them about it and finally and by no means least, it is great fun! Richard Laudy, Partner, Pinsent Masons 11 Pinsent Masons | A responsible choice Making every programme count The main focus of our work with young people is our education programme. Over the years, our commitment to building long-term partnerships with local schools and community groups has become part of the fabric of Case study: Reaching our firm. Our offices are encouraged to develop Excluded Groups partnerships with at least one school or local organisation supporting young people, which share our Through a partnership with the Clontarf Many of the fellas had had very difficult focus on inspiring young lives. Foundation, the firm aims to help equip upbringings, yet their enthusiasm and bright What’s different about our initiative, and why it works, is young Aboriginal men for the future by smiles highlighted just how much they that we don’t have a blanket approach that applies improving education, discipline, life skills enjoyed the programme. Whilst many were everywhere. Instead, we start by finding out what a and employability. shy to begin with, when they eventually school or community needs most from us, often with the help of local charities and social enterprises, who Focussing on a strong passion for sport, the Foundation opened up they were warm, engaging, can match our skills with a group that could use them. encourages Aboriginal boys to attend school with a network of articulate and very interested in what our This might include one of our people joining the school’s football academies. Since 2000, the Clontarf Foundation has lives were like. More than that, they were all governing body or charity’s board of trustees, or our grown to support over 6,500 boys in 97 schools across clearly very committed to the programme volunteers providing careers advice to young people, or Western Australia, Northern Territory, Victoria, New South help with a specific subject. We then work with the Wales and Queensland. and their personal development. organisation’s leadership team to create a programme Senior Associate, Melbourne, Pinsent Masons that will work for the school or charity, the staff and the Since the start of the partnership in 2016, we have helped to young people. And we are in it for the long run: we have provide donations, fundraising and local government matched seen that to make a real difference to a community we funding. Aboriginal students are welcomed in to the Pinsent need to be properly committed so they can rely on us Masons offices through work experience placements for law year after year. students and an annual training day which consists of a mock mooting competition, pairing our lawyers with Aboriginal Our work started more than 15 years ago, with a students, a CV writing and interview skills workshop and a partnership between our Leeds office and Cockburn team building exercise. School in Beeston which has helped the school transform its GCSE results. We also encourage our Pinsent Masons colleagues from our Australian offices have clients to get involved, a good example being our also travelled to an Academy for the ‘Clontarf Experience’. Inspiring Girls & Boys Conferences, featured on page 8. where they learn how the Foundation Academies operate and hear from the students themselves. But we can – and do – do more. At Pinsent Masons we have highly talented people doing top quality work for In 2020/21 we will be extending our support to a new clients, and we believe that their skills can and should be programme to work with female students of Aboriginal shared more widely, for the benefit of others outside the heritage. firm and our client base. 12 Pinsent Masons | A responsible choice Legal services don’t come cheap. So, one of the most valuable things we can offer is pro bono advice. Across the firm, our people regularly offer their services to a good cause. For example, they might work for the charity Amicus, to help people get access to a fair trial, support our local community investment partners, such as La Voix de L’Enfant in Paris, or NatWest Accelerator which supports new entrepreneurs with one-to-one coaching. Case Study: NatWest Accelerator At Pinsent Masons, we understand that The initiative is now the largest business growth accelerator in entrepreneurship is the lifeblood of the UK the UK, boasting 12 Accelerator Hubs, which support nearly 2,000 entrepreneurs across the UK every year. Since becoming economy. In order to create meaningful, the legal partner, we have involved 200 volunteers from every sustainable growth, it is the responsibility of area of our business, who have delivered 8,500 hours of free corporates to develop an environment that legal advice and guidance. allows SMEs to succeed. In 2018 alone, we supported 1,880 entrepreneurs, who In 2016, we partnered with the NatWest Entrepreneur collectively raised more than £31m investment, turned over Accelerator, which offers start up businesses one-to-one £271m, and created nearly 400 jobs. coaching, high quality co-working spaces, and access to corporate partners from accounting, technology, insurance We recently announced that we have extended our tenure as and legal all completely free of charge. the legal partner, which will see us continue to help businesses to start, scale, and succeed. 13 Pinsent Masons | A responsible choice Our global community In 2016, we began our relationship with our Colleagues are actively involved in our WE relationship, It was hugely different to anything I’ve known… constantly finding new ways to raise funds for the charity, global partner, WE – a charity that works with including WE Cycle the World and WE Walk for Water, engaging and I’m culturally closer than all the other communities to change lives and eradicate our global office network. volunteers as I live in Hong Kong. I got close to poverty. Since then, our donations to their some of the guides and had a real insight into youth empowerment and international Colleagues have also had the opportunity to apply for a how it really is, living in the remote village of once-in-a-lifetime trip to one of our WE partner villages and development programme, WE Villages, have: experience for themselves the support the firm provides. This Kulthana. I felt a huge connection to the children helps us to raise awareness and find creative new fundraising we were helping... This trip was a real eye• Supported the rehabilitation of the community well in Verdara, India, to provide the community with clean water, improving solutions for WE. opener, it doesn’t matter what you see on the TV hygiene and enabling community members to focus on going or read in the news, nothing can prepare you for In 2020/21 we have committed to supporting WE’s Water Pillar to school or work. through our global WE Play fundraising initiative and to how extreme the poverty is and how much help inspiring the next generation of global citizens by providing is needed. I’m holding those memories close to • Supported WE’s Health Pillar in India, which (i) provides community members with programmes focussed on health and volunteers for WE’s domestic schools programme in the UK. me and look forward to sharing them with my personal hygiene, (ii) stops the spread of disease, and (iii) colleagues to help them take even more of an supplies households with smokeless stoves called “challahs”. interest and actively partake in the work we’re Challahs allow people to cook inside while leaving the air clean doing with WE. and breathable, reducing the risk of tuberculosis and other Alice Wang, Associate, Shanghai, Pinsent Masons persistent infections. I had the best time at WE Day! I found it really inspiring and think it’s so important for us to help motivate the leaders of tomorrow. Niamh Deery, Solicitor, Edinburgh, Pinsent Masons 14 Pinsent Masons | A responsible choice Our environment Like any responsible business, we measure and manage our impact on the environment and have done for some time, focussing on key areas such as energy efficiency, waste prevention and the reduction of business travel. Whenever we open an office, we plan it to the highest environmental standards, so that in the long term our impact will be as low as possible. We also put environmental issues high on our employees’ agenda, encouraging them to be as efficient as possible in their use of resources, on projects, with clients and their own working practices particularly when travelling, one of our biggest contributors to carbon emissions. Energy In 2015 we set a target to reduce absolute energy consumption across UK offices by 20% by 2020 when measured against a 2014 baseline. Up to December 2019, our data showed we had achieved a 29% reduction, exceeding our target ahead of schedule. This was mainly as a result of the ongoing consolidation of office space across the UK, as well as putting several ‘technical’ energy efficiency measures in place. What’s more, our carbon emissions associated with energy consumption have reduced by over 50% since 2014. 15 Pinsent Masons | A responsible choice Waste and Resources Our key objective for resources and waste is to push waste streams up the Waste Hierarchy* to: Divert all general waste Separate waste that is currently Reduce the amount of from landfill being incinerated for ‘Energy disposable items used by from Waste’ so that it can be the business further recycled/reused 27% reduction in print volumes since 2014; Removal Prevention of disposable coffee cups from catering outlets (approximately 60,000 per annum saved from landfill) Preparing for re-use Furniture re-used during office refurbishments and relocations Office waste recycling rate of over 80% across UK; Recycling Recycling facilities being rolled out to all jurisdictions Other recovery Residual waste incinerated at ‘Energy from Waste’ facilities Less than 5% of UK office waste going to landfill sites Disposal with no recovery *The Waste Hierarchy shows the order of preference to reduce and manage waste. Prevention, the most favoured and Disposal, the least. 16 Pinsent Masons | A responsible choice Business Travel We are recognised as ‘Committed’ on the SBTi Companies Carbon emissions associated with global business travel Taking Action page as well as on partner websites at We Mean reduced by 18% between 2015 and 2019, as we consciously Business, CDP and the UN Global Compact. A ‘committed’ reduced the number of flights we’d taken. Emissions per FTE company has up to 24 months to develop and submit targets have reduced by 30% over the same period. for official validation. We hope to have validated targets in place by the end of 2020. Our progress will also be made We have been certified Carbon Neutral for business travel public for maximum accountability. since 2007. Most recently, we offset emissions by investment in wind renewable energy projects in China and India. The Legal Sustainability Alliance projects are validated and verified under the Clean Development Mechanism and contribute to UN Sustainable We are members of the Legal Renewables Initiative a Development Goals (SDGs) towards access to affordable and public commitment by law firms to switch to 100% renewable clean energy and decent work and economic growth. energy by 2025. Science Based Targets This bold target is 25 years ahead of the UK government’s legally binding net-zero target. The move is a recognition that As our existing targets have an end date of 2020, we have now law firms need to respond to the climate emergency and formally committed to setting Science Based Targets (SBTs). become more sustainable. As mentioned, the renewable SBTs cover all elements of our greenhouse gas inventory, pledge forms part of a wider commitment to reduce law firms’ including our Strategy commitments in areas such as energy, environmental impact. travel and waste. Approximately 60% of our current global energy consumption They’re developed using models that calculate the level of is from renewable sources and we are working to increase the carbon a business needs to reduce to meet the Paris Agreement percentage as contracts are renewed, either through the to limit global warming to well below 2°C above pre-industrial traditional supplier route or from a Power Purchase Agreement levels and to pursue efforts to limit warming to 1.5°C. direct from a renewable energy developer. The Science Based Targets Initiative (SBTi) is a partnership of CDP, the UN Global Compact (UNGC), the World Resources Institute and World Wildlife Fund for Nature. The initiative’s overall aim is that SBT setting will become standard practice and business will play a major role in driving down global greenhouse gas emissions – marking the beginning of a new carbon neutral economy. 17 Pinsent Masons LLP is a limited liability partnership, registered in England and Wales (registered number: OC333653) authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority and the appropriate jurisdictions in which it operates. Reference to ‘Pinsent Masons’ is to Pinsent Masons LLP and/or one or more of the affiliated entities that practise under the name ‘Pinsent Masons’ as the context requires. The word “partner”, used in relation to the LLP, refers to a member or an employee or consultant of the LLP or any affiliated firm, with equivalent standing. A list of members of Pinsent Masons, those non-members who are designated as partners, and non-member partners in affiliated entities, is available for inspection at our offices or at www.pinsentmasons.com. © Pinsent Masons. For a full list of the jurisdictions where we operate, see www.pinsentmasons.com
