Responsible business Investing for the future Progress report 2019 Our people are exceptional; they are the driving force behind our responsible business. Guided by our values, which lie at the heart of how we operate, they [our people] inherently do the right thing, taking action to deliver a positive impact for our clients, local community and the environment. Wellbeing, inclusivity and respect matter to us, and make good business sense. Everything we do is driven by our commitment to our six core values. Our clients, contacts and friends see our values in action when they interact with our people. Commitment Collaboration Quality At Burges Salmon our six core values are: ambition, collaboration, commitment, fairness, quality and respect. Burges Salmon They underpin everything that we do. We place clients at the heart of our business and meet their requirements through the dedication and hard work of our talented people. Ambition Fairness Respect Reporting period: January 2019 – December 2019 Contents 4 Our commitment 6 Who we are 8 Our supply chain 8 Our stakeholders 9 Our approach 10 Materiality and guiding initiatives 11 Our objectives 12 Working in partnership 14 Workplace 18 Community 24 Environment 28 Marketplace APPENDIX 32 Our key performance indicators 33 Stakeholders 34 Regular updates Burges Salmon Responsible Business report 2019 3 Our commitment “In this report, you Chris Seaton, Senior partner will see the breadth Over the past year, I am happy to report have been able to better frame our own or our activity and our that we have made significant progress responsible business activities, nurture as a responsible business building on external partnerships, and consider how aspirations for the year our long-standing commitment to the our legal expertise is contributing in the ahead. As Chair of the community and the environment, by wider sense. furthering our strategic approach. This Responsible Business has involved the integration of the UN This year as a firm we have strengthened Committee, I invite Sustainable Development Goals into our our focus on working towards a net zero strategy and our ongoing commitment to carbon future – by bringing together you to share feedback the UN Global Compact, in alignment with our legal expertise across the transport, and any thoughts on the ten principles for responsible business. energy, agriculture and built environment further opportunities We conducted our first ever human sectors – as well as switching to a fully renewable energy supply in our Bristol to collaborate.” rights review and worked with the award head office and agreeing a firm-wide winning anti-modern slavery and human trafficking charity Unseen, to improve our commitment to carbon offsetting. own understanding of modern slavery In this report, you will see the breadth of issues as well as hosting a number of our activity and our aspirations for the events to connect the charity to other year ahead. As Chair of the Responsible organisations and supporters. Business Committee, I invite you to share Through the application of the UN feedback and any thoughts on further Sustainable Development Goals, we opportunities to collaborate. 4 Burges Salmon Responsible Business report 2019 Roger Bull, Managing partner In the past year, we have seen various the introduction of our Blind Recruitment of my colleagues and everything that pressures and uncertainties, particularly in Policy. We remain committed to social we are doing together to support our terms of the political arena, declarations mobility and are pleased to be recognised responsible business agenda. of climate emergency and societal as a Top 75 Social Mobility Employer. expectations for business to do more. In this context, I have been delighted to Personally as Managing Partner, I have “I have been delighted two particular highlights. Firstly having see our people remain committed and the opportunity to engage in our Bright to see our people remain deliver, often above and beyond, on our Sparks work experience programme committed and deliver, responsible business agenda. encouraging school students from a variety of backgrounds, who are interested often above and beyond, For us, this is about living our values and making it an everyday part of what we do. in a career in law. Secondly volunteering on our responsible as part of a citywide project to tackle This has been evident with an outstanding food poverty in the pursuit that no child business agenda.” volunteering rate of 62%, the attainment should go hungry. This was a tremendous of 36 award shortlists and wins as well as collaboration that saw 13 law firms come exceeding environmental objectives such together to work with over 100 other as cutting our carbon emissions in half. organisations to deliver 53,000 meals to Other important progress has been over 5,000 young people over the summer achieved around our Diversity and holiday, a risk period when children are Inclusion agenda with the launch of unable to access free school meals. The ‘BCultured’ the firm’s BAME network, the positive and direct actions that I see across launch of disability forum ‘BEnabled’ and the whole firm make me incredibly proud BCultured launch New partners 2019 Stepping Up graduation ceremony Feeding Bristol Healthy Volunteering at Avon Wildlife Trust Outstanding client service awards Holiday programme Burges Salmon Responsible Business report 2019 5 Who we are Burges Salmon is the We focus on quality. By focusing We work across the UK. We have lawyers on the markets and areas of expertise who are qualified to work in all three legal independent UK law firm where we have extensive knowledge and jurisdictions in the UK – England & Wales, which delivers the best experience, we achieve the best outcomes Scotland and Northern Ireland. for our clients who range from large mix of advice, service organisations, entrepreneurial businesses We work internationally. Across the world we work with a select number of and value. With offices and public sector bodies to private like-minded independent law firms – our individuals and families. We are trusted in Bristol, London and to help them with everything from their Preferred Law Firm network. Edinburgh we compete everyday legal needs to their business We are confident in our model. In critical issues and all points in between. a rapidly changing world, our clients at the top of the legal instruct us because we offer a different market delivering the We collaborate. We work wherever our experience: unrivalled expertise, excellent clients need us to be, both within the service and exceptional value. right solutions for clients UK and internationally. We maintain a when it matters. collaborative and cohesive culture which With our range of expertise we contribute underpins the quality of our work and our to sustainable development in a variety client service. In short, we hire, train and of sectors including transport, renewable retain the best people to work together energy, public sector, education, real to serve our clients and provide them with estate and healthcare, amongst others. the best possible experience. 6 Burges Salmon Responsible Business report 2019 OUR YEAR IN NUMBERS Facts and figures from around the business Total number of Fee earners Number of Burges Salmon people (including partners) partners 780+ 450+ 92 Partners recognised by Award wins, shortlists Turnover for the Chambers UK 2020 and accreditations financial year 64% 36 ending April 2019 £94.6m Total number of CR Hours of pro bono Number of organisations hours volunteered advice given donated to 3,754 1,028 88 Burges Salmon Responsible Business report 2019 7 Our supply chain Our supply chain describes the operational scope of our business and outlines some of the key areas in which we can drive responsible action. Purchase of goods and services Community Engagement and social contribution Recruitment of personnel Client delivery Office rental, facilities and utilities Maintenance and Environmental development of firm’s offering impacts delivered through our people Our stakeholders Engagement with stakeholders on important issues, as well as the day to day business, has always been part of what we do. We engage with each stakeholder group in different ways – you can find out more about this in the appendix of this report. 8 Burges Salmon Responsible Business report 2019 Our approach RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS FRAMEWORK MARKETS Service Excellence Ethics & Integrity Governance & Transparency WORKPLACE Talent & Performance Diversity & Inclusion Health, Safety & Wellbeing ENVIRONMENT COMMUNITY Climate & Energy Social Mobility & Education Consumption & Waste Civic Contribution Natural Resources Human Rights “Our people, culture Responsible business is integral to sustainable future through our operations, who we are. It connects how we do our client work and our community and values are central business delivering legal services to our engagement. to delivering responsible clients, our approach to reducing our The framework allows us to focus on the environmental impact and the wider business through our activities that are most important to our role we play within society. client work, projects business and our stakeholders. At the Our responsible business framework centre of the framework is our people; and community reflects how our business, people, their passion and values drive us forward. engagement activities.” community and environment By supporting a talented, diverse workforce interconnect. We set objectives to we provide the right dynamics for ensure we play our part in delivering a innovation and responsible contribution. Burges Salmon Responsible Business report 2019 9 Materiality and guiding initiatives The Global Compact provides 10 principles for businesses to integrate into their ways of working – and we ensure we reflect these principles in our approach. The UN Sustainable Development Goals We conducted a materiality exercise to help business actions help us contribute toward (Global Goals or SDGs) are a route map identify priorities. This involved analysing the Sustainable Development Goals and towards a fairer and more sustainable each of the 17 Goals and identifying the guide us in collaborating with other future and are increasingly used by most relevant to our business based on our businesses and organisations. governments, businesses, not-for-profit expertise, stakeholder expectations and strategic priorities. We are signatories of the UN Global and civic organisations. They are important to us because they provide a common Compact, a collection of 10,000 In addition we considered the 169 targets language to talk about sustainability and that sit underneath the Goals and selected organisations that have committed to outline the action we all need to take to the most pertinent to help our organisation embedding shared responsible business address the global challenges facing us. to progress. Our aligned responsible principles into the way they operate. 10 Burges Salmon Responsible Business report 2019 Our objectives To direct our responsible business approach and galvanise action with our people and through our collaborations we have developed five objectives that describe what we are trying to achieve – reflecting key priorities and the interconnected nature of our framework. The table below links our objectives to our framework and the Sustainable Development Goals. Our objectives Enable wider Enable the Take action for an Contribute to Work together (What we want to achieve) engagement progression environmentally the provision and with others in wellbeing of talent in sustainable future of employment for a greater with a focus on an inclusive with positive opportunities collective impact resilience and workplace and community that are inclusive mental health in the pursuit of impacts and fair social mobility Framework Health, Safety Social mobility Climate and Human Rights Ethics and elements and Wellbeing and education Energy Integrity (The topics we address) Talent and Diversity and Consumption Performance Governance and MARKETS Service Excellence Ethics & Integrity Inclusion and Waste Transparency Governance & Transparency Service WORKPLACE Talent & Performance Diversity & Inclusion Natural Excellence Civic Contribution Resources Health, Safety & Wellbeing ENVIRONMENT COMMUNITY Climate & Energy Social Mobility & Education Consumption & Waste Civic Contribution Natural Resources Human Rights Relevant UN Sustainable Development Goals Burges Salmon Responsible Business report 2019 11 Working in partnership We have a number of valued partnerships with community groups, industry associations and specialist interest organisations that help us to progress our responsible business activities and keep us informed of good practice. PARTNERSHIP CASE STUDIES Legal sector collaboration Through the Bristol Law Society law firms profession. We are part of the collaboration This was one of the biggest citywide across the city have come together to and in 2019, this partnership was key to collaborations to tackle a social issue. collaborate on community engagement the success of the charity Feeding Bristol’s The project was led and co-ordinated by initiatives. The aim is to promote healthy holiday programme. The aim was Feeding Bristol, however, it was delivered community engagement activity in the to feed children and young people across by the collective will of 98 organisations Bristol region, promote best practice Bristol who might otherwise have gone in the city, including businesses, schools, and bring various activities together to hungry over the school summer holidays, funders and the Bristol City Council maximise the positive impact of the legal when free school meals are not available. (public sector). 12 Burges Salmon Responsible Business report 2019 Sustainable Development Goals Alliance The Bristol SDG Alliance is a collection of organisations across civil society, charity, academic and business sectors, collaborating to facilitate engagement in the Sustainable Development Goals BR IS TO L AN D TH E SD Gs (SDGs). We are a key partner in the SDG A VO LU NT AR Y LO CA L RE VI EW OF PR OG RE SS Alliance working with Bristol City Council 20 19 and the University of Bristol to develop research for one of the first ‘Local Voluntary Reviews’ to evaluate progress against the SDGs in Bristol. We provided in-kind graphic design support for the production of the report, which was communicated to the Department for International Development and the United Nations. Sustainable investment landscape Investors are increasingly required to be Association and over 50 industry more aware of environmental, social contacts to discuss the recent and and governance (ESG) factors when upcoming changes regarding ESG and considering where to invest. To help stewardship at our London office. our clients in the pensions and asset We have also produced a guidance management industries explore the booklet on ESG to help clients changing regulatory requirements we understand what this is and how it brought together representatives from might affect them. The Pensions Regulator, the Investment PARTNERSHIP ASPIRATIONS Related UN Sustainable FOR 2020 Development Goals l To deliver as a member of the Business in The Community South West Advisory Board enabling tangible collective action for social good. l To build on the initial success of the Bristol Legal Sector collaboration in terms of community impact and pro bono service. l To support the UN Global Compact UK in its engagement with organisations on the Global Goals. Burges Salmon Responsible Business report 2019 13 Workplace We aim to be an exceptional place to work. We want to ensure talented individuals thrive in our workplace by valuing diversity and inclusion and focusing on engagement. Our people are our greatest asset and it makes sense we support them in being physically, emotionally and mentally well. Female directors and Absence through Partner promotions Investors in People senior associates sickness female accreditation Being a good employer and supporting our people is also about enabling a wider societal contribution through business, personal and community relationships. Diversity and inclusion Diversity and inclusion are integral to our firm-wide strategy and something we take very seriously. Our culture is open, collaborative and inclusive, enabling us to recruit, retain and motivate the highest calibre of people from a wide range of Bristol Pride 2019 backgrounds. It is important that all of our people feel they have equal access to opportunities and can be themselves diversity and inclusion manager who is International Women's Day equality event at work. Our commitment to diversity responsible for delivery. We work closely with a panel of inspirational speakers. We and inclusion is reflected across all of our with our Diversity and Inclusion Group publish our gender pay gap report and structures and processes, from recruitment and various diversity networks externally. firm wide diversity statistics in order to to training and development. We are a founder signatory of the Equality be transparent about our performance. Charter, which is working to improve Aligned with our diversity and inclusion In 2019 we launched our new diversity equality, diversity and inclusion. agenda we support Stepping Up, a and inclusion strategy, which outlines our objectives in relation to our key priority Highlights from our diversity and inclusion diversity leadership programme for areas of gender, ethnicity, BAME, disability, programme this year have included the future leaders in Bristol. Our Chief People LGBT+ and social mobility. Key objectives launch of our award winning BAME Officer is on the governance board to have been agreed and the firm is working network, our sponsorship of and help develop a talent pipeline that more towards these. We have a designated participation in Bristol Pride and an meaningfully reflects the city's population. 14 Burges Salmon Responsible Business report 2019 Talent and performance “Providing quality development As a responsible business we must ensure that our recruitment and talent processes opportunities for our people is a priority. are fair and provide equal opportunities This is demonstrated by achieving the for all. Unconscious bias is a key topic in this area. In 2019 we began a firm wide Investors in People Gold standard.” roll out of unconscious bias training, starting with our management board and partners, to help limit the role bias plays in our recruitment process. In addition to this we use RARE contextual recruitment practices which take into account data from schools and socio-economic factors to highlight promising candidates from a variety of diverse backgrounds. Responsible business is closely intertwined with our learning and development approach. Providing quality development New trainees 2019 opportunities for our people is a priority. This is demonstrated by achieving the Investors in People Gold standard. We have clearly defined contribution People survey frameworks for every role within our All of our people are encouraged to organisation and each of these contain feed back to the business through specific responsible business objectives. our biennial people survey. The survey measures satisfaction across key areas Health, safety and wellbeing such as management, development opportunities, culture, communication In 2018 we launched our wellbeing and the provision of quality, stimulating strategy, which outlines a proactive work. The results of the survey are approach to wellbeing across four areas: fed back to senior and departmental physical; mental; financial and emotional this partnership to help us further develop management, as well as to our people, relationships. Our aim is to empower our our own approach. In 2019 we trained and the findings are used to improve our people to prioritise wellbeing whilst also 12 mental health first aiders who are now processes and offerings. providing a working environment which available to support colleagues as required. incorporates wellbeing best practice. We ran pilot sessions of a ‘Wellbeing and A good example of our ongoing work in Managing Pressure’ workshop for our Survey results this area is our annual Wellbeing Fair. At people and raised awareness on mental this event our people can explore a range health through lunch and learn sessions, of experiences, stalls and presentations on talks from external speakers and at our topics such as nutrition, work/life balance and Annual General Meeting. mental health as well as understand more As an advocate for wellbeing we have an about the support services they can access. important role to play in our communities. To promote physical wellbeing our We co-chair a ‘Thriving at Work’ task group people receive a free private healthcare which is working to identify best practice assessment every two years and private methods to improve mental health and medical cover for those who want it. In wellbeing across Bristol city workplaces. 2019 we began offering an in-house GP agree the firm has an open The safety of our people and guests will service for our people as well as seasonal and inclusive culture continue to be a priority for us. In 2019 vaccinations. Our BSocial group promotes we completed a high level audit of our fitness through a range of subsidised Health and Safety Management System, sports clubs and gym memberships. introduced an online tool for reporting Mental health has become a big focus accidents and expanded our BSafe would recommend a contact / area in our wellbeing agenda. In 2018 we working group which coordinates safety friend to join the firm raised £75,000 for Bristol Mind and used best practice across the firm. Burges Salmon Responsible Business report 2019 15 WORKPLACE CASE STUDIES City level action Thrive Bristol is a 10 year programme to improve the mental health and wellbeing of people in Bristol, with a focus on those with the greatest needs. The initiative covers all ages and considers mental health in its broadest sense. It ranges from plans to improve the whole population’s wellbeing to interventions for people experiencing mental illness. Our involvement in the programme has been through the Thriving at Work task group. Patrick Robinson, one of our partners, was co-chair of the task group alongside Tom Hore, director of Bristol Mind (our previous Charity of the Year). The task group brought together over 20 different businesses from across the City to deliver a 2019 report outlining recommendations for corporate mental health approaches. A number of working groups have now been set up to implement the findings and Jamie Cameron, one of our senior Thrive Bristol report launch associates, sits on the steering group to ensure these actions are realised. Mental health support “It is fantastic that Burges Salmon is investing in this course and that a number of people from different areas across the firm are now qualified Mental Health First Aiders.” Sarah Morgan People business partner Promoting good mental health is a vital them with the skills to spot the signs of element of our wellbeing strategy. As part various mental health issues, develop mental of this we wanted to build expertise within health action plans to help colleagues and – our people to be able to provide peer-toimportantly – learn how to keep themselves peer mental health support. After an influx healthy and safe whilst performing their of offers to volunteer, twelve of our people duties. Our MHFAs are now ready to were selected to be trained up as our first carry out this role and a communications cohort of mental health first aiders (MHFAs). programme is being rolled out across the They completed a two day certified training firm to make our people aware of this course delivered by MHFA England to equip resource and availability of support. 16 Burges Salmon Responsible Business report 2019 Innovative BAME network BCultured is the firm’s BAME network, which was formed in late 2018. Whilst still in its infancy the network has had a tangible impact on the firm’s approach to inclusivity and on the wider community. Much of what the group does constitutes innovative and original work for the legal industry progressing BAME initiatives in a local context. The network has held events, to raise awareness both internally and externally about diversity. It has also Pictured from left to right: built connections and collaborated with Mohammed Saddiq, Evelyn Ofori-Koree, Saida Bello, Annie Budd and Dr Tunde Okewale MBE other groups to maintain an intersectional approach to diversity and inclusion and has played a key role in Burges Salmon’s 'working with schools' programme through mentoring, coaching and skills training. BCultured’s launch event in April 2019, entitled 'From Diversity to Inclusion', raised the group’s profile and put inclusivity at the front of people’s minds, receiving excellent feedback from both colleagues and clients. “The event was a huge success, the turnout was humbling and the panellists and Chair were exceptional, facilitating a really thought provoking discussion on an extremely important subject.” Marcus Walters Senior Associate and co-chair of BCultured WORKPLACE Related UN Sustainable Development Goals ASPIRATIONS FOR 2020 l To roll out unconscious bias training to all of our people l To launch our gender balance Related UN Global Compact Principles network BBalanced Princlple 3. Freedom of association and collective bargaining l To identify and train a Princlple 6. Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment population of wellbeing ambassadors and undertake a wellbeing audit Burges Salmon Responsible Business report 2019 17 Community We have a long-standing commitment to being a force for good in the community and giving back to it. We believe this is the right thing to do; it also supports a positive reputation and engages our people. This also offers us opportunities to address inequalities and where we can to 'live' our own values and those of the firm. Employer in the Student Volunteering Charitable Giving Social Mobility Index beneficiaries participation rate and financial equivalents Social mobility and education Our social mobility focus is predominately about providing young people from various backgrounds with a wider spectrum of opportunities than they might otherwise have access to. We want to contribute to a fairer society in which talent and hard work are rewarded whilst fulfilling our PRIME commitment (widening access to the legal sector). We are heavily involved in the Social Mobility Business Partnership (SMBP) with our chief Social Mobility Business Partnership people officer sitting on the national Board and our head of corporate responsibility acting as the regional cluster lead. SMBP Forming partnerships with schools has for your people), we provide reading and supports Year 12 students from low income been a cornerstone of our responsible number buddies to Barton Hill Primary backgrounds in their pursuit of a career, business activity over the years. We are School enabling students to visit their particularly in law and finance. Elsewhere we in the fifth year of our partnership with a buddies at our offices to see their place provide mentoring support for young people local secondary Fairfield High School, our of work. In partnership with Envision we who want to attend university and we run people provide student mentoring, teacher support an inter school competition to a number of other programmes to further coaching, mock interviews, careers talks deliver a social action project by providing social mobility. In 2019 we ranked in the top and work experience. Through the charity financial support, mentoring and members 75 of UK businesses in the Social Mobility Ablaze (which delivers programmes in for the judging panel. We were delighted Employer Index. schools to tackle inequality of opportunity to run our Bright Sparks work experience 18 Burges Salmon Responsible Business report 2019 programme again this year for students aged between 14 and 18. The programme “Our people are passionate about gives students insight into what it’s like community engagement, with a record 62% to work in a law firm, it also meets our PRIME commitment, with over half of the participating in volunteering activities.” 26 students coming from less advantaged backgrounds. We offer both legal and business professional apprenticeships meaning there are accessible routes into our business without the need for a university degree. Civic contribution Our people are passionate about community engagement, with a record 62% participating in volunteering activities delivering 3,754 hours of time in 2019. Our policy provides a minimum of three days paid volunteering time which they can use individually, as part of a team activity or in collaboration with our clients. Our corporate responsibility adviser works with community groups, charities and schools to identify an ongoing stream of volunteering opportunities and marries these up with the Bright Sparks various teams and departments. Activities in 2019 ranged from renovation works, supporting homeless projects at the Wild Goose Café, taking the elderly on day trips via the charity Alive, outdoor conservations projects and helping to support Hannah More Primary School’s summer fête and bonfire night. Our pro bono support comes in three forms. We respond to ad-hoc requests from charitable organisations, we work with long-standing partners such as the Citizens Advice Bureau and we also work with one strategic partner, which in 2019 was The Bristol Music Trust (Colston Hall). In 2019 the firm provided 1,028 pro bono hours which equates to a financial donation of £276,000. Our 2018 Charity of the Year was Bristol Mind; a mental health resource charity providing information, signposting, counselling and training services. Our people raised an amazing £75,000 for the charity through a combination of events including a comedy night, our Strictly Our Strictly Legal dance competition Legal dance competition and donating last helped to raise £75,000 for mental health hour's earnings. Our partners fund The resource charity, Bristol Mind Burges Salmon Charitable Trust, which raised £54,000 in 2019. One of the main beneficiaries is the Quartet Community Burges Salmon Responsible Business report 2019 19 “Activities in 2019 ranged from renovation works, supporting homeless projects at the Wild Goose Café, taking the elderly on day trips via the charity Alive, outdoor conservations projects and helping to support Hannah More Primary School’s summer fête and bonfire night.” 20 Burges Salmon Responsible Business report 2019 Foundation, which awards grants Fairtrade event supporting hundreds of thousands of people through local frontline charities and voluntary groups. Throughout the year we have also organised numerous charitable collections for good causes. Our main provision of in-kind support allows charitable organisations to use our meeting rooms and hospitality for meetings, events and training. In 2018-19 this donation equated to a monetary value of £64,000 with 2,656 community visitors passing through our doors. Human rights We have sought to understand how we Unseen may impact human rights. Through our deeper understanding we aim to be better placed to fulfil our commitments as a responsible business, meet stakeholder expectations and to conduct ourselves with International Women's Day the utmost respect for others. The review was guided by the United Nations Principles on Business and Human Rights Reporting Framework. It has helped us systematically assess and evaluate our respect of human rights and identify those most salient to our firm's activities and operations. These are: • Right to life (Safeguarding Health, Wellbeing and the Environment) • Right to privacy (Management of Confidential and Personal Data) eLearning Global Goals roadshow • Right to non-discrimination (Equal Opportunities and Fair Treatment for All) time and expertise with key partners such about how colleagues are being treated, as the Citizens Advice Bureau (CAB). Our or practices within our business or supply • Right to adequate standard of living employment team in particular are heavily chain, without fear of reprisal. Our code (Living Wage, Fair Financial Transactions engaged in CAB work helping members of of business conduct and supplier code of and Economic Contribution) the public plan the best course of action in conduct explain the manner in which we • Right to education (No Child employment disputes. behave as an organisation and how we Labour, Social Mobility, Training and expect our people and suppliers to act. Development) Modern slavery In 2019 we rolled out our modern slavery In addition to these five we recognise the We are committed to ensuring that slavery eLearning module across the business ‘Right to be free from slavery and forced and human trafficking have no place in and provided training workshops for labour’ as a priority. This right is considered our business or in our supply chain. Our colleagues whose roles are procurement or specifically within our Modern Slavery modern slavery statement outlines our labour related. Statement, which is published on our approach to this. We have a recruitment Burges Salmon is an accredited Living website. Our work has primarily identified policy, which includes eligibility to work Wage Employer as we believe everyone enhancements for our procurement policy, checks for all Burges Salmon people to is entitled to a fair wage. We produce a supplier engagement and communication safeguard against human trafficking and regular gender pay gap report, which we of performance. against individuals being forced to work voluntarily publish for transparency to help against their will. the business close the gap. Our lawyers help protect human rights through the pro bono access to justice Our whistleblowing policy ensures that work they perform. This includes donating our people know they can raise concerns Burges Salmon Responsible Business report 2019 21 COMMUNITY CASE STUDIES Social mobility recognition The top 75 UK employers that have taken organisations. Burges Salmon was ranked the most action to improve social mobility 63 in the Index for the commendable in the workplace were announced in work it has undertaken to enable those 2019, in what is believed to be the world’s from lower socio-economic backgrounds first Social Mobility Employer Index. to succeed. Measures put in place by Employers are assessed on everything from the firm to improve social mobility the work they do with young people and include working with young people apprentices, through to their recruitment from disadvantaged backgrounds, the and selection processes and how provision of apprenticeship opportunities, people from lower income backgrounds contextual recruitment practices and a progress up the career ladder within their strong focus on an inclusive workplace. Access to justice Bristol Law Centre (BLC) and the Citizen’s members of the public at both BLC and Advice Bureau (CAB) help thousands of CAB. They provide advice and guidance people a year to keep their jobs, homes, to help decide what the best course of income and independence. The advice action is regarding potential employment and representation they offer is completely disputes and what other options might free to people who would otherwise not be available to them in order to avoid the have access to justice to challenge unfair cost and time of litigation. We provide decisions and treatment. Lawyers from our pro bono advice to the Bristol Law Centre employment team regularly donate time itself as well as funding and training for a to support employment law clinics for new trainee employed by BLC. Building employment skills have tackled mental health, homelessness and body confidence. Students have had the opportunity to visit our offices and learn about the world of work. A young person who has four or more meaningful encounters with an employer is 86% less likely to end up unemployed or not in education or training – so partnerships with organisations like Envision can have a very tangible impact. Envision is a charity which supports as City Academy and Fairfield High in disadvantaged young people in developing Bristol – where 40% of students qualify their employability skills through social for free school meals. Our people work action projects. With a partnership dating with students to develop confidence, back to 2014 our people have mentored teamwork and resilience skills, all of which hundreds of young people at schools such are vital for the world of work. Projects 22 Burges Salmon Responsible Business report 2019 Collaborating against modern slavery UNSEEN is a charity that works to combat modern slavery and human trafficking. It has a number of safe houses for the survivors of modern slavery, provides practical and emotional support to victims and works with business to raise awareness of the issues. In 2019 we supported UNSEEN with in-kind support through the use of our facilities. This included hosting its 10th anniversary event attended by over 100 people, providing funding development advice through our Associate Development Programme and by running an Easter chick donation event. We connected UNSEEN with some of our educational contacts as they run a ‘Spotlight’ programme to alert young people to the dangers of exploitation in connection with drugs and sexual activity. Images supplied by Unseen “Burges Salmon has been an incredible partner to Unseen. We would like to take the opportunity to thank the whole team who have been very supportive and are making fantastic inroads into raising awareness of modern slavery and how we can work together to prevent it.” Kate Garbers Founder and managing director, UNSEEN COMMUNITY Related UN Sustainable Development Goals ASPIRATIONS FOR 2020 l To achieve 65% employee volunteering l To deliver a series of fundraising Related UN Global Compact Principles events on our new ‘no child goes Princlple 1. Respect human rights hungry’ charitable theme Princlple 2. Not complicit in human rights abuse Princlple 4. No forced or compulsory labour l To deliver new work on the curriculum with our partner school Princlple 5. Abolition of child labour Fairfield High Burges Salmon Responsible Business report 2019 23 Environment Our aim is to minimise our environmental impact. We recognise humanity is dependent on the natural world and we must all play our part in moving towards environmental sustainability. This is not just about business, it is about our collective future. Green commuting Reduction in Reduction in Reduction in hospitality rate for our people plastics usage carbon emissions food waste (2019 vs 2018) (2019 vs 2018) (2019 vs 2018) We aim for continuous improvement in the way that we manage resources and the environment. To facilitate this we have an Environment Committee representing senior management and operational functions. This group set clear environmental objectives towards 2023 and each year we have a specific environmental focus. The 2019 focus was waste and 2020 is set to be travel. To ensure there is rigour behind our approach we hold the ISO 14001 Environmental Management Standard and were successfully reaccredited in 2019. Atria One, Edinburgh office A key aspect of tackling the environmental challenge is raising awareness of the issues and solutions. Our grassroots BSustainable Climate and energy reduction in our carbon footprint, despite employee forum, put together a calendar the growth of the firm and the opening All of our offices are BREEAM Excellent of events each year to do just this. Green of the Edinburgh office. Our 2019 carbon buildings. Our Bristol office features dock Week, monthly email tips, a sustainable emissions were 769 tonnes, down 54% water building cooling, rainwater harvesting, Christmas fayre and a talk demystifying from the previous year. We are committed efficient lighting control and as of 2019 now the climate emergency are just some to reducing emissions further, however as runs on 100% renewable electricity. of the examples of the excellent work some emissions are unavoidable we are undertaken by BSustainable in 2019. Since 2016 we have achieved a year on year taking steps to offset these. 24 Burges Salmon Responsible Business report 2019 One way we can improve our performance is through collaboration. Burges Salmon is “We aim for continuous improvement one of the founding members of the Legal in the way that we manage resources Sustainability Alliance (LSA), a movement of law firms committed to working and the environment.” together to improve the environmental performance of the industry. Through this organisation we share best practice and commit to reporting our industry carbon footprint annually and sit on their leadership group. Travel currently makes up around one sixth of our carbon footprint. In 2019 we launched a new video conferencing tool to minimise unnecessary travel across the business. In the first six months of operation thousands of miles of travel were saved. A travel campaign is planned for 2020 to further reduce our impact. Through the client work we deliver we have become industry leading experts in fields such as electric vehicles, renewable energy and nuclear. We utilise this knowledge to innovate and help drive forward these rapidly developing industries to collectively deliver a more sustainable future. Consumption and waste Our 2019 environmental focus was on waste and our people have risen to the challenge. A campaign saw the firm adopt reusable coffee cups, with paper cup usage reducing from 45% to 0% in just a few months. We have worked closely with our Volunteering at Avon Wildlife Trust facilities team and suppliers to reduce our overall plastic usage by 41% and have achieved a 39% reduction in hospitality in 2019 and we are currently investigating food waste in partnership with BaxterStorey the cause of this in order to develop our catering provider. At a city level we are a mitigation plan. Anecdotal evidence supporters of Bristol's food sustainability suggests this may be a knock on effect ambitions and have been recognised as a of our successful plastic waste reduction Going for Gold champion. programme, where our people are now washing their reusable coffee cups rather Natural resources than using disposables. In 2019 our paper usage remained steady Our impact on biodiversity is through Green Week initiative at around eight million sheets per annum. partnerships with local wildlife We are encouraging a reduction in paper organisations. Working with Avon Wildlife We have contributed to the work of use through a phased removal of personal Trust and Bristol Zoological Society we are a range of environmentally focused bins in offices and provision of laptops involved in sponsorship and community organisations this year such as Bristol Green with touch screen pens. Disappointingly activities to improve access to and Capital and have hosted key events such as our water usage increased by around 14% education about nature. the Festival of Sustainable Business. Burges Salmon Responsible Business report 2019 25 ENVIRONMENT CASE STUDIES Expertise in renewables The renewable energy sector will play a crucial role in helping the government achieve the UKs target of net zero carbon emissions by 2050. Our environment and energy teams have been working closely with the sector to ensure the finance, funding and deals required to make this happen. In 2019 a cross-firm team advised Statkraft in its acquisition of a UK onshore wind developer, moving them a step closer to their target of generating 600MW of wind and solar in the UK by 2025. Elsewhere we advised Reactive Technologies on a deal with National Grid ESO, to supply a technology that will help manage the increase of renewable power coming into the national grid. These are just two examples of where our sector expertise is helping the UK transition to a net zero carbon future. In 2019 Burges Salmon advised BayWa.r.e., “We chose [Burges Salmon] for their track record in a leading renewable energy developer, on a long term agreement to provide Tesco corporate Power Purchase Agreements and the Energy with renewable energy from their new team’s in-depth knowledge of the UK market.” wind farm site in Inverclyde, Scotland. Gordon MacDougall Managing Director, BayWa r.e. UK Limited Green Week Our people sustainability network sessions and free breakfasts for green Green Week stall BSustainable promotes environmental commuters, 'Waste not Wednesday' encouraging us to good practice with a focus on what our included a drive to remove office bins, become plastic free people can do at work as well as at home. 'Thoughtful-provoking Thursday' featured For the past ten years we have held an a talk on the impacts of single-use plastics annual Green Week with a programme and on 'Farming Friday' our local charity of talks, events and activities around partner, Chew Valley Farm, visited the environmental issues and 2019 saw us Bristol office. This annual focus is one of focus on a key theme for each day. 'Meat the ways in which we foster a culture of Free Monday' was combined with a talk environmental awareness and respect on the firm's environmental plans, 'Better amongst our people. Travel Tuesday' saw free bike maintenance 26 Burges Salmon Responsible Business report 2019 Small cup, big impact It was estimated that up to 40,000 disposable coffee cups were being used by our people each year. It’s a reflection of a wider societal problem where 2.5 billion cups are being thrown away in the UK annually. The plastic lining that keeps cups waterproof is not reusable so they cannot be recycled with normal cardboard waste. Our environment committee launched a campaign to tackle the issue and encouraged our people to adopt reusable cups, with the firm providing a variety of options. The results have been outstanding – with sales of drinks in reusable cups increasing from 45% to 100%. The scheme has worked so well that our hospitality provider, BaxterStorey, are using Burges Salmon as a case study to share the good practice with other businesses. Digital technology reducing miles As a skills based business face-to-face for the business. This allows our people to six months of use the software has time is critical for clients, however, it is easily add video conferencing facilities into saved thousands of miles of travel. important to consider travel to determine a standard Outlook meeting invitation. One third of our people have become how we can minimise our environmental regular users of the technology and the Dedicated video conferencing rooms were Environmental Committee is planning footprint whilst not compromising the set up in all three of our office locations a sustainable travel focus in 2020 to client experience. Our IT team took up this and a mobile video conferencing pack ensure further adoption. challenge and in 2019 they delivered a was created for use by employees without powerful new video conferencing system laptop or webcam access. In the first ENVIRONMENT Related UN Sustainable Development Goals ASPIRATIONS FOR 2020 l To achieve re-accreditation to ISO 14001 and close out 100% of improvement actions l To analyse business travel and Related UN Global Compact Principles consider how to reduce its impact Princlple 7. Precautionary approach to environmental challenges l To identify a suitable forestry Princlple 8. Promote greater environmental responsibilities partner to achieve net zero carbon Princlple 9. Diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies through renewables, energy efficiency and offsetting for the firm offsetting partnership Burges Salmon Responsible Business report 2019 27 Marketplace We work to deliver sustainable and positive impact through our expertise and high standards. We focus on service excellence, integrity, governance and transparency. CRM and key clients Award wins Modern slavery Code of conduct ‘extremely satisfied’ and shortlists eLearning rollout eLearning completion or ‘very satisfied’ Service excellence Excellent client service underpins all that we do. Our ISO 90001 quality standard is central to this, from client pitches to matter management and gathering feedback. We constantly work to deliver an outstanding service framed within our responsible business values. One area that demonstrates service excellence is innovative service delivery. We utilise technology and software to enhance the client experience and help solve client problems, for example through collaborative online working spaces or custom built client applications. Our innovation teams go above and beyond the client brief to deliver service excellence. Innovation event Applying reputable standards is an important way in which we can drive and information management. They the Gold Investors in People standard, continuous improvement in our business. demonstrate the rigour we apply in which is testament to the inclusive culture In 2019 we were successfully reaccredited these areas; both in terms of the way we we have at Burges Salmon and our to four ISO standards – environmental manage our business and how we deliver ongoing investment in the skills of our management, quality, business continuity, for clients. We are extremely proud to hold people and excellent service delivery. 28 Burges Salmon Responsible Business report 2019 When clients require advice in other jurisdictions we work with like-minded “Applying reputable standards is an important leading independent firms around the way in which we can drive continuous world. This is our Preferred Firm Network – a network of law firms which we have improvement in our business.” assembled over many years, who share our values and provide expert advice and excellent service in their jurisdictions. We invest considerable time and resources in developing and maintaining these relationships which enables us to provide a seamless service to our clients. A collaborative relationship with suppliers is essential in developing a successful business. We incorporate responsible business requirements into our supplier selection process and have a supplier charter which guides how we should work together. Our annual supplier engagement events provide an opportunity for our suppliers to learn slavery to ensure our business mitigates risk about our values and responsible business in these areas. priorities from our senior management. We Our people are encouraged to raise also run learning sessions with the most concerns about any issue or suspicion of recent sessions including a briefing on malpractice at the earliest possible stage. modern slavery and a simulated learning Our people are required to declare all exercise on business continuity. hospitality or gifts accepted or offered above a specified level to our risk and best Ethics and integrity practice team. From a client perspective, It is our policy to conduct all of our we have comprehensive client ‘take on’ business in an honest and ethical manner. procedures to identify and flag any clients We take a zero-tolerance approach to who may present a higher bribery or bribery and corruption and are committed corruption risk and refer these to our risk to acting professionally, fairly and with committee for consideration. integrity in all our business dealings, wherever we operate. We uphold all Governance and laws relevant to countering bribery and transparency corruption in all the jurisdictions in which Having a strong governance structure and general meeting and regular update we operate and remain bound by the laws robust risk management processes helps emails from our managing and senior of the UK, including the Bribery Act 2010. us build a resilient business. Each of our partners. Our risk team is headed up We have undertaken a risk assessment and governance bodies has a well-defined by our general counsel and consists of have addressed the areas of risk flagged by role which is communicated across the experts in best practice, regulation, antiimplementing appropriate measures and in business, allowing us to effectively work money laundering, due diligence, audit, 2019 we went through a detailed process together towards our strategic aims data protection and information security to update our corporate risk register. We whilst also identifying and mitigating all working together to protect our clients have an anti-bribery and corruption policy risks. Our partnership committee is the and our business. As a business we are in place and all our people are trained on highest governing body and provides regulated by the Solicitors Regulatory the implications of the Bribery Act. All clear direction for the business through Authority (SRA), the Scottish Law Society of our people are required to undertake its three year strategy cycle. Performance and the Law Society of Northern Ireland. mandatory elearning training on antiagainst the strategy is communicated We work to ensure their ethical and bribery, anti-money laundering, cyber via a series of annual strategy briefings professional standards are met by our security, information security and modern for our people, our firm-wide annual business and by our people at all times. Burges Salmon Responsible Business report 2019 29 MARKETPLACE CASE STUDIES Giving back together Joint volunteering allows us to support our local communities whilst building closer relationships with our clients. Our banking team and client, HSBC, recently engaged in a organic ecological food project run by a local wildlife trust. The six acre site is full of thriving wildlife and is used for wellbeing activities, conservation and a food growing programme for individuals who would otherwise struggle to afford fresh produce. Our volunteers undertook a wide range of activities from weaving wooden trellises, laying woodchip paths and weeding the community gardens. They were rewarded with a nutritious lunch and fresh produce to take home. The day was a great success and concluded with a mindfulness session to reflect on the experiences gained. Zero emission vehicles The need to rapidly reduce harmful emissions from transportation is becoming increasingly clear. With over 280,000 taxis and private hire vehicles in England alone, taxis can help pave the way to a cleaner transport mix in the UK. With this in mind Burges Salmon’s Energy and Infrastructure team advised Octopus Group on a Shari’ahcompliant financing product that funds zero and ultra-low emission taxis for drivers. Working with Octopus, the firm’s Banking and Energy specialists structured and documented the innovative finance product. Offering a ‘pay as you drive’ payment structure, the product moves away from traditional vehicle finance options, such as hire purchase or leasing, and by also making it Shari’ah compliant, finance is available to a broad base of potential customers. Key to the finance package is its availability only towards ‘green’ energy vehicles and in bringing the product to market, Octopus partnered with the London Electric Vehicle Company (LEVC), enabling finance only for zeroemissions capable vehicles. 30 Burges Salmon Responsible Business report 2019 Streamlining client processes with tech Our business solutions team are utilising the latest technologies to solve client problems quickly and effectively. A good example is our client, FirstGroup, who approached us with a problem they had in creating and managing non-disclosure agreements with their suppliers and third parties. To solve the problem we held an initial workshop with the senior legal team to map out and streamline the existing manual process. Together we explored the idea of developing a web application where an employee with no legal knowledge could answer an intelligent questionnaire to determine MyNDA app homepage what type of NDA they needed, look up accurate company information and generate the first draft quickly. We agreed “Working with Burges Salmon’s business solutions with FirstGroup what the initial version of this product would look like and our team was a refreshing experience. They took the time innovation team delivered an app named to understand our current challenges and we worked MyNDA. Feedback processes were built together to develop a practical, appropriate technology into the app and our commercial lawyers drafted the terms and conditions and solution delivered in a remarkably fast time-frame.” advised on other legal aspects. Christy Baker The app was delivered to the client in UK Legal Director, First Group three months and within just four weeks of its launch FirstGroup had already used MyNDA to successfully create over 100 NDAs with ease. MARKETPLACE Related UN Sustainable Development Goals ASPIRATIONS FOR 2020 l To review our supplier audit process and engage our suppliers on the issue of Modern Slavery as part of a Supplier Engagement Day Related UN Global Compact Principles l To further advance the firm’s cyber Princlple 10. Work against corruption and bribery security in terms of understanding and awareness of our people and the application of technology l To progress the roll out of our enhanced client feedback programme in respect of pitches, existing clients and post matter reviews Burges Salmon Responsible Business report 2019 31 APPENDIX Our key performance indicators We have identified key performance indicators to measure our progress against each of the areas of our responsible business framework. Figures are collected throughout the year and collated annually. This assists us in continuous improvement, objective setting and targets. Framework Area Key performance indicator 2019 performance ENVIRONMENT Electricity use (KwH) 2,734,452 Gas use (m ) 3 115,166 Business travel emissions (tCO2) 336 Total CO2 emissions (tCO2) 790 Green commuting (% of employees) 77 Water use (m3) 11,289 Paper use (sheets) 8,493,739 Plastics usage (items) 103,417 Hospitality waste (kg) 1,141 MARKETPLACE ISO standards (number) 4 Awards shortlisted or won (number) 36 Percentage of key clients either ‘extremely satisfied’ or ‘very satisfied’ (%) 100 Code of conduct elearning completion rate (%) 93% Modern slavery elearning completion rate (% in first six months) 56% COMMUNITY Volunteering (% of total workforce) 62 Hours volunteered (hours) 3754 Pro bono hours (hours) 1028 Community investment against operating profit (%) 2.18 Total charitable giving (includes Burges Salmon Charitable Trust, financial equivalents for pro 699,000 bono volunteering and in-kind, other charitable donations and cost of FTE dedicated head) (£) Student beneficiaries (number) 963 Charity and educational trusteeships (number) 374 WORKPLACE Female partners promotions (% of total promotions) 40 Female directors and senior associates (% of total workforce) 50 Absence through sickness (% of working hours) 1 Percentage of our people who would recommend the firm to a contact (%) 97 ALL Number of employees 833 32 Burges Salmon Responsible Business report 2019 Stakeholders The following table captures our key stakeholder audiences and the different mechanisms we use to engage with them. Stakeholder group Engagement mechanisms Clients Pitch meetings Client events Client review meetings Client relationship communications Client Space Our people People engagement survey Internal networks Team days People team Annual general meeting BProud (LGBT+ group) Personal reviews BCultured (BAME group) Wharfside (internal newsletter) BEnabled (Disability group) Intranet BSocial People briefings Suppliers Supplier review meetings Supplier questionnaires Supplier engagement workshop Procurement team Community groups and representatives Partnership review meetings Corporate memberships Event hosting CR team Networking and event forums Community engagement Volunteering BEngaged (community group) Trusteeships CR partners Environmental groups and representatives Legal Sustainability Alliance Facilities management Partnership review meetings BSustainable (sustainability group) Networking and event forums Legal sector bodies and competitors Law Societies Networking and event forums International Bar Association Legal sector media channels Collaboration meetings Preferred firms network Annual review Conference interactions Relationship meetings International Bar Association Regulators and governance bodies Solicitors Regulation Authority External audits and close out meetings Business community Business events Corporate memberships Networking forums Our engagement activities inform our responsible business. We identified stakeholder interviews and consultations operational decisions and strategic priority stakeholders to consult through a will run throughout 2020 to ensure our direction. To build upon our current stakeholder mapping exercise with Business responsible business framework remains engagement approach we have developed in the Community and verified this with relevant and impactful. a programme to gain feedback on our key internal representatives. A series of Burges Salmon Responsible Business report 2019 33 Regular updates For regular updates on our responsible business activities follow us @BurgesSalmonCR 34 Burges Salmon Responsible Business report 2019 “2019 has been a tremendous year for delivery on our responsible business agenda. The thing that really strikes me at Burges Salmon is how everyone gets involved to make a difference and delivers across the board. Participation is strongly encouraged and enabled by our senior leaders, which makes a huge difference. Next year we have ambitious objectives for net zero carbon, mental health, social mobility, inclusivity and collaboration. We and our stakeholders have high expectations and we’ll do all that we can to achieve a fairer, greener and prosperous future.” Kirsty Green-Mann Head of corporate responsibility Burges Salmon Follow us on Twitter @BurgesSalmonCR We welcome comments and feedback on our Responsible Business Report, please contact a member of the Corporate Responsibility Team or email us at corporate.resp@burges-salmon.com www.burges-salmon.com/about-us/responsible-business One Glass Wharf, Bristol BS2 0ZX T +44 (0) 117 939 2000 F +44 (0) 117 902 4400 Atria One, 144 Morrison Street, Edinburgh EH3 8EX T +44 (0) 131 314 2112 F +44 (0) 131 777 2604 6 New Street Square, London EC4A 3BF T +44 (0) 20 7685 1200 F +44 (0) 20 7980 4966 Burges Salmon LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales (LLP number OC307212), and is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority. It is also regulated by the Law Society of Scotland. Its registered office is at One Glass Wharf, Bristol BS2 0ZX. A list of the members may be inspected at its registered office. Further information about Burges Salmon entities, including details of their regulators, is set out on the Burges Salmon website at www.burges-salmon.com. © Burges Salmon LLP 2020. All rights reserved. Extracts may be reproduced with our prior consent, provided that the source is acknowledged.
