ENABLING TRANSFORMATION Sustainability Report 2020 INTRODUCTION FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 | 02 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION 03 From our President & CEO 05 Facts & figures CONTENTS 06 Good governance 07 Promoting positive change 08 Our approach 09 Our highlights 10 Our focus FOOD. 12 Food safety & quality 14 Food availability PEOPLE. 17 Diversity & inclusion, flexibility & development 19 Safe & healthy workplaces 20 Responsibility & transparency FUTURES. 22 Low-carbon circular economy solutions 26 Enhancing sustainability across the value chain INTRODUCTION FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 | 03 MESSAGE Sustainability has long been at the heart of our meeting our goals, continuing our history of our products and operations on the climate. This has business strategy and our operations. It is embodied sustainability and environmental reporting that been in sharp focus with various legislative initiatives, FROM OUR in our brand promise – PROTECTS WHAT’S GOODTM extends over more than two decades. such as the European Green Deal. – which is brought to life by protecting food, protecting people and protecting futures. As we reflect on last year, we must necessarily begin The second is to advance the circular economy, PRESIDENT with the COVID-19 pandemic, an unprecedented which includes eliminating waste and ensuring Our sustainability approach encompasses all three event that has affected, and continues to affect, end-of-life use for packaged products. Again, areas. We work with our customers and partners to communities worldwide. In this context, our this is already being driven by legislation around make food safe and available, everywhere through commitment to protecting what’s good has never the world, with a strong focus on single-use plastics. & CEO our innovative and market-leading food processing been more vital – and our sense of purpose has never The third is to protect biodiversity, an issue that and packaging solutions. We constantly strive been stronger. Throughout this crisis, our priorities has been highlighted by the recent wildfires in towards safeguarding our own employees and have been to protect people – keeping our own Australia, Brazil and California. supporting communities where we operate, employees safe and those of our customers and other and protecting the future of our planet and stakeholders – as well as to protect food, by helping All three areas are key to initiatives that we have been the long-term success of our customers. our customers maintain continuous food supplies. pursuing for some time. In fact, they are inextricably interlinked. In addressing climate change, we cannot Our brand promise motivates us every day as we The full impact of COVID-19 is yet to be seen and ignore the materials sector and the role that continue to make rapid progress on a sustainability it will take a while for normalcy to resume. But our packaging can potentially play. Nor is it enough journey that began many years ago. It’s an ongoing commitment towards sustainability will continue, to focus only on “reduce, recycle and reuse” when drive that includes helping to ensure food security, and our investment will remain at the same level, promoting circularity: we must take into account the securing a responsible value chain, promoting as we continue forging ahead in this area. climate impact of the materials that are used in the diversity and inclusion, contributing to a low-carbon first place. Consequently, we believe in a low-carbon circular economy, and more. Addressing global challenges circular economy that drives a shift from high-carbon, As the leading provider of processing and packaging fossil-based materials to low-carbon, renewable Our brand promise also ensures that sustainability solutions, we are mindful of our responsibility materials, which can also help to protect biodiversity. remains an integral component of the decisions we to address the challenges faced by our industry make, and the actions we take, right through the as a whole. We have a long history of working This is why our view is that the ideal package of the value chain. To help those decisions, we are guided in partnership with our customers and other future should be made solely from renewable or by the UN Sustainable Development Goals, which stakeholders to that end, helping drive positive recycled packaging materials, 100% recyclable and provide a common framework for organisations change in the sustainability arena. We believe the supportive of a low-carbon circular economy. across industries to work together for a better future. need for concerted action is particularly urgent today. This guidance builds on our ongoing commitment In 2019 we accelerated our efforts towards this goal, to the UN Global Compact, to which we have been Over the course of 2019, we saw awareness and restructuring our developmental initiatives and a signatory since 2004. expectations around the environment reach a new significantly ramping up our R&D budget. We are high, among customers, consumers, media, NGOs and already making great progress. For example, we are Additionally, we leverage our biennial materiality regulators alike. Taking a broad view of the world’s the first packaging company to launch paper straws in assessments, which help us identify and prioritise environmental challenges, we see three focus areas. Europe. We are also now beginning a field test of our those aspects of our business which have the greatest first ever aseptic package with an alternative to the positive stakeholder impact. This report is a key The first is to address climate change, where we as aluminium barrier. Our goal is to field test an aseptic means of sharing our approach and our progress in an industry need to minimise the overall impact of package made fully from renewable sources by 2022. INTRODUCTION FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 | 04 To complement our packaging innovations, we are climate goal: to cap emissions at 2010 levels despite Finally, we are committed to protecting people. also driving resource efficiencies with our Equipment business growth. In fact, we are ahead of our target That includes our own employees, by providing and Services, focusing on minimising water use, and have actually reduced total emissions by 11%. a dynamic and productive workplace, with adequate food waste and carbon footprint in our customers’ Looking to the future, we want to ramp our efforts opportunities for learning and development. operations, helping them on the journey towards further with an even more ambitious goal: to achieve Equally importantly, it means driving diversity in our achieving their own sustainability targets. net zero greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) in our own workforce and fostering an inclusive culture, through operations by 2030, with a similar ambition across key several actions encompassing training, recruitment A value chain approach areas of the value chain by 2050. We strongly believe and talent development. It also includes protecting In parallel with this important development work, we that tangible steps such as these are necessary to the communities where we and our suppliers operate, have continued our efforts to enhance sustainability ensure that we drive growth while minimising the working in partnership to ensure that human and across the value chain. That means ensuring our own impact on the planet. labour rights are respected, driving transparency and operations are a global benchmark, driven through active communication across the value chain. initiatives such as World Class Manufacturing and As mentioned in the beginning, our sustainability investing in renewable power and “green buildings”. approach extends beyond the environment. It also Enabling transformation includes protecting food, which is expressed in our While we have made significant progress in Furthermore, it includes our supply chain, where vision as “We commit to making food safe and protecting food, people and futures, we aspire to do we work with our suppliers to promote renewable available, everywhere”. Faced with the COVID-19 much more. That is why, for example, we have set out materials, minimise emissions and protect biodiversity pandemic, that vision is more important than such an ambitious new climate goal and ambition, and fresh water. To help further these aims, in ever. But the way we go about delivering it which is a reflection of our sustainability commitment. partnership with our long-term supplier Braskem, is changing, due in particular to the rise of First, to lead by example, through our own activities, we became the first company in our sector to obtain digitalisation and connectivity. These trends offer innovation and expertise. And second, to lead Bonsucro Chain of Custody certification for our new opportunities to make food safety and quality through partnership. plant-based polymers, ensuring full traceability even better, while increasing production flexibility, from plantation to product. efficiency and sustainability. In 2019, we launched our new Strategy 2030, which will guide our company over the next decade. One We also work closely with our customers, providing In addition, we have long worked to increase the of its central pillars is to “Lead the sustainability them with the solutions they need to achieve their world’s access to safe food. For decades, we have transformation”, which comprises two goals: “Lead own sustainability ambitions, such as maximising participated in the development of school feeding with low-carbon circular economy solutions” and production efficiency and minimising energy use, and nutrition programmes, working with partners “Enhance sustainability across the value chain”. waste and emissions. Through partnerships with a worldwide. In the last year alone, these initiatives Again, this is a clear demonstration of our wide range of stakeholders, we drive collection and reached some 68 million schoolchildren, not only commitment and our ambition, to drive positive recycling – a key enabler of a low-carbon circular delivering improved nutrition and better educational change both as a company, and as one of many economy. In 2019, we helped forge a number of key outcomes, but also supporting local agriculture industry stakeholders. Hence the title of this report, partnerships to further develop recycling and and promoting economic development. More “Enabling transformation”, signifying a new stage of circularity, including the innovative 3R Initiative and recently, we have developed our Dairy Hub model our ongoing journey. I very much welcome your the 4evergreen alliance, in addition to various local to secure a long-term supply of locally produced feedback on this report and our performance. initiatives in the countries that we operate in. quality milk, without increasing the cost of collection, and helping to improve the livelihoods of many Adolfo Orive A particularly notable result of all these efforts is thousands of smallholder farmers. President & CEO, Tetra Pak our progress towards achieving our main 2020 INTRODUCTION FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 | 05 FACTS & FIGURES EUROPE & CENTRAL ASIA 28% A round-up of key numbers from across AMERICAS 26% our global business operations in 2019. ASIA PACIFIC 35% GREATER MIDDLE EAST & AFRICA 11% 25,555 employees Net sales by category €11.5 billion 5 89 6 90,350 net sales in 2019 Liquid Dairy Products Juice & Nectar R&D centres sales offices Customer ​processing units in operation 57.9% 14.8% Innovation Centres 55 31 8,770 11 50 billion Dairy Alternatives 7.7% Food 5.8% production plants market companies ​packaging machines Technical Training Centres​ of our cartons recycled in 2019 in operation 170 plants Wine & Spirits Still Drinks 2.4% 10.2% 190 billion Tetra Pak® packages sold in 2019 worldwide where our cartons are recycled INTRODUCTION FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 | 06 Providing a solid framework of companies in our industry category. For By providing the foundation for our strategy more information on these ratings and our and approach to leadership, good governance work to drive responsible sourcing and ultimately helps us fulfil our vision to commit continuous improvement with our suppliers GOOD to making food safe and available, everywhere. generally, see pages 20 and 27. Our governance framework helps us deliver on our brand promise and comply with relevant A matter for everyone regulations and legislation, as well as guiding All employees, at all levels of the company, us to behave ethically and responsibly. are responsible for complying with the GOVERNANCE governance framework in their everyday The Global Leadership Team is responsible decisions and actions. Details of the for implementing the framework, supported framework are available on our intranet and a by the Corporate Governance Office and a mandatory eLearning programme is in place. network of local governance, risk and compliance officers. As signatories to the UN Anyone in the company can anonymously We equate good governance with good business: we Global Compact, we are committed to the report actual or suspected breaches of our implementation, disclosure and promotion of Code of Business Conduct or any other do well by doing good. Good governance is essential its ten principles on human rights, labour, the unethical behaviour directly to either the to building a sustainable business, delivering on environment and anti-corruption. We submit Corporate Governance Officer or the our brand promise – protects what’s good™ – and a Communication on Progress every year. Head of Audit, without being penalised in any way. Every case of a breach of our safeguarding our reputation. To build trust and transparency with our Code of Conduct is handled individually customers and as part of our approach to and investigated appropriately. responsible sourcing across our supply chain, we work with leading sustainability assessment Communicating about our responsible platforms, including the Supplier Ethical Data business practices and performance is very Exchange (Sedex), EcoVadis and CDP. important to us. We have been publishing environmental reports since 1999, and we In 2019, we were rated as a leader by CDP for have been reporting on broader sustainability our climate action and for driving sustainable issues since 2005. sourcing in our supply chain – the fourth year in a row we have made CDP’s A List. We were also rated by EcoVadis in the top 1% INTRODUCTION FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 | 07 PROMOTING POSITIVE Materials and the CHANGE circular economy • For these strategies to be viable, In 2019, we commissioned a report there is a need for a new policy from Material Economics, a consultancy agenda. Current policy approaches firm that specialises in sustainability will not be enough to meet climate and resource strategy topics, to targets. Materials emissions are explore the relationship between hard to reduce, and current climate We have a long history of working with governments the production of raw materials and policy focus on energy efficiency worldwide on policy issues related to sustainability, climate change. It found the following: and low-carbon electricity does not address most of the emissions. food packaging and healthy diets. • Raw materials (such as cement, There is a need to enable not steel, pulp and paper, and plastics) only clean production, but also are a major unaddressed climate improvements by stakeholders challenge, accounting for high throughout the major materialsemissions that risk rising to levels using value chains. We advocate for progressive, • Climate policies that are aligned How we work that go directly counter to climate evidence-based policy to address with the highest level of ambition • In partnerships and through objectives. Emissions from the • There is a clear link between societal challenges on a number of in the Paris Agreement to reach industry and trade associations production of materials used a circular and a low-carbon different topics. From a sustainability net-zero GHG emissions by that share these same objectives for packaging alone are larger economy. Addressing the issue perspective, we advocate for: 2050. We also advocate for (for some examples, see page 37). than global aviation or shipping, of emissions from materials is, packaging policies to promote especially plastics, which account in fact, indispensable to climate • National recycling regulations such low-carbon materials. • By taking part in policy events. for 60% of this total. objectives. Conversely, circular as extended producer economy policies will affect responsibility (EPR) to improve • Responsible sourcing • Where possible, by directly • Reducing emissions from materials materials handling in fundamental recycling and reduce waste, requirements for primary raw engaging with national governments requires a wide range of strategies, ways. Therefore, there is much to supporting a circular economy. materials, such as our work with including ministers, department including materials efficiency, gain from aligning the two agendas FSC™ and Bonsucro (see page 28). heads and members of parliament. materials recirculation, substitution in an integrated policy framework. with lower-CO2 materials, and Correspondingly, failing to do so clean production. risks ineffective or inefficient policy. INTRODUCTION FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 | 08 OUR FOOD. Our commitment to the UN SDGs APPROACH We commit to making food safe and available, everywhere. This is our vision: the goal that drives our organisation. By working with our customers and partners to achieve this vision through our innovative and market-leading food processing and packaging solutions, we are contributing to SDGs 2 and 12. Moreover, by working to build sustainable value chains, such as through our participation in school feeding programmes and our Our approach to sustainability encompasses our entire value chain. Dairy Hub model, we are further contributing to these two SDGs. See page 11 for more. We take this approach because we recognise that we can only PEOPLE. create a more sustainable future by addressing the interconnected nature of the environmental, social and economic challenges we Our commitment to the UN SDGs face. Our solutions work because they are joined up. To organise and communicate our priorities, we use protecting food, people We protect and enable our employees, promoting growth and development for all, and and futures as the pillars of our sustainability story, which driving actions to ensure a diverse workforce and an inclusive culture. This contributes to underpins our brand promise: protects what’s good™. SDGs 4, 5 and 8. We also work to protect and support communities where we and our suppliers operate, including securing a responsible value chain that protects human and labour rights, further contributing to SDG 8. See page 16 for more. In addition, we use the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to help us prioritise our sustainability efforts and we have assigned FUTURES. the most relevant to each pillar. This focus on the SDGs builds on Our commitment to the UN SDGs our ongoing commitment to the UN Global Compact and its ten principles, to which we have been a signatory since 2004. We work to protect the sustainable future of our planet and the long-term success of our customers, as well as our own business. Our strategic goals are to lead with low-carbon solutions for a circular economy, and to enhance sustainability across the value chain, from sourcing to production to the end of life of our products. This includes minimising emissions and waste, protecting biodiversity and ecosystems, maintaining fresh water availability, and promoting recycling and circularity. Through these activities, we are contributing to SDGs 6, 7, 9, 12, 13 and 15. See page 21 for more. All three of our sustainability pillars share a common commitment to SDG 17: Partnership for the goals. We know that it is only by working together with our customers, suppliers and other stakeholders that we can lead the sustainability transformation and drive the most meaningful positive change. INTRODUCTION FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 | 09 OUR HIGHLIGHTS We made strong progress in advancing our commitments to protecting food, people and futures in 2019. Here are some of our most significant achievements. FOOD. 68 million children received milk or other nutritious products in Tetra Pak® 56 countries in which we participated in school feeding programmes 36,420 smallholder farmers reached by Dairy Hubs 389,470 litres of milk per day collected from Dairy Hub smallholder farmers packages in schools PEOPLE. +14% -8% rise in women in top management reduction in lost time accidents in our 66% of employees utilising flexible working, now 750 leaders trained in inclusive leadership 148 new participants enrolled in our 93% of respondents in our Employee Engagement manufacturing sites available in all countries global Future Talent survey say they fully with 50+ employees, say programme support Tetra Pak values they are more productive FUTURES. 4 years running we have made the CDP A List. We #1 packaging company to launch paper straws in 69% of renewable energy in our operations 10 million 2 tonnes of CO2e saved across the value chain Tetra Pak factories received World Class WCM status 50 billion Tetra Pak® packages were recycled were rated A for our efforts Europe. We were also the over the past decade against climate change and first F&B company to offer to protect forests packaging with Bonsucrocertified Chain of Custody for plant-based polymers INTRODUCTION FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 | 10 OUR FOCUS A systematic approach The update identified ten material aspects. These Definition & verification As part of our sustainability approach, we undertake 1. We identified and prioritised stakeholders are shown in the matrix below, which positions Our sustainability work and focus areas are defined a materiality assessment every two years. This upstream across the supply chain, downstream the aspects according to priority and relevance to by our Sustainability Forum, which comprises ten ensures that we keep up to date with changing and within Tetra Pak. Tetra Pak and to external stakeholders, and in the senior leaders from across Tetra Pak who represent a sustainability priorities and that we continue to table opposite, which identifies where in the value wide range of areas of responsibility. Sustainability is focus on the areas that deliver the greatest positive 2. We identified and prioritised social and chain they occur. also embedded as a pillar of our Strategy 2030: Lead impact for our customers, our business, society and environmental topics applicable to the food and the sustainability transformation. the environment. processing and packaging industry, taking into account the voices of all stakeholders. Verification is essential to our sustainability process. Our We conducted our most recent materiality assessment practices and performance are externally verified and update in 2019. This involved a three-stage process: 3. We applied our own expert trend analysis and our GHG emissions data is externally audited. As a forward-looking perspective to map topics against partner to this report, we will publish a GRI Standards relevance to Tetra Pak and to external stakeholders. Content Index later in the year. Our GHG emissions and other data will also be published on our global website. Food processing, Upstream Tetra Pak Pillar Material aspects supply chain operations packaging & Consumption Post consumption Food safety distribution & availability Food safety Food & availability Contributing to a low-carbon Securing a society Protecting responsible value chain biodiversity & Promoting Promoting OHS & ecosystems recycling & employee wellbeing circularity People Promoting diversity & inclusion Maintaining Transparency/active Transparency/active fresh water communication in the communication in the value chain availability Securing value chain Contributing to a a responsible low-carbon society value chain Promoting recycling & circularity Futures Securing a solid Promoting Protecting governance diversity & biodiversity & ecosystems framework Promoting inclusion OHS & employee Maintaining wellbeing fresh water availability NEW AND FURTHER Securing a solid REMAIN IN FOCUS INCREASED VISIBILITY ENHANCED ASPECTS Governance governance framework This table lists the ten material aspects identified in our latest materiality assessment and shows where in the value chain each one occurs. This matrix visualises the top material aspects according to their relevance to Tetra Pak (horizontal axis) and to external stakeholders (vertical axis), and also their level of priority and timeliness (remain in focus/increased visibility/new and further enhanced aspects). INTRODUCTION FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 | 11 Helping to feed the world We commit to making food safe and available, everywhere. Now, faced with the COVID-19 pandemic, our vision is more vital than ever. But at the same time, our means of achieving it is changing, thanks to the rise of digitalisation and connectivity. These trends offer new opportunities to make food safety and quality better than ever, while increasing production flexibility, efficiency and sustainability. Our packaging protects food without the need for preservatives or refrigeration, saving energy, and helping make safe, nutritious and flavoursome products available to more of the world’s rapidly growing population, even in remote areas with no cold chain. Our solutions also help to prevent food loss and waste across the value chain, from the efficiency of our processing equipment in production, to the right-sizing and functionality of our packaging at consumption. Furthermore, by working to build sustainable value FOOD. chains, such as through our participation in school feeding programmes and Dairy Hubs, we are helping to end hunger, achieve food security, improve nutrition, and promote sustainable agriculture and production. Our material aspects Food safety and availability Our commitment to the UN SDGs INTRODUCTION FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 | 12 FOOD SAFETY & QUALITY “We challenged ourselves to set really ambitious goals to redesign the traditional JNSD line: to develop a more sustainable solution while also helping our customers to ensure food safety. The success Food safety has always been at the heart of what we do. It is of the project is a result of team embedded in our vision to commit to making food safe and effort, with many dedicated available, everywhere. Now, faced with the COVID-19 pandemic, people at Tetra Pak involved.” that vision is more important than ever – and our means of fulfilling Maria Norlin, Subcategory it has never been more innovative and effective. Manager, JNSD & Other Beverages Pioneering food solutions recognised high standards set out in EU, US Since launching the Tetra Classic ® Aseptic and now Chinese legislation. Assessment of carton in 1961, we have created hundreds of all food contact safety aspects and issuing new packaging solutions that protect food of certificates is managed by our dedicated without the need for a cold chain, saving Food Packaging Safety & Interaction energy use and minimising food waste. organisation, based in Stuttgart. Our Food Safety Policy commits us to Safety through innovation maintaining internationally recognised We are also pioneers in food safety leading standards of safety. Our ambition technologies such as juice pasteurisation is to help customers achieve full product and UHT treatment. We are continually traceability through the entire food finding new ways to help our customers processing and packaging value chain. respond to market conditions and consumer demands around the world. We back this commitment in a number of ways, including through the development In 2019, we received the prestigious IFU of automated solutions such as Tetra Pak® Innovation Award for our long-term project PlantMaster, a factory-wide control system to develop a new sustainable JNSD line. This that fully and seamlessly integrates groundbreaking development – which can intelligence from each unit of the dairy reduce energy and water consumption by production line. 67% and 50% respectively, while maintaining very high levels of safety and quality We are committed to Food Safety assurance – has been launched in 2020. Certification for all our food contact materials, adhering to the internationally CLICK HERE INTRODUCTION FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 | 13 DIGITALISATION & CONNECTIVITY Driving the industry forward connected package offers end-to-end Digitalisation and connectivity is changing the traceability to improve production, quality food and beverage industry as we know it. It control and supply chain transparency. For offers unprecedented opportunities both consumers, it means the ability to access vast to improve food safety and quality, and to amounts of information such as where the increase production flexibility and efficiency. product was made, the farm that the ingredients came from and where the In 2019, we unveiled our vision of the “factory package can be recycled. of the future”, in which digitalisation revolutionises the way food manufacturing We followed up these new launches with a plants operate, continuously increasing the series of technical thought leadership papers speed of production, reducing errors and to help our customers benefit from Industry minimising product waste. 4.0 in such key areas as food safety and quality, productivity and flexibility. We also Developed with a number of technology launched a dedicated website called partners, our factory of the future utilises “Connecting the food industry”. Industry 4.0 technologies such as big data and advanced analytics, artificial intelligence CLICK HERE and the Industrial Internet of Things. It builds on our existing digitalisation measures, such as Tetra Pak® Plant Secure and condition monitoring, which predicts and prevents system breakdowns before they occur. New levels of transparency Also in 2019, we launched our connected packaging platform (see right), which transforms our cartons into interactive information channels, full-scale data carriers and digital tools. For our customers, the INTRODUCTION FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 | 14 We have long worked to increase the world’s access to safe food. Since 1962, we have participated in the development of school feeding and nutrition programmes, working with partners worldwide. In recent years, we have developed our Dairy Hub model to secure a long-term supply of locally produced quality milk without increasing the cost of collection. Sustainable value chains control. Through collaboration and We believe that the most effective way to tackle partnerships, for example with UN agencies, global food security and nutrition challenges is governments, NGOs and international aid to build sustainable food value chains. For more agencies, we share knowledge and best than 57 years, we have proven the value to practice drawn from programmes worldwide. society and individuals of participating in the development of school feeding and nutrition We have a strong background in supporting programmes around the world. our customers in developing and launching new fortified and nutritious beverages for Such programmes have been shown to be programmes. Environmental education and effective in delivering improved nutrition and best practice in recycling carton packages also better educational outcomes, supporting form an important part of the support we offer. local agriculture and promoting economic development. According to the UN World Helping schools worldwide Food Programme, they are making a For example, a new school milk programme significant contribution to the UN SDGs, launched by the government of Sri Lanka is in particular SDGs 1, 2, 4, 5, 8 and 10. raising awareness of environmental issues, including recycling, at the same time as Effective practical implementation is key tackling child malnutrition and promoting growth in the local dairy sector. FOOD to achieving the best possible results. In those parts of the world that face significant challenges in infrastructure and logistics, our In 2019, 68 million children in 56 countries food processing and packaging technology received milk or other nutritious beverages plays a vital role in ensuring that children in Tetra Pak packages in their schools. AVAILABILITY can access safe nutrition in schools. Click to find out more about the new school An experienced partner feeding programme in Sri Lanka and other We offer our customers and partners recent initiatives. technical assistance and practical support in implementation and evaluation, and advise on best practices for food safety and quality CLICK HERE INTRODUCTION FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 | 15 DAIRY HUBS School feeding programmes Tackling the milk shortage Global demand for milk is set to overtake supply within the next produced globally, 360 million tonnes are produced by smallholder farmers. Much of that increase their stable supply of locally produced quality milk. This helps them to grow their 68 million children 56 countries 9.4 decade. In the long term, the milk is not formally processed, business and increase profitability dairy industry is facing a and is lost, thus limiting their by creating a more efficient persistent gap between supply access to market. local supply chain (see graphic billion Tetra Pak® packages and demand – a supply deficit below for how this works). At fuelled by population growth and Through our Dairy Hub model, the same time, thousands of rising prosperity and urbanisation, we help to build sustainable value smallholder farmers gain access particularly in Africa, Asia and chains by linking smallholder to market for their milk, improving Latin America. farmers with dedicated their livelihoods. processors in a selected area. As nearly 1 billion people live on Tetra Pak and Tetra Laval then Three new Dairy Hubs were set dairy farms, smallholdings or in provide technical assistance and up in 2019, in Albania, Tanzania landless households keeping “hands-on” practical knowledge and Uganda, bringing the total one or a few animals, the dairy transfer through our international number of smallholder farmers industry holds huge potential dairy experts. reached by the programme to to create jobs and increased incomes right the way along More access for smallholders 36,420. This represents a 27% increase compared with 2018. Dairy Hubs 14 3 36,420 the value chain. By providing smallholder farmers with training and setting up Click to find out more about these According to the International appropriate cooling infrastructure new Dairy Hubs and others. Farm Comparison Network, of and technology, dairy processors the 867 million tonnes of milk in developing markets can CLICK HERE Dairy Hub projects new Dairy Hub smallholder farmers reached in 2019 since 2013 projects in 2019 +27% Dairy Hub projects since 2013 389,470 litres of milk per day collected from Dairy Hub smallholder farmers in 2019 Smallholder farmer Village milk collection centre Milk collection & advisory centre Dairy plant INTRODUCTION FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 | 16 All about our employees Our biggest asset is our people. We believe that becoming a more modern and attractive employer is key to attracting and retaining the talent we need to achieve our Strategy 2030 ambitions. To that end, we are driving actions to ensure a diverse workforce and an inclusive culture, where all employees can thrive; to enable flexible working; and to promote learning and development. We safeguard our employees, promoting OHS and wellbeing, as we work towards our ultimate goal of zero accidents and work-related ill health. This goal is more important than ever in the current COVID-19 pandemic, as we take extraordinary measures to ensure we can continue to deliver on our promise to protect what’s good. From inside to outside We also work to protect and support people in the communities where we and our suppliers operate. That includes securing a responsible value chain which protects human and labour rights. We are also driving transparency and active communication. To that end, we are ensuring third-party certification and beyond PEOPLE. for key suppliers, and enhancing reporting and knowledge exchange around sustainability topics, sharing both achievements and challenges. Our material aspects Securing a responsible value chain Promoting OHS and wellbeing Promoting diversity and inclusion Transparency/active communication in the value chain Our commitment to the UN SDGs INTRODUCTION FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 | 17 Creating an inclusive and growth via our Diversity Dashboard and work environment Inclusion Index. On our Diversity Dashboard, We recognise the value of diversity and we we are seeing some positive trends in gender strive to ensure an inclusive work environment diversity: the number of women in leadership and equal opportunities for all. As we work to positions continues to increase; the achieve this ambition, we focused on three percentage of women hires is trending up; key areas in 2019: and participation of women in learning is high. We are also seeing the number of women in Building awareness and skills our talent pools slowly growing. Work is still  e trained 750 leaders in inclusive leadership W needed, though, to bring about a step and we will continue this in 2020 to ensure change, not least as the talent pool of women that all our leaders have been reached. in sciences generally remains small. Feedback from participants was very positive. On our Inclusion Index, which is based on the Driving D&I actions results of our Employee Engagement survey All our business organisations have built (see next page), we have not seen the specific action plans around diversity and progress that we had hoped for. inclusion (D&I). Many of these focus on closing gaps in the area of women in leadership and Questions and comments from respondents DIVERSITY & providing growth opportunities for all. point to a number of areas where we need to Clusters and market companies are also now increase our focus in order to create an even systematically focusing on D&I to ensure that more respectful environment. Consequently, any local issues are addressed. we have identified six actions to address these areas going forward (see also next page). INCLUSION, Measuring D&I We measure our progress towards achieving an environment that supports development FLEXIBILITY & 14% 750 DEVELOPMENT increase in women in top management leaders trained in inclusive leadership INTRODUCTION FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 | 18 87% Flexible working arrangements Hiring and developing future talent We continued to roll out flexible working Our Future Talent graduate leadership programme arrangements (FWA) throughout 2019 and we now continued in 2019. We hired our third annual cohort, have policies in place in all countries with more than with 148 participants joining us around the world, 50 employees, nearly doubling the previous total. bringing the total to 487. Overall, employee reaction is highly positive: 51% Since the programme began in 2017, 268 participants participation rate for our have requested FWA in the last 12 months, with have completed the programme and are continuing Employee Engagement flexible time and place being top of the list, and their journey of growth at Tetra Pak; only 30 have left survey – our highest ever 66% of FWA workers report a boost in productivity. us. We are now using the programme to continue to strengthen both our national and gender diversity and The most frequently cited benefits are better work/ our fourth round of recruiting for 2020 has started. life balance and less time spent on commuting (see video below for some user comments). However, Employee engagement while the Employee Engagement survey is positive, Having engaged and productive employees is key comments show there is room for improvement in for us, especially as we work towards achieving our our support of FWA and in mitigating some of the Strategy 2030 ambitions. In 2019, we conducted potential negative consequences, such as long hours our biennial Employee Engagement survey, which and difficulty “switching off”. generated a number of pleasing results, including: Learning and development • A participation rate of 87%, our highest ever. for all employees • Our overall engagement score remains stable With the creation of Strategy 2030, our learning at a high level. focus has increased, as building the right capability • Employees continue to believe in our values to deliver moves centre stage. Accordingly, we did (see opposite). Employee engagement survey results: our values are our strength the following: • Improvements in career development and 93% 90% 92% 90% performance management. • Built a new set of leadership behaviours – Create Dynamism, Drive Productivity, Build Capability However, we are concerned with issues in areas such – in order to enable future success. as speed of change, process and customer focus, “I fully support the “When I am at work, “I believe Tetra Pak “Tetra Pak provides a working • Started work on a comprehensive leadership especially as these are key to Strategy 2030. We values for which Tetra Pak is committed is environmentally environment that is accepting development portfolio. addressed and communicated action items quickly Tetra Pak stands” to ensuring my health responsible” of differences in cultural • Completed our onboarding programme, which and will run two shorter electronic “Pulse” surveys and safety” background or lifestyle” is now available to all newcomers. in 2020 to check that these actions are working • Launched LinkedIn Learning to all employees, and to correct our course if needed. which exceeded expectations with 56% take-up and an average 90 minutes of usage. Six actions to improve inclusion based on survey responses • Our pilot of driving a continuous feedback 1. Monitor KPIs and drive gap closure culture to support learning was successful 2. Communicate and engage on inclusion and the approach has now been launched 3. Build inclusive skills and behaviours to the whole organisation. 4. Expand growth and development opportunities 5. Attract diverse external talent 6. Secure local focus, as required INTRODUCTION FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 | 19 SAFE & Driving a culture change 2. Life-Saving Rules (LSR) In May 2019, we launched the Occupational Health These nine rules (see graphic below) have been and Safety Culture Change Programme. This developed from the major hazards that employees HEALTHY is built around the following three elements and has in our manufacturing, services and project been rolled out across the whole organisation: organisations are most likely to be exposed to. 1. A Fair & Just (F&J) culture 3. “STOP! Are you in the danger zone?” WORKPLACES This aims to build an environment of trust and Because we cannot cover everything in nine rules, the fairness where it is safe to report and learn from F&J culture and LSR are accompanied by a campaign mistakes, errors and system flaws, but where to raise awareness of any and all potential risks. violations of safety rules are not tolerated. F&J places more responsibility on all employees, from workshop operators to managers. In the face of COVID-19, protecting our people is more important than ever. In addition to measures to ensure this, we made good progress towards our ultimate goal of zero accidents and work-related ill health. COVID-19 response These include ongoing rollout of the Culture Change The COVID-19 outbreak has been an unprecedented programme, a new project focused on chemical event, affecting communities worldwide. In this safety, and improved training and awareness. context, extraordinary measures have been needed to ensure we can continue to deliver on our promise In 2019, 1,300 employees took the “field force basic to protect what’s good. This includes making OHS training”. The remaining 3,000 employees changes in our own facilities and in our operations working at customer sites will complete the course in with customers, and leveraging our resources to 2020, and more than 800 project and site managers support the supply of safe and nutritious food will attend the Project Managers course. (see video on the left for more). Health & wellbeing Safety performance We appointed Laura Mohomed as our new Global Compared with 2018, lost time accidents fell by Health & Wellbeing Manager. Her priority is to roll 8.5% across the global organisation and by 33% out our Global Mental Wellbeing Programme to new in our manufacturing sites. Lost time accidents countries beyond the 14 already participating. involving contractors fell by 44%. However, there was an increase in lost time accidents for employees Travel security working at customer sites, particularly in Services. We appointed Shaun Taylor as Global Travel Security Manager. The COVID-19 outbreak and recent security A number of initiatives are under way aimed at issues in the Middle East have shown us just how ensuring that there are fewer accidents in 2020. important this area is. INTRODUCTION FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 | 20 Responsible sourcing is the right thing to do as a business, and it is a strategic objective for our procurement organisations. All our centrally and locally managed suppliers must endorse the Tetra Pak Code of Business Conduct for Suppliers and comply with its requirements. We regularly check performance against these commitments through deskbased assessments and on-site audits, followed up by improvement activities. We also expect our suppliers to demonstrate continuous This is the fourth year in a improvement in their own operations and across their supply chains. row we have been rated as These activities are part of our procurement processes and our a leader by CDP’s annual Corporate Governance Framework. In 2019, they comprised: environmental disclosure and scoring process, widely recognised as the gold • We enhanced partnerships with provide expert support in the areas standard for corporate third parties, such as Sedex and of sustainability, compliance and environmental transparency. EcoVadis, to optimise the coverage risk management. of assessments across our supplier We are one of 179 base, using a risk-based approach. We embedded our mandatory •  companies – just 2% of the requirements for responsible many thousands scored – • We increased collaboration with sourcing in our “Sourcing Critical recognised as a leader for suppliers in follow-up activities to Terms” guidance, which ensures actions to cut emissions, ensure that they take any necessary that they are covered in all supply mitigate climate risk and actions identified, thereby driving contract negotiations. develop the low-carbon continuous improvement. economy. We are also one We improved our criteria for •  of just eight companies • We selected a new system for selecting suppliers that we assess, RESPONSIBILITY identified as a leader in supply chain risk management that building on both category and preventing deforestation integrates third-party data, such country risk, as well as supplier in supply chains via as from EcoVadis, with artificial dependency and strategic sustainable sourcing. intelligence and media screening. importance. Going forward, we will & TRANSPARENCY This allows continuous monitoring, further strengthen our category We were also in the top strengthening our responsible approach, to ensure we address 1% of companies assessed sourcing and supplier risk the most relevant risks and by EcoVadis in its management activities. opportunities with our suppliers. Manufacturer of Special Purpose Machinery industry • We created a central governance We updated our mandatory •  category; in the top 1% in function as part of the training for responsible sourcing, Our commitment to protecting people extends beyond our own and our customers’ Environment; in the top 1% transformation of our Supplier included in the Tetra Pak Academy operations to include the communities where we and our suppliers operate. We work in in Sustainable Procurement; Management organisation, which is for the attention of all employees partnership with our suppliers to minimise human and societal, as well as environmental, and in the top 4% in Labour working alongside purchasing involved in procurement. risk, while also driving transparency and active communication across the value chain. and Human Rights. categories to set strategies and INTRODUCTION FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 | 21 Two important goals for tomorrow We are working to support the sustainable future of our planet and the long-term success of our customers, as well as the success of our own business. These ambitions are embedded in two of our Strategy 2030 goals: to lead with low-carbon circular economy solutions; and to enhance sustainability across the value chain. Our approach begins with our commitment to a lowcarbon circular economy. To that end, we have worked for years to reduce the environmental impact and increase the renewability of our packages. Now we are accelerating our efforts as we pursue our vision of the ideal beverage carton: a fully renewable and recyclable package. At the same time, we are contributing to a low-carbon society by striving to minimise impact across our entire value chain. We are working to protect biodiversity, and establishing water stewardship, by working with our suppliers and through third-party verification. We are also working to optimise our own operations and, through our solutions and services, those of our customers. And finally, we are promoting recycling and circularity, through our own activities and through partnerships worldwide. FUTURES. Our material aspects Contributing to a low-carbon society Promoting recycling and circularity Protecting biodiversity and ecosystems Maintaining fresh water availability Our commitment to the UN SDGs INTRODUCTION FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 | 22 LOW-CARBON Taking circularity further In a low-carbon circular economy, In a circular economy, manufacturers the whole value chain is optimised design out waste, reuse and recycle for minimum climate impact. This CIRCULAR materials and regenerate natural systems means operations that are powered to reduce impact on the environment. by renewable energy, manufacturing processes that are highly efficient We believe that this approach is an and logistics that reduce fuel use. ECONOMY essential part of sustainability today. That’s why in 2019, we signed the Ellen It also takes into account the positive MacArthur Foundation (EMF) New impact of plant-based renewable raw Plastics Economy Global Commitment, materials, which can reduce carbon SOLUTIONS which is founded on circular economy emissions as they grow and are reused principles (see left for our commitments.) and recycled. For example, a 2016 EU Bioeconomy Report estimates that However, we believe that this approach European forests and the forest-based needs to go further. It is not enough to bioeconomy could capture 25% of think about issues such as waste and current CO2 emissions within the climate in isolation; we must look at them coming two to three decades with Our sustainability strategy is founded on our commitment to a low-carbon together. This is why we are committed the right policy incentives. circular economy. We believe that such an economy should take into account to a circular economy that also has a lownot just recycling and reuse, but also the climate impact of raw materials and carbon focus: one that takes into account Thinking positive manufacturing, as well as impacts on biodiversity and fresh water availability. not just recycling and reuse, but also Indeed, we believe that everything a the carbon impact of manufacturing business does should have a positive and, particularly, raw materials. impact on our planet. So in 2019, we launched our Planet Positive initiative. Our New Plastics Economy Global Commitment It’s a new way of thinking that inspires business to take sustainability much • We have already fulfilled our first • We will incorporate a minimum further, so that our collective actions commitment by launching a paper of 10% recycled plastics content add up to solve some of our greatest straw in 2019. We expect to on average across our beverage environmental challenges. industrialise production on a scale cartons sold in Europe by 2025, Planet Positive guides our approach to meet global demand by 2025. subject to suitable food-grade to forming the partnerships and recycled plastic being technically EXPLORE collaborations which are now so vital • We will increase recycling for and economically available. to bringing about meaningful change. PolyAl – the non-fibre components It is also highly practical. Through our of a beverage carton – both when • We will use recycled plastics sustainable end-to-end offering, we they are recycled as a blend and for secondary packaging and CLICK HERE support our customers as they work when they are recycled separately. distribution material. Planet Positive to transform their business and realise In 2019, we published a hands-on guide to their own sustainability ambitions. CLICK HERE helping our customers transform their business sustainably in four steps. Click above to find out more about our Planet Positive sustainability offering. INTRODUCTION FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 | 23 OUR PORTFOLIO Fully renewable package: Tetra Rex® Plant-based • First beverage carton package in the market made only from renewable packaging materials We have worked for many years to reduce the environmental impact and increase • Up to 35% reduction in CO2 emissions, compared the renewability of our packages, and to promote collection and recycling worldwide. with standard Tetra Rex® package As a result, our low-carbon circular portfolio is already strong. • Multi-award winning In July 2019, we became the first carton packaging company to launch paper straws in Europe, fulfilling our first EMF New Plastics Economy Global Commitment. Average package Tetra Brik®Aseptic 1000 • 72% materials from Edge with Plant-based renewable sources LightCap™ 30 (average based on total • First aseptic carton package purchased materials) certified for surpassing 80% • 100% paperboard from renewable materials FSC™-certified and • Up to 23% reduction in controlled sources CO2 emissions compared • Lower carbon footprint with a standard Tetra Brik® than alternative packaging Aseptic package (IFEU LCA meta-analysis) • Recyclable and increasingly being recycled at more than 170 sites worldwide INTRODUCTION FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 | 24 OUR ROADMAP While we have already made great progress in developing our low-carbon circular portfolio, our current innovation journey is truly transformational as we work towards our vision of the ideal beverage carton: a fully renewable and recyclable package. Four key R&D focus areas 1. Renewable package 2. Recycled content 3. Sustainable & anti-littering openings 4. Enhancing recycling by design In 2019, after consulting extensively with Vision: To increase the share of renewable Vision: To use recycled polymers and paper Vision: This has been a priority area, driven Vision: To work with partners along the value our customers to ensure alignment, we materials, removing layers of fossil-based in all our packaging materials, while never by legal compliance and customer demand. chain to develop a package that has a high accelerated our efforts to restructure our plastic and/or replacing them with plantcompromising food safety. In addition to contributing to our wider goals post-consumption value to both recyclers and packaging innovation strategy around based alternatives. around renewability and recycling, the aim is consumers. This makes it more economically our vision of the ideal beverage carton: a Workstreams to develop innovations that address litter. worthwhile to collect and process our material, fully renewable and recyclable package. Workstreams • Primary packaging (beverage cartons and improving circularity. In order to achieve this step change in • Further develop and deploy plant-based openings/closures) Workstreams development, we have considerably products • Secondary packaging • Paper straws Workstreams increased our investment in this area. • Develop and launch fully renewable aseptic • Non-detachable alternatives • Develop new packaging material structures carton package (see timeline on next page) What we did in 2019 • Biodegradable straws • Develop smart packaging that aids Arguably, this transformation represents • We initiated a close supplier collaboration • Tethered caps collection, sorting and recycling the biggest change to our portfolio What we did in 2019 to explore utilising recycled content since the aseptic package was first • We made significant investment so that all in paperboard. What we did in 2019 What we did in 2019 introduced in the 1960s. It involves our European factories are now capable of • We collaborated with customers on • We became the first carton packaging • We delivered our first ever filling machine the following key R&D workstreams. plant-based lamination. recycled content in secondary packaging company to launch paper straws in Europe. for aluminium-free aseptic packages and • We continued development work to extend in certain markets. • We have initiated several developments on the solution is now being field-tested. our fully plant-based offering to other sustainable openings beyond paper straws. • We participated in the testing of Holy Grail, products in our portfolio. a new recycling sorting technology based on digital watermarking. We have since joined Holy Grail 2.0, a major consortium now seeking to industrialise the technology. INTRODUCTION FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 | 25 OUR ROADMAP The journey to a fully renewable aseptic package Fully renewable Aseptic package with Deployment of plant-based Market trial with alternative Field test of aseptic package made Plant-based caps chilled package highest renewable share coating and Tetra Pak® Craft non-foil barrier fully from renewable sources 2011 2015 2017 2018-20 2020 2022 INTRODUCTION FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 | 26 1. Suppliers 2. Our operations Goal: Ensure Goal: Be a benchmark responsible sourcing, for sustainable including protecting operations, minimising In addition to our main climate goal, we are also on target to achieve our commitments under the Science Based Target ENHANCING biodiversity and waste, energy and ecosystems, maintaining water consumption initiative (SBTi): to reduce direct GHG emissions by 42% by fresh water availability and carbon emissions. 2030 and 58% by 2040, from a 2015 baseline; and to reduce and minimising carbon GHG emissions across the value chain by 16% per unit of Share of total value emissions across the revenue by 2020 from a 2010 baseline. SUSTAINABILITY chain emissions: 3% supply chain. Change in these Beyond our climate goals, we are working with our suppliers Share of total value emissions since 2010: to minimise our environmental impact by protecting chain emissions: 41% -2.7% biodiversity and ecosystems, and maintaining fresh water ACROSS THE Change in these availability in our agricultural and forest supply chains (see emissions since 2010: next page). We are also working with our customers to help -0.1% them meet their own sustainability goals (see page 33). VALUE CHAIN Our climate goal progress 120 115 ion Total emissions 110 ct o du 105 Pr are decreasing 100 despite 95 Em issi production We measure our climate performance not just on our own 90 85 ons growth (%) operations, but across our whole value chain. Our main 4. Recycling 3. Customer 80 goal is to cap climate impact across the value chain at Goal: Improve operations (Index) (Index) recycling of our Goal: Help customers Packages CO2e 2010 levels despite business growth, and we are making packages across all reduce energy and fantastic progress to achieve that. In fact, according to markets through water consumption our latest audited figures (for 2019), we have actually investment, global and food loss through 13.7m 12.2m reduced total emissions by 11%. and local partnership, high-performance tonnes of CO2 tonnes of CO2 2020 climate and packaging design. processing and filling solutions and services. Share of total value Index Index With value chain chain emissions: 7% Share of total value chain emissions: 49% 100 89 emissions down 11%, we are well ahead of Change in these our 2020 target emissions since 2010: Change in these -0.2% emissions since 2010: -7.9% We are a signatory to Caring for Climate, UN Global Compact, The Paris Pledge for Action, Science Based Targets and RE100. INTRODUCTION FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 | 27 Looking closely at all suppliers Responsible sourcing is a strategic objective for our procurement organisations. In addition to the requirements we apply to all our suppliers, we have even stricter rules for the suppliers of the 3.1 million tonnes of base materials (paperboard, polymer and aluminium) that we source for our packaging every year. Our management process for base material suppliers includes setting reduction targets for CO2 emissions and we report supplier performance against these. We focus on improvement opportunities and allocate purchasing to maximise carbon OUR BASE footprint reduction. Other key criteria include promoting biodiversity and water stewardship, and ensuring no direct or indirect negative land use change. In 2019, we were one of only eight companies to make the CDP Forests A List for our work to prevent MATERIALS deforestation in supply chains via sustainable sourcing of key commodities. Our goal is to use as much plant-based renewable base material as possible, as this is essential to our low-carbon circular economy approach. Current base material responsible sourcing objectives • Full traceability for our raw materials • Certification and third-party verification • No direct or indirect negative land use change • Promote biodiversity, reforestation and regeneration • Promote water stewardship Going beyond: our objectives for 2030 • Going beyond certification to minimise sourcing risk, such as by using satellite sensing to monitor forests • Going beyond “do no harm” to lead our industry by positive example INTRODUCTION FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 | 28 OUR BASE MATERIALS Paperboard: 71% Polymers: 24% Aluminium: 5% Paperboard makes up the bulk of our packages. Although we Our packages have thin layers of polymer, or plastic, to prevent Although thinner than a human hair, the aluminium layer inside don’t own or manage any forests, we apply our purchasing moisture getting in or out and to keep the product inside safe our aseptic package is responsible for about a third of the power to promote sustainable forest management and water to consume at a high quality for a long shelf-life. Polymers are climate impact of our base materials. Working to replace this stewardship, and to protect biodiversity. We do this by working also used in our caps, closures and straws. layer is a development priority. together with suppliers, NGOs, customers and other stake­ holders, and through independent certification and labelling. Our ambition is for all our packages to use renewable and/or In the meantime, as a founding member of the Aluminium recycled polymers, or alternative fibre or cellulose-based Stewardship Initiative (ASI), we are helping to set global All our paperboard comes from wood from forests certified materials, with no further extraction of fossil feedstock necessary. standards that improve aluminium production, both to Forest Stewardship Council™ (FSC™) standards and other However, there is much work still to be done before renewable environmentally and socially. controlled sources. With 25 years’ experience, FSC™ is polymers can fully replace traditional fossil-fuel based polymers, widely recognised as the highest global certification standard since the industry to convert the raw materials is still embryonic. In 2019, we helped ensure that six more of our ten aluminium for forest management. Its logo is well known to consumers suppliers became certified for the ASI Performance Standard, and confirms that the forest is being managed in a way that In October 2019, in partnership with our long-term supplier which addresses GHG emissions, water use, biodiversity, preserves biodiversity and benefits the lives of local people Braskem, we became the first company in our sector to obtain human and labour rights, and OHS. The final two suppliers and workers, while ensuring it sustains economic viability. Bonsucro Chain of Custody certification, which includes all are due to be certified in 2020. stages in the supply chain from feedstock production to consumption (see next page). Bonsucro standards follow We also helped ensure that four of these suppliers were certified environmental, social and economic principles, promoting for ASI Chain of Custody (CoC), which enables a link between human rights and labour standards, biodiversity and efficiency, verified ASI Performance Standard practices at successive and adherence to EU directives. steps of the supply chain. We expect ASI CoC certification to extend across all our aluminium suppliers by the end of 2020. BONS-C-0119 www.bonsucro.com INTRODUCTION FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 | 29 27% of the world’s 1 Sugarcane is cultivated on large plantations in the south east of Brazil, far away from the rainforest, where it absorbs CO2 from the 2 After being harvested, the sugarcane is crushed and its juice is captured, fermented and distilled to produce ethanol. sugarcane land is atmosphere as it grows. engaged with Bonsucro 3 72m The ethanol is dehydrated into ethylene, which is then polymerised to polyethylene. 4 tonnes of the world’s The polyethylene is used to make sugarcane is certified components including caps and laminate film which have the same annually by Bonsucro properties as ordinary polyethylene and can be recycled in existing Bonsucro Chain of recycling streams. Custody certification In October 2019, Tetra Pak, in partnership with our long-term supplier Sugarcane Braskem, became the first company in our sector to obtain Bonsucro Chain of Custody certification. The certification reinforces the existing Responsible Polymers Ethanol Sourcing Programme from Braskem with traceability of the entire Aluminium sugarcane value chain, all the way back to the growers and mills. All Sugarcane our products made from plant-based polymers are now being delivered Wood fibres to customers as Bonsucro certified, as from March 2020. Sugarcane INTRODUCTION FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 | 30 OUR OPERATIONS 62% As we strive to lead the sustainability transformation, we want our own operations to be a global benchmark. This means maximising efficiency and minimising waste through World Class Manufacturing, using and investing in renewable power, and utilising certified “green buildings”. reduction in total waste since WCM began in 1999 World Class Manufacturing This World Class award is presented 3x In 2019, we celebrated 20 years of to facilities that have achieved World Class Manufacturing (WCM), outstanding levels of production a systematic approach to reducing quality, reliability, efficiency and waste, minimising water loss, improving environmental performance. It is efficiency and reducing energy the first time it has been awarded consumption. Applied across all to any factory in China or Pakistan. increase in productivity our operations, it has led to a 62% reduction in total waste and a threefold This is the third time in five years that our 90% increase in productivity since 1999. facilities have received a World Class award, following the successes of our Today, we are considered a world Gornji Milanovac, Serbia factory and the leader in WCM. In 2019, our factories in Izmir, Turkey factory in 2015 and 2017 Hohhot, China and Lahore, Pakistan respectively. Only 24 plants in the world (the factory team is pictured opposite, have achieved World Class status: our of Tetra Pak factories with their Tetra Pak 2019 Factory of the facilities represent a sixth of this total. now have TPM awards Year award) were awarded the highest level of the prestigious Total Productive Out of the 30 Tetra Pak packaging 4 Maintenance (TPM) awards by the material factories currently in operation Japan Institute of Plant Maintenance. worldwide, 27 have received one or more TPM awards. Tetra Pak factories have World Class TPM status INTRODUCTION FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 | 31 Ready for solar panels, Electric car which will contribute charging Energy saving to RE100 target High priority stations solutions reduce brownfield site, available consumption by requiring up to 36% clean-up of mines Climate control ensures pleasant working Overall water environment saving between 42% and 66% Certified factories and offices Sustainable around the globe per building and In addition to our production Additionally, our factory in Chakan, 100% outdoors processes, the quality of our buildings India is currently in the process of makes a significant difference to the renewing its LEED Gold certification. sustainability of our operations. In all Certification is also under way for parts new projects and major fit-outs, where of our factories in Kunshan and Hohhot possible, we now aim for Gold level in China, and our new test hall facility in certification from Leadership in Energy Modena, Italy. and Environmental Design (LEED), a leading international certification In October 2019, we opened our new standard. Even when we choose head office in Shanghai, China. Again, a small office, sustainability and sustainability was key to the choice of accreditation of the building is a building and fit-out. Located within a key deciding factor. LEED Platinum-rated development, the GREEN newly remodelled 7,600 sq m office has In July 2019, we inaugurated Vietnam’s been awarded LEED Gold certification first ever aseptic carton packaging for its interior design and construction. material factory, in Binh Duong (see annotated image, left). Our eighth Also in October, we announced the BUILDINGS factory in the Asia Pacific region, opening of a €25 million site with sales, the €120 million new facility has an engineering and manufacturing facilities expandable capacity of 20 billion for cheese production solutions in packs per annum to supply both Olsztyn, north-eastern Poland. domestic and export markets in ASEAN, Australia and New Zealand. The site was designed and constructed 31 species planted on site. Nearly It is one of the first factories in Vietnam in full compliance with requirements 35,000 sq m to be certified Gold according to laid out by the Building Research restored using the latest, most demanding LEED Establishment Environmental Assessment native vegetation Version 4 certification. Method (BREEAM), another well known and respected international standard. INTRODUCTION FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 | 32 RENEWABLE ENERGY 1,000 kilowatts of photovoltaic capacity at our Rayong, Thailand plant Right on track to 100% Our total energy use has been kept In 2019, renewable electricity use relatively flat in recent years. It has across our operations increased from grown by just 2% since 2010, despite 69% 8 55% in 2018 to 69%. We are on track significant increases in production and to meet our RE100 targets of 80% the addition of new facilities, thanks by 2020 and 100% by 2030. All of to improvements in energy efficiency. our converting factories within the Our energy audit programme is a of renewable solar photovoltaic EU are already now using 100% major contributor to this increased electricity supplied installations on renewable electricity. efficiency, realising total energy savings to our operations Tetra Pak factories We commissioned a total of more than of 345 gigawatt hours since 2010, and 1600 kilowatts of solar photovoltaic avoiding what would otherwise have been a growth in energy use of 23%. 600 kilowatts capacity at our factories in Rayong, Thailand and Denton, US (pictured). This represents over 5,000 solar panels. of photovoltaic capacity at our Denton, US plant INTRODUCTION FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 | 33 Tetra Pak Processing Solutions, Equipment and Services are highly focused on minimising water use, food waste and carbon footprint in our customers’ operations, helping them on the journey towards achieving their ambitious targets in these areas. Here are some of the key developments during 2019. • At Davos in January 2020, we launched and on-site water reuse and recovery Tetra Pak® Marketplace, the industry’s first assessments. The Centre has been working full-scale virtual marketplace (see below). with Carlsberg at its site in Fredericia, Created in partnership with Mirakl, the Denmark to develop a solution that marketplace is open 24/7 and hosts more reduces water waste in carbonated soft than 300,000 spare parts and consumables drink water production by almost 100%. from Tetra Pak as well as 200,000 products from vetted sellers, giving customers access • From the start of 2020, production at our to a large variety of products in real time. customer CONO Kaasmakers’ cheesemaking plant in Beemster, the Netherlands • In Q1, 2019, our Water Centre of Expertise has been officially certified as climate in Silkeborg, Denmark started providing neutral. As communicated in our 2017 our customers with water recovery and Sustainability Report, we supported savings assessments. Ways in which we can CONO Kaasmakers’ ambition to build “the help our customers minimise their water greenest dairy in the world”, providing the footprint include: a hygienic treatment most advanced water and energy recovery solution for standardising supply water solutions and minimising product losses. with minimal water loss; process water recovery solutions for the dairy industry; CUSTOMER OPERATIONS A world first for the food and beverage industry, Tetra Pak ® Marketplace offers customers a vast variety of the products they need to run their plant. The assortment will continue to grow as more sellers join Helping our customers succeed in their increasingly ambitious the marketplace over time. Click the screen to watch the sustainability agendas is at the heart of our Strategy 2030. video and find out more. INTRODUCTION FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 | 34 OUR SUSTAINABLE EQUIPMENT Tetra Pak® ​​​​​​​​​Cheese Vat Yieldmaster 2​ Tetra Pak® Tubular Heat Exchanger with P2P T  etra Pak® Standardisation unit with As the largest cheese vat available in the world, with This unit saves a significant amount of the energy continuous protein control the highest yield, the Tetra Pak Cheese Vat Yieldmaster 2 typically required for steam and cooling in a productThe industry’s first in-line standardisation analyser, continues to gain global acceptance by customers to-water (P2W) heat exchanger. Overall energy developed in partnership with FOSS, experts in milk for its economic and environmental benefits. A typical* consumption is up to 55% lower compared with a analysis. This new solution utilises automation hardware 10 ton/hr cheese plant can produce up to 600,000 kg conventional P2W unit, and its insulation capabilities and software algorithms that react and adjust in real of extra cheese per year with the same volume of milk also reduce heat loss by up to 67% compared with time, offering unique guaranteed ratio performance. simply by installing Yieldmaster vats. Its size advantage P2W alternatives. It delivers key data accurately every seven seconds, means fewer physical vats, and fewer batches, to get enabling quicker reaction times to ensure onthe same throughput, which means less environmental specification product quality 24/7. The benefits for CLICK HERE impact. In 2019, our customers installed a total of customers, especially producers of cheese and powder, 26 Yieldmaster Cheese Vats, producing more than include significantly better standardisation performance 1.9 million kg of additional cheese, while saving more for fat-to-protein ratios, uniform product quality, than 23 million litres of water over the course of the year. improved sustainability and elimination of uncertainty associated with manual sampling. *Typical for many customers. Numbers vary with cheese type, cheese milk composition and plant capacity. CLICK HERE CLICK HERE INTRODUCTION FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 | 35 OUR SUSTAINABLE EQUIPMENT TETRA PAK® CERTIFIED RENOVATED EQUIPMENT Another way that we have built circularity into our portfolio is through our Tetra Pak® Certified Renovated Equipment (CRE) business, which we Tetra Pak® powder mixer range extension Best practice lines for yoghurt products Powder-to-powder mixers are key elements in food A suite of expert services that support a wide variety introduced in 2018. We define CRE as previously production lines and one of the biggest equipment of yoghurt innovations to address growing consumer used capital equipment that has been renovated investments producers make, but cleaning them has demand. The best practice lines support the design and certified according to a single global quality previously been a time-consuming and costly affair. of customised solutions for five types of yoghurt standard. CRE fulfils circular economy principles, This unit delivers the industry’s fastest dry cleaning products: stirred, set, drinking, concentrated and thereby reducing scrappage, and means customers and lowest downtime, allowing energy consumption ambient. These are specific sets of guidance which can buy equipment with certified performance significantly lower than the competition due to its can be tailored to match the particular production at an economical price. In 2019, we delivered design and automated power control. needs of different types of yoghurt. 172 CRE machines, comprising 57 filling machines and 115 items of downstream equipment. CLICK HERE CLICK HERE INTRODUCTION FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 | 36 Raw materials A joined-up Packaging design RECYCLING & More renewable materials Design for recycling New materials with recycled content approach to Anti-littering openings circularity CIRCULARITY Recycling infrastructure Partnerships for effective collection and recycling Recycling is one of the key enablers of a low-carbon circular economy. We have worked to develop collection and recycling infrastructure in all of our markets for many years, investing €23 million between 2012 and 2019. We have helped to grow the number of facilities that recycle beverage cartons worldwide from 40 in 2002 to more than 170 today. FIBRE (97) UK Thailand POLYAL (38) Ten-year anniversary of Green Roof As a key part of Strategy 2030, we are now working in an ever more holistic way, INTEGRATED (41) Jersey Dairy first in the Project, which turns recycled cartons focusing both on recycling and recyclability in the design of our packaging, at the UK to introduce fully into roofing sheets to provide same time as accelerating our efforts to drive infrastructure development to renewable Tetra Rex ® emergency shelter for people in need. improve collection and recycling. Plant-based package for its basic milk range. Today, we have around 150 to 200 people working on enhancing recycling by design in our packaging, and another 50 people focused on collection and recycling around the world. The experience, expertise and contacts we have developed over the years is crucial to accelerating our work. But we cannot do this on our own. In particular, when it comes to advancing collection and recycling on Turkey the ground, partnership is the game-changer. Here are some of the ways we are leading transformation through collaboration. New Zero Waste Project aims Mexico to meet and teach 280,000 children about protecting Leading recycled paper nature and recycling. 50 bn 26% 170 77 maker Bio Pappel launches video showcasing how our packages are recycled. ® ® Tetra Pak of Tetra Pak used plants worldwide Tetra Pak markets packages were beverage cartons recycle Tetra Pak ® have used package recycled in 2019 were recycled in 2019 packages collection Click to find out more about these and other stories. CLICK HERE INTRODUCTION FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 | 37 WORKING TOGETHER  Individual customer partnerships Global industry alliances • In November, we became a founding We work closely with our customers to Building on our contribution to existing member of 4evergreen, a new alliance help them achieve their own circularity alliances such as the New Plastics Economy that aims to boost the contribution of ambitions. Here are some examples of how and the Alliance for Beverage Cartons and fibre-based packaging in a circular and we work together with key customers: the Environment (ACE), in 2019 we worked sustainable economy. The alliance will to advance the following new initiatives: increase awareness of the benefits of • We continuously update and consult fibre-based packaging materials, with them on our R&D and portfolio • Launched in July 2019, the 3R Initiative is advocate for EU legislation supporting strategic direction to ensure alignment a first-of-its-kind global effort designed product design for recyclability and call around future packaging. to reduce, recover and recycle the for the development of optimised • We work with them to scale up growing amount of plastics generated collection systems and appropriate collection and recycling collaboration in by companies. It creates a transparent recycling infrastructures. Among the prioritised markets through our partners standard ensuring robust and consistent first members are a number of our and existing platforms. measurement and reporting of projects customers, suppliers and competitors, • We integrate sustainability information, that reduce plastic in the environment. including Nestlé, Danone, Stora Enso, such as recycling messages on-pack Uniquely, it also creates a “plastic SIG Combibloc and Elopak. and online, to help drive new behaviour crediting” mechanism that motivates • Tetra Pak is a participant in the Consumer and understanding. companies to maximise the recycled Goods Forum Plastic Waste Coalition • We collaborate on advocacy initiatives, content of the plastic they use and of Action, which is in the process of including participation in associations also incentivise recycling activity. outlining and agreeing ambitious and other platforms, in order to We are a co-founder of 3R along with deliverables around product design, foster communication and engagement. Danone, Veolia and Nestlé. It is led by extended producer responsibility (EPR), international standard-setter Verra and chemical recycling and collaborative environmental market developer BVRio, initiatives in priority markets. both non-profit organisations. Local alliances In addition to our global initiatives, we work to increase recycling on a local level The 3R Initiative is a first-of-itsthrough our cluster and market activities. kind global effort designed to Read more on our website. reduce, recover and recycle the growing amount of plastics generated by companies. We CLICK HERE are a co-founder of 3R along with Danone, Veolia and Nestlé. INTRODUCTION FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 | 38 RECYCLING Paper pulp Veolia’s beverage carton recycling process Cartons Paper towels PARTNERS Selective sorting Giving cartons a new life • For the past three years we have been All components of our carton packages are acting as a key knowledge partner and recyclable and can be transformed into a wide contact facilitator with Furukawa Electric, Voluntary Paper mill waste drop-off PolyAl range of products. But more needs to be done also introducing them to Veolia. In May Door-to-door to enhance the value of the recycled materials, 2019, Furukawa announced a breakthrough collection so that they can be turned into industrial new technology that can combine plastic products with high value and large volumes. and paper waste in a single process to make This is particularly true of the recovered polymer a material comparable with glass-fibreBales of HDPE and aluminium mix (PolyAl), for which recycling reinforced plastic, but at a much lower cost. sorted waste from plastic capacity and increased value is lacking on a Furukawa started utilising material made from caps large commercial scale. We are working with the new technology in its own commercial Veolia a growing number of recyclers and other products soon after the announcement. stakeholders to develop viable and sustainable Sorting centre business solutions. Here are two examples: • In 2018, we announced a new partnership with Veolia group, the global leader in PE Alu optimised resource management, to expand collaboration and accelerate global Composition of our Plastics converters PE Alu beverage carton recycling to create an aseptic packages efficient circular economy. (See diagram Crates right for an outline of Veolia’s recycling Aluminium process.) Our goal is to demonstrate that PolyAl recycling is sustainable, also by 2025. Plastic caps By creating demand, we aim to incentivise HDPE INFOGRAPHIC: ART PRESSE recycling of available and accessible PolyAl generated by companies currently recycling Plastic layers Oil canister Pot fibre from used beverage cartons. Plastic pallets Paperboard Tetra Brik®, Tetra Classic®, Tetra Pak®, Tetra Rex®, Tetra Pak® Cheese Vat Yieldmaster 2, Tetra Pak® Tubular Heat Exchanger, Tetra Pak® Standardisation unit, Tetra Pak® Powder mixer, and PROTECTS WHAT’S GOOD™ ©Tetra Pak International S.A. are trademarks belonging to the Tetra Pak Group. www.tetrapak.com
