2020 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS Welcome This year has been an extraordinary year. some time to further diversify the makeFinally, 2020 saw the start of the The human cost and disruption caused up of the firm, those conversations made ‘Decade of Action’, an initiative by the UN by the Covid-19 global pandemic are it clear that more had to be done. In to accelerate delivery of the Sustainable difficult to overstate. In addition to the response to this, we unveiled our “10 Development Goals (SDGs), and I am pandemic, in the last 12 months, we have Actions for Change”, an ethnicity delighted to share with you our fourth also seen bushfires devastate large areas framework and measure of accountability communication on progress, a report that of Australia, widespread protests and for every region in our global network to not only demonstrates our commitment calls for racial justice following the killing create meaningful change, for our people to the SDGs and the UN Global Compact of George Floyd, as well as a mounting and our communities. We know that (UNGC) Principles but also recognises international movement pushing climate progress against the Actions is only a the challenges we face. We still have a lot protection into the global consciousness step on our journey to address these to do and will continue to embed the in a way that we have not seen before. challenges but that should not deter us principles of the UNGC and SDGs in our from setting goals. day-to-day activities to support positive I have been proud of our firm’s response change in sustainable business practices, to these challenges, which has We have developed innovative ways of which we know is a key motivation for so emphasised our passion for justice and working to enable continued delivery of many of our people. deepened our commitment to our clients, our pro-bono and citizenship 02 WELCOME our people and our communities. programmes across the network. We I hope you enjoy reading the case studies also continue to build on our relationship and updates that follow. We, like others in the legal profession, with our global charity partner, 03 AN EXTRAORDINARY YEAR have adapted to a completely different Médecins Sans Frontières, who continue way of working in response to the to work tirelessly around the world pandemic. We hope that we will continue supporting the pandemic response. to adapt and evolve and to come through 05 OUR PEOPLE this global crisis stronger than before in Through our work with clients, we have terms of how we serve our clients, how observed an increasing focus on we engage with and motivate our people, Environmental, Social and Governance 15 OUR CLIENTS and of our underlying business objectives initiatives across all sectors. As a leading and performance. global law firm, we are clear about our own responsibility to contribute to a In the wake of the BLM movement, we've 23 SOCIAL IMPACT had deep conversations with our people sustainable future. By leveraging the skills, enthusiasm and insights of our JAMES PALMER about how we could do more to improve people around the world, we continue to CHAIR AND SENIOR PARTNER the ethnic diversity across the firm and aim to make a sustained positive impact HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS LLP 33 SUSTAINABILITY build a supportive, respectful on many of today's social and environment where everyone, regardless environmental challenges. of race, can thrive. Despite working for 41 ABOUT THIS REPORT HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS An extraordinary year At Herbert Smith Freehills, we provide leadingchallenges, our commitment to integrity and edge legal expertise to many of the world’s justice will be even more important. These are biggest organisations. We have a reputation the values which underpin our work, and which for being ground-breaking and distinctive, and guide us as we help our clients to navigate combining in-depth knowledge and insights with today’s shifting environmental, social and a global perspective. We are immensely proud governance landscape. of our position and our achievements. But we also recognise that we have a chance to provide In this report, we reflect on our responsible leadership that goes beyond our mere size or business journey over the last 12 months, our sphere of influence. response to key trends and advancement towards our own and broader global targets. In May, we welcomed Justin D’Agostino to the Chief Executive Officer role. Formerly global head of the disputes practice and regional We are immensely proud of our managing director for Asia and the US, Justin position and our achievements. But took office during the most turbulent of times. we also recognise that we have a Under his leadership, we have adapted to completely new ways of working, of serving chance to provide leadership that our clients, and of collaborating with our goes beyond our mere size or partners in the community. Our drive for innovation and the digital transformation has sphere of influence. proved invaluable here, pushing through new technology with which we can better support all Covering important recent developments, our stakeholders. case studies, key indicators of performance and future plans, it also serves as our 2020 Now, more than ever, we are mindful that our Communication on Progress, in line with our success as a business depends on the wellbeing commitment to implementing the principles of of our people and our communities. As we play the UN GC and contributing to the UN SDGs. our part in tackling some of society’s biggest //04 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS Our people We aim to instil a culture of engagement, ambition and high performance at Herbert Smith Freehills, by putting people and the client experience at the heart of our business. We want to attract and retain top talent from all backgrounds and enable them to perform to their full potential. That means fostering a diverse and inclusive workplace where difference is celebrated, development advanced and wellness prioritised. We believe it is also vital to provide regular opportunities for people to share their experiences, feedback and ideas. In the last 12 months we have seen some significant improvements in the experience of our employees, particularly in the areas of leadership and communication. While the latest results from our employee survey have revealed much to be proud of, people have told us we can do more to enhance their career development opportunities, including creating greater awareness of the various career pathways that exist within and outside our business. Amid widespread protests and calls for justice following the killing of George Floyd, we began a deeper conversation about improving ethnic diversity across our firm. And the challenges presented by the global pandemic have highlighted the importance of our continued support for the mental health and wellbeing of our people. As part of our new strategy under Justin’s leadership, we have looked at these areas afresh, establishing clear expectations and support for further change. This is guided by our new People and Culture Advisory Board. Our commitments here are fully consistent with our values and underpinned by our support for the UN SDGs. The most relevant of these are ensuring the good health and wellbeing of our people (in line with SDG 3), our contribution to SDG 5 through our work to promote gender equality, and our efforts to reduce all other types of inequality in line with SDG 10. Diversity and Inclusion Our vision is to be the world’s leading law firm for Please visit our website to read more about our diversity and inclusion. Leading for Inclusion 2018-2021: Global Diversity and In line with SDG 5 and SDG 10, the principles of Inclusion Strategy . At Herbert Smith Freehills, we don’t expect our people to be or think the same gender equality, equal opportunity and reduced – indeed, diversity and inclusion drive our success and the innovative solutions inequalities are fundamental to our diversity and we deliver with our clients. That’s why fostering an inclusive culture where our inclusion strategy: ‘Leading for Inclusion’. This is integrally connected to our overarching business people can be themselves, contribute their perspectives and perform roles which strategy, and is built around four key pillars: talent, are meaningful and aligned to our shared values is a core business priority. clients, innovation and values. TALENT INNOVATION VALUES CLIENTS We approach all our priorities and decision-making within this framework of inclusivity, to ensure that we constantly consider how we can leverage our JUSTIN D’AGOSTINO, CHIEF EXECUTIVE diversity for the benefit of our people, our business and society more broadly. //06 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS Accelerating action on ethnicity The firm has, for some time, been Results from our global working to further diversify our diversity audit 2018 make-up: for example, introducing ethnicity targets in some of our 1 6 19% global offices. But we need to do Address barriers to the recruitment of Black, First Engage meaningfully with more, and the growing prominence Nations, Asian and minority our clients on anti-racism of people in the UK identify of the Black Lives Matter movement ethnic people as BAME (Black Asian 10 has, for many of us, served as a Minority Ethnic) catalyst for deep reflection on the 74 2 7 Improve retention of Black, Increase mentoring and work bias and racism that are rife within First Nations, Asian experience opportunities for society. We’ve had meaningful and minority ethnic colleagues, young people from Black, First different nationalities and improve representation Nations, Asian and minority discussions with people across the in more senior roles ethnic backgrounds across our offices firm about how we can become an 1 in 4 anti-racist organisation, committed 3 8 Support diversity within our to confronting the deep-seated Deliver anti-racism workshops supply chain and support ACTIONS inequities and injustices from which in addition to global D&I businesses and social enterprises people in Australia do not programmes owned by Black, First Nations, identify as Anglo-Celtic or no country or business is exempt. Asian and minority ethnic people European We launched our ‘10 Actions for FOR 68% 4 9 Change’: a global set of Better inform and track our commitments aimed at improving approach through robust data Increase pro bono support for organisations that address CHANGE the representation, and experience, collection and analysis, and racial inequality of Lawyers in Asia identify as being of Asian Cultural of Black, First Nations, Asian and target-setting where appropriate Background minority ethnic colleagues 5 10 throughout Herbert Smith Freehills. Our new approach will also include the delivery of anti-racism workshops, reverse mentoring Invest in research and continue listening to our people (including leavers) and communities Hold regional executives accountable for progress on ethnic diversity 79%of Business Services Professionals in Asia identify as being of Asian programmes and a continued focus on better data Cultural Background and measurement. Please visit our website to read more about our 10 Actions for Change. From our UK data, we know that the size of the Black and minority ethnic population is not reflected in our workforce, particularly at senior levels of the business. As part of our new action plan, we intend to improve and expand the data UK ethnicity data 2019 we collect on ethnicity across our network. Asian Black Mixed/multiple Other ethnic White background background ethnic groups group Partners 2.7% 0.0% 0.9% 1.8% 93.8% Lawyers 11.1% 1.7% 3.7% 2.0% 81.5% Legal support 5.5% 2.5% 2.0% 0.5% 89.5% Business services 10.9% 6.4% 2.4% 2.3% 77.9% //08 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS Gender equality Women in the partnership progress and USA 2014 2020 UK 2014 2020 performance % 0% 15% % 19% 25% Number 0 2 Number 29 42 Gender equality remains a priority and we continue to make positive progress. We Asia 2014 2020 first set gender targets in 2014 to increase the proportion and number of women in % 18% 29% our partnership. These were accompanied Number 8 21 by a comprehensive set of actions to drive greater gender equality, such as unconscious bias training, a focus on parental support, and better access to quality sponsorship. Since first setting targets in 2014, the number of women in Australia 2014 2020 the partnership has more than doubled, and representation increased from % 20% 31% 18%-27% globally. Number 34 48 In 2019 we promoted 26 lawyers to the partnership, in addition to eight lateral hire partners. Encouragingly, the gender balance of these new partners is equal. We have also made strides towards our aspirational target of women comprising 35% partners and partner leadership roles by EMEA 2014 2020 2023. As of 1 October 2020, 27% of our partnership, and 34% of partner leadership roles, are held by women. Additionally, women comprise 40% of all key global % 16% 22% leadership positions. Number 10 18 Global 16% 25 Corporate 18% 20% 32 Our current targets Our current status By 1 May 2023 CRT 27% 3 40% 81 women 8 22% 29 will comprise Disputes 29% 45 35% of: EPI 20% 5 39% 11 2014 •partners; and, We have: 27% •27% women partners; and, 16% 18 •partner leadership roles. FREP •34% women in partner leadership roles 27% 31 131 0% 0 ALT 100% 2 2014 2020 2020 //10 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS Our global IRIS (LGBT+ and Ally) network Our diversity networks are key to engaging ensuring people across our network feel safe our people in our diversity and inclusion and supported. Over the last year, highlights programmes and delivering our objectives. include the relaunching of our Trans and NonOur global IRIS (LGBT+ and Ally) network, Binary Guidelines, continued pro bono work to chaired by our CEO, aims to promote and support the decriminalisation of homosexuality advocate for LGBT+ diversity and inclusion and LGBT+ rights across the world, and a legal within Herbert Smith Freehills by raising battle to win the right to a spousal visa for awareness, collaborating with other networks same-sex couples in Hong Kong. and clients, promoting visible role models and Herbert Smith Freehills have demonstrated a real commitment to ensuring that all their lesbian, gay, bi and trans staff and stakeholders feel included at work and we’re delighted to name them as one of our Top Global Employers for 2020. Our Top Global Employers are at forefront of driving global LGBT inclusion in the workplace and inspiring positive social change. Their leadership is particularly important now, as we face unprecedented global challenges as well as attacks on LGBT rights and LGBT communities in many countries around the world. Working with Rare Recruitment to broaden our talent pool We partner with some fantastic organisations status and any time spent in care. Thanks to in the UK to target ethnically diverse students partnerships like these, we are addressing NANCY KELLEY, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OF STONEWALL and those from lower socio-economic barriers to recruitment and starting to see backgrounds. Rare Recruitment is a great positive results; this year, 48% of our UK example. Rare’s pioneering recruitment training contract hires were from Black and software shows, at a glance, not only the minority ethnic backgrounds. achievements of candidates but also the context in which they were gained – with factors including postcode, school quality, eligibility for free school meals, refugee We continue to work closely with Herbert Smith Freehills on our diversity and inclusion and corporate social responsibility agendas. Having ongoing and open conversations on topics such as race equality, mental health, sustainable working, social mobility and access to justice and our joint programmes in the community are invaluable. By doing so, we can leverage best practice, share resource, develop innovative collaborations and accelerate change. DEBORAH SMITH, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR & SENIOR COUNSEL INVESTMENT BANKING DIVISION, AND CO-CHAIR OF GOLDMAN SACHS' EMEA PRO BONO COMMITTEE //12 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS Mental health and wellbeing We want to create an We have also been supporting our people to Our Global Objectives include: make a huge adjustment to their working environment free from stigma, patterns. While agile and flexible working where people feel that they can opportunities have been in place in many of Education providing resources and global training discuss their mental health and our offices for years, the arrival of Covid-19 accessible to everyone, with a focus on those with saw almost all our partners and staff shift to people responsibilities. easily access support – as well as remote working, practically overnight. To help practicing behaviours that us all adapt, and to stay connected and Champions and role modelling a network of people proactively support optimal support one another through this change, we across each region, passionate about driving change, published a guide to working from home in eliminating stigma and sign-posting to support. wellbeing. early 2020. This was supported by a set of guidelines we developed some time ago Accountability partners and leaders are Our work is demanding – from complex legal entitled How We Work, which, influenced by encouraged to include an objective that focuses on deals through to support functions – and it is the Mindful Business Charter promote building an inclusive team culture. important that we feel equipped to look after dialogue and offer practical suggestions about ourselves and each other. The Covid-19 healthy working practices. Clients collaborating with our clients to share best pandemic has presented additional considerations, as people adapted to new ways practice, demonstrate our commitment and support We have learned a lot from this experience. A an inclusive culture. of working and some experiencing greater shift of such magnitude has brought inevitable anxiety, isolation and loss. We are mindful that challenges, but also some of our people have felt these issues will not disappear when we return Stigma reducing stigma associated with mental they've a better work-life balance. Our aim now ill-health through effective awareness raising, to ‘normal’. is to enable and empower our people to carry role-modelling and leadership. forward more flexible working practices. Our commitment in this area is reflected in Post-pandemic, we expect that our people will Conversations building the language of mental our global mental health strategy, ‘Thrive’. spend on average 60% of their time in the office. health into everyday conversations, performance Building on previous efforts, the strategy is structured around culture, prevention and Please visit our website to read more about our check-ins and career planning. access to support. It takes a holistic view of mental health strategy, Thrive. health and wellbeing, with objectives aimed at60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% Feedback to track the impact of our interventions 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% global, regional and local levels, and covers 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% and progress against the strategy, including ensuring 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% subjects such as education, role-modelling, 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% feedback is regularly sought from our people. 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% everyday conversations, brands, 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% accountability, clients and data. 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% Brand positioning the firm as a market-leader in 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% respect of its approach to, support for and culture Our expanded Mental Health Champions 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% surrounding mental health. 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% programme lies at the heart of our approach, 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% with over 500 people now trained. Together OFFICE WORKING 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% 60% they provide peer support, signposting to further support, and work with their teams to move our culture in the direction of better wellbeing and mental health. I want to encourage our people to adopt more agile working practices and to really think about the purpose of being in an office. It is about creating choices and Seeing the passion, genuine interest, and senior leadership support for Thrive and the work empowering our people and their teams to make that choice. I am in no doubt that which followed has been inspiring. The core principles that echo throughout are empathy, this will drive high performance and give our people a better work-life balance. curiosity and empowering individuals to lead by example. Focusing on small changes and empowering individuals and teams has created a ripple effect that supports optimal mental health and a culture shift around wellbeing and sustainable ways of working. JUSTIN D’AGOSTINO, CHIEF EXECUTIVE PETRA VELZEBOER, HEAD OF MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES, MEDIGOLD HEALTH //14 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS Our clients Delivering on the SDGs: our contribution to climate action The world faces a critical moment in tackling We are also using our expertise to level climate change. In line with SDG 13, we are the playing field between developed and committed to taking urgent action to combat developing countries in the fight against Global trends and issues such as climate environmental policies and investors’ ESG mandates, to climate change and its impacts. As a leading climate change, contributing to the meeting helping clients to ensure their ESG compliance and diligence international law firm, we have a key role of Targets 13.a and 13.b. Our environmental change, health, anti-racism, disruptive places them ahead of the pack in securing finance for new to play as enablers towards a low-carbon pro bono work is key here – most notably our technology and social inequality are rapidly projects, to manage their operational and/or litigation risks economy – and by far the most important way involvement with the Legal Response Initiative changing the environment for all businesses. and to retain high-calibre employees. in which we can do this is through the advice (LRI), which provides legal support to the least and expertise we give our clients. developed country delegations and NGOs There are many challenges and opportunities, Through such work, we also make a uniquely important in relation to the United Nations Framework alongside increasing stakeholder expectations. contribution to advancing the SDGs. In the past year, for There is a huge global need for financial Convention on Climate Change (UNFCC). The example, we have advised our clients on matters that support solutions that help businesses invest in areas international negotiations under the UNFCCC As global legal experts and advisors to the ambitions of SDG 7, affordable and clean energy, and that progress the aims of the Paris Agreement, are among the most complex multilateral law SDG 11, sustainable cities and communities. to keep temperature rise well below two and policy-making processes ever conducted. some of the world’s biggest companies, we degrees Celsius. Across our network, we Teams from industrialised countries include are increasingly seeing the rising importance are bringing such solutions to fruition – for specialist experts, lawyers and numerous of environmental, social and governance example, helping our clients to access new support staff, while developing countries – who sources of capital for environmentally positive have hardly contributed to the problems at (ESG) factors, and being called upon to lead activities, from renewable energy projects to hand – can rarely rely on similar backing. our clients through this tricky terrain. We recognise the challenges facing our clients in the energy sustainable transportation. Through actions such as these, we are directly contributing to The key to unlocking future value and building resilience lies sector, as they seek to provide more energy to a growing global Targets 13.1, 13.2 and 13.3 of SDG 13. in successfully managing the risks and opportunities population whilst dramatically reducing emissions. We see our stemming from ESG issues. At Herbert Smith Freehills, we role as providing leadership and support to our clients as they combine in-depth knowledge of global political trends and the myriad of international and national laws, with navigate this transition. wide-ranging sector expertise. This breadth of experience allows us to be innovative and forward-thinking in our approach – from advising clients LEWIS MCDONALD, GLOBAL HEAD OF ENERGY looking to issue bonds to fund the development of renewable energy projects, and raising debt that satisfies issuers’ //16 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS SDG 13 – Climate Action The overall goal is to combat climate change and its impacts through urgent action. These are the global targets that we contribute to: 13.1: Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate related hazards and natural disasters in all countries 13.2: Integrate climate change measures into national policies, strategies and planning 13.3: Improve education, awarenessraising and human and institutional capacity on climate change mitigation, adaptation, impact reduction and early warning ESG: Building a resilient future Case study: advising HSBC GAM on the launch of its flagship green bond fund 13.a: Implement the commitment undertaken by developedCorporate purpose and ESG We help businesses to navigate these risks and opportunities across a broad country parties to the United issues dominated headlines in range of subject areas including In May, we advised HSBC Global Asset So far, HSBC GAM has raised US$474 million Management (GAM) on the launch of its for the fund, including a US$75 million Nations Framework Convention the months leading up to the governance, human rights, climate and flagship green bond fund: HSBC Real Economy commitment by anchor investor the IFC, a on Climate Change to a goal of Covid-19 outbreak, and intense environment, corporate crime and Green Investment Opportunity GEM Bond member of the World Bank Group, and a mobilising jointly $100 billion investigations. annually by 2020 from all sources public scrutiny during the Fund. This fund will use both public and private US$75 million commitment by HSBC. Seven capital to build climate change mitigation private investors have joined HSBC and IFC, to address the needs of developing pandemic has accelerated the We also have a rich pool of knowledge capacity in emerging market economies. The with others expected to commit later this year. which allows us to keep our clients abreast countries in the context of conversation. Far from being of developments in this area. For instance, aim is to enable investors to achieve real meaningful mitigation actions and transparency on implementation eclipsed by Covid-19, these our recently launched ‘Catalyst’ campaign economic impact to deliver against the Paris Agreement, the UN Sustainable Development and fully operationalise the issues have risen in explores how Covid-19 is impacting key Goals, and the Green Impact Framework which ESG considerations, and how businesses Green Climate Fund through its significance as the impacts has been issued by HSBC GAM. capitalisation as soon as possible can respond. We also publish a fortnightly have become clearer. tracker of ESG-related publications and developments, with a focus on those likely Now more than ever, ESG is recognised as to impact most on our clients, be they 13.b: Promote mechanisms for raising capacity for effective climate a core strategic issue for businesses, as corporates, asset managers or asset companies seek to understand and owners. Our ESG here can be found here. change-related planning and respond to critical environmental and management in least developed societal challenges, ensure business We are delighted to have worked with HSBC GAM on this important new fund, which will countries and small island resilience, protect access to capital in a developing States, including changing market, and provide greater provide much-needed capital to develop the sustainable finance markets of emerging focusing on women, youth levels of corporate accountability and economies. The success of the fundraising is testament not only to HSBC's vision and and local and marginalised transparency. team, but also to the continuing demand from LPs for sustainable products, communities notwithstanding the more general uncertainty created by the Covid-19 pandemic. STEPHEN NEWBY, PARTNER //18 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS Case Study: advising BP on its first move into offshore wind We are delighted to be working with bp as it Empire Wind is located offshore New York We have cemented our position as the Australian pursues its new strategy to transform from an City, with a total area of 80,000 acres, and is market’s leading legal advisor for renewable international oil company into an integrated expected to have an installed capacity of 2 energy company. gigawatts. Beacon Wind is located offshore energy projects, retaining our No. 1 league tables Massachusetts state with a total area of ranking for the fifth consecutive year We recently advised bp on its first move into 128,000 acres, and is expected to have an offshore wind, through a new strategic installed capacity of 2.4 gigawatts. Both will partnership with Equinor. As part of the deal, provide clean and reliable energy to more than bp will purchase a 50% interest in Equinor’s one million households. Empire Wind and Beacon Wind assets for US$1.1 billion, with Equinor remaining as the The transition to a low-carbon future operator. The shift to a lower-carbon economy is Over the past year, we have continued reaching out to our clients to discuss how climate change will affect gathering pace, and the race is on for them. To accompany these conversations, we published businesses to understand their a report last year entitled Climate Change: Succeed in a environmental impact and to manage the Lower Carbon Future. This explores the impacts, risks We are proud to have been able to support bp on this strategic move. Energy and opportunities of climate change across different transition is a core part of our practice, using our extensive experience in legal risks to success in a low-carbon future. sectors. The report has had a great response with over 1,200 downloads to date, and we will be using it as a renewable and upstream transactions. We look forward to working with bp and Stakeholders are increasingly judging businesses by both others to move towards net zero. platform for further engagement going forward. their perceived contribution to climate change and their efforts to mitigate its effects. Areas such as financing, contracts, human rights, adequate disclosures and government inaction are also under greater scrutiny than ever before. SARAH POLLOCK, PARTNER Our global climate change practice has a long-standing history in supporting clients across the full range of regulatory, transactional, project and contentious legal issues arising from climate change. We ensure our Case study: advising AGL Energy on its clients’ risk management practices measure up to the challenge, while also highlighting the benefits in all A$600 million sustainability-linked loan sectors for businesses that take steps to lead the In December we advised AGL Energy, the With the support of Australia and New Zealand transformation. Australian gas and electricity supplier, on its Banking Corporation, BNP Paribas and Herbert innovative A$600 million syndicated Smith Freehills as sustainability co-ordinators, We work with companies across all economic sectors, sustainability-linked loan – the first of its kind AGL was able to issue a product that including many large clients in energy and mining. issued by an Australian energy company in the incentivises efficiency and improvement in While we continue to provide advice to our clients on Asia-Pacific region. The deal was awarded Most AGL’s emissions performance all legal matters related to their business and Innovative Deal at FinanceAsia’s Achievement operations, we are also increasingly supporting them to Awards in 2019 in Australia and New Zealand. transform their business model in line with the energy Crucially, the campaign also has an internal focus. In transition. Already, nearly one-third of transactions in September 2019, we launched our first internal climate our energy practice are in the renewables space – change campaign, involving a series of workshops for our either working with alternative energy clients or helping associates to highlight the risks and opportunities of businesses with the transition. This is an area that is climate change and ESG issues, and relevance to their continuing to grow. day-to-day roles. Feedback from these sessions has We are proud to have supported AGL in this landmark transaction. This was an As many of our upstream oil and gas clients embark on been very positive, with hundreds of lawyers turning up ambitious decarbonisation journeys, we have developed to learn more. We are now developing a wider internal innovative deal and the great result showcases AGL’s commitment to managing a comprehensive model which should serve as a basis to training series on ESG, with plans to roll it out to all our the risks associated with the transition of the energy sector away from high carbon a successful approach, both in terms of financial viability lawyers next year. emissions which are placed on AGL’s lenders, investors and the economy. and achieving emission reduction targets. This model was developed by our experts alongside clients and in close collaboration with GaffneyCline. See our latest thinking here. JOHN ANGUS, PARTNER //20 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS Case study: supporting the growth of social impact firms with Zamo Capital Zamo Capital was created to catalyse the Our London office advised on all aspects of the impact investment industry in the UK, with a partnership structure, including: the funding vehicle that provides equity and debt establishment of Zamo Capital and the funding investments in social impact firms, as well as vehicle; negotiating the ongoing relationship providing expertise and support as they grow. between Zamo Capital and Big Society Capital; and completing detailed regulatory and tax This year we have been thrilled to work analysis of the funding vehicle and alongside Zamo Capital on its partnership with management entity. Among other things, the Big Society Capital. Uniting capital, expertise partnership has enabled Zamo Capital to and ideas, they are creating opportunities for support enterprises that address issues such as investors and enterprises, and ultimately, quality affordable care for the elderly, critical better lives for individuals. health care challenges and homelessness. HSF Impact: investing in sustainable solutions All over the globe, entrepreneurs are Our market-leading social finance and sustainable investment practice, HSF Impact, supports founders, devising innovative commercial solutions to investors, asset managers and social finance social and environmental challenges. The intermediaries to build global connections, maximise growth of the sustainable investment their positive social and environmental impact, and realise their growth potential. HSF Impact operates market has been buoyed by a revolution in across a range of sectors, on issues relating to education, the use of technology to tackle the world’s energy, agribusiness, financial inclusion, climate change, greatest problems. In this diverse, consumer products, housing and healthcare. fast-growing market, we are committed to We regularly leverage our pro bono practice to deliver using our knowledge and connections to free legal support to socially responsible investors, investees and intermediaries. HSF Impact is also steer clients through the legal and complemented by our award-winning private wealth and commercial issues that flow from their charities practice, which acts for a wide range of national financial and impact objectives. We value and international charities, NGOs, foundations, major the opportunity to support entrepreneurs, donors and social enterprises, on a full range of areas from data protection and pensions to trusts, real estate and those investing in their businesses, in and employment. this way; to ‘do well by doing good’. The team’s interest in, and passion about, my social enterprise and the impact I am trying to create is clear, and this is of utmost importance to any social entrepreneur. If your lawyers care about what you are trying to do, and share in the journey with you, it becomes an incredibly powerful relationship and this is what I have with the HSF team. LEGAL 500 UK 2020 //22 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS SDG 10 – Reduced Inequalities The overall goal is to reduce inequality within and among countries. The global targets that focus our work are: 10.1: By 2030, progressively achieve and sustain income growth of the bottom 40% of the population at a rate higher than the national average 10.2: By 2030, empower and promote the social, economic and political inclusion of all, irrespective of age, sex, disability, race, ethnicity, origin, religion or economic or other status 10.3: Ensure equal opportunity and reduce inequalities of outcome, including by eliminating discriminatory laws, policies and practices Social impact Delivering on the SDGs: our and promoting appropriate legislation, policies and action contribution to reducing inequalities in this regard Much of our pro bono work, and many We do this by working with our Across our business, our teams are We are enormously proud of our culture of partnering of our global and local community partners to understand the needs of 10.6: Ensure enhanced representation and voice for change and that we have made a difference to so partnerships, are dedicated to the communities they serve, and using passionate about making a difference to many in difficult circumstances. Through our pro bono our expertise, resources and global for developing countries in reducing inequalities and helping to today biggest social challenges. We have decision-making in global legal advice, volunteering and close partnerships with meet the ambitions of SDG 10. reach to eliminate discriminatory laws, international economic and achieved much through our pro bono community organisations, we are also helping to meet Across our work with different NGO policies and practices, provide critical financial institutions in order to the targets of the SGGs. This includes how we promote support for vulnerable groups, and legal advice, NGO partnerships and peaceful, just and inclusive societies (in line with SDG partners – and aligned to SDG targets deliver more effective, credible, increase opportunities that promote community programmes which focus on 16), how we work in partnership for greatest impact (in 10.1, 10.2, 10.3 and 10.6 – we seek to inclusion and social mobility. accountable and legitimate empower and promote social, institutions building rule of law, social inclusion and line with SDG 17), and our efforts to reduce inequality economic and political inclusion, and promote social justice (in line with SDG 10). capacity building. ensure equal opportunity and reduced inequalities of outcome, enhance the With our expertise, resources and global network, we representation and voice of developing are well placed to respond to the needs that exist in countries, and progressively achieve the communities and regions in which we do business sustained income growth for the – whether that be supporting Aboriginal and Torres bottom 40% of the population. Strait Islander peoples in Australia, those from a lower socio-economic background in the UK or migrant workers in Hong Kong, Singapore and Indonesia. This year has been particularly challenging. The impact of Covid-19 has hit many of the world’s most vulnerable communities hardest. As events rapidly unfolded at the start of the pandemic, we swiftly adapted our programmes and focused our attention where it was needed most. We also worked collaboratively with our peers to ensure a large-scale, sector-wide response. It is testament to the quality of our partnerships that we have been able to support our communities with such speed and efficacy. //24 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS Two motorcycle riders hold their bikes as they cross the Lomela river (Boende, Democratic Republic of Congo) on a pirogue. They're on their way to health posts supported by Médecins Sans Frontières. © MSF, 2020. In Tefé, Brazil, Médecins Sans Frontières helped train staff at the regional hospital to manage patients with COVID-19. We Many refugees and asylum seekers in Greece have faced eviction from their homes in the economic fallout from the COVID-19 Nafisatou, a Médecins Sans Frontières team member, also helped prepare a primary healthcare boat which travels to remote areas in the region. © Diego Baravelli/MSF, 2020. pandemic. Médecins Sans Frontières referred those in the gravest need to our care facility in Athens. © MSF, 2020 shows a group of young girls in the Segou region of Mali the proper handwashing technique to protect themselves from COVID-19. © MSF/Lamine Keita, 2020 Case study: Médecins Sans Frontières Fundraising in Dubai requires a time-specific permit from the MSF Australia has enjoyed a warm relationship with Freehills and then Herbert Smith Freehills since 2010. We share a deep Islamic Affairs & Charitable and abiding understanding of the emergency medical Across more than 70 countries – amid wars, volunteer support, we help MSF in a variety of Activities Department, so we are humanitarian challenges faced by so many people who do not natural disasters, medical emergencies and ways – including providing legal training and particularly proud of our have access to medical care. HSF shares our commitment to humanitarian crises – Médecins Sans Frontières hosting 'mapathons' to chart areas where colleagues in Dubai who organised (MSF) provides free medical care to some of the humanitarian organisations are trying to reach a number of events to raise AED independent access to medical treatment, regardless of race, world's most vulnerable people. At the end of last people. 18,000 (US$4,900) for MSF’s gender, ethnicity, age or religion. In this spirit, we have been year, we announced a new five-year commitment Covid-19 appeal. This included a delighted to extend the friendship to MSF and HSF colleagues to increase the value of our support for MSF up to Since we announced our new commitment to fancy-dress fundraiser and a £2 million annually, by raising our direct donations MSF, the world has been profoundly impacted by cake-making competition which in many different countries in which we share offices. We are to MSF, setting up a global fundraising target, and Covid-19 and MSF has played a vital role working went viral, with London, Perth and very grateful to all those at HSF who so generously support alongside global authorities and communities to extending our pro bono support. provide essential medical assistance. We are Johannesburg all getting involved our work – together we really have a positive impact on the with fantastic creations. Our work with MSF started eight years ago in proud to have supported MSF with an internal lives of so many – thank you. Australia and has since grown to include fundraising appeal and assisting on pro bono legal relationships with offices in London, matters relating to new partnership opportunities. Johannesburg, Paris, Belfast, Hong Kong, Dubai Our relationship with MSF is a hugely positive and Singapore. The financial assistance we one, built on honesty and transparency. We work RUTH MOLLOY, MAJOR DONOR MANAGER, provide allows MSF to react to emergencies as together to identify opportunities to strengthen MSF AUSTRALIA & MSF NEW ZEALAND soon as they happen, and give high-quality care to our organisations. MSF shares the challenges it those who need it most. Through pro bono and faces with us, and together we find solutions. //26 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS Pro bono legal advice 2019/20 Case study: Justice Without Our pro bono clients include charities, NGOs, developing nations and vulnerable individuals. Work is directed towards five core thematic pillars: access to justice casework, NGO 75,000 hours Borders We work closely with Justice Over the last year, we are advisory services, human rights protections, international Without Borders, a regional proud to have worked with the development and social impact investment. NGO which supports migrant organisation to successfully We are proud to undertake all pro bono work with the same 2018/19 worker victims in seeking realise compensation for a 67,000 compensation against abusers. migrant worker. We have also degree of competence, expertise and professionalism that we Justice Without Borders creates conducted comparative research display in our fee-paying practice. transnational lifelines to legal aid on laws relating to illegal This year we contributed 75,000 hours of pro bono advice hours for victims of labour exploitation and human trafficking – closing deployment of migrant workers in select Asian jurisdictions, and globally, an 11% increase on the previous year. Since the the gap in access to justice for engaged in interview training outbreak of Covid-19, the majority of our programmes have been delivered remotely and we are incredibly grateful to our IT 2017/18 migrant domestic workers who have returned home. and evidence collection for migrant workers in Singapore. 63,000 colleagues who have enabled us to continue providing support at this critical time. The section below includes some examples of this work. hours Case study: family reunification in Italy ‘A new, collaborative initiative that in Italy with his wife, who is five We are delighted to be involved in this project – our Milan office has become months pregnant and holds an EU it is increasingly important for firms to be able to Case study: coalition of pro involved with, alongside Coalizione Italiana per le Libertà e Diritti civili long-term residence permit. offer pro bono legal advice to individuals and not bono clearing houses (CILD) and global law firm, Orrick, We are assigned one family just NGOs or other organisations, especially family reunification relates to the reunification case every month, ‘Clearing houses’ around the world traditionally match people right of families to maintain or involving approximately 20-30 when individuals are more vulnerable. This is who need lawyers, with lawyers wanting to contribute to public regain family unity. hours of work dedicated to tasks why we believe that this project is particularly interest cases. As the scale of need is increasing, public interest such as obtaining evidence, important at this point in history. legal issues are arising with continued frequency, and firms are At present, our colleagues in Milan drafting statements and becoming more technologically sophisticated, the time has are providing pro bono legal advice completing applications. We are come to rethink these operations. to a Bengali citizen under threat of hopeful that, in future, this type of deportation. Our lawyers are project can be replicated with other Australian clearing house Justice Connect has developed a supporting him to obtain a firms and in other areas of the law. LAURA ORLANDO, PARTNER AND SPARTAK KODRA, ASSOCIATE technology-driven online pro bono portal, to match those with residence permit so he can remain unmet legal need with their growing network of pro bono lawyers. This platform is revolutionising the pro bono landscape, by building critical infrastructure that gives regional and remote communities equal opportunity to access free legal support. It has also enabled a rapid, coherent and sector-wide pro bono response in emergency contexts such as the Australian © Justice Connect bushfires and Covid-19. Case study: environmental pro bono, Earth Doctors Over the past year we have supported the proposed expansion We provide pro bono work for a number of leading NGOs to offering support for six months and potential financial investments to of this portal through a coalition of pro bono clearing houses promote environmental sustainability. Recently, this has included help them grow. We were appointed to UnLtd’s global legal panel last including Justice Connect, Law Works and Law Centres UK, work for Earth Doctors, a social enterprise developing sustainable year, and our work has included supporting Earth Doctors to identify PILA (Ireland) and PILnet (US, Asia, Europe). food initiatives in communities. and optimise investments from third parties, to draft constitutional documents, and on matters related to corporate governance. Earth Doctors was recently selected as one of the first enterprises for UnLtd’s new Thrive Accelerator, an initiative for social ventures //28 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS Community programmes Case study: increasing social mobility in the UK In line with our values, and the local office-based community Our social mobility programmes aim to provide 2017 2018 2019 SDGs, we prioritise long-term committees have been set up skills and experiences that will level the playing UK Number of young people participating in our employment programmes (% of these partnerships and projects which and are empowered to support field for young people from lower young people who are eligible for free school meals and/or pupil premium where known) promote equality and social those around them. After all, socio-economic backgrounds when entering School outreach 160 260 270 inclusion. We’re committed to they are the ones best placed employment, not only in the legal sector but for helping our communities thrive, to understand and respond to Mentoring 90 (80%) 110+ (80%) 127 (81%) professional roles generally. by using our expertise and the needs of the communities in Work experience 87 (70%) 92 (70%) 73 (70%) resources to make a valuable which they live and work. In the UK, we have been active in this arena for contribution. Across our some time. Key initiatives include our network, our people have many Networked Scholarship Scheme, City Solicitor opportunities to actively engage Horizons and our commitment to PRIME. Over with community organisations the years, many people from across Herbert and programmes. Smith Freehills have put their hands up to offer support as mentors, as work experience hosts, The last three days have involved networking, personal development We aim to balance global or to speak at insight events. and professional and employability skill sessions. It has been great to initiatives that can achieve scale with a focus on driving change develop my networking skills from the fantastic volunteers from This year, thanks to the hard work of our IT at a local level. Priorities can colleagues, we have been able to continue Herbert Smith Freehills and JP Morgan. What really stood out to me vary greatly among our different delivering the majority of our programmes, about this internship is the personal development sessions that have regions and communities, so virtually. While this has presented challenges, it changed my mindset in a very positive way. In all, having finished this has also enabled us to involve a broader range of students outside our traditional catchment area, internship, I feel much better equipped to research careers and including harder-to-reach individuals. As the different pathways to success. I am very motivated after months of Covid-19 crisis subsides and we resume lockdown unpredictability. Thank you to everyone at Herbert Smith in-person programmes, we will be exploring how to build on our connection with this cohort Freehills, JP Morgan and 2-3 Degrees for making this possible. through greater use of virtual platforms. BRIGITA, NETWORKED SCHOLAR //30 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS Reconciliation Action Plan, Australia At Herbert Smith Freehills, we seek to elders aged 50 years and older, and foster a culture of friendship and those who have one or more chronic partnership between ourselves and medical conditions. Also, due to the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander recent travel restrictions, many peoples. We have been a partner of communities are facing their limited Reconciliation Australia since 2011, and supplies being disrupted. As these through this framework we assist impacts have unfolded, we have sought Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander to adapt our programmes and refocus individuals and organisations on a wide our support. This has included pro bono range of legal issues. We were proud to legal work, financial contributions be the first law firm to receive an ‘Elevate participating in Jawun secondments, RAP’ (Reconciliation Action Plan) in tutoring Indigenous students and hosting 2015, and we are committed to continue interns remotely. leading in this area. Please visit our website to read more Parliament Delegates at the historic Uluru Convention – May 2019 © Jimmy Widders Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander about our RAP ‘Year in Review’. people are considered to be the most vulnerable to Covid-19, particularly Case study: constitutional reform and truth-telling – working with the Indigenous Law Centre UNSW and the Public Interest Advocacy Centre Case study: increasing employment The Uluru Statement from the Heart is Voice enshrined in the Constitution and for into the Australian Constitution. We have opportunities through CareerTrackers an invitation from First Nations people to a referendum as a national priority.” provided pro bono legal assistance and ‘walk with us in a movement for a better in-kind support, and worked with Professor In 2011 we became the first law firm to employment in other legal, corporate or future’. It was issued to the Australian As legal professionals, we are in a unique Megan Davis and her teams on all aspects partner with the CareerTrackers government roles. people on 26 May 2017 and calls for a position to assist in distilling the complexity of the Uluru Dialogue. As part of this Indigenous Internship programme, constitutionally enshrined First Nations of the debate around constitutional reform support, senior associate Emma which places Indigenous university The CareerTrackers Annual Gala Dinner Voice to Parliament, and a Makarrata so it is readily understood. This enables our Maple-Brown worked on secondment at students with corporate partner was a particularly special occasion as Commission to oversee a process of colleagues, families, clients and networks the Indigenous Law Centre NSW. organisations for 12 weeks each year to Kishaya Delaney, agreement-making and truth-telling. to better understand and consider the help build skills and confidence for a who has been an issues at stake. We have also provided pro bono legal career in the private sector. We have intern and a In 2019, along with other law firms, we support to a project called ‘Towards since hosted 43 interns across our paralegal within published a response to the Uluru In the past year, we have supported the Truth’. A collaborative partnership of the various practice offices nationally. Statement from the Heart. In it, we stated: work of the Indigenous Law Centre UNSW Public Interest Advocacy Centre and the groups across our “We recognise the Uluru Statement from (The University of New South Wales) Indigenous Law Centre UNSW, the In 2019/2020 we hosted nine interns firm, was the Heart as an historic mandate to create which has continued to work with First project provides practical foundational across our Australian offices over the announced as the a fuller expression of Australia’s Nations communities to progress thinking support for the truth-telling process called winter and summer internship periods. 2020 nationhood. We hear and support the call around the design of the Voice and the for in the Uluru Statement from the Heart. Six of our interns have successfully CareerTrackers Intern of the Year. This for the establishment of a First Nations structural change needed to embed this completed the Herbert Smith Freehills award recognises an individual’s summer clerkship programmes and achievement in three domains – study, have commenced, or have been offered, work and community, while highlighting a graduate position. At least seven of academic excellence. our interns have also gained I would be bold enough to say that the issue is important to all Australians who care about the future of our country. The declaration of the Uluru Statement from the Heart was a watershed moment. In the Uluru Statement, First Nations people came together and invited all Australian people to walk together 43 6 8 towards a better future. Lawyers play a key role in this because the first step along the path towards a better future is constitutional reform. Lawyers are best placed to explain how a Voice to Parliament can and should be enshrined in our Constitution. Our role is therefore important. Interns since HSF graduate Other legal/ EMMA MAPLE-BROWN, SENIOR ASSOCIATE – PRO BONO (PROJECTS) 2011 roles corporate roles //32 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS Sustainability We are profoundly concerned about the impact of climate change, both on a local and global scale. As a global business, we are conscious of our own environmental impacts, and strive to address them by developing sustainable business practices and reporting our most significant environmental impacts to internal and external audiences. It is important to our people, our clients and our communities that we take this seriously. This year marks the end of our current sustainability strategy, and as we look to the future and the launch of our new strategy, we will ensure that our ambitions are aligned to global reduction targets such as the Paris Agreement to keep a global temperature rise well below two degrees Celsius. The SDGs are a key guiding force as we develop this strategy – in particular our efforts to procure renewable energy in line with SDG 7; promote sustainable cities in line with SDG 11; encourage responsible resource use and recycling in line with SDG 12; and reduce our impact on climate change in line with SDG 13. No company can tackle these issues alone, they demand collaboration. We actively participate in business networks seeking to address the challenges of climate change and sustainable development. For instance, in 2014 we joined the Australian Legal Sustainability Alliance, a collaborative industry effort to address climate change by reducing members’ carbon footprint and adopting environmentally sustainable practices. Environmental People Leadership Pro bono and impact engagement community Our global sustainability strategy Commitment REDUCED BY Launched in 2016, our five-year strategy energy use per person by 13% and paper and systems and ensure we have the right 27% 15% focused on four key areas: environmental consumption by 43% per person. Despite processes in place to ensure continual impact, people engagement, leadership, this overall success, we are conscious that improvement year on year. Our priority now By 2020, we will reduce our global and pro bono and community. 2019 saw a slight increase in emissions per is to ensure we have a clear understanding carbon footprint by person, and recognise this as an area of our global carbon footprint – with the Over the last few years, we have worked which needs further scrutiny. initial focus of this work on verifying the 2016 hard to apply these principles across our carbon footprint of our extended operations global operations to ensure that our With this strategy coming to an end, we including our supply chain. Using this data, REDUCED BY interactions with the environment are partnered with a specialist consultancy 13% we are working together to set meaningful 1O% carefully managed and that we minimise towards the end of 2019 to develop a new vs. reduction targets for our scopes 1, 2 and 3 reduction in and mitigate any negative impacts from our strategy and goals in line with the global emissions aligned to what the world needs. energy use activities. climate and environmental agenda. Over by 2020 We look forward to sharing our new the last few years, we have worked hard to 2019 We developed an action plan and set some strategy and complete carbon footprint in improve the quality of our operational data challenging global targets to achieve by next year’s report. 2020: to reduce our carbon footprint by an REDUCED BY 30% 43% average of 15% per person, our energy use % change on % change on By 2020, we will by 10% per person and our paper previous year baseline (2016) reduce our paper consumption by 30% per person. We are consumption by Emissions per person +9.61% -27.24% pleased to report that in 2019, prior to the (tonnes of CO2e) onset of Covid-19, we met all three targets a year ahead of schedule: we reduced our Energy use per person -13.30% -12.87% carbon footprint per person by 27%, our (kWh) //34 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS We have been certified to Energy Management System ISO 50001 in the UK since November 2015. Case study: towards greener arbitrations – striving for sustainability in the way we work We are constantly looking for innovative These include exploring video alternative emissions created – a number equivalent ways to work in a more meetings with our clients, corresponding to four times the number of trees in Hyde environmentally-friendly way, and to electronically unless a hard copy is Park or all of the trees in Central Park. assist our clients in doing the same. The expressly required, enabling witnesses to Implementing our alternative ways of sustainable arbitration initiative forms give evidence via video link, addressing working throughout the arbitration part of our global push to encourage the e-waste (for instance by arranging for process can reduce these emissions to spread of these values. use of secure SharePoint sites rather zero. than USB sticks), and offsetting any In our client relationships, we are now travel emissions. Please visit our website to read more offering alternative ways of working that about greener arbitrations. directly reduce the carbon footprint of We have calculated that a medium-sized proceedings, from the first procedural arbitration on average requires just Reducing our emissions conference through to the hearing stage. under 20,000 trees to offset the carbon The most significant environmental impact from our operations comes 2% 2% from energy use in our offices. As such, the single biggest saving we can HSF arbitration case study: the make is through the procurement of renewable electricity. We’re making carbon footprint of a medium-sized arbitration 41% TRAVEL 98% real progress on this front, with our London, Belfast, Brussels and Madrid TOTAL We have mapped out the carbon footprint offices currently supplied with 100% green electricity. This accounts for CARBON of one of our previous London-seated 54% of our global electricity consumption, and we are working hard to arbitrations on which London-based fee 57% EMISSIONS grow this across our global network. earners have worked.1 Energy Flights Travel Taxis The recent increase in remote and agile working patterns has enabled a significant emissions Materials reduction from our offices, which will be reported next year as part of our 2020 data set. We hope to continue some of these savings after the Covid-19 crisis subsides. For instance, the increase in virtual meetings will be a permanent change to the way we work, with our leadership teams dedicated to supporting and enabling agile working habits. The move to more online meetups will mean that senior leaders and partners will no longer be flying so frequently to attend meetings, and we also anticipate a reduction in the need for, and a change in the way we use, our office spaces. Sustainability is a very important objective for the firm across our global network. This project reflects Where we do travel, and in particular with regards to the Global Partners Conference, we have committed to offset the associated CO2 emissions through the Sichuan Household Biogas our commitment to seeking new ways, or better leveraging existing ways, of operating and delivering Programme, which gives low-income households in rural China access to clean, convenient and first-class arbitration services to our clients in a smarter, greener and more sustainable manner. free biogas for cooking, heating and lighting. In fact, many of our practice leaders and partners have committed to go further by offsetting all of their flights. Through the programme, we have already supported over 1800 impoverished PAULA HODGES, PARTNER AND GLOBAL HEAD OF INTERNATIONAL ARBITRATION families and intend to grow this to support 5,000 families by 2026. 1. Details of these data calculations are available separately on demand. 2. Data published by Lucy Greenwood, founder of the Pledge for Greener Arbitration. //36 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS Brendan Harkin, Belfast The famous starlings of Belfast’s Albertbridge Third Clean City award for our Engaging our people London office We run a range of initiatives have plans to launch an additional around the world to bring our two this year. These have made In our London office we are water; installed a zip tap for still Waste and resource use proud to have been recognised with a platinum Clean City award and sparkling water; introduced a 30p extra charge for sustainability strategy to life and raise awareness of our responsibilities. great progress in driving engagement and progress towards our global sustainability for the third year running. The disposable paper coffee cups goals. Clean City award recognises and which reduced their use by 50% We have two sustainability action We are making considerable improvements in the way we reuse, recycle rewards businesses in the City of in six months; and removed groups, the Asia Pacific and Every year we celebrate World London that prioritise the single-use plastic items and Australian action group, and the Environment Day with a series of and dispose of waste. Across our network, our people take an active role reduction, reuse and recycling of replaced them with plant-based UK, US & EMEA action group. awareness-raising initiatives over in identifying improvements, and we recycle as many materials as we waste. In the past year, we have or aluminum products when These are led by partners, senior the course of a week. This year we can, including paper, card, cans, plastic and glass. removed all plastic bottles of necessary. management and office managers ran the event entirely remotely. A and ensure that we operate highlight of the week was our The phasing out of single-use plastics in all our offices has been a key focus over the last few consistently across our network. global photography competition, years, and we are pleased that after a coordinated effort, 80% of our network is now single-use ‘Nature on your Doorstep’. The plastics free. We aim to achieve 100% in 2021; unfortunately, we face new challenges in this area We also have ‘Green Teams’ focus was on appreciating local as we return to our offices, especially with the additional Covid-19 safety measures we are across our network who are environments, and we encouraged bringing in to protect our people, necessitating the use of disposable items such as gloves and responsible for local engagement all our employees to get outdoors masks. We are actively exploring the sourcing of non-plastic alternatives and hope to remain and running local events. As of and submit their entries for a single-use plastics free across the majority of our network. October 2020, we had six active chance to win a prize. Green Teams in place, and we Paper consumption has reduced dramatically. We have already exceeded our 2020 target to reduce paper usage by 30%, achieving a 43% reduction since 2016. This is a testament to the dedication of our people, as well as the use of new technologies to minimise waste. As part of our new sustainability strategy, we will continue to focus on making reductions and further explore the use of recycled paper where possible and electronic innovations. I love this year’s theme. It wasn’t until I travelled around the world that I truly appreciated the beautiful nature in Perth, WA and Australia. MICHELLE KO, PERTH //38 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS Paying the real Living Wage We were an early adopter of the UK Living have heard directly how this gives them a Wage, becoming accredited as a Living Wage better quality of life compared to friends and Employer in 2012. This extends to working with family who are not paid the Living Wage. third-party contractors such as our caterers Knowing the difference this makes, we will and cleaners to ensure their staff are paid the continue to champion this movement and real Living Wage too. Speaking to some of the influence those both inside and outside our employees from our onsite contractors, we network where we can. Responsible procurement As a firm we recognise that our impact Striving for greater diversity and inclusion within our supply chain is a good example. We survey key includes our supply chain of goods and suppliers annually to monitor their efforts, including services that enable us to support our whether they have policies and practices in place to clients. Our approach is centred around support diversity and inclusion among their employees. If we have any concerns, we engage with them to ensuring we work with suppliers who share our values and responsibility ensure their commitment to inclusion is lived in practice. For instance, this year we worked with one of Addressing the risks of modern slavery commitments. Our Responsible our local medical providers to ensure that their policies, Respect for and protection of internationally We are also taking further steps internally to processes and services were LGBT+ inclusive and that Procurement Policy underpins this they understood the additional barriers that may be recognised human rights is integral to our mitigate the risk of modern slavery, with approach to responsible procurement. This particular emphasis on educating our people approach. In addition, our suppliers are faced by LGBT+ people when accessing healthcare. includes eradicating the risks of modern around the risks faced by our businesses and required to conform with our Procurement slavery and human trafficking in our extended how these can be reduced. During the last 12 Over the next year, we are planning further Compliance Standards and have their own engagement with key suppliers on diversity and operations, with our policies and procedures months, 118 of our colleagues who are involved designed to identify and address any such in procurement and supplier management policies and procedures in place to ensure inclusion topics. We will also be launching a new guide risks. activities completed dedicated training on they share our commitment to the areas for contract managers – those responsible for modern slavery and human trafficking via a procurement across the firm – to educate them on this We carry out a regular risk assessment of our set out within it. important topic, and further embed diversity and bespoke online training course focused on global supply chain. Based on our most recent preventing exploitation. inclusion into all our procurement decisions. Elsewhere, assessment, we consider that the risk of As well as ensuring compliance with all local laws our work to understand the carbon impacts of our modern slavery and human trafficking in our Please visit our website to read our Modern relating to environmental protection, occupational supply chain will enable us to work more closely with business and supply chain is low. We also Slavery Statement in full. health and safety, non-discrimination and the our suppliers to reduce these. conduct an annual analysis of our spend with protection of internationally recognised human rights, proactive engagement means we use our influence to global suppliers so that we can understand the advocate for wider change on certain issues and full extent of our global supply chain; inform collaborate to share knowledge and develop solutions. our risk assessment approach with updated accurate information; identify potential emergent risks outside our ‘core’ offices; and engage further with our suppliers on issues relating to modern slavery and human trafficking risks. //40 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS About this report This report serves as our 2020 Communication on Progress, in line with our commitment to implementing the principles of the United Nations (UN) Global Compact and contributing to the UN Sustainable Development Goals.. UN Global Compact UN Sustainable Development Goals We became a signatory to the United Nations Global We work with major organisations in almost every Compact in 2016, agreeing to align our strategies and economic sector, in almost every corner of the globe. operations with this set of universal principles on We recognise that our main contribution towards the human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption, achievement of the UN SDGs is through the way we and to respect and advance these principles through manage and influence these relationships. our supply chain and stakeholder relationships. We reflect regularly on the goals in the context of our responsibilities as a global citizen, and use them as a lens through which to focus our efforts as a responsible business. Earlier this year our CEO, Justin D’Agostino, joined over 1,000 CEOs to endorse United Nations’ Statement on Renewed Global Cooperation and pledge to unite in the business of a better world. Due to the diverse nature of our operations and jurisdictions, we deliberately take a broad approach to our advancement of the SDGs. Throughout this report, we have introduced the actions we are taking. This year we have also shone a spotlight goals which are integral to our ambitions as a responsible business, where we believe we can have a uniquely positive impact. //42 For a full list of our global offices visit HERBERTSMITHFREEHILLS.COM © Herbert Smith Freehills2020 3848A/231020 Responsible Business
