John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Creating a sustainable future for energy and the built environment. Committed to sustainable development. Serving as our annual communication on progress (COP), this report provides an overview of Wood’s approach to sustainability; our strategy, challenges and progress made throughout 2019. Scope of the report Approach To view the report online visit: Produced by John Wood Group plc As a member of the United Nations woodplc.com/sustainability (operating as Wood), this report Global Compact this report serves as covers all companies and subsidiaries, Wood’s annual COP and developed in including joint ventures over which line with our member commitment. Wood has management control Our approach and disclosure is guided as operator, but those deemed as by the framework of the Global independently managed. Written Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards in collaboration with internal and and our contribution towards the 17 external stakeholders, the report has UN Sustainable Development Goals been reviewed and approved by our (SDGs). As we evolve and embed our Executive Leadership Team and Board strategy, we will work towards external for publication. verification of the report. At present, the majority of content reported in this report is already subject to third party review. We recognise the importance of future independent validation. 02 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Introduction 04 Planet 68 Foreword 04 Managing environmental risk 70 Wood at a glance 06 Reducing our environmental impact 74 Our business model 08 Raising environmental awareness and competence 90 Embedding sustainability 10 Delivering sustainability 12 Profit 94 Material matters 16 Delivering a sustainable business 96 Governance and management 20 Responsible business practice 104 Unlocking innovation 108 People 24 Sustainability on projects 114 Respecting human rights 26 Our people and culture 30 Index 120 Health, safety & security 48 Investing in our communities 60 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 03 Foreword Creating a better tomorrow Our vision of a better tomorrow is born from the opportunity sustainability presents today. Wood’s commitment to sustainability is at the heart of everything we do, grounded in our values and inspired by our passion for creating sustainable value for our people, our clients, investors and the communities where we live and work. As the world rapidly transitions to cleaner, more resilient, sustainable way of living, we recognise the world’s most critical challenges as our own. That’s why we are committed to delivering sustainable development through the work we do, the solutions and opportunities we create for our clients. As one of the world’s leading engineering and consultancy companies operating in energy and the built environment today, we are uniquely placed to help achieve the energy transition and the drive towards sustainable infrastructure. Our sustainability strategy centres around the internationally recognised ‘triple bottom line’ approach; focused on our social, environmental and economic impact. We refer to this as people, planet and profit, ensuring our framework allows a broader perspective towards delivering greater business value. 04 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index We are standing and speaking up. Influencing positive change for our: People Respecting, nurturing and empowering the people and places we impact. Planet Reducing environmental impact in the locations we operate in. Profit Realising enduring value for our people, investors and communities. Our year in focus Sustainable innovation and technology will be a key driver over the short to Committed to In 2019 safety continued to be one of medium term in enabling the energy sustainability our key focuses. I’m proud to report transition and delivering the sustainable Our commitment is that Wood is a our safety performance continue development agenda; prioritised as one place where people are treated fairly, to improve, with our global teams of Wood’s top material aspects, we respected, connected and cared for; achieving an 18% reduction in our all recognise the need to be future ready from how we recruit, to the employee injury frequency and a 50% reduction and able to adapt to the changing networks we create, and our industry in working at height incidents as part world around us, combining our passion partnerships, we believe we are of our strategic focus on high for unlocking innovation with enabling stronger together and recognise, potential incidents and the success of technology that will support sustainable encourage and celebrate the unique our safety staircase focusing on development. contribution each individual brings to Wood’s critical safety risk areas. Team Wood. As we move into 2020, Our efforts to reduce complexity in our Our ambition to reduce our sustainability will remain at the heart business, saw 70% of our employees of Wood. As we continue to evolve moving to harmonised terms and global carbon scope 1 & 2 our strategy, we aim to set our selves conditions, a 60% reduction in our emissions by 40% by 2030 is targets that will continue to challenge our business, our people and our number of legal entities, that has only the beginning for Wood. customers to do better, to create a helped remove internal barriers to collaboration and upgrading the better tomorrow. IT platform of over a third of our workforce, as part of upgrading our Partnership Robin Watson company wide IT infrastructure. for the goals Chief Executive As a member of the United Nations Reducing our impact Global Compact, we are committed to making the UN Global Compact Announcing our own ambition to and its principles part of the strategy, reduce our global carbon scope 1 & culture and day-to-day operations 2 emissions by 40% by 2030 is only the of our company, and to engaging in beginning for Wood, coupled with our collaborative projects which advance potential to create much greater the broader development goals of impact through the work we deliver to the United Nations, particularly the our customers in our collective goal to Sustainable Development Goals. reduce global carbon emissions. Through key partnerships and industry wide collaboration, we believe we can deliver scalable, sustainable solutions that supports the 17 Sustainable Development Goals, build global resilience and improve lives. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 05 Wood at a glance Global leader in consulting, projects and operations solutions in energy and the built environment. Our consultancy offering provides innovative solutions needed to solve our clients' biggest challenges. Our value-added projects and operations offerings help unlock and de-risk client projects, increase production, improve efficiency, reduce costs and extend asset life. 60+ 400+ 160+ c$10 bn 55,000+ countries offices year history revenue employees Our solutions defined Three service lines: operating model We have an optimised operating model that is Consulting Projects Operations solution sdefined. We deliver three principal services: • Consulting • Projects • Operations Two end markets: Across two broad end markets: • Energy • Built environment We believe this solutions defined operating model is highly efficient, aligns to our clients' requirements and provides significant Energy Built opportunities for pull-through sales environment and cross selling. Internally we are aligned into two broad reporting business groupings. End market breakdown: Our projects and operations service lines are managed in Asset Solutions and our consulting Energy: c85% offering is managed in Technical 15% Consulting Solutions. Upstream/midstream c35% 35% Downstream & chemicals c25% 25% Other energy c25% Built environment: c15% 25% Find out more about our business at: Find out more about our markets at: woodplc.com/ataglance woodplc.com/sectors 06 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index Our organisational structure Asset Solutions Technical Consulting (AS) Solutions (TCS) Provides projects and operations services across the Providing the innovative thinking and delivery excellence life cycle ranging from initial feasibility and design, needed to maximise value at every stage of the asset through construction, operation, maintenance and life cycle. In Q4 2019 our Specialist Technical Solutions decommissioning. AS is split into two regional business (STS) and Environment & Infrastructure Solutions (E&IS) groupings; Americas (ASA) and Europe, Africa, Asia & business units were combined to create TCS. Australia (ASEAAA). Revenue: Revenue: $7.0 bn c70% $2.8 bn c30% Key services: Key services: Projects Operations Consulting Project management & delivery Asset optimisation Specialist engineering Engineering design Modifications Infrastructure development Construction Maintenance Environmental consulting End market breakdown: End market breakdown: c5% Energy: c95% c15% Energy: c50% Upstream/ Upstream/ c15% midstream c50% midstream c15% c50% c5% Downstream & Downstream & chemicals c30% c50% chemicals c5% c30% Other energy c15% c30% Other energy c30% Built environment: c5% Built environment: c50% ASA ASEAAA TCS Revenue Revenue Revenue $3.9 bn $3.1 bn $2.8 bn Service breakdown Service breakdown Service breakdown c75% c25% c40% c60% 100% Projects Operations Consulting John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 07 Our business model We create value by delivering differentiated consulting, projects and operations solutions throughout the asset life cycle in energy and the built environment. Our clearly defined purpose and strategy, underpinned by our culture, is fundamental to sustaining value over the longer-term. Inputs Our strategy is to create a premium, differentiated, higher margin consulting, projects and operations solutions business Performance driven and innovative solutions Four primary trends shape our markets and drive our strategy. Our capabilities are levered to structural growth in energy transition and sustainable infrastructure and aligned to the increasing role of digital & technology and the requirement to develop the necessary future skills. Talented, flexible and motivated workforce See pages 30-47 Energy Sustainable transition infrastructure Operating structure Services aligned development optimised for sustainability, to the transition Capabilities to solve cross-service line to alternative the challenges of opportunities and energy sources and Our purpose rapid urbanisation future growth decarbonisation To create a sustainable See pages 96-103 future for energy Future Digital & and the built skills technology Efficient capital environment Investing in agile and Utilising the increased structure and allocation digitally connected role of technology to teams to accelerate enhance the delivery value for Wood and of our technical our clients capabilities Flexible commercial model with a balanced risk appetite Our five medium-term priorities: Robust risk governance 1 2 3 and operations assurance policies and processes Targeting margin Optimise and Rationalisation improvement to standardise service and positioning of accelerate growth delivery model to portfolio to optimise See pages 20-23 achieve exceptional our service and execution market mix aligned to our strategic 4 5 objectives Sustainability strategy aligned with UN goals Technology Improved risk/ differentiation reward on contracts See pages 14-15 through internal R&D, in line with balanced strategic partnerships risk appetite and scaleable solutions 08 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index Our culture Our vision Our values Our behaviours Inspire with ingenuity, Care Listen up Team up partner with agility, Commitment Lift others up Don't give up To find out more visit: create new possibilities... Courage Stand up Speak up woodplc.com/values Creating value through our differentiated model Value outputs Our strategic enablers: For investors • Share price appreciation and progressive dividend policy • Reduced cyclicality through broad industry exposure Total dividend 35.3 cents per share Agile teams Exceptional execution For employees We deploy our most talented We are differentiated by our Rewarding careers and people with agility to deliver the shared commitment to consistently focus on retention right solutions now and in the delivering exceptional outcomes future. Our ability to adapt keeps that add value and build trust. We Employees us relevant and offers great have around 90% repeat business opportunities for our people. and have developed leading market positions from our long track record 55,000+ of delivering safe and best in class projects. Read more on pages 30-47 For clients • Delivery of predictable project outcomes • Global reach with balanced portfolio of long-term partner relationships with $ clients • Leading technical services and smarter, more Commercial acumen Technological advantage sustainable solutions • Track record on industry We employ an asset light, flexible We deliver greater efficiencies leading projects model allowing us to respond quickly and create new solutions through to changes in market conditions and combining our unique know-how allocate capital where it impacts with leading-edge, enabling most. Our contracting structures technology. We provide solutions For communities are largely reimbursable with to some of the world's most Significant contribution to local a range of specific contracting complex projects and draw on our employment and communities structures to align with client needs extensive expertise and know how within our measured risk appetite. to bring new perspectives on the Employee fundraising matched We have a broad client base with challenges these projects present. a wide mix across sectors giving us low client dependency. c£200,000 Read more on page 60-67 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 09 Embedding sustainability Sustainability is not just an imperative, but an opportunity for Wood to deliver on our vision to inspire with ingenuity, partner with agility, and create new possibilities through today, into tomorrow. The world is facing unprecedented challenges in sustainable development, driven by the effects of climate change and increasing demand for resources. Wood has the technological skills and capabilities to meet these challenges, in delivering sustainable solutions to market that creates valuable change to society and world we share. Success means sustainability runs like a thread throughout our business, from the innovations we make, through to the partners we work with and the individuals making our projects happen. Creating a new and sustainable future is our enduring goal. Value of sustainability Our approach to sustainability is informed by our stakeholder relationships and understanding what they want and need from Wood. Our key stakeholder groups have strong sustainability drivers which Wood are well placed to support to achieve sustainable growth. Sustainability offers a holistic lens through which to view our stakeholder needs: Customers want us to deliver innovative services supporting their sustainability aspirations. We must ensure we bring the right mix of services to market. Employees want a great place to work and we want to attract and retain talented individuals. 10 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index Shareholders want us to manage our environmental, social and governance Our approach Our approach is simple, focussing on three factors, People (social), Planet risks to enable sustainable growth and Understanding what makes a business (Environmental) and Profit (Economic). we want to access capital to support sustainable is vital to Wood’s success. Our strategy embeds sustainable future growth Transforming our business to meet practice into every aspect of our the needs of tomorrow, we see the business; ensuring our approach aligns to Partners want a good company to work importance of adapting our business to global priorities and the part Wood plays and innovate with, to deliver long-term meet societal needs and evolving global in a sustainable future for us all. From sustainable solutions. We want to be challenges. By making sustainability the services we provide, to the work we attractive to the right opportunities core to everything we do, we remain deliver our aim is to create sustainable competitive in our industries and create value for our customers, employees, Suppliers want a platform to sell their sustainable value for the people and society and the environment around us. product/services and we want reliable, places we touch. ethical supply chains At Wood, we are constantly working to Communities want fair and ethical ensure sustainability remains, simply companies that they trust, and we how we do business. Empowering want to show them that we are a our people to take ownership of our trusted and caring company collective future and their actions, we are working towards a more sustainable future, ensuring everyone plays their part and feels connected to our sustainability journey. The solutions we provide The work we choose How we choose to deliver We deliver three principal services: Energy transition Inspire with innovation • Consulting Values driven • Projects Sustainable infrastructure Creating value partnerships • Operations development Supporting local Across two broad end markets: Digital & technology Empowering people • Energy Improving health and wellbeing • Built environment Future skills Reducing environmental impact See pages 96-103 See pages 86-89 and 108-119 Throughout report The value we create People Planet Profit Respect, nurture and Preserve and protect the Deliver sustainable value develop the people and natural environment for to our people, clients, places we impact future generations investors and communities See page 24 See page 68 See page 94 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 11 Delivering sustainability Sustainability forms the core of our governance systems; part of our licence to operate. However, Wood’s Sustainability strategy goes beyond our core governance to focus on our lead to transform issues. We seek to achieve transformational change that will lead to greater sustainability; from building the foundations of our programme, to setting targets and objectives, our sustainability strategy operates at a strategic and business level to ensure we remain focused on the issues where Wood can deliver greatest impact towards global sustainability. Our progress At the end of 2019, we continued to operate in phase two of our programme development, working with our leadership and Board to set targets and objectives for Wood that will support the global sustainability agenda and set our trajectory across the people, planet and profit agenda. Defining our strategy, in late 2019, we focused discussions with our Board and Executive Leadership Team (ELT) on setting targets and objectives for Wood across a number of key priority issues. Key material aspects under discussion include: • Carbon Footprint • Consumption of single use plastics • Gender balance • Diversity and inclusiveness of our business • Modern slavery and human rights • Energy Transition and Sustainable Infrastructure Development See our material matters on pages 16-19 12 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index As discussions progress through 2020, we hope to set both hard and soft targets that will set Wood’s strategic direction on sustainability, aligned with the UN Sustainable Development Goals and our contribution to the global 2030 target roadmap. Reducing our impact A priority of our sustainability programme has been defining our carbon footprint and setting emissions target for Wood that aligns to global carbon ambitions and limiting global temperature rise. In 2019, we were able to report a combined data set for the business, producing our first ever scope 1 & 2 baseline, allowing us to target group wide emissions reduction; a commitment to reduce our global scope 1 & 2 emissions by 40% by 2030. Set for implementation in 2020, we will work with a third party to validate our emissions data, including work to conduct a more thorough scope 3 materiality assessment, with our intent to seek validation of our target set through the Science Based Target Initiative (SBTi). Committed to reduce our global scope 1 & 2 emissions by 40% by 2030. Read more about Wood’s carbon target, our methodology and plans for delivery on pages 78-79 Our sustainability journey Phase 1 Building awareness and understanding Phase 2 Identifying goals and strategy Phase 3 Sustaining Initial programme Inaugural Report SDGs informing Setting set up Outlining our triple Wood Wood’s Agenda Materiality bottom line approach, Reviewing Wood's Targets assessment to identify complying with the UNGC programmes underpinned by key sustainability COP and using GRI against the 17 strategy elements reporting methodology SDGs and GRI KPIs for delivery Prioritised Focus Ownership Target Setting Review and renew Community Investment Assigning Alignment of Undertake annual Committee, Carbon ownership across UN and Wood’s review on materiality management alignment, functions/business agenda and and periodic review Human Rights Committee, units for elements identifying targets of Wood’s agenda, Sustainability network of the programme reflected in our annual sustainability report John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 13 Delivering sustainability Aligning to Global Our SDG contribution through the services we provide Sustainability Goals To support our sustainability aims Wood is connected into a wider global sustainability conversation through our relationship with the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). Seeking to lead the energy Focused on future skills, We use the structures and transition, reducing the cost of tidal attracting and nurturing future frameworks produced by the UNGC power is one area Wood is helping talent, we place a focus on and its associated partners to help to increase the mix of renewable developing a diverse and inclusive structure and focus our sustainability energy in the global energy mix. approach to recruitment and strategy, in particular around the decent work for all. UN Sustainable Development Goals. Agreed by all UN Member states and See pages 110 and 117 of this report Read about our work to support Indigenous launched in September 2015, the on our collaboration on the ELEMENT Peoples on pages 34-35, as well as our wider and TiPA Projects, as well as our role in People and Culture section, to see our focus sustainable development goals focus the Advancing the energy transition on on early careers and creating a diverse and on 17 key areas with 169 underlying pages 86-89. inclusive culture at Wood. global targets that seek to create a sustainable world. Tackling a broad range of social environment and economic development issues, the global goals promote a socially fair, economically secure, prosperous and inclusive planet, which our Wood sustainability strategy supports and aims to contribute towards. Through our focus on sustainable Alongside our ambition to reduce infrastructure development and our our own carbon emissions, working Our core business in the energy work on global infrastructure projects with our customers, we believe we sector means through the work we and key partnerships, we believe we have the potential to contribute do, we contribute directly towards can make cities more inclusive, safe much greater reductions to global SDGs 6,7,8,13,11 and 15, however how and resilient today, for tomorrow. greenhouse gas emissions. we choose to operate touches on each of the 17 goals in some way. Woven throughout this report and other Wood publications, we aim to Read about our key partnerships in Read about Wood’s own carbon advancing global resilience on pages 114-116, commitments on pages 78-79, create a continual narrative around including our work on major infrastructure as well as our focus on climate the goals, linking Wood’s contribution projects on pages 118-119 and page 37 of action in our wider Reducing our to advancing the global sustainable our 2019 Annual Report and Accounts. environmental impact section. development goals and 2030 agenda. Our work for clients across the From breakthrough remediation water sector is helping to address projects to applying innovative water security, in providing technology to conventional waste sustainable water infrastructure management solutions, our technical solutions for communities expertise are applied to over 1000 impacted by the global water crisis. remediation projects annually, as just one example of our expertise as a leader in integrated environmental and infrastructure solutions. Read about our work to improve aging Read about Wood’s recent work to protect water infrastructure in Barbados on habitat in Canada on page 83, or read more page 84, as well as our employees going about our portfolio of work at: above and beyond, to provide a struggling woodplc.com/capabilities/environmentcommunity in Ecuador with access to a and-infrastructure-solutions safe, clean water supply on page 67. 14 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index Our SDG contribution through the work we choose and how we choose to deliver Supporting our communities, in particular Focused on the health and Aligned to SDG 4 and quality helping those experiencing extreme wellbeing of our people and education for all, Wood’s Global poverty or hunger is a focus across our communities, providing a safe, Cause helps unite our people behind global business in our commitment to secure and healthy working a singular cause and demonstrate understand, engage and review our environment ensures we contribute our collective impact towards impact as a community partner. to global health and well-being. improving education for all. Examples of our community efforts to Read about Wood's focus on driver Read about our global cause and in tackle issues of poverty, hunger and safety and reducing driving incidents particular our annual challenge on nutrition refer to pages 60-67 of this report across our business on pages 54-55, as education on pages 60-67. or visit: woodplc.com/sustainable-recovery/ well as our support to raising awareness caring-for-our-communities. and management of epidemics such as AIDS and Tuberculosis on page 57. Building a diverse and inclusive culture Through industry collaboration As part of our strategy to reduce is important for Wood, our colleagues and our strategic focus on our impact on the environment, we and our clients. Our focus on equality digital and technology, we are place a focus on managing natural across our business is a strategic unlocking innovation to support resource across our operations priority for Wood towards our aim to sustainable development to be as well as joining global action on provide an environment that promotes future ready, now. topics such as single use plastic. a sense of belonging in our community. Read more about our efforts on culture, Read more about our approach Read more about our approach to inclusion and equality on pages 30-35, as to unlocking innovation on pages waste management on page 85, as well our focus on employee networks to help 108-116 or learn more about our well as our action on reducing single use us grow, understanding and support our partners at: woodplc.com/digitalplastics across our business on page 93. people and communities, on pages 37-40. and-technology/our-partners. Our values underpin our approach to business and our commitment to always ‘do the right thing’. We aim to be a partner of choice for our people, customers and investors, operating with ethics and integrrity in all that we do. Read about our ongoing collaboration on worker welfare ,with the business led coalition Building Responsibly on page 29, as well as our approach to ensuring Wood remains a responsible business on pages 104-107. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 15 Material matters The success of Wood’s sustainability programme relies on our ability to focus on the matters most material to our nearand long-term business activities. Engaging with our stakeholders, we must remain balanced in our decision making on topic’s material to the success of our business. Understanding stakeholder perspectives and effectively assessing the evolving risks towards our operations will ensure we make informed decisions that help support strategic delivery and Wood’s sustainable development. Informed by the UN Sustainable Development Goals and aligned to environmental, social and governance (ESG) risk standards, Wood’s strategic approach incorporates our material aspects to ensure we remain focused on the right issues and effectively assess our impacts across the people, planet and profit agenda. United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Committed to the principles of the UN Global Compact, assessing our contribution towards the 17 global sustainable development goals (SDGs) is a vital element of our approach to materiality that ensures Wood’s activities reflect global ambition and the sustainable development targets. Splitting our contribution to the goals through the lens of work we do and the solutions we provide and the goals we impact through how we choose to operate, we are best able to prioritise our contribution and reflect this in our materiality assessment. 16 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index Understanding our risks Key to achieving our sustainability ambitions is understanding the key issues that present risk to our business. Our materiality assessment is informed by: • Our corporate strategy • Our vision and values • Stakeholder engagement • Wood’s principle risks • Global mega trends Our sustainability programme provides the opportunity for Wood to communicate strong management of ESG risks and opportunities to our investors and analysts. Our sustainability approach, measurement and reporting enables effective communication to our key stakeholders and in particular further detail our impact across the sustainable infrastructure and energy transition markets, which remain critical to Wood’s business strategy. Our materiality Define scope and purpose process Defining what materiality means to Wood, the objectives of the process Wood’s approach to materiality and the key stakeholders involved Stakeholder Identify focuses on defining key stakeholder feedback potential topics and ESG materiality priorities, taking 1 Seek stakeholder Creating a list of all a 7-step approach to determining feedback on material potential material what we deem material to Wood’s topics reported risks to Wood's success through internal and external 7 2 success engagement. Conducting an annual review of our material matters, our materiality process creates a consistent approach to help capture Leadership Materiality Categorise all fundamental changes as our engagement topics process business and stakeholder needs Engage leadership Refining the list of to test the results 6 3 potential material evolve. of the materiality topics by grouping Our 7-step process: assessment and into categories validate the outcome • Define scope and purpose • Identify potential topics 5 4 • Categorise topics Prioritise topics Research impact and • Research impact and importance importance Prioritise material • Prioritise topics topics based on Research and explore each • Leadership engagement strategic importance, topic to fully understand stakeholder importance its relevance to Wood • Stakeholder Feedback and value chain impact and importance to our stakeholder audience John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 17 Material matters Our progress and Prioritised material matters materiality mapping Addressing our material matters in 1. Health and safety line with our evolving sustainability 2. Labour strategy, in 2019 we refreshed our 12 investment & materiality assessment to better 1 relations align to Wood’s principle risks and 3. Diversity & our approach to sustainability. 9 inclusion Categorising our material aspects 7 Important to our key stakeholders 4. Human rights against our people, planet and profit 10 5. Community model, each material topic includes Biodiversity 3 investment a variety of sustainability issues 6. Pollution that have been grouped to provide 11 prevention 4 priority focus for our business. Water 7. Climate change consumption 2 6 8. Resource Our material aspects align to Wood’s efficiency strategic approach on sustainability Collective bargaining 5 9. Licence to and are reviewed annually to ensure 8 operate these remain relevant. Some of Packaging 10. Ethics and the additional topics covered in Public compliance our materiality process have been policy Security practices 11. Addressing included on our materiality map, to modern slavery illustrate some of the material risks Labelling in our value chain considered alongside our prioritised 12. Sustainable 12 material aspects. innovation & technology Material impact to Wood Outlining our Strategic framework strategic focus The triple bottom line is an internationally recognised accounting nd Clim ity a cha ate framework with three parts: social, ivers sion nge D lu environmental (or ecological) and inc financial, or in its simple terms People, Planet, Profit. We have adopted this framework to evaluate our n Hu tio m llu ion performance in a broader perspective Po vent rig an hts to create greater business value. e pr Additionally, it helps us to simplify and Peo et ple an structure our approach, especially in communicating our materials aspects. Pl Creating sustainable ity Our framework elements include: Commun t Effic value • Diversity and inclusion en iency • Human rights engagem • Community engagement • Climate change P ro fi t • Pollution prevention n ov er Inn • Efficiency at io od ery n M av • Modern slavery sl Ethics and • Ethics and compliance compliance • Innovation 18 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index People Planet Profit Our social Impact Our environmental impacts Our economic impact Our material matters include: Our material matters include: Our material matters include: 1. Health and safety 6. Pollution prevention 10. Ethics and compliance 2. Labour investment & relations 7. Climate change 11. Addressing modern slavery 3. Diversity & inclusion 8. Resource efficiency in our value chain 4. Human rights 9. Licence to operate 12. Sustainable innovation & technology 5. Community investment Safety is our top priority. As well as Reducing our impact on the Operating with ethics and integrity being a moral and legal obligation, environment and our contribution to in all that we do is fundamental to ensuring we promote a zero harm and the global efforts on tackling climate ensuring we maintain, protect and healthy working environment helps change are a strategic priority for strengthen the reputation of Wood. reduce the risk of any significant HSSE Wood. Ensuring we manage, protect Ensuring we embed and sustain a event, which may lead to harm to and enhance our environment is strong ethical culture across our people, damage to the environment and fundamental to the sustainability global operations is vital to ensure damage to Wood’s reputation. We rely of our business. The services we we act responsibly, and in line with on a capable and engaged workforce to provide, the standards we set and all legal and moral obligations. ensure delivery of our strategic business how we execute our projects help Addressing modern slavery and objectives. Creating a diverse and shape the performance, profitability human rights risk in our value inclusive approach to business makes and reputation. Through excellence chain is crucial to ensuring Wood Wood an employer of choice and agile in in execution we assure our effective remains focused on addressing our responding to evolving community and understanding, mitigation and evolving areas of risk. Third party generational needs. Creating a future management of environmental issues relationships, where our value ready workforce ensures we continue protecting Wood’s licence to operate chain extends beyond our principle to attract, develop and retain talented and our ability to successfully deliver to contractor creates opportunity people within our organisation, fostering our stakeholders on our obligation to for the potential manifestation of an environment that empowers protect the environment. Ensuring we human rights issues, in particular leadership and ingenuity, through an protect natural resource and remain issues around modern slavery. organisational structure that is fit for focused on unlocking efficiencies we Sustainability is transforming the purpose and connected to the voice of reduce our impacts on the environment competitive landscape we see our people and communities. and align to global sustainability goals today, for Wood to remain relevant that will directly affect many of wood’s future ready, we must adapt operating markets. through combining our passion for unlocking innovation with enabling technology that will support sustainable development. Read more: Read more: Read more: Respecting human rights 26 Managing environmental risk 70 Delivering a sustainable 96 Our people and culture 30 Reducing our 74 business Health, safety and security 48 environmental impact Responsible business practice 104 Investing in our communities 60 Raising environmental awareness 90 Unlocking innovation 108 and competence Sustainability on projects 114 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 19 Governance and management Strong leadership and high standards of governance are vital to embedding sustainability at the heart of Wood. Driving the delivery of our strategy and continued sustainable development, our approach to managing sustainability sets the parameters for our decisionmaking to deliver our commitment to remain accountable, transparent, responsible, and ethical in all that we do. True to our vision and values, the governance structures we set help translate the culture we aim to create through the collective actions of our people and the focus we place on delivering sustainable value. Sustainability is woven throughout Wood’s governance framework to ensure sustainability is not stand-alone, but embedded across our governance structure, as simply how we do business. Leadership structure and accountability Wood’s Board of Directors are responsible for the stewardship of Wood, including our sustainability programme and strategic direction. At the board level, sustainability is overseen by our Safety, Assurance and Business Ethics (SABE) Committee and ensures the groups activities remain in line with group policies and value commitment. The SABE committee is chaired by a non-executive of the Board and attended by Wood’s Chief Executive Officer (CEO). At the Executive Leadership level, the CEO has appointed the Executive President for HSSEA as the Executive Leader for sustainability. The Executive Leadership Team provides oversight, support and approval for the Wood sustainability programme, which is presented to the SABE committee on a quarterly basis. Read more about Wood’s Board and Committees on pages 58-74 of our 2019 Annual Report and Accounts. 20 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index Managing risk We take a bottom up and top down approach to identifying risks across Wood. Detailed in the group’s risk management framework, risk registers are developed at an individual contract or project level and escalated upwards through Business Unit (BU) risk registers towards quarterly Executive Leadership review. Complimented by group functional risk registers, emerging risks are identified throughout the year and escalated to the ELT as part of their monthly meetings, discussed during the Group Risk Committee and further escalated to the Board as required. This process follows the group risk management framework, which applies to all risks. Each of the non-executive directors provides their perception of emerging risks, and a crosscheck against the principal and emerging risks identified by Wood’s peer group is also undertaken, both of which inform the mid-year Board discussion on risk. A Group risk management standard Role of the Board and Committees was developed in 2018 and fully rolled out in 2019 detailing the Wood risk management framework and process, Board which codifies existing practice. The Board focuses its time and energy on strategy, significant acquisitions and disposals, deleveraging, the annual budget and performance against it, monitoring and assessment of The risk management standard is the culture, monitoring the performance of the management team and risk management, specifically formal overarching risk management focusing on principal risks and the overall system of internal control. The Board has delegated process within Wood that complements some of its responsibilities to the Executive Leadership Team (ELT) and the Board Committees – the Safety, Assurance & Business Ethics Committee, the Nomination Committee, the Audit current policies and processes across the Committee and the Remuneration Committee. Group. The purpose of the standard is to: • Ensure there is a formal, structured Safety, Assurance Nomination Audit Remuneration and consistent risk management & Business Ethics Committee Committee Committee process across Wood Committee Monitors and Responsible for Advises the Board • Identify, mitigate, and manage risks Responsible reviews the compliance with on executive that occur for the Group’s structure, size and financial reporting remuneration safety strategy composition of standards, and sets the • Provide visibility over business risks and performance the Board, makes consideration packages of each to inform leadership and for ensuring recommendations of the internal of the executive compliance with regard to financial and directors within During the second half of 2019, work with laws and any changes and IT control the approved has also been ongoing to develop a regulations ensures Board environment and remuneration including business succession plans the relationship policy. project risk management standard ethics. are in place. with the external to align existing practices across the auditor. Group. This development has been carried out as part of an overall initiative on execution excellence, which Executive Leadership Team sets out a more consistent approach The ELT operates under the authority of the Chief Executive and comprises the Group CFO plus to overall project governance. The the CEOs of our three business units and the leaders of our key functional areas: HSSEA; People project risk management standard is & Organisation; Strategy & Development. They are responsible for delivering against the strategy approved by the Board. a subsidiary document to the Group risk management standard and will be rolled out in early 2020. Find out more about the ELT at: woodplc.com/leaders Read more about Wood’s principle risks and uncertainties on pages 45-49 of our 2019 Annual Report and Accounts. Read an example of Wood’s principle risk: failure to meet our ESG responsibilities on page 75 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 21 Governance and management Management document hierarchy Management Woods ATRAC system is our global system in which all assurance system & assurance activities are planned and monitored to completion. It also facilitates the Everyone in Wood works within our capture and management of all NonPolicies group wide management system, Conformities and Improvement Actions whether it is managing projects, arising from both planned assurance and Standards undertaking a risk assessment, operational delivery. This system enables producing an engineering deliverable, Processes full transparency of assurance and action recruiting a new hire or completing a status across our global operations and timesheet. The way we work has been Procedures provides real time reporting. Assurance designed to be repeatable and ensure outputs from internal audit are Guidance our operations are effectively managed reported through the Audit Committee, and controlled to act a baseline for whilst output from Operations Forms & Templates our assurance activities. Sustainability Assurance is reported through the issues are addressed throughout the Safety, Assurance and Business Ethics content of our management system and Committee back to the Board. our document hierarchy which sets high level policy down to guidance, forms and templates for the business to follow. Wood deploys a structured approach Corporate Assurance in Wood to assuring our financial compliance, management systems and business controls are effectively deployed. Business Assurance Operations Assurance The outputs from these assurance activities are reported as part of senior Internal Audit Group Operations Assurance management review structure and • Finance • HSSE assurance at a group level is defined into • Legal • Technical two defined areas, Business assurance • People & Organisation • Quality and operations assurance. • Strategy & Development • Ethics & Compliance Business Unit Delivery Assurance • AS EAAA & Americas • TCS 22 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index Driving sustainable action We recognise the need to embed our approach across our employee base and drive local and business unit level action that will advance our sustainability strategy and vision to deliver our contribution to global sustainable development goals. Creating a sense of pride in delivering a sustainable approach to business, we firmly believe action must be led by our business and owned by our employees. Our global sustainability champions network, supported by business unit global champions seeks to communicate and embed our global strategy across Wood, creating business unit level strategies that support our global direction and driving local level action around our motto ‘Think Globally, Act Locally’. Read more on Wood's champion network on page 91 Stakeholder Managing As a member of the UN Global Compact our sustainability programme engagement our impact is guided by the principles set and the 2030 agenda to achieving the To deliver our strategy and create We believe our impact as a global 17 sustainable development goals. sustainable value, we must fully business provides opportunity for Wood Communicating our sustainability understand our stakeholders, what to deliver sustainable impact, not just impacts through annual publication matters to them and the value through our own actions but that of our of this report, our Annual Report and Wood can bring to our shared customers and value chain partners. Accounts and voluntary reporting journey on sustainable development. Our influence as a global leader in the such as our CDP Climate Change Understanding our stakeholders will industries we operate, creates new submission, we are able to disclose our only be achieved by building strong, possibilities for even greater sustainable social, environmental, and economic constructive relationships and through impact to the people and places we performance and the progress of our regular engagement. We welcome touch, beyond our own footprint sustainability strategy. the different perspectives our diverse and control. Similar to our approach stakeholders, who often represent on carbon reduction, we believe we competing interests, bring to our can help our customers to achieve Read more on Wood’s CDP Climate Change greater sustainability by partnering on submission on page 77 or visit: decision making at both executive and www.cdp.net/en/climate Board level. We see power in creating sustainable development through the value partnerships that help achieve services we offer, that differentiate Wood our own, and global sustainability in the industries we operate. Influencing goals. Through effective stakeholder our supply chain partners, we recognise engagement, we are able to partner our responsibility to set standards of with the right people, the right delivery that align to Wood’s approach customers, investors and suppliers to on sustainability and our expectations of contribute sustainable impact to the conduct, beyond our direct control. local economy, society and environment we share. 26,000+ Read more on stakeholder engagement Suppliers on pages 08-10 of our 2019 Annual $3.6 bn Report and Accounts Annual spend on third party materials and services John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 23 People We commit to respect, nurture and develop the people and places we impact. Respecting human rights Wood is committed to the protection and enhancement of internationally proclaimed human rights. Respecting human rights is fundamental to the sustainability of our business and we take our obligations in this area extremely seriously, reflecting this in the culture of our organisation, our values and code of conduct. Read more on page 26 Our people and culture Our success as a sustainable business lies in our people. We connect, share and understand one another, valuing and celebrating the individual backgrounds, experiences and expertise we bring together. Read more on page 30 Health, safety & security We place our people at the heart of everything we do. Everyone has the right to expect a healthy, safe and secure working environment and our goal is to ensure our people return home safe at the end of every day, better for having worked at Wood. Read more on page 48 Investing in our communities We aim to build strong and lasting relationships in the communities we share. Wood aspires to be a trusted community partner and we recognise our responsibility to respect, nurture and empower the people and locations we impact. Read more on page 60 24 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index In this section: Respecting human rights 26 Our people and culture 30 Health, safety & security 48 Investing in our communities 60 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 25 Respecting human rights Wood is committed to the protection and enhancement of internationally proclaimed human rights. Respecting human rights is fundamental to the sustainability of our business and we take our obligations in this area extremely seriously, reflecting this in the culture of our organisation, our values and code of conduct. As a global organisation, we recognise our accountability to mitigate the human rights risks related to our activities; as well as the opportunity for our business to have a positive impact on the communities we work with and the lives we touch. Embedded in our values and behaviours, we set the expectation of our people and those working on our behalf, to maintain high standards of ethical conduct and integrity, demanding collective accountability to promote a fair, respectful and dignified working culture at Wood. Foundations Our approach to human rights is aligned to the United Nations (UN) Declaration of Human Rights, the UN Guiding principles on Business and Human Rights and the UN Global Compact Principles. Wood is committed to operating our business in a transparent manner that aligns to global standards on human rights issues and the expectations of governments, investors and civil society. Our Code of Conduct outlines the expectations of our people on human rights commitments. Setting the minimum standards in how Wood operates, we demonstrate our values and behaviours through the actions of our people. Combined with our Supply Chain Code of Conduct, our approach is applicable to our people, as well as our contractors and suppliers to promote dignity, respect and fairness for how we treat people and those we interact with, in all that we do. 26 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index Our Human Rights policy documents and affirms Wood’s commitment to upholding human rights. Supported by global policies that address key human rights issues, each policy provides clarity on our approach and management of human rights risk; supporting documents include: • Equal Opportunities Policy • Harassment Policy • Diversity and Inclusion Policy • Modern Slavery & Human Trafficking Statement Read more on our Code of Conduct, our 24/7 ethics hotline and general approach to responsible practice on pages 104-107 Our Human Rights Policy can be found at: woodplc.com/humanrights Governance Assessing Human Modern slavery and How we manage human rights risks, Rights Risk human trafficking both direct and in-direct to our The evolving nature of our global We accept our responsibility to ensure operations, will determine the success business brings significant challenge our people, as well as those in our value of our business and our social license to in managing human rights issues and chain are not subject to any form of operate. We recognise the importance we recognise the need for continual modern slavery, whether this is human of strong leadership on human rights identification and mitigation of trafficking or forced and bonded labour. issues and communication at all levels human rights risks. Annually, we assess Wood publishes an annual statement of the organisation to ensure we our global operations to ensure we on modern slavery, which complies with manage and enhance our approach. continually evaluate our principle risks the Modern Slavery Act 2015 (UK) and Human rights is a key element of and the areas of our business with the Australian Modern Slavery Act 2018. Wood’s sustainability programme potential for the manifestation of Aligned to our approach to respect and a focus for multiple stakeholders human rights issues. In many locations, human rights, the annual review of within Wood as part of our governance our operations are conducted on behalf our modern slavery statement forms structure, it is therefore imperative that of a client where we operate with the basis of our annual assessment we reflect these matters effectively in varied degree of management control. of human rights risks and provides a our management processes to ensure In this light we determine our greatest transparent overview of how we assess, we deliver on our commitments. risks come from Wood’s third-party manage and mitigate the risk of modern Our Human Rights and Modern Slavery relationships, in particular third-party slavery and human trafficking across Oversight Committee helps connect labour where our contractors utilise our business. Our annual modern slavery our Supply Chain, Commercial, People & recruitment agencies and labour statement details our performance Organisation and Sustainability teams brokers for the employment of low and efforts to build capacity on human in our commitment to prevent, detect skilled personnel. rights issues, to help protect against our and remedy human rights issues within involvement in modern slavery. Wood and our supply chain. Activities Our Modern Slavery Statement can be found at: woodplc.com/modernslavery Read more about our code of to evolve and advance our approach conduct training on page 107 on human rights are communicated through monthly sustainability, as well as functional reporting to provide ELT and Board oversight. In 2019, the committee remained focused on the management and development of Wood’s annual Governance structure Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Wood Board & Committees Statement, whilst efforts continued to advance our sustainability strategy Executive Leadership Team (ELT) towards setting human rights targets that will become the future focus of the Functional Monthly Reporting Committee's agenda. Wood's Sustainability Human Rights and Modern Building Responsibly Programme Slavery Oversight Committee Programme John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 27 Respecting human rights Raising awareness Our supply Engaging with Training and raising awareness chain partners our stakeholders amongst our employees to identify Wood is committed to remaining an We take every opportunity to engage human rights issues and potential ethical value chain partner, in the with all relevant stakeholders, including violations, is crucial to ensuring we services we deliver to our customers NGOs and community interest groups; effectively assess, manage and and those we procure through our incorporating all key stakeholder mitigate human rights risks to our supply chain partners. Our supply chain perspectives at an early stage of any business. In 2019, we delivered our code of business conduct ensures we project ensures we deliver sustainable annual mandatory code of conduct remain committed to high ethical solutions that return value to the training to over 43,000 office-based standards and delivery of our services, locations and people we impact. employees and 14,000 site-based engaging with our supply chain in the employees globally. As part of our We work to build value partnerships following ways: focus on modern slavery, we delivered that are based on trust and mutual targeted awareness training on benefit across Wood. Strong business Direct influence modern slavery and human trafficking and community relations are vital to The requirements set in our Supply Chain to all new supply chain recruits in 2019. Code of standards are mandated where the success of our operations, as well In addition, we conducted a global we contract directly with our suppliers, as our contribution to sustainable ethical culture survey, issued to a subcontractors and their sub-tiers. development through partnership in sample of our global employee base to achieving the global sustainability goals. help develop our approach and inform Shared influence Wood’s focus on areas such as respect future training and communications. Where we manage contractors and other for Indigenous Peoples and support for third parties who are contracted by our local communities is crucial to ensuring Annual mandatory code of customers, on their behalf, necessitating a our relationships continue to contribute conduct training to: collaborative approach. and empower social and economic 43,000+ development. Procurement services Where we procure on behalf of our Read about work with Indigenous office-based employees customers, requires the need to work Peoples on pages 34-35 closely with our customers to build upon 14,000 their controls and processes. site-based employees In 2019, we continued to focus efforts on our category management approach, rationalising our supply Read more about our code of base & develop stronger strategic conduct training on page 107 partnerships with core vendors. These include those in high risk categories such as employment agency providers; this process has allowed for cross business unit agreements to be put in place and more robust pre-contract assessments prior to commencement. 28 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index Building Responsibly We recognise the importance of sector and cross sector collaboration on human rights issues. Through value partnerships and open discussion, we believe we can create meaningful impact on the common challenges faced in our own and other industries, particularly on material topics that widely impact global sustainability. Wood is a founding member of the industry led, business financed initiative Building Responsibly. Launched in 2017, Building Responsibly committed to promoting the rights and welfare of workers, specifically for those in the engineering and construction industry. Our involvement with the initiative has given us a platform to strengthen our approach to assuring basic human rights and welfare of those that work for, or on behalf of Wood. The initiative rests on the belief that pre-competitive collaboration is essential for companies to improve Developed through multiple Look ahead standards, policies, and practices to consultations with external stakeholders, accelerate impact across the industry, Stepping into 2020, Building the guidance notes formed the basis of Responsibly remains focused on focusing on advancing programs by: the initiatives bi-annual members day future growth, with a series of • Adopting common principles and and stakeholder roundtables events strategic priorities aimed to: practices in April and October of 2019. With the April event in Paris used to inform • Promote the Principles and • Developing tools initial drafting, the guidance notes Guidance Notes as the sector’s • Engaging workers, clients, were launched in October in London reference framework in terms of governments, civil society, and to a range of attendees ranging from worker welfare international organizations national and international organizations, • Increase visibility of the initiative • Driving innovation and continuous clients, peers, civil society organizations, and its members improvement and service providers. • Strengthen the membership base and increase the collaboration’s Access the Building Responsibly Principles Assuring against the principles global presence and influence on at: www.building-responsibly.org/ worker-welfare-principles Wood has consistently been an active worker welfare issues participant in the initiatives work and • Build strategic partnerships in late 2019, we shared a version of to engage relevant stakeholders our own HSE self-assessment tool, Embedding the Worker re-purposed to align with the 10 worker • Develop new tools to aid Welfare Principles implementation of the Principles welfare principles; the tool has since and Guidance Notes Launched in 2018, the Worker Welfare been adopted and published as a Principles establish a common, Building Responsibly tool, to help fellow global baseline for companies on member companies assess compliance the treatment of workers and help with the principles. In 2020, Wood aims provide a framework for the initiatives to promote the use of the gap analysis ongoing development. By collectively tool and begin assessing our operations committing to and promoting these on a risk-based approach, as well as Principles, we believe we can foster a building capacity within our operations business environment that advances and group assurance to recognise issues the safety, security, and welfare of all as they conduct their work. people. Supporting the implementation of each principle, in 2019 Wood helped Access the guidance notes at: Supporting the Sustainable co-develop a series of guidance notes, www.building-responsibly.org/ guidance-notes Development Goals (SDGs) aimed at helping outline some of the The SDGs supported in this section are key challenges around each Principle, shown below. For more information on providing a list of good practice options the targets being addressed, see our SDG for companies to consider when mapping index in our report index. addressing the challenges in embedding the principles. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 29 Our people and culture Our success as a sustainable business lies in our people. We connect, share and understand one another, valuing and celebrating the individual backgrounds, experiences and expertise we bring together. This powerful combination is what makes us Team Wood. Our vision, values and behaviours unite us to set the tone, give us one common set of principles and help create our culture. Focused on culture We are focused on building a culture at Wood where our people experience Wood as a great place to work. Our culture is the driving force behind delivering safe and productive operations, we aim to create an environment that promotes a sense of belonging in our community and allows our talented people to flourish and reach their full potential. Connecting our business Helping to connect our business on all things culture related ‘The culture club’ is a multi-disciplinary, global working team from across Wood, set up to act as a regular governance mechanism, with a purpose to embed our values and behaviours in all that we do; the working group meets on a monthly basis and oversee all key projects relating to culture across the business. Informing the direction of working group, our group-wide Listening group network creates dialogue between senior leaders and our employee base on topical issues material to the continual development of culture. Read more about our listening group network on page 37 30 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index Diversity and inclusion Simply having diverse teams is not enough, we must complement our efforts to increase and support diversity in Wood with a commitment to creating a culture of inclusiveness a great working environment where we each feel that we are treated fairly, respected, involved, connected, cared for and that the unique contribution we bring to Wood is recognised, encouraged and welcomed. This not only benefits our people, but all of our stakeholders. By embracing diversity and creating an inclusive working environment, we ensure we have the broadest possible talent pool, providing development opportunity for all in the future skills race and delivering greater value to our clients. To ensure our commitment to diversity and inclusion is clear and understood by all our people, in 2019 we created an action plan to drive sustainable change and accelerate our progress across Wood. Focusing on process, engagement, measurement, and communication our For our For For our work in 2019 included: colleagues Wood clients Process Implementing meaningful changes to key people processes by prioritising reviews on: • Flexible working Measurement and communication Focusing on equal opportunities for • Talent identification, selection We established a global diversity all, we are able to achieve a diverse and development and inclusion community of practice succession plan, particularly in the • Family leave which will report progress and provide technical and operational areas of our feedback to our Culture Club; our business, that reflects our desire to We also placed a focus on diversity data internal governance team on culture unlock wider expertise through a broad collection to increase our capability development at Wood. We monitored range of backgrounds, experience and collect (on a voluntary basis) personal success via employee engagement, diversity of thought. information on our people, aligning Pulse Surveys, promoted events linked We are looking to set targets in 2020, this to our ongoing Oracle People to diversity and inclusion and celebrated as part of our sustainability strategy to deployment through 2020. Complying communities and local traditions. improve conscious inclusion and gender with all legal requirements, we hope balance across Wood with additional developing our collection of diversity data will help us improve our overall Committed to equal opportunity local targets in place, where appropriate, Wood is committed to improving the to support the enhancement of diversity understanding of Wood’s diversity parity of our organisation and increasing within our business. profile and how representative that is. transparency on key issues such as fair compensation and reward. We Our Diversity Policy is available at: Engagement continue to conduct quarterly reviews woodplc.com/diversitypolicy • Expanded and embedded our of gender balance across our leadership employee networks globally, and management teams to ensure we ensuring each is sponsored by a remain focused on gender issues. member of our ELT • Developed awareness on Wood’s expectations around diversity and inclusion, including unconscious bias; launching resources via our intranet site. We will further expand this training for leaders in 2020 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 31 Our people and culture Gender pay Employees at snapshot date: Unlocking the global talent pool At Wood we have policies and We embrace the unique perspectives practices which are fair and free from bias. We are committed to 7,698 of our people, and value the breadth of expertise and knowledge employees equality across our organisation, in bring from different backgrounds each country we operate. and viewpoints. We want to reach Gender balance: the widest possible talent pool across We comply with gender pay gap society; enabling and supporting people reporting requirements in the Male Female with disabilities as part of our global United Kingdom covered under Wood team. As an inclusive and equal The Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 77% 23% opportunities employer, Wood gives full consideration to applications for 2017. To improve pay transparency, employment from all levels of ability and supported by ongoing systems where the requirements of the job can integration, we continued to Mean gap/median gap pay be adequately fulfilled by a person with rationalize our employing entities impairment. in 2019 and in the UK we increased Mean Median 23.3% 28.9% the number of entities voluntarily Where existing employees become reported, from four to seven. disabled, it is the company policy wherever practicable to provide continuing employment under normal Read more in our Gender Pay Gap Report: woodplc.com/genderpay Mean gap/median gap bonus terms and conditions and to provide training, career development and Mean Median promotion to disabled employees wherever appropriate, as we would for 8.8% 0.0% any other employee. 32 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index Wood gender split at 31 December 2019 Global headcount at 31 December 2019 Overall Board Total headcount Employee / contractor ratio: 19% 25% 55,559 89%/11% 81% 75% Headcount by business unit Headcount by region ELT Leadership teams (incl. ELT) 44% 30% 56% 70% Functions Operations leadership leadership AS EAAA 42% (23,078) Americas 46% (25,273) 45% 7% AS Americas 29% (16,301) Europe & Africa 30% (16,768) TCS 28% (15,401) Australia & Asia Pac 14% (7,950) Group 1% (779) ME & RC 10% (5,568) 55% 93% Key: Male Female Note: Overview of annual headcount movement Chief Executive and Group CFO are included in the ELT gender split. Employees Contractors Total Functions leadership includes the three levels of leadership below ELT in Finance & Administration, Opening Balance (Dec 2018) 50,537 6,256 56,793 Strategy & Development, People & Organisation Additions and HSSEA. Operations leadership consists of the three levels New hires / Rehired 946 130 1076 of leadership below ELT not included in functions Transfers / Corrections 128 32 160 leadership. Deductions Following the resignation of Jann Brown and Linda Adamany during 2019, the Board composition at Voluntary Leavers 607 109 716 31 December 2019 was 75% male and 25% female Involuntary Leavers 1277 320 1597 compared to 60% male and 40% in 2018. We continue to proactively review the composition of the Board to Death / Retirements 18 0 18 ensure diversity together with the appropriate blend Transfers / Corrections 109 30 139 of skills and experience and are delighted that Birgitte Brinch Madsen joined the Board on 1 March 2020, Closing Balance (Dec 2019) 49,600 5,959 55,559 taking our Board level percentage to 33% female. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 33 Our people and culture Embracing our Demonstrating care for Committed to Canada’s communities reconciliation in Australia global identities Indigenous peoples in Canada are the Australia’s first people—known as There are an estimated 370 million country’s fastest-growing population Aboriginal Australians—have lived on indigenous people in the world, segment and represent three distinct the continent for over 50,000 years. living across 90 countries. They groups: First Nations, Inuit and Today, about three percent of Australia’s make up less than 5%of the world’s Métis. There are more than 630 First population has Aboriginal heritage, population, but account for 15%of Nation communities across Canada, with over 250 distinct language groups the poorest. Indigenous peoples representing more than 50 nations spread throughout Australia. today, are arguably among the most and 50 Indigenous languages. Wood disadvantaged and vulnerable groups is a member of the Canadian Council Celebrating National Reconciliation of people in the world. for Aboriginal Business (CCAB), Week in May 2019 and supporting the an organization focused on driving independent not-for-profit organisation, On 9 August 2019, Wood teams business opportunities and advancing Reconciliation Australia, Wood joined in celebration around the world corporate social responsibility for the announced its continuing contribution to to mark International Day of the Indigenous community. Australia’s reconciliation journey through World’s Indigenous Peoples, chosen our second Reconciliation Action Plan in recognition of the first meeting of Speaking about some of our activities (RAP). Reconciliation Australia helps the UN Working Group on Indigenous and partnerships, one of Wood’s focal promote and facilitate reconciliation by Populations held in Geneva in 1982. points for indigenous groups in Canada building relationships, respect and trust Wood has a long history of working said “Indigenous peoples continue to between the wider Australian community with indigenous groups and we face barriers to employment and Wood and Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander recognise the importance of growing is helping to address this issue through peoples. The 2019 – 2021 RAP builds upon relationships, addressing indigenous its partnership with Indspire, a national the foundations and progress of our 2015 concerns and providing opportunities indigenous registered charity that RAP and further defines our vision and for meaningful participation in invests in the education of indigenous commitment for reconciliation. projects. Through international people for the long-term benefit of days, we are able to shine a light these individuals, their families and Wood’s vision for reconciliation is to on the important work Wood does communities, and Canada. We are realise Aboriginal and Torres Strait to support indigenous populations also providing two scholarships in 2019 Islander peoples’ aspirations through around the world. and 2020 to support education and real understanding, real partnerships remove financial barriers through this and real opportunities. We have programme. We value and respect the partnered with key Aboriginal and contribution indigenous peoples bring Torres Straight Islander communityto our company and country to deliver based businesses and initiatives to more informed project solutions.” support and grow our understanding of how we can help close the gap. 2019-2021 plan Year 1 Wood’s 2019–2021 RAP is about turning Establishment: Raising awareness good intentions into positive actions and and establishing partnerships. opportunities that are truly integrated with our business objectives, following Year 2 Reconciliation Australia pillars of: Delivery and consolidation: Delivering on our actions and expanding our goal. Relationships Respect Opportunity Year 3 Consolidation: Consolidating our achievements, reviewing the journey and determining the next steps. RAP governance structure Western Australia & Mining Regional Committee & Minerals business line Executive sponsors Eastern Australia Regional Committee (Asia Pacific Presidents) & TCS business line External Indigenous Advisor (external indigenous community members) 34 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index Our existing partnerships RMLA Girls Academy In early 2016 Wood entered into a Supporting the Sustainable in Australia: Development Goals (SDGs) partnership with Role Models and The SDGs supported in this section are Clontarf Leaders Australia to support their shown below. For more information on Now in our sixth year of partnership, Girls Academy program across 12 sites the targets being addressed, see our SDG Wood is a proud supporter of the Australia wide. The Girls Academy mapping index in our report index. Clontarf Foundation, a charitable offers a rich and holistic program to organisation committed to improving support school aged Aboriginal and the education, discipline, self-esteem, Torres Strait Islander girls including life skills and employment prospects mentoring support, cultural connections, of young Aboriginal and Torres health and wellbeing, physical activity, Strait Islander men, and by doing so career development and community equipping them to participate more engagement/ leadership. One of the meaningfully in society. They do this key outcomes of the partnership is our through the creation and running sponsorship of an annual Values award of football academies in secondary to recognise and honour the student schools across Australia. In addition to that best embodies the Wood values of providing financial support for Clontarf Care, Commitment and Courage. programs, Wood has been committed to engaging staff whenever possible Red Dust with the organisation and its students. Red Dust is a charity that delivers This involvement has included innovative health promotion programs participation in their major events in remote communities to encourage such as exhibition cricket and football Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander matches and award celebrations and young people to learn more about hosting students for career advice and health and inspire them to live a healthy work experience placements. lifestyle. Their programs help reduce chronic disease amongst Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Australian children through the promotion of nutrition, hygiene and physical activity. Since 2013 Wood staff and families have been supporting Red Dust through the organisation and participation in an annual fundraising event: The Lake Mountain Challenge. To date the team has raised over $52,000 to support the Red Dust Healthy Living Program. Additionally, Wood also supports the organisation by providing ambassadors to travel to remote Northern Territory communities to assist in delivery of the Red Dust programs. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 35 Our people and culture Engaging Checking our pulse on culture And create: our employees Speaking and listening up is at the heart of how we create change and • Visible career paths • Increased employee involvement and As a strategic focus for Wood’s Board develop our shared culture. Through recognition and Executive Leadership Team (ELT), engaging our people in open dialogue • Transparency on terms and employee engagement remains at the on a range of topics that shape our conditions, including flexible working heart of our people activities, playing strategic focus, we are able to foster an important role in embedding and a working environment where people Continuing to act on the outcomes of promoting our Values and inclusive want to come to work. Sponsored by the global survey, in 2019 we conducted approach to developing our culture. Thomas Botts (non-executive director), smaller quarterly pulse surveys to We want our people to be informed, our first global employee survey in 2018 regularly monitor the collective engaged and inspired as part of our provided board level insight to Wood’s sentiment in Wood, communicating team, to understand the direction of culture, what we do well and what progress to Wood’s board. travel in the business and to be on could be done better. Our work in 2019 board with our journey both in terms of actioned the top recommendations Each pulse survey involved more than our performance and our culture. coming from the survey: 1,700 employees, randomly selected to answer the same questions over Engaged employees mean we are a Invest more in: the course of four surveys. The key better business as a result. It is proven engagement question “How likely are • Leadership development that people who are more engaged you to recommend Wood as a place to are less likely to have safety incidents, • Simplifying processes and removing work” is always asked in each survey. are more productive and make internal competition organisations more profitable too. • Education about our business and In 2019, we saw our overall capabilities engagement score raise from 7.1 Employee engagement is not about just to 7.2, as we continue to act on the one thing, it is the sum of many parts • Technology and equipment recommendations of our 2018 survey and all of the drivers are a factor in how and continue to conduct global pulse engaged our people feel at Wood. Our surveys of employees again in 2020. internal culture intranet site provides our people with links and resources to Read more detail about our actions in support engagement across a range response to the employee survey results of engagement drivers, that detail our in our Annual Report and Accounts 2019 approach to inform, engage and inspire. (pages 38-40) Highlights from our action in 2019: 70% of employees on harmonised terms and conditions Global roll out of our Job Framework to support functions, with technical roles to follow in 2020 60%+ reduction in number of legal entities, to remove internal barriers to collaboration 21,000 People upgraded to Office 365 and Windows 10 22,000 new laptops/desktops deployed as part of upgrading our IT Infrastructure 36 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index Our networks Our networks provide a platform for Spotlight on our other global networks: our employees to connect, learn, share views, tell us what we’re doing well and recommend improvements to make Armed Forces The MOD’s Employer Recognition Scheme Gold Awards represent the Wood an even better place to work. The Armed Forces Network brings highest badge of honour available to They have clear terms of reference together employees who are those that employ and support those and an action plan for the year, which members of the Armed Forces who serve, veterans, and their families. is aligned to our culture and inclusion community, from regular and We received this in recognition for ambitions. Our employee networks reservist personnel to volunteers, our long-term commitment to the are an open and inclusive space for veterans and their families. Armed Forces, our Career Transition everyone at Wood to get involved in Since its inception in 2017, the Partnership (CTP) and our exemplar the conversation and shape our future. network has gone from strength position within our market sector to to strength and it now has more advocate support to the armed forces 4,500+ than 200 members, in over 20 community to partner organisations, countries that Wood operates in. suppliers and customers. employees actively engaged in our Wood’s Chief Information Security established employee networks on The gold standard Officer, a veteran and key member specific topic areas In August 2019, Wood received of our Armed Forces Network, said the Gold Award from the Armed he was delighted Wood had been “Building the best working recognised in this way: “Securing the Forces covenant Employer environment is about all of us Recognition Scheme (ERS) for our Gold Award is kudos to the team committing to making things commitment to supporting Armed and fantastic recognition of our even better. It’s learning from Forces personnel, and are finalists commitment to the armed forces our colleagues, listening to each in six categories in the Ex-forces in community. That along with being other, and taking action, so that Business Scottish Awards. shortlisted in six categories in the we’re always moving forward. Our Ex-forces in Business Scottish Awards is testament to our commitment to employee networks help us achieve the armed forces and to helping Wood this. They help us build our culture. be a forces friendly employer at the One conversation at a time.” forefront of defence engagement.” Listening Group Network Open to all employees, the Listening Group Network is our most important direct engagement channel between employees and leadership. It meets virtually every two months and is hosted by a member of the ELT. Twice a year, a non-executive director chairs the forum. Topics discussed by the network in 2019 included business strategy, employee networks, IT service provision and wellbeing. The role of the network is to enable an informal communication channel between employees and the ELT and Board, where healthy discussion about life at Wood is encouraged and action is taken from that. As an example, feedback from the calls led to a deep-dive review of the quality of IT services across the business and the IT infrastructure upgrades that were also driven from the employee survey actions. Through sharing information, really listening to feedback, and asking opinions on key issues; real, tangible actions have been taken and changes have been made. Network members also facilitate the exchange of information to, from and on behalf of their local teams, offices and sites helping making sure everyone can be involved and have their voice heard. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 37 Our people and culture Developing The early careers group, known locally Minerva as the Thoroughbreds, are part of Professionals Wood’s Developing Professionals The Minerva Network welcomes Our Developing Professionals Network everyone with an interest in diversity, Network (DPN). The group meets (DPN) is a community that provides a inclusion and gender balance. regularly to learn about different platform for employees to learn more Supporting our commitment to areas of the business, and network about Wood, their colleagues and embracing and promoting gender with management and their peers. themselves. The network promotes diversity among our talented employee the development and connectivity of The speed dating event saw 14 community. As well as raising tomorrow’s leaders, while positively senior leadership members from the awareness of the business case for contributing to community programs downstream and chemicals business greater diversity in Wood, the Minerva and Wood’s culture. unit participate. The activity consisted network also focuses on activities to of small groups of Thoroughbreds attract and retain more women in In 2019, the network expanded its engaging in a five-minute professional Wood and encourage more women to reach establishing new regional groups conversation with each leader. After pursue STEM careers in the industries in Brazil and Saudi Arabia; held four five minutes, the bell rang to signal a we work in. global calls on current themes within rotation. One of the early career group our industries; and matched 150 DPN In 2019, the network grew to almost had this to say about the event: members with buddies. The network 600 members and the group’s has also been integral for Wood-wide “A career round table session is a Yammer activity ramped up for initiatives, submitting 17 applications great chance to meet leaders in International Women’s Day in March, where employees hosted a day-long to the global challenge for education our business and understand more and having a representative on each Yam-Jam, and the conversation about where they came from continues to spark interesting and regional judging panel for Our internal, and learn from their experience. global Inspire Awards. progressive discussion. Not only did we receive some great one on one advice, but the Finding the perfect level of interest in this event by Transforming the future career match senior leadership says a lot about Celebrating International Women in how important it is to them in Engineering Day on June 23, Wood’s In the spirit of valentines day, in 2019 annual recognition of this global developing the next generation.” our team in Calgary hosted a fun awareness campaign seeks to raise speed dating career round table event Project Engineer, Wood the profile of women in engineering with employees in the early stages of and focus attention on the career their careers at Wood and local senior opportunities available to women in leadership, aimed at connected the this exciting industry. Hosting a variety conversation on professional career of activities throughout our office development. locations, our employees conducted speed mentoring sessions with senior school pupils, panel discussions with employees, science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) activities with schools and collaborating with our customers on joint events. Our teams in Chennai and Kolkata, India joined in the celebrations by participating in engineering quiz competitions along with a variety of technical events throughout the day. “Throughout the day, teams were rewarded for their involvement and all women engineers were given a small Wood engineering memento to mark the day. Women were also showcased throughout our offices on screens to give recognition to those who are paving the way for future women in engineering.” P&O Senior manager, Wood 38 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index We Care Our We Care Network connects our people currently balancing work with caring or caregiving responsibilities, those have done so in the past, or want to be prepared should they need to do so in the future; providing carer information and a space for support, advice and sharing experiences. During 2019, the network expanded into new countries, shared its members’ personal stories of working and caring in Wood and celebrated Carers Week in Canada, Australia and the UK. The network is gearing up to support the launch of a global carers policy in 2020, which will help increase the visibility of the range of caring circumstances employees may face at some point during their career and to raise awareness of the support that may be available to employees with care responsibilities in Wood. Caring for those that care A growing number of us will care for someone else at some point in our life. A partner, relative or friend who requires care and support because they are elderly, have a long-term illness or disability. Recognising national and international awareness dates in Pride Supporting Wood’s annual calendar helps bring much-needed attention to employees Pride is a network for LGBT+ Rock the Ribbon employees and their allies, which aims with caring responsibilities – the Co-ordinating support for the UK to help Wood create a great working contribution made, the impact that National Aids Trust (NAT) ‘Rock environment that encourages a culture this can have on lives and the support the Ribbon’ campaign, our Pride of respect, equality and inclusion for needed. In 2019, our We Care Network Network has helped raised funds everyone, regardless of their sexual recognised Carers Week in both the UK, for the charity year on year. orientation, gender identity or gender Australia and Canada, to shine a light expression. Throughout 2019, the As the UK’s leading charity on the contribution unpaid carers make network provided a safe and supportive dedicated to transforming society’s to those they care for, as well as our space for LGBT+ employees and their response to HIV, NAT champions families, communities and businesses. colleagues to connect, it also organised the rights of people living with Talking about the importance of several events, including participation HIV and campaigns for change creating a culture supportive of carers, at several Pride events and marking – shaping attitudes, challenging Wood’s president operations services International Coming Out Day. injustice, and changing lives. Asia Pacific says: Through the Rock the Ribbon Together campaign, the charity “Anyone can become a carer at any urges people to stand in solidarity time. Sometimes we get time to with people living with HIV, plan and prepare for future care raise awareness and donations, responsibilities, but sometimes we challenge stigma, and end don’t. This is why it is so important loneliness and isolation. to be proactive in identifying and In 2019, Wood’s offices in London, promoting ways in which employees Darlington, Glasgow and Aberdeen who are carers can be supported sold cakes and ribbons to raise a within Wood. I’m delighted to total of £616 for the charity, helped confirm that Wood has signed by Wood’s employee matched Carers Australia Work & Care funding programme. All proceeds Charter and will be using the selfcontribute to NAT’s vital work in assessment questionnaire to help championing the rights of people develop a plan of action to help living with and affected by HIV and campaigning for change. shape our continued efforts to be a carer-friendly workplace.” John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 39 Our people and culture Inspire Awards: People’s Choice In addition to our eight global winners, everyone at Wood then had the chance to vote for who they felt should be our People’s Choice overall award winner. Our employees chose our Championing Sustainability winner Gagandeep Singh, who works tirelessly to help less privileged children and students have access to books and a career-ready education. Gagandeep launched ‘Connecting the Dots’ in September 2012, along with a book bank that collects and distributes educational books to school children in North India. Gagandeep spends around 10 hours of his own time each week teaching Celebrating our people Nomination categories English and communication People skills in a local university, We take pride in celebrating and • Safety Shield and over the past six years, sharing the achievements of our people has supplied 20,000 books, at Wood; recognition is about feeling • Inspiring Teamwork which have benefitted 6,000 valued in the organisation through • Marvelous Mentor underprivileged children in 70 feedback and appreciation. Taking schools and universities across the time to recognise those that go Planet 23 cities in India and China. above and beyond to embody our • Championing Sustainability values and behaviours helps us not just 20,000 • Impactful Innovation to say thank you to those individuals, but instils a sense of pride in working Profit at Wood, and the positive impacts books supplied • Exceptional Customer Service we make every day, across our global 6,000 employee community . • Excellent Financial Performance • Outstanding Conduct Our global Inspire Awards, launched in underprivileged children 2019 and based on our vision, values and behaviours, celebrate the incredible efforts of all our employees. Conducted 1,700 over a nine-month period, the Inspire nominations received across 40 countries Awards is our annual platform for as part of our annual Inspire Awards formally recognising those around the employee recognition programme business who are making great things possible and inspire others. Judged by 5 regional, independent panels and receiving over 1,700 nominations from over 40 countries, our inaugural awards were structured around eight nomination categories, linked to our sustainability approach. Supporting the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) The SDGs supported in this section are Read more about each of our Inspire shown below. For more information on Awards winners throughout this report: the targets being addressed, see our SDG mapping index in our report index. Safety Shield 50 Inspiring Teamwork 47 Marvellous Mentor 44 Impactful Innovation 111 Exceptional Customer Service 103 Excellent Financial Performance 103 Outstanding Conduct 106 40 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index Future ready employer Shaping the workplace of tomorrow, it is predicted millennials will make up 75% of the global workforce by 2025; the employee of tomorrow, wants to work for a company that delivers social good, is transparent in living up to their values and provides a workplace they can be proud of. We are building a culture at Wood that is driven by clear social purpose, ensuring we attract, recruit and retain a sustainable workforce, that demands more from business for the better of society. A flexible approach to working We aim to ensure all our employees reach a fulfilling work-life balance, recognising that this not only helps reduce stress for the individual, but also improves motivation, reduces potential absence and helps to increase employee retention and attract new talent to our organisation. We enable our strategy through agile teams, we see flexible A winning combination In their current role as treasury working as something that supports director, Julie and Nikki look after our At Wood, we believe in providing an global treasury function, managing a a more engaged and inclusive working environment where our people can team of experts, providing specialist culture to cope with the ever-changing achieve a balance between work and management and advice to the business. demands of business. We see the use life outside work, whether that’s family Testament to their success, Nikki and of technology, flexible work locations responsibilities, study commitments or Julie have recently been recognised by and different ways of communicating community involvement. Empowering the Timewise Power 50 awards in the helping to shape our business for the individuals to manage how, when and category of Power Job Sharers, for better and providing a more sustainable where they work to suit their needs their strong, successful and seamless approach to business delivery for means we can attract a more diverse partnership that as managed the Wood and our people. range of candidates for roles, boost treasury function through Wood’s productivity and retain our top talent. significant growth. Celebrating people Matching opportunity and places who make a success of with global mobility Nikki Walters and Julie Matthew have flexible working, the Timewise Power 50 been working in a shared role for the awards showcase the positive impact iCIMs – global portal past 19 years, starting in 2001 when of flexible working, by highlighting As an international organisation, they applied to job share following the people and places who do it best. Wood offers numerous exciting both of their returns from maternity Congratulations to Julie and Nikki on career development opportunities for leave. Fast forward to today, and the this well-deserved win! employees to support our growing pair have been promoted several times portfolio of international projects. Our into high profile positions and have mobility strategy ensures we have the supported around 50 acquisitions and right tools, processes and governance in several major disposals. place to ensure we match and move the right people quickly and compliantly with best practice relocation support, whilst ensuring our compensation is internally Global mobility framework fair and externally competitive. Host Home International (GEC) All internal global vacancies within Wood are advertised in a central Local hire Home seconded Globally mobile location to provide a fair recruitment New hires or existing Existing employee Globally mobile employees process for all. Facilitated through employee. Local employment assigned for defined expected to go on multiple, a single recruitment platform, we terms and conditions are period of time. Intention sequential assignments. launched our global recruitment and suitable and aligned to to return home on Externally hired for a business commercial drivers. completion of assignment. specific project. hiring procedure in 2019, to ensure all vacancies (in line with the procedure) are advertised internally. Our global International project hire recruitment system also supports New hires for a project and/or existing contractor required our internal redeployment register, to work overseas on a specific helping facilitate recruiters in sourcing project and local employment is alternative roles for employees seeking not possible and/or appropriate. new opportunities within Wood. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 41 Our people and culture Providing fair reward In line with external benchmarks, Employee share plan At Wood, we understand that our we offer a slightly reduced benefits We provide our employees with the people are what make us a truly package to offshore and site-based opportunity to share in the success of our successful company. Ensuring fair, employees that excludes income business through the Wood Employee competitive and transparent reward protection, medical & dental insurance Share Plan From 2019, for every two is key to aligning our employees needs (but including our health cash plan) shares a participant purchases, Wood with our business objectives and and selected optional lifestyle benefits. awarded one additional share. The plan strategy and enabling us to attract, is available to the majority of Wood retain, engage and mobilise the right US employees based in Australia, Azerbaijan, people to the right place at the right Applicable to all employees regardless Brazil, Canada, Chile, France, India, Italy, time at the right cost. of full-time/part-time or temporary Malaysia, Norway, Republic of Ireland, employment, benefits include: Singapore, Spain, Thailand, UAE, UK Wood provides a comprehensive, and US (excluding California & Oregon.), flexible, competitive benefit program • Protection: Benefits include bound by legal and tax parameters. for our employees. Our benefit life and accidental death and Since our employee share plan was program is shaped by our values dismemberment (AD&D) insurance introduced in 2015, employee share and linked to regional and market • Health and wellbeing: Benefits ownership was circa 2.7% globally, which norms. Benefits are provided in a fair include medical, prescription, dental has now risen to 10% by employee share manner and are compliant with local and vision plans ownership by the end of 2019. legislation and regulations. In our • Wealth: 401k retirement plan areas of significant operations, we Read about our Employee Share Plan at: provide the following benefits: • Various voluntary benefits include: woodplc.com/employee-share-plan Critical illness, accident, identity theft and hospital indemnity UK Employee Assistance Programme insurance, as well as various optional Applicable to all employees regardless lifestyle benefits From time to time, everyone experiences of full-time/part-time or temporary employment, benefits include: situations that affect their general Canada wellbeing. Our Employee Assistance • Protection: Benefits include life Applicable to all employees regardless Programme (EAP) is available to give our insurance, income protection and of full-time/part-time or temporary people and those close to them access to critical illness employment, benefits include: practical information and counselling on a variety of topics. Examples include: • Health and wellbeing: Benefits • Protection: Benefits include life, longinclude medical insurance and health • Improving relationships term disability and AD&D insurance cash plan • Parenting • Health and wellbeing: Benefits • Couples’ support • Wealth: Pension plan include medical and dental plans • Managing stress • Parental leave • Managing life changes • Various lifestyle benefits (optional): Australia • Career success Holiday trading, dental insurance, • Wealth & protection: • Surviving the loss of a loved one give as you earn, bike to work and Superannuation (retirement) plan, • Managing workplace pressure technology options which includes life insurance • Improving esteem and confidence • Referrals to local financial Read more about our commitment to Access our Reward Policy available at: retirement plans on page 10 of our 2019 woodplc.com/rewardpolicy or legal resources Annual Report and Accounts • Pursuing personal interests • Maintaining physical health 42 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index Development and future skills Our ability to identify, promote and mobilise our people is important to the long-term health of our organisation. We believe everyone at Wood has the opportunity to grow their own career and build future skills that will prepare not just the employee, but also Wood, for the workplace of tomorrow. We take a blended approach to learning and work on the principle of career partnership, encouraging ongoing development through regular conversations that align employee aspirations with business needs and opportunities for development. Through a coaching method of learning, we built trust and support through regular feedback and communication to develop our people to reach their full potential, at their own pace. Conversations connect and align employees and their line managers, build on our healthy workplace culture and benefitting both employees and the business. Flexible learning Inspiring leadership Embracing technology to deliver Our leaders play a vital role in Through our internal developing learning flexibly, in 2019 the empowering our employees to be the careers intranet site, we provide all talent management team at best they can be in achieving their career employees with access to materials Wood designed and promoted a aspirations. We believe that by instilling and resources to encourage and inspire series of global webinars to help the fundamentals of quality leadership in skills development, whether as an develop employee awareness, skills our leaders at Wood, we improve working employee or leader at Wood. and knowledge on key personal relationships for our people and sustain a development topics. Including a successful, future ready business. Visit our Wood Careers page for more mix of webinars relevant to all information on #LifeatWood: As a Wood leader... employees and to those with people careers.woodplc.com management responsibilities, some of the topics delivered over the Know your people course of the year included: Have great conversations. Have regular conversations. Understand Career • Individual resilience for their objectives, how they're tracking, their management development opportunities, future aspirations effective performance and your role within that. • Leading through Provide regular coaching and constructive uncertainty and change feedback. Have the challenging conversations. Assessment Performance Make sure you're on the same page. Ask, & selection development • Networking skills don't guess. • Empowering teams through trust Leadership Learning • Back to the workplace: development development support Let others know too Share what you know. Monthly webinar sessions will Be proactive in letting others who can enable Succession continue to roll out in 2020, to their performance and development know about management your people's aspirations, needs and potential. further add to our toolkit of skills Promote their wins, fly the flag for them and development material. To support celebrate their successes so they are known to ongoing development, Wood also others also. provides employees with access to the Use the Wood community. Don't trap them in online learning platform MindTools, their current job. a resource library with more than 2,000 bite-sized learning items to help improve skills in the workplace. Make it Possible In partnership with MindTools, and Be proactive and skilled. recognising Learning at Work week in Be present and aware of the options for ongoing development and do what is possible 2019, we focused on a different area to make it possible for them at Wood. of development each day to explore Use other leaders, intranet sites and P&O to and develop skills including time facilitate learning and career moves. Help management, decision making, them get the next project, the next job. career and communication skills. Take care of those in your charge. Be the leader you wish you had. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 43 Our people and culture Frontline Leader Wood’s Frontline Leadership Development Programme (FLDP) is designed to create the right learning environment for our leaders to participate, collaborate and raise selfawareness. Providing the opportunity for self-reflection, with no presentation slides and plenty of time for organic discussion, FLDP provides a unique experience for delegates to understand and shape their own leadership style. Focused on a simple three step process, of future, engage and deliver, the full program is facilitator led and classroom based over a three-day duration. The programme encourages our leaders to take time out, to fully engage in the process and conversation. The content is a series of modules reflecting on how we lead ourselves, lead other and lead the business; the course delivers an emphasis on learner participation and involvement with the opportunity to embed the learning on-the-job. Leading by example In 2019, we released a global The visibility and awareness of our mentoring resource guide to help Summarising what steer mentors and mentees on leaders and high potential employees Frontline delivers at senior levels of our organisation, the topic, as well as finalising the development of a mentoring If your culture is strong it will predict ensures that we listen and reflect on your operating success. For that the views and issues faced by our teams application tool to match mentors with those seeking support in the culture to form, mindsets must change. in decision making. Our board holds Frontline Leadership is about changing regular events throughout the year to wider business. Our mentoring application is currently being piloted mindsets and behaviours. engage with members of the wider Wood team, beyond ELT level, as well as in Asia Pacific business wider roll Mindset > Behaviour > Results > with employees who may become our out consideration. Culture > Operating Success future leaders; this includes employees In 2019, we delivered the Frontline deemed as high potential through group Inspire Awards: Leadership Development Programme to wide career development discussions. These sessions provide the board with an Marvellous Mentor over 3,000 leaders across Wood. opportunity to engage with employees Recognising those who go above 3,000 on the issues that matter to them, whilst and beyond to support people also introducing them to potential future development at Wood, our 2019 leaders of our business when it comes to Marvellous Mentor Inspire Award Leaders trained through our senior management succession planning. went to Gavin Taylor in our United Frontline Leaders Programme Arab Emirates business. Gavin’s Mentoring mentoring skills were considered far more than supportive by his mentee. Future Although mentoring is only one element Following a one-to-one mentor/ of the career development process, a mentee session on the way forward, mentoring relationship can be a great Gavin set up a comprehensive Leading way to support career growth. Wood’s training and shadowing plan, regular self approach to mentoring relationships is discussions and training worksheets a non-line manager partnership offering to track progress with his mentee. a safe environment to support ongoing Gavin’s plan included tasks that e development by exploring a wide range th Le a stretched the skills of his mentee ing s ot ding of topics including: ad es he as well as many opportunities to Le usin rs b • Personal development planning to observe and learn. The plan was so maximise learning opportunities comprehensive and successful that Deliver Engage Gavin’s mentee commended his • Long-term career aspirations and goals ability saying that: • Organisational navigation • Insights into the broader internal “In my thirteen years of business view professional career, no-one else • Solutions to complex work-related has given me so much support situations towards my career aspirations through formal mentoring.” 44 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index Supporting early careers A flying start They are curious, see things from a We aim to create a nurturing and different perspective and can challenge rewarding environment for employees Welcoming all new employees, we our current ways of doing, helping us who are early in their careers; whether place a focus on those first steps in to think big and be bold in our problem part of a structured development building a career at Wood. Delivering solving. I encourage all our new trainees programme or a new joiner to the the best possible start through our and graduates to speak up, share their business, we are committed to global induction to life at Wood, ideas and challenge our way of thinking. ensuring that there are opportunities we help to train and integrate Investing in the next generation is to learn and network across Wood. employees as quickly and efficiently fundamentally about the sustainability as possible, particularly those just of our business and our industry.” starting out in the world of work. Global early careers recruitment Endorsing the value in these facilitated Our 2019 recruitment drive for early Delivering a series of two-day group sessions, one attendee said about career hires saw a total of 670 people global induction events in 2019, their introduction to life at Wood: join team Wood from across each of 150 of our early careers’ employees our business units, multiple countries gathered from across the business, “Whether you are coming from and 17 functional disciplines. to get a better understanding school, college, university or a previous of Wood and to learn how to workplace, joining a global company take ownership of their own such as Wood can be a daunting development and careers. Helping experience. Having the opportunity to Percentage of total hires by meet and develop relationships with to co-design and facilitate each country peers going through a similar transition session, the employees were joined UK 19% by a number of senior leaders in has proven invaluable and has helped Australia 19% each location, where the events me settle into the company. Canada 13% aimed to help our employees better US 13% understand Wood’s portfolio of “Meeting our new colleagues and learning India 10% services and the part our early about different areas of the business has Brunei 4% careers employees play. outlined the number of opportunities that Italy 3% may be available throughout our careers, Singapore 2% Commenting on one of the events showing that we have joined Wood at a KSA 2% Wood’s President Operations very exciting time.” Kuwait 2% Azerbaijan 2% services, Europe and Africa said: “Our new early career colleagues Once completing their inductions, Iraq 2% Germany 2% bring a fresh perspective and each early career employee becomes Peru 1% diversity of thought to our business part of our Developing Professionals Malaysia 1% which we need to stay current and Network to continue their journey and South Africa 1% ahead of competition. development. Other 4% Percentage of total hires by Business Unit TCS 45% AS EAAA 42% AS Americas 13% Function Total Engineering & Technical 585 Construction 16 Project Services 13 Project Management 11 Finance & Accounting 10 Supply Chain 8 Administration 5 Commercial & Risk Management 4 Operations & Maintenance 3 Information Systems 3 Technology 3 Business & Quality Assurance 2 HSSE 2 Human Resources 2 Training & Competence 1 Business Development 1 Cost, Risks & Contingency 1 Total 670 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 45 Our people and culture Nurturing talent Picking up the Recognising differences in digital knowledge across the business, the Wood’s talent strategy focuses on challenge to innovate winning team proposed a digital identifying, attracting and nurturing Inspiring our people to connect on the skills base for everyone, with training talent across the business. We key challenges our business faces, is vital modules and skills built on that understand to grow our business to unlocking the talent and ingenuity foundation. Our judges commended we need our people to grow with it. that will deliver a sustainable future for the team for focusing strongly on Enhancing the career journey of our Wood. Supporting our strategic focus external market demand and aligning people supports the creation of a on Digital and Technology our inaugural their submission to specific business high performing workplace where TCS President’s Challenge in 2019, is needs and producing a credible our employees are supported to be just one example of how our teams roadmap of actions. their best and are fully engaged in internally connect to bring talent into driving their careers. Another recommendation relating to focus and drive Wood’s technological a centralised body of digital enablers advantage. Based on the premises that Utilising the outcome of our in the business is now in place through our pipeline of digital and technology employee engagement survey, in our Digital and Technology emerging talent is fundamental to delivering 2019 we engaged our functional solutions leaders. Development of an Woods connected design/build/operate teams on the need to prioritise effective sandbox environment was solutions, the President’s Challenge people development in addressing also delivered through Wood’s new recognises that we don’t stop at employee concerns and improving CoLab process. recruiting talent, but focus on how we our approach to nurturing talent. nurture, network and unearth ingenuity Read more about our CoLab across the business. process on page 112 The challenge Submissions were invited focusing on “Unearthing, nurturing and the digital skills perceived to be most focusing our digital and technology important to our future; the most talent is the key to transforming effective ways to find, recruit, train Wood into a business capable of and deploy those skills; and priority actions to accelerate the development meeting our customers’ future of our digital and technology talent. challenges. It’s inspiring to see our Four teams were shortlisted, each with talented people sharing their ideas an executive sponsor, and drawing on like this, and I hope this proves the talent from across the TCS business. start of even greater engagement Judged by a panel of senior business in transforming the way we work.” leaders and a guest client judge, each team presented their ideas to the panel Wood’s Chief Technology Officer in 30-minute slots, which were then scored and debated before the winner was selected. 46 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index Inspire Awards: Inspiring Teamwork Shining a light on our people, our global annual inspire award for Inspiring Teamwork recognises the combined efforts of a team who have achieved remarkable results. Seeking to celebrate great team achievements, we asked what they achieved through their performance that would inspire other teams across Wood. Our team working on the ExxonMobil and Basra Oil Company contracts for Iraq projects are committed to transferring engineering knowledge and experiences to Iraq nationals. Establishing the Basra engineering office, the team overcame project and operational challenges to ensure the success of the Basra office, best positioning Focus on finance Aligned to our vision, values and Wood in the Iraq market and behaviours the day provides a safe developing knowledge and skills Working with our Finance and environment for individuals to test in local nationals that continues Administration (F&A) function, through their leadership skills, while receiving to contribute back to our host the course of the year we focused on detailed feedback and coaching country. three key areas: support from management. • Creation of the F&A learning hub What the judges said: containing learning content to support Before the day “We thought that the Basra team technical development and career showed truly inspiring teamwork skills development • Conversation between line manager and are worthy winners of the and participants global inspiring teamwork award. • Investment in Early Careers pipeline • Personal psychometric questionnaire Theirs is an incredible story of • Development days for high potentials • Pre-reading with useful tips and lifting others up and never giving presentation preparation up. The nominees teamed up to The F&A Early Careers Programme embrace diversity and encourage supports the transition of employees During the day contributions by quickly filling joining Wood from education. The their ranks with local and national three year programme includes a • Development session using your talent. By working together, they blend of on career skills development, personal psychometric overcame the complexities of technical development and coaching • Individual presentation on a working in Iraq and its unique and mentoring to ensure our early pre-advised topic • Group case study and presentation challenges, such as skills gaps and career employees start their career • Networking inexperience, language barriers, successfully at Wood. During the and cultural differences.” programme, employees rotate through departmental functions to give them Following the day “There were clear tangible a broader understanding of the outcomes that their teamwork has function and support their leadership • Individual coaching session changed people’s lives and left a development. Supported by 25 leaders with feedback coach positive legacy in a country that from across Wood, in the role of • Create personal development plan with mentor & line manager has gone through major turmoil for feedback coaches, in 2019, we delivered many years. In doing so, the team • Assigned mentors and involved in three development days across our strategic projects for the function have not only enhanced Wood’s Europe, Americas and MERC business, reputation in the market but also with additional days planned for created a memorable story that Australia and Asia Pacific and other resonates with our customers. For Supporting the Sustainable regions in 2021. Development Goals (SDGs) us as judges, this was a fantastic The SDGs supported in this section are example of a team embodying The development day workshops shown below. For more information on care, courage and commitment support our long-term commitment the targets being addressed, see our SDG mapping index in our report index. through their teamwork to for individuals to gain a deeper overcome whatever challenges they understanding of their strengths and face; something we should strive to areas of development. repeat wherever we do business.” John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 47 Health, safety and security We place our people at the heart of everything we do. Everyone has the right to expect a healthy, safe and secure working environment and our goal is to ensure our people return home safe at the end of every day, better for having worked at Wood. Leading with the safety, health and wellbeing of our people and communities ensures we create a culture of care at Wood, which relies upon strong leadership, personal accountability and a commitment to achieving our goal of zero harm. This is fundamental to executing our operations in a responsible and sustainable manner. Commitment Wood’s Health, Safety, Security and Environment (HSSE) policy sets our commitment to HSSE, the value we will deliver to our stakeholders and the actions we will take to protect our people, communities and the environment. Our Safety, Assurance and Business Ethics Committee (SABE) is responsible for overseeing the Group’s management of HSSE, regulatory compliance & Business Ethics matters, in line with Group policies and our values commitment. Providing Board level oversight and management of HSSE matters, in 2020, the committee will also assume responsibility in overseeing Wood’s Sustainability programme. Read about our SABE committee on page 20, or page 58-65 of our 2019 Annual Report and Accounts 48 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index Strategy Our HSSE strategy forms a roadmap for continuous improvement and development against our HSSE commitments and goals. Applicable to all Wood operations, our strategy supports the implementation of our policy, delivery of our performance goals and development of our HSSE culture. Setting standards Underpinning our HSSE strategy, Wood’s HSSE management system is defined by our HSSE Management System Standard – the Blue Book. Consisting of fifteen core elements, each topic section sets the mandatory minimum standards for the management of HSSE across Wood. Our Blue Book standard defines our approach to HSSE, develops our understanding on material matters and sets the standard for our people to lead, plan and organise Wood deploy mature management Wood hold international management our operations in a way that ensures systems across all our operations to system certifications to ISO 9001 for we control HSSE risks and deliver ensure that we consistently deliver Quality management systems, ISO continuous improvement on HSSE to our customer requirements 14001 for Environmental systems and performance. The Blue Book is and comply with international, ISO 45001 for occupational health and supported by a wider suite of group national and industry specific laws, safety systems across a number of our wide HSSE standards, procedures and regulations and standards. Our locations. These are managed under a policies which provide the framework management systems are routinely global agreement with our nominated for Business Unit management teams assessed both through our own certification service provider (Lloyds to empower group-wide learning internal assurance framework and Register) and in December 2019 we and best practice. The Blue Book externally via customer, regulatory successfully completed recertification of aligns with recognised international body and management system all our applicable businesses. In addition HSSE management standards and certification audit and assessment. to these main management system the continuous improvement cycle of standards Wood PLC are also certified to Plan-Do-Check-Act. a number of other standards for example ISO 27001 information security standard. Continuous improvement roadmap Accountable HSSEA Leadership Policy Code of Conduct Engaged HSSEA Workforce Blueprint Effective HSSEA intervention Strategy Monitoring HSSEA and Assurance Annual Plan Positive Blue Book recognition OA Standard Learning KPIs Mandatory process culture & procedure John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 49 Health, safety and security Wood’s Safety Shield In 2019, we continued to embed the Safety Shield across the business. Inspire awards: Continued learning and effective Beginning with our global annual Safety Shield communication is vital to ensure key the ‘Safe Start’ in January, we welcomed Demonstrating our values in action our success of our business and continued our people back to work with a fresh annual Inspire award for the Safety sustainability. Created to help simplify focus on safety and the opportunity to Shield recognises individuals or teams and communicate our management reinforce our life saving rules and key who have shown extraordinary courage system process more simply, the Safety areas of risk. Developing and deploying to speak up and take action to enhance Shield builds up on our values of care, our ‘Safety Shield for Supervisors’ the safety and welfare of their own courage and commitment and asks our programme in early 2019, we focused team and that of our customers, employees to have the commitment to our efforts on training our frontline suppliers or wider community. prepare correctly, the care to engage staff to use the tools within the with the safety requirements of a task Safety Shield. Through six train-theDaniel Frakes demonstrated true and the courage to intervene if they see trainer events held across the globe, courage in taking quick action to save a something unsafe. we now have over 100 ‘Safety Shield contractor’s life while observing some for Supervisors’ programme trainers trench work in the United States. Daniel Unique to Wood, our Safety Shield – a leading courses within their business spoke up and convinced the contractor metaphor for protection – combines our unit and geographical areas, helping to move its worker out of the area HSSE processes and procedures into one to build on the toolbox talks and town when he spotted cracks indicating an standard that is simple, understandable hall events held throughout the year to impending collapse. Just moments across countries and cultures and communicate Wood’s Safety Shield. later, a large section of concrete fell into provides consistent messaging to our the trench. Had it not been for Daniel’s workforce around HSSE. 6 intervention, that person could have been seriously injured or killed. train-the-trainer events held across the globe What the judges said As a field technician, this demonstrates 100 courage to intervene and in doing so, saving a life. We were looking for a real Safety Shield for Supervisors Wood hero and in the nominations we programme trainers leading found many; however, Daniel stood out courses within their business unit as a real Wood superhero and unanimous winner! Daniel’s conduct demonstrated both our Safety Shield and values in Read more about the Safety Shield action, seeing a contractor in a trench on page 27 of our 2019 Annual Report and Accounts, or visit: and thinking it looked wrong, the woodplc.com/safetyshield trench was about to collapse, and the contractor was oblivious to the danger. It takes courage to step up and intervene when things look wrong and that is an essential safety behaviour, we know makes Wood projects safe – everyone looking out for each other. Daniel raised the shield to protect others. 50 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index HSE performance Employees and subcontractors Wood saw a marked improvement in our safety performance in 2019, reporting an 18% decrease in our all injury frequency rate, set against an increase of 9% in man exposure hours throughout the year. Whilst overall safety performance rates generally flattened in 2019 compared to the previous year, we also saw an 11% drop in the number of recorded incidents throughout the year. Availability of accurate, company-wide safety performance data is key to understanding emerging trends and risk hotspots. Wood has continued to develop the CAIRS reporting tool that is used to record all incidents, and allows interrogation of data at all levels, including analysis of root causes of incidents. Key findings Key performance indicators 11% Combined LTIF 0.04 TRIR 0.18 AIFR 1.10 Hours 187,120,531 reduction in all incidents 2019 Employee 0.04 0.20 1.23 134,909,372 Reports raised for work-related Subcontractor 0.04 0.15 0.79 52,211,159 incidents in 2019 reduced 11% (2752) 2018 Combined 0.04 0.18 1.34 172,354,737 when compared to 2018 (3088). Employee 0.05 0.21 1.46 127,260,687 Subcontractor 0.02 0.11 0.99 45,094,050 18% +/2019/18 Combined ▼ ▼ 18% ▼ 9% ▼ reduction in all injury frequency Although recordable injury rates Reporting Overview & Incident Classification remained flat in 2019, despite a 21% increase in lost time injuries. Reports raised 2019 Harm to People Asset Damage Environmental Security Combined 2752 1490 54% 1044 38% 146 5% 72 3% Employee 2084 1150 55% 793 38% 75 4% 66 3% Subcontractor 668 340 51% 251 38% 71 10% 6 1% FAT* 0 1 → 0% LWC* 40 33 ↑21% RWC* 27 40 ↓32% MTC* 103 86 ↑20% FAC* 862 992 ↓13% HiPo* 102 83 ↑22% NM* 559 681 ↓18% EH* 187,120,531 172,354,737 2019 2018 % difference Lost Work Case Frequency (LWCF*) High Potential Incident (HiPo*) Total Recordable Case Frequency (TRCF*) Near Miss (NM*) All Injury Frequency Rate (AIFR*) Exposure Hours (EH*) Fatality (FAT*) Restricted Work Case (RWC*) All frequency rates are Medical Treatment Case (MTC*) calculated per 200,000 First Aid Case (FAC*) man hours John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 51 Health, safety and security Safety Essentials Effective safe systems of work rely on more than safety standards to make them work effectively. Behaviours directly influence the way we work; the way we do things and the way we follow processes. The Wood Safety Essentials raise awareness of how the right Behaviours can help prevent incidents and improve our safety performance. They are designed to complement our Life Saving Rules and apply to all office and site personnel. • Always take care • Follow the rules • Do a risk assessment • You must intervene • Manage any change • Wear the correct PPE Life Saving Rules Wood’s Life Saving Rules (LSRs) Benchmarking Total Recordable Incident Rate Comparison have been adopted from the globally Performance recognised International Association of TRIR Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP), ensuring Benchmarking our safety performance Comparison 2016 2017 2018 2019 that our workforce have a common against that of our clients, competitors message no matter where they work. Wood 0.28 0.25 0.18 0.18 and industry, allows us to compare The LSRs help us plan and control work our safety record against those facing IOGP 0.21 0.19 0.20 safely providing a minimum standard to similar challenges, as well as guide Overall which everyone is expected to comply performance target setting, to improve IOGP with. They raise awareness of safety 0.22 0.20 0.21 performance. Contractor critical activities that have been shown IOGP to be those with the greatest potential 0.16 0.15 0.14 Company to cause fatalities. The LSRs detail the The International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP) actions that individuals must take to protect themselves and others. The The Global Oil and Gas Industry trade Lost Time Injury Frequency adoption and mandatory enforcement association (IOGP) is the voice to the Comparison of the rules helps us ensure the safety global upstream oil and gas industry. of everyone that works with Wood. Members of IOGP, represent 40% of the LTIF world’s oil and gas production and serve Comparison 2016 2017 2018 2019 industry regulators as a global partner Wood 0.06 0.05 0.04 0.04 for improving safety, environmental and IOGP social performance. Working closely 0.05 0.05 0.05 Overall with IOGP, Wood looks to the industry IOGP body to help share knowledge and best 0.06 0.05 0.05 Contractor practice, as well as benchmark our performance through the association’s IOGP Bypassing Confined Driving 0.05 0.06 0.05 Safety Space annual reporting on industry Company Controls safety performance. Annual safety performance data, detailing member Note: 2019 safety performance data from performance, allows us to compare IOGP was not released at the time of publication for inclusion overall statistics, as well as those 0 specific to contractor and company. Energy Hot Line of Isolation Work Fire Safe Work Working at Mechanical Authorisation Height Lifting 52 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index High Potential Incidents Targeting our critical safety risks – The staircase illustrates the following: the safety staircase • A focus on Dropped Objects and High potential incidents are those Energy Isolation incidents would The safety staircase is designed to events that could, in slightly different address 61% of high potential provide simple communication around circumstances, realistically result in incidents. critical risks and to demonstrate serious injuries or one or more fatalities. where particular focus of energy could • A further focus on Working at Height Rigorous investigation leading to reduce reoccurrence. The top five high & Driving / vehicle related incidents full understanding of high potential potential incident types are identified would address an additional 19% of incidents allows us to evaluate the over a 24-month period, resulting in high potential incidents. effectiveness of our management a raised focus on what incident types systems and ensure that our energy is can cause the most serious events. This Throughout 2019 our Stand up For targeted on our highest risk activities. also included Line of Fire incidents, that Safety campaign delivered materials Unfortunately, we saw an increase from were considered a worthwhile area to across the business to provide support 83 high potential incidents in 2018 to 101 focus our safety energy. to leaders as they highlighted these key incidents in 2019, representing a 10% areas for focus. uplift in our High Potential Frequency. Critical safety risk areas Learning from our high potential Safety staircase incidents, we continue to focus on the four risk areas that contributed to our 102 High most severe incidents in 2019: potential • Driving incidents • Working at Height 36% Targeting dropped object incidents • Dropped objects 25% Targeting energy isolation incidents • Energy isolations 10% Targeting working at height incidents 9% Targeting driving / vehicle related incidents 50% 6% Targeting line of fire incidents Step change = 86% reduction reduction in working at height incidents was achieved in 2019 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 53 Health, safety and security Driving Wood recognises driving to be one of our four critical safety risk areas. Supporting SDG 3 in seeking to halve the number of global deaths and injuries from road traffic accidents, Wood continues to strive for utmost safety in all of our driving activities. The following table breaks down the outcome of driving incidents in the last 3 years, with the following map detailing the distribution of driving incidents and severity across our regional footprint. ▼ 34% reduction in the number of driving incidents from 2018 (379) to 2019 (249) Driving continues to be recognised as one of the key critical risk areas in regions such as the Middle East and the Americas. Predictive Safety Our solution Middle East Using advanced analytics and cloud Driving is recognised as a major focus Could technology help to predict future computing, we were able to develop area in the Middle East, our team in safety incidents? That was the very a system able to continually Iraq are a good example of how our question we asked, working with Wood’s calculate incident likelihood scores operations in the region approach digital and technology team throughout for key global construction and tackling this safety critical area. 2019 to understand how we use operations contracts. With insights safety data and the potential impact presented in an interactive incident Again, the programme is designed of technology in advancing safety risk dashboard, this can then be alongside the Safety Shield approach: reporting and incident mitigation. used by HSE senior management to continually identify contracts that • Prepare – training/information What is predictive safety? may require intervention. • Engage – communication Automated collation of leading safety • Intervene – efficiency and risk data from a variety of sources and Next steps compliance continual calculation of a combined At present, safety data comes incident likelihood scores for key global The programme is supported by: in a variety of manual and construction and operations contracts. digital forms from across Wood, • Comprehensive reporting deploying the Predictive Safety Why is predictive Solution will require our business • Driver Feedback Proforma safety important? to adapt to a more digital based implemented to give drivers a voice Industry approaches to minimizing method of reporting safety data • Passenger Feedback allows our staff future incidents tend to focus on and collaboration with our wider to give regular updates on safety, analysis of lagging incident & nearsafety teams. We intend to take driver and vehicle standards miss data. Data sources are often the predictive safety solution into • Monthly driving safety campaigns analysed in isolation and insight our CoLab environment, to further • Monthly Fleet Newsletter extraction can be time consuming, develop the software and potential deployment across Wood. • Regular safety updates and alerts inefficient & ineffective. Automatically across the Iraq business combining data sources and using Read more about our CoLab trained algorithms to extract insight environment on page 112 from leading indicator data removes these inefficiencies and improves effectiveness. These approaches have the potential to significantly reduce incident/injury rates, lost (worker) time and ultimately save more lives on site. 54 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index Americas A high-profile focus on driving was driven through 2019 in the Americas, themed around the principles of the Safety Shield – Prepare, Engage and Intervene, supported by a further educate element: Prepare At-Risk Driving: Promotion of our Driving Procedure and Driver Handbook with built-in Journey Management Plan and Risk Assessment Scorecard, both available on Wood’s online HSSEA app. Over 5,000 handbooks printed and placed in the hands of our drivers and shared across the Wood business. Engage Driving Risk Management: Geotab telematics, enforcing accountability by monitoring driving behavior data and benchmarking trends with the Driver Safety Scorecards. Geotab is accessed by both the web and mobile app. The devices are installed and recording real-time driver data. Geotab’s full deployment plan is in progress for the Outcome of driving incidents purchase and installation of approx. 1,000 more devices across all fleet by 2017 2018 2019 the end of 2020. Lost Time Incidents 1 1 3 Restricted Work Cases 1 0 1 Intervene Driving Risk Reduction Medical Treatment Cases 3 1 0 Guidance: Global Just and Fair Culture Standard: A safety procedure First Aid Cases 7 9 10 that supports our Wood HSSE Safety Sprain/strain Bruise/contusion Bruise/contusion Management System Standard. Top 3 Injury Types Fracture/dislocation Fracture/dislocation Sprain/strain Bruise/contusion Cuts/Laceration Fracture/dislocation • A consistent and systematic Behaviour Behaviour Risk management approach that ensures personal accountability Top 3 root causes Mental capability Mental capability Behaviour • Sets necessary consequential Risk management Risk management Planning actions to be taken in the event of an incident • Serves as the guide for managing a Driving incidents by location and severity (2017-2019) driver’s behavior • Reward, Recognize, Coach/Train and Discipline Educate Driving Risk Reduction Education: Wood-National Safety Council (NSC) Online Training Center • Introducing enhanced online defensive driver training • Available in several languages, self-paced and accessible to our remote personnel. Low Medium High John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 55 Health, safety and security Health and Topics include: Through meeting the requirements of our occupational health standards, we wellbeing at Wood • • Noise Ergonomic and Manual Handling ensure appropriate measures are in place to provide our people with the Supporting health and wellbeing reflects • Hygiene/Cleanliness at Work skills and knowledge to create a healthy the commitment of Wood to positive • Workplace Monitoring working environment and to help Wood and sustainable working environments • Vibration to deliver sustainable impact on the and aligns strongly to our values. Having • Travel Health health and wellbeing of our workforce. good health in the workplace is a key enabler to Wood operating effectively • Thermal Hazards and safely in addition to creating an • Hazardous Substances Wellbeing champions network inclusive Wood community. • Fatigue During 2019, we saw further expansion • Rehabilitation of our wellbeing champions network Our approach • Medical Screening and Surveillance across Wood. Focusing on expanding • Emergency Medical and First Aid our network of occupational health Health and wellbeing at Wood is driven Management champions has allowed key information by our HSSE policy, which commits to • Wellbeing to be cascaded effectively, creating both caring for our people, as well as the employee engagement necessary preventing ill-health and injury. Supported to achieve our desired improvement in by our mandatory Global Occupational Our occupational health strategy occupational health. Health Standards, we drive continuous focuses on both health and wellbeing by: improvement in our occupational health • Reducing the impact of work We recognise and support World performance, and align to internationally through effective management of Health Organisation Awareness Day’s, recognised standards of practice, with occupational health hazards. particularly those that focus on topics ISO 18001 and 45001 certifications in applicable to our operations, such as place across the business. • Understanding the employee, to reduce the impact work may have on declared malaria, hepatitis, tuberculosis, and HIV. underlying health conditions Our wellbeing champions network helps Our standards were developed to promote awareness days throughout following a comprehensive review • Encouraging and supporting the business and allow effective of our occupational health related general wellbeing communication on key messages, performance including Incident particularly conveying vital information investigations, Insurance related claims, Together, this means we apply a more around the risk of employees acquiring Long term occupational illnesses, holistic approach to preventing workplace and spreading illnesses, and how this and Health related best practice and ill health and supporting employee can be minimised. Helping Wood ensure regulatory requirements. wellbeing. Through provision of training employee good health and wellbeing and awareness, we place a focus on the remains at the forefront of what we do. early identification of health hazards. Occupational Emphasising the importance of how good physical and mental health Health Week are fundamentally linked, guidance materials and fact sheets were Supporting our strategy, proactive developed to raise understanding and preventive health and wellbeing and awareness across the business activities were the focus of our first on these core topics. Global Occupational Health Week in 2019. Kicking off the week with a group Offices around the globe took up wide communication from our Executive the opportunity to participate in president HSSEA, we placed a focus the week and delivered numerous on individual health and wellbeing, employee-led events. In our summed up by our opening remarks. America’s business events were held daily in Colombia, Brazil, “Occupational Health Week is not Lafayette, Louisiana, and Houston, just what you do this week, it’s among others. Sessions included about steps you take that will make relaxation therapy and yoga a difference over a lifetime. Small classes, blood drives, skin cancer awareness workshops, bio-metric changes can make a big difference. screenings, CPR, and mental health It’s amazing what you can achieve” awareness to name a few. In 2020 we plan to expand the week The week targeted relevant topics further, with a particular focus on such as mental health, travel health proactively managing psychosocial (including infectious illnesses), heart hazards which our Global health, lung health (from exposure Occupational Health Standards to hazardous materials) as well as require us to identify and reduce. smoking and musculoskeletal health. 56 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index World Mental Health Day World Mental Health day provides an important opportunity to focus on mental health not simply being the absence of a diagnosable mental health problem but an opportunity to learn, feel, express and manage emotions, build good relationships and cope with change and uncertainty. In October 2019, our employees supported World Mental Health Day by taking part in activities around the globe, to not only raise awareness on the importance of mental health, but reduce the stigma associated to such issues and encourage open conversations. In Melbourne, our employees took part in the Mental Health Foundation Australia 5km walk, recognising the importance good mental health has for employees, clients and the whole community. Talking about the day, Wood’s business director in Melbourne said: “Mental health challenges affect all of us in some way, at some time in our lives. We are encouraging our people Raising awareness of We shared some simple, clear advice to all our employee to help prevent and to learn more about mental health and Tuberculosis (TB) reduce the risk of TB: to start conversations to reduce the stigma. It is important for all of us to Every year, 10 million people If you are diagnosed with active TB take remember it is okay to not be okay and fall ill with TB, despite being a all your medicines as they’re prescribed, to check on those around us who may preventable and curable disease. until your doctor takes you to stop. be struggling at work, or at home.” It remains the top infectious killer Multi-drug resistant TB is much more worldwide, claiming over 1.5 million difficult to treat and occurs because Disbanding the stigma associated to lives in 2018. The global response people do not complete adequate mental health issues remains a challenge. to TB is faltering, with the World treatment. As an area of continued focus for Wood, Health Organisation reporting it is also an issue close to the heart of that it was not on track to reach • Keep all your doctor appointments. our Group Director of Occupational the 2020 targets of the ‘End TB Health: “Stigma is the barrier that we • Always cover your mouth with a Strategy’. Some positives have been need to break down so that people tissue when you cough or sneeze. Seal reported, with a fall in death rate, seek the support they need, whether at the tissue in a plastic bag, then throw however there is an urgent need the beginning of a challenging period it away. to accelerate progress and enable or when experiencing mental ill health access to lifesaving treatment. • Wash your hands after coughing or or illness. This means they can recover sneezing. quicker and continue to contribute About half of all people with TB can • Don’t visit other people and don’t positively to not only our workplaces but be found in 8 countries: Bangladesh, invite them to visit you. also our communities. Lack of mental China, India, Indonesia, Nigeria, Pakistan, Philippines, and South • Stay home from work, school, or health awareness is one of the biggest Africa. Wood operates in all these other public places. factors in people being unfairly treated or isolated but is also one that we have the countries, with TB representing a • Use a fan or open windows to move power to remedy and address” serious health risk to the business. around fresh air. Cases of our employees being • Don’t use public transportation. Supporting these activities which infected with TB at Wood, are sadly both comply with Wood’s Wellbeing reported on a regular basis. In March • Consider getting vaccinated if Standard and our values is helping to 2019, we raised awareness on the working or travelling to these highensure that mental health is valued in topic by marking World TB Day and risk countries going to live and work the same way as our physical wellbeing. the theme (It’s time for action) to with local people for more than encourage employees to take simple three months in an area where the steps to both prevent and reduce incidence of tuberculosis is high. the risk of the disease spreading. TB is caused by bacteria (mycobacterium tuberculosis) which most often affects the lungs. TB is spread through the air when people with lung TB cough, sneeze or spit. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 57 Health, safety and security Security of our people Look forward Country risk map Building on our progress in 2019, key Wood’s security function exists to areas of focus for Group Security in enable the delivery of Wood’s global 2020 will be: business operations. The security team supports business leaders, projects, and • Operating discipline: Rigorous focus individuals with the knowledge, skills, and on managing key security risks support structures required to safeguard through absolute compliance with the people, assets, projects and reputation. Group Security Standard across the business globally. This encompasses business travel, the bid process, and Our approach new and existing operations including Security risk management in Wood Joint Ventures. Low Medium is led by the Group Head of Security Argentina Angola • Crisis & Emergency Management: Australia Brazil and represented on the Executive Support the development and Azerbaijan Bangladesh Leadership Team (ELT) by the Executive implementation of a Group-wide Belgium Chad President HSSEA. Each Business Unit approach to Emergency Management Brunei Cameroon is partnered with a Security Director Canada Colombia as part of the Crisis & Emergency as their primary point of contact, and Chile Egypt Management framework, to include in turn, the Directors are supported China India a review of the Crisis & Emergency by Security Managers, who are the Equatorial Guinea Indonesia Standard and development of new France Israel regional SMEs for their region. Group Emergency Management related Germany Kazakhstan Security also has oversight of Crisis & guidance and templates. Review Ghana Mozambique Emergency and Business Continuity of the Group Crisis Management Italy Mexico Management; providing the overarching Ireland Peru team and Business Unit Incident standards and frameworks by which Kuwait Philippines Management teams Wood prepares for and responds to Malaysia Russia emergencies through to crises. • Business Continuity: Support the Norway Saudi Arabia development and implementation Netherlands South Africa of a Business Continuity Standard New Zealand Tunisia Oman Turkey and toolkit to achieve consistency Poland whilst allowing for local diversity and Qatar High individual requirements. Romania Algeria • Accountability: Develop further Singapore Nigeria strong, visible, leadership Slovakia Papua New Guinea South Korea accountability for security across all Spain Extreme Business Units. Switzerland Iraq • Continual Improvement: Further Thailand improve and make more efficient UAE UK all internal data and processes, US leveraging technology. Vietnam 58 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index Governance and Human Rights Case Study 2: Kuwait with applicable human rights best practice principles and in a manner that Wood provides PMC services for two Case Study 1: Iraq major client projects in Kuwait, the avoids or minimises risks to the Affected Communities in which they operate”. Wood has extensive operations in Iraq Clean Fuels Project (CFP) and Al-Zour which continues to be an area of growth, Refinery. Both these projects involve In addition, all security sub-contractors not only for business operations but complex operations with thousands have their own Human Rights Standards for advancing local development and of personnel on each site. Wood has that are consistent at a base level with nationalisation, with over 60% of staff an organic security function on both the principles of GRI 401. Security subbeing from the local Basrah province. projects to manage and oversee the contractors are audited to ensure that Wood is heavily involved in several overall conduct of safety, security, and coverage for all staff is achieved. sustainability projects, such as flare gas sub-contractor security provision. Wood’s integrated core principles capture for environmental improvement Sustainability, human rights with have ensured that both projects run leading to power generation for Iraqi host nation and projects sponsor efficiently, and in accordance with provinces and export sales opportunities requirements are the core operating government and project requirements and supporting development of oil and principles for Wood in Kuwait. and due regard to human rights. Both gas fields enhancing infrastructure to Compliance on both requires all CFP and Al Zour Refinery projects have support Iraq’s economy and social needs. operations adhere to International exceptional operational records and Within this context of growth Finance Corporation Performance achievement of client goals. and expansion, the health, safety, Standard 4 (IFC PS4), which ensures and security of our people, in this that “security service providers, when complex operating environment, discharging of their duties, must ensure remains Woods number one priority. that the safeguarding of personnel and Sustainability, Human Rights and Host property is carried out in accordance Nation compliance and partnership are the fundamental principles of all our operations. The strategic planning conducted by senior regional Countries in focus for 2019: operational leadership, supported by regional and local security management, ensures these principles Iraq Kuwait are embedded into all our operational activities in Iraq. The highest standard Mexico Egypt of human rights compliance is India Saudi Arabia implemented for all Wood’s organic Colombia Kenya Papua New security staff and all contracted thirdGuinea party security providers, ensuring 100% Mozambique sustainable coverage. Chile Supporting the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) The SDGs supported in this section are shown below. For more information on the targets being addressed, see our SDG mapping index in our report index. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 59 Investing in our communities We aim to build strong and lasting relationships in the communities we share. Wood aspires to be a trusted community partner and we recognise our responsibility to respect, nurture and empower the people and locations we impact. We play an important role in contributing to local economies and the social fabric of our shared communities. We aim to drive sustainable development through the opportunities our activities present to address local and global challenges and improve lives. Our approach Wherever we operate, we are part of the community. We share in the success and challenges of the people and places we connect with. Wood needs strong community relations to make sure we recruit the best people, work with the right suppliers and seize every opportunity to grow together. Sustainability is not a function within Wood but simply how we do business. How we partner with our communities and the standards we set are embedded within our management system and the policies and procedures across our global teams. Embedded within our code of conduct, we continually seek opportunities to work together with our communities and ensure our commitments are transparent, ethical and always in alignment with our values. Wood is predominantly an asset light organisation and our operations are often project based and transient in nature. Where we operate more permanently in locations and regions, we seek to establish long-term partnerships that sustain our contribution to the local economy and people, to improve lives, develop in-country capacity, resilience and sustainability. 60 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index Our role extends beyond our monetary contributions. It’s how we show up in the communities we are a part of and demonstrate care for the people and As a community partner we commit to: places we impact. Understand > Engage > Review Our strategy • Assess social • Manage • Monitor Wood’s community investment strategy impacts and Stakeholder effectiveness focuses on a ‘think local’ approach opportunities engagement plans of plans and that targets individual and team community • Assess • Manage Local perception accountability to sustainability towards environmental procurement plans local action that supports meaningful impacts and • Review and sustainable development in the locations • Develop opportunities respond to we operate. Driven by our group wide communication and community sustainability commitments, we drive a • Identify key awareness building, incidents focus on community engagement and stakeholders including methods actions that complement our Wood of reporting • Benchmark sustainability strategy. • Understand performance local context on • Manage local and consistently Our colleagues continue to demonstrate human rights development & monitor and daily, the difference we make to our and heritage investment plans evaluate shared communities through the compassion and care of our people, the culture we actively promote, and Drive sustainable Improve lives. Create new the unwavering commitment we show development. possibilities. to create positive impact through our actions. The strategic pillars of our community investment strategy centre around matching our employee fundraising efforts, strategically uniting our business around a single global cause and placing a focus on the actions we take through volunteering our time, skills and expertise. Read more about our sustainability commitments on page 92 Wood’s central charitable fund aimed Employee at matching employee matched fundraising efforts funding for personal choice charities. Chosen by our employees and aligned Our to UN SDG 4 and Global Quality Education, Our Cause Global unites our people around a single cause. Volunteering our time, knowledge and expertise to show up Volunteering in our communities and demonstrate commitment. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 61 Investing in our communities Pie in the sky Supporting the British Columbia (BC) Supporting employee 257 Children’s Hospital Foundation in Vancouver, Wood’s team in Vancouver matched funding join fellow mining community members fundraising applications in the city’s annual Celebrity Pie Throw. Participating in the event since 2014, Focused on supporting employee actions, Wood’s employee matched funding programme matches up £254,432 our support for the Mining for Minerals fundraising campaign is testament to true community spirit and the real to 100 of the amounts raised by employee fund raising efforts matched with impact of business coming together to our people in support of personal £204,459 by Wood raise vital funds for a very worthy cause. choice charities, up to a specified limit. Forming the basis of our core Mining for Miracles has raised over $33 charitable giving, employee matched funding is open to all employees and 146 million since 1988 to help improve the quality of health care for children in seeks to engage the maximum number charitable organisations British Columbia. Through its support of people across Wood on the causes supported of the construction of facilities and close to their hearts. acquisition of specialized medical equipment at the hospital, Mining for Supporting a range of charitable Miracles is helping to keep BC Children’s and non-profit organisations, our Hospital at the forefront of paediatric employee efforts help to tackle care excellence. a variety of issues in addressing a number of the UN Sustainable Representing Wood in the engineering Development Goals and contributes firm showdown, our vice president of to Woods support towards global mining and minerals in North America, sustainability goals. talked about his motivation in taking part in support of this long-standing Now in its second year, our employee fundraising campaign: matched funding programme continues to grow. With over 257 applications for funding supported “Supporting BC Children’s in 2019, Wood matched a total of Hospital is part of the B.C. mining £204,459 against an employee industry’s long history of working fundraising total of £254,432. to strengthen communities across Combined, our annual fundraising the province. Each year, this friendly efforts totalled over £450,000 in engineering battle is a testament support of 146 worthy charitable to the importance of community in causes. the mining industry. Representatives from nine engineering firms participated in this year’s Pie Throw and raised over $150,000” adding “Since 2014, Wood has raised over $100,000 for this foundation by participating in this and other events, which has included funds matched by the company. It is a testament to the care and generosity of the community in which we live, work, and play.” 62 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index Giving back in Baku As a shining example of a partnership that works well, our team in Baku have been providing incredible support for the local community for over two years through donating time, money and resource to local causes. Working together, the Baku team made up of 198 national and 47 expatriate employees have raised over £12,000 for local causes through activities such as a football sweep, bake sale, Christmas raffle, charity boxes in the office, quiz nights and a charity fair, which included the sale of handicrafts made by children from the orphanage. Organised by the contracts social committee, funds raised to date have been used to benefit a number of community projects, including a shelter which supports 60 children who are either orphans or from underprivileged families, purchasing hygiene products, meat, fruits and non-perishable foods. In addition to supporting the local orphanage, in 2019 the team helped provide school supplies for children Building hope one Wood has been proud to support these individual and group efforts from underprivileged families, brick at a time through our matched funding supported a nursing home for the In 2019, a number of our employee programme, seeing the annual total elderly and donated funds for the matched funding applicants chose reach a massive £106,000. medical treatment of a nine-yearto support Sue Ryder’s appeal old local girl. The team also donated £106,000 to extend their neurological care office furniture to a summer camp in centre in Aberdeen. Sue Ryder Shamakhi city where children spend provides 24/7 care for people with three months of the summer. This raised in total life-limiting neurological conditions. donation allowed them to set up two During 2019, Wood began a yearclassrooms with desks and drawers for long campaign to support the Speaking about the year’s events, one their studies. charity and set an ambitious target of the organisers had this to say: to raise £100,000. When asked what’s next for social “We chose to support Sue Ryder committee, Woods Quality Manager Helping to build a brighter future Neurological Care Centre Dee said: “Our next campaign is to support for people living with neurological View Court because we know the local state agency, which is conditions, our people rallied to first-hand about their amazing gathering wish letters from children organise and take part in countless living in far regions and villages. For work. The unexpected bonus from events, from a summer ceilidh our fundraising efforts has been this, we expect to receive 60 letters attended by 300 people and raising from children which we are committed the positive effect it has had a massive £30,000, to fire walks, to supporting. There are other new bike rides, runs, raffles, auctions, amongst staff. The campaign has ideas for local charities coming to the walks, bungee jumps, abseils, brought so many different teams table all the time, and we are excited volunteering, visiting, and many, together, creating a wonderful to continue with our commitment to many bake sales. buzz around the office” the local community”. The team in Baku are a great example of Wood’s commitment to understand, engage and continually review our impact in our local communities. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 63 Investing in our communities Our Global Cause Understanding the needs and Our educational framework Awarding a total of £110,184 in funding, challenges of our communities ensures we received applications from across we create meaningful impact that As part of our annual sustainability week celebration, during the last our operating locations. Supporting delivers sustainable value to the as many applications as possible, our locations we share. Uniting our business week of September, we launched our first annual ‘Challenge central fund awarded funding to 17 behind a single cause, demonstrates projects in 8 countries, helping to tackle our strength together, whilst retaining on Education’. Open to all employees, the challenge looked a variety of educational needs. flexibility towards local need and matching our efforts to best support to our employees to shape how we the people and places we impact. engage on Wood’s global cause and pitch for support towards an £110,184 Supporting our commitment to the educational issue in their locality, awarded UN Global Compact and aligned to the with seed financial support from 17 Sustainable Development Goals, in 2018 the Wood community fund. our people chose SDG 4 and quality education as Wood’s global cause. Each proposal submitted included a plan of activity over the coming projects By supporting a collective cause, as opposed to a singular charity we are able year to enable the community to show the wider impact Team Wood can have on global sustainability issues. investment committee to fairly judge each project based on 8 the merit of their impact and countries In 2019, we developed our educational advancement of the cause. framework to better communicate our efforts to support education, aimed at helping our local teams determine their potential impact, as well as provide a means to standardise how we report 2018 2019 our global activities through Wood’s Sustainability Action Tracker. Survey conducted across Wood’s Introduced our Educational Framework Global Employee Base to select a to help communicate our efforts to Wood Global cause, resulting in a support education our key areas of majority support for SDG 4 and potential impact Quality education Global Cause framework Building Professional Relations Supporting Youth Education Establishing mutually beneficial Creating programmes that give relations with government entities or students early access to the corporate educational institutions to align the environment, through activities such curriculum to our current and future as STEM, Mentor or Internships etc. industry needs. Investing in our Own Improving Access to Quality Education Investing in the development of our Providing equal opportunity to quality people; Providing our employees with education for all and providing an inclusive continuous opportunities to improve approach that champions everyone’s job skills for current and future fundamental right to an education. employment. Helping to Provide a Safe and Healthy Learning Environment Providing a safe, clean and healthy environment for education, to ensure this does not become a barrier to everyone’s fundamental right to an education. 64 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index Some of the projects being Russia: Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk North America: Orlando supported in 2020 include: Partnering with a local University to Supporting various activities help improve a local skills shortage, that help provide basic needs to relevant to Wood’s business in the vulnerable groups, coupled with Australia region. Partnering with Sakhalin STEM education and outreach. The Wood will become a Major Sponsor of State University and Oracle Academy Wood Orlando office will help the the organisation Teach Learn Grow to prepare and deliver free of charge following organisations as part of (TLG). TLG addresses educational training on Primavera P6, to help their volunteering outreach plan: disparity by providing primary school produce qualified personnel with Second Harvest Food Bank of Central students in rural and remote schools knowledge of project management Florida – Non-profit organisation with free one-on-one tutoring and software. that collects, stores and distributes mentoring from inspiring and engaging donated food to more than 550 volunteers India: Gurgaon feeding partners in six Central Florida Partnering with the Salaam Baalak UK The Mustard Seed – Local non-profit Trust (SBT) to provide educational Wood will become a Patron of the support to under privileged students. that serves as the only furniture and Prince’s Trust (PT) with a four-year A team of employees from our P&O clothing bank in Central Florida partnership. The Prince’s Trust is the Global Shared Services Team, will UK’s leading youth charity supporting Orlando Children’s Church – In facilitate visits to the local NGO SBT disadvantaged 11 to 30-year-olds who partnership with the Geneva School, and help students and teachers with are unemployed or struggling at school the Wood team will donate materials their various educational needs. and at risk of exclusion. to design & build raised garden beds and a solar powered irrigation system Wood will renew its membership to Philippines: Manila that will help provide a sustainable food Scottish Council for Development and source for low income families. This will Industry (SCDI). Already a Principle Partnering with SOS Children’s Villages to help support the be coupled with a calendar of STEM partner of SCDI’s Young Engineer’s activities. in Science Clubs (YESC) programme, educational needs of disadvantaged we will provide ongoing support for children. Our Wood Alabang office STEM activities linked to our work on aim to mentor and/or guide up to 41 renewable energy. disadvantaged children being cared for by SOS Children’s Villages Africa: Liberia Wood will partner with Power of Nutrition (PoN) and their work in Liberia. PoN is an independent charitable foundation, targeting maternal and child nutrition in Africa and Asia. In Liberia, stunted growth from malnutrition affects over 40% of children under 5 years old, impacting health, to education, to future income earnings. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 65 Investing in our communities Inspiring Girls in Iraq Today, an estimated 130 million girls worldwide remain out of school and face multiple barriers in accessing education compared to their male counterparts. Keeping girls in school and ensuring they can learn in a safe and supportive environment leads to many benefits for girls themselves, their families, their communities and societies. A team of female employees in our Iraq business, across a number of internal functions, joined forces in to promote career opportunities for local girls in the oil and gas industry, working together to raise the profile of women in the industry & supporting a government initiative to keep girls in education. The Wood community of Iraqi women, began discussions on volunteering their time with meeting the Iraq-British Council to discuss areas of potential collaboration. During a visit to Al-Kifah Primary School for Girls in Basra in early 2019, the team hosted Volunteering Running through the end of July, the annual drive pairs children served by an interactive session talking to pupils our time DHS programs with volunteers who about their future after school, what help ensure each child starts the subjects they could study and sharing Showing up in our communities through experiences of their careers in oil and school year with the resources they the time, skills and resources we donate gas. The team also donated children’s need to succeed in the classroom. forms the foundation of Wood’s books to the school library and worked From pencils and notebooks to approach to community investment. with pupils on a safety poster project. calculators and rulers, the goal is to We aim to be a trusted member of provide 1,800 Denver students with society and a partner of choice for the Following the successful visit, the team a backpack full of hope. people and communities we impact. were invited back to the local girl’s But school supplies were just the school in Basra for International Water In 2019, our people continued to go Day, arranged by UNICEF. World Water beginning. Powered by the spirit of above and beyond to demonstrate care day is held annually to focus attention giving back, the team also sorted for their communities. With over 9,150 on the importance of the sustainable and packed personal hygiene items employees volunteering over 13,800 management of freshwater resources. for the Spring Showers Hygiene hours towards local activities and Globally, an estimated 2,000 children Drive and sorted clothes that were causes, we continued to develop how under the age of five die every day donated for homeless and families we track and report our efforts through from diseases ingested through dirty in need. Wood’s sustainability action tracker. water. By 2021, UNICEF is aiming for One of the senior leaders 60 million more people worldwide to volunteering said: have access to clean drinking water. Starting the school year off right “We are proud to have the Speaking about this most recent visit, opportunity to give back to one of the teams organisers said: “In For many families living in poverty, the Iraq, there is often issues with water cost of sending a child to school can the community and support families in need. Education is quality and last year some of our own be overwhelming. The added cost of employees were unfortunately sick uniforms, supplies and books can mean our global cause and we all have because of this. We were delighted to children arrive on the first day of school a part to play in ensuring that take part in UNICEF’s programme to without the supplies they need to learn. every child everywhere receives highlight to local girls and the wider a quality education. By making community the importance of good Supporting our global cause, Wood’s leadership team in Colorado are just an effort to show up in our water quality. Our young ladies are one example of our colleagues donating local communities and working making a difference and engaging our their time to tackling a worthy cause together to make a difference, local community here with the longand barrier to education. Partnering we can produce positive term aspirations for Iraq in our minds with Denver Human Services (DHS) in and hearts.” change.” Colorado, US the team filled backpacks with school supplies for the Adopt-aStudent School Supply Drive. 66 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index Every drop counts Our dedicated engineers helped Supporting the Sustainable drive efforts to construct a new Today, more than 785 million people Development Goals (SDGs) water distribution system for the The SDGs supported in this section are lack access to safe water. Adding to the community, through detailed piping shown below. For more information on global water crisis, water demand is set design, project reporting and three the targets being addressed, see our SDG to grow by 55% by 2050. planned implementation trips to mapping index in our report index. bring these plans to action. The new Helping to tackle the issue, water system will reduce the risk of Environmental engineers from our water-borne illness and time that Portland, Maine office are working with residents spend obtaining water for Engineers Without Borders to design their homes and will pipe clean water and implement a water distribution to each household that is registered system in El Progreso, Ecuador. El with the Water Board in Ecuador. Progreso is a farming community with 110 residents, approximately 50 houses and a single main road surrounded by “I am proud to have the ridges and deep ravines. Access to a opportunity to help lead a project safe water supply is a critical issue for that is providing the community the community. With the current water with access to clean, readily system, water is collected in a small available water. I believe everyone, concrete catchment at a nearby spring everywhere deserves access to and piped first to a 200-gallon tank, then downhill to a community center. To clean, safe water and I hope our fulfill daily water needs, residents must efforts will build the foundation haul water from the community center for a more resilient future,” or a neighbor’s house or use roof water Wood volunteer collected from gutters. 55% increase in water demand by 2050 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 67 Planet We commit to preserve and protect the natural environment for future generations. Managing environmental risk We care about the environment and understand we have a responsibility to all our stakeholders to protect and minimise the impact of our operations, both in how we deliver our solutions, and in how we operate our business. Society, rightly, demands transparency and accountability on environmental issues, and never more so than today. Read more on page 70 Reducing our environmental impact Protecting the environment around us and minimising our impact is a strategic priority for Wood. We commit to sustainably manage our operations in a way that helps to protect the locations and communities we impact, to preserve the world we share for generations to come. Read more on page 74 Raising environmental awareness and competence Effective communication and understanding on environment issues, is crucial to inform, educate and empower our employees. Raising environmental awareness on the key issues that impact our business and wider society, ensures we continue to demonstrate our commitment to protect and preserve the world around us. Read more on page 90 68 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index In this section: Managing environmental risk 70 Reducing our environmental impact 74 Raising environmental awareness and competence 90 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 69 Managing environmental risk We care about the environment and understand we have a responsibility to all our stakeholders to protect and minimise the impact of our operations, both in how we deliver our solutions, and in how we operate our business. Society, rightly, demands transparency and accountability on environmental issues, and never more so than today. The way we manage and control our environmental risks is crucial to protect not only our business, but also our people and the environments in which we operate. Failing to recognise and effectively manage these risks undermines our ability to create a sustainable, responsible and resilient business in the long term. Our approach Our HSSE policy states our commitment to protect the environment and underpins our approach to environmental management. We hold a groupwide environmental risk register which identifies our significant risks and details the relevant mitigation which must be in place. Our integrated HSSEA management system provides the framework for how we manage environmental risks, ensuring our processes are effective and driving continuous improvement in our environmental performance. Wood’s environmental management aligns to internationally recognised standards of practice and our ISO 14001:2015 certification for the business covers over 14,000 employees and is externally verified globally by Lloyds Register. 70 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index Setting minimum standards A key element of our environmental management is our Environmental Standards, applicable to all our locations globally. The standards are an integral part of the global Wood HSSE management system, supporting our Blue Book (HSSE Management System Standard). Business units must ensure the requirements of the standards are embedded into their local management system. Businesses must assess their compliance with the standards on a periodic basis, a selfassessment tool is available for use by the businesses to facilitate this. The standards detail the minimum requirements for managing environmental risks and ensure a consistent approach to environmental management, supporting the framework of our HSSE management system. The standards detail the minimum requirements for managing environmental risks and ensure a consistent approach to environmental management, supporting the framework of our HSSE management system. Developed following a comprehensive review of Wood’s environmental commitments and performance, the standards consider environmental best practice (including ISO 14001:2015), regulatory performance and environmental incident investigations. The standards are split into two sections: Managing environmental risks and Reducing our impact on the environment. They cover a variety of issues such as Environment Managing Raising environmental in Design, Pollution Prevention, Carbon environmental risk awareness and competence Management, Protected and Sensitive We recognise that understanding It is vital that our employees Environments and Water Preservation what our risks are is the first step in understand why we care about the and Protection. protecting the environment. Having environment and why it is important Our environmental strategy focuses a thorough understanding of the to our business. Employees who on three key areas, addressing the environmental risks posed by our have specific environmental key environmental risks associated operations is critical. This allows for responsibilities associated to their with our operations. This includes clear expectations and minimum roles must be equipped with the but is not limited to pollution control standards to be developed which ensure competence and tools to discharge and remediation management, legal effective mitigation and management. these requirements appropriately. compliance, impact assessment and preservation and protection. Reducing our impact on the environment We care about the legacy we leave behind as a result of our operations. As a responsible business, Wood strives to eliminate or reduce as far as possible any negative environmental impacts likely to result from our operations. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 71 Managing environmental risk Our performance Number of environmental incidents Environmental incident frequency rate per 200,000 hours worked Environmental incidents As part of our mandatory 258 0.29 procedure, ‘Reporting, recording and investigating’, environmental 171 0.20 incidents are captured in our bespoke 123 0.14 incident management and analysis 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 tool CAIRS. Incidents are assigned an actual and potential impact rating based on the table below. Incidents deemed as having high Actual severity ratings of Potential severity ratings of reported environmental incidents reported environmental incidents level consequences are notified to the management team through a first alert process and all high potential consequence incidents subject to an in-depth investigation. Most incidents reported in 2018 were recorded as having a low actual and Low 99% (126) Low 96% (122) potential impact rating. Medium 1% (1) Medium 4% (5) Actual Potential Number of people Number of people Environmental 0 1 2-3 4-10 11+ 0 1 2-3 4-10 11+ Minimal reversible A1 B1 C1 D1 E1 A1 B1 C1 D1 E1 environmental impact Minor pollution with short term A2 B2 C2 D2 E2 A2 B2 C2 D2 E2 impact (1 month) Moderate pollution with medium term A3 B3 C3 D3 E3 A3 B3 C3 D3 E3 localised impact (1 year) Severe pollution with long term A4 B4 C4 D4 E4 A4 B4 C4 D4 E4 localised impact (+1 year) Severe pollution with long term A5 B5 C5 D5 E5 A5 B5 C5 D5 E5 environmental change A B C D E A B C D E 72 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index Spillages Environmental compliance Supporting the Sustainable During 2019, 69% of the environmental Of the 123 incidents reported, Development Goals (SDGs) incidents reported related to accidental 14 were reported to the relevant The SDGs supported in this section are releases. In total 1716 litres of various regulating authority. shown below. For more information on the targets being addressed, see our SDG substances were released into the In early 2019 our business in Abu mapping index in our report index. environment. Most of these releases were of hydraulic oil, caused by hydraulic Dhabi received a small fine for failing hose failures on plant and equipment at to register as a producer of waste, our projects. As a result, we took steps relating to waste generated in our to educate our employees on how to offices. We were issued a nonspot that a hose may be about to fail; compliance under the EU Emissions issuing a guidance document and an Trading Scheme in August due to our employee briefing note to the global failure to report an issue with a BOC business on this topic. meter on one of our UK projects. In 2020, we will begin to record We did not face any prosecutions for additional information in our incident environmental related offences in 2019. reporting tool, CAIRS, when a spillage is reported. The employee will be required Prosecutions for environmental to provide information such as the type related offences of plant and equipment being used, the brand, supplier and hours / miles on the Prosecutions clock. This will allow for trending analysis 2017 0 to take place and for us to engage with 2018 0 our suppliers and take proactive steps to address any issues identified. 2019 0 Potential severity ratings of Percentage of incidents reported reported environmental incidents to the regulator Hydraulic oil 68% Other 14% Fuel 8% Hydrocarbon 6% Not reported 88% Grey water 4% Reported 12% John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 73 Reducing our environmental impact Protecting the environment around us and minimising our impact is a strategic priority for Wood. We commit to sustainably manage our operations in a way that helps to protect the locations and communities we impact, to preserve the world we share for generations to come. As a responsible business, we recognise our impact on the environment goes beyond simply managing our own footprint. As one of the world’s leading consulting and engineering companies working across energy and the built environment, we are uniquely placed to help drive the energy transition, and the shift to more sustainable infrastructure. We do this through the solutions we offer, as well as how we choose to operate our business. Climate action Climate change represents the single biggest challenge to the future of humanity and the life-support systems that make our world habitable. CO2 concentrations in the atmosphere are at their highest levels in over 800,000 years, as a result, our planet is warmer now than at any point in the past 120,000 years. At Wood, we support the current scientific understanding of how carbon and other greenhouse gas emissions effect the global climate, and the longer-term impacts that climate change will have on society, economy, and the planet we share. We recognise the role we play in driving a low carbon economy and believe that through innovative thinking and proactive challenge, we can realise a low carbon future that works towards global sustainability goals, and targets on global temperature rise. 74 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index Managing climate change With our active role in helping our clients achieve the transition to a secure, sustainable energy future, climate change informs our strategic direction and the solutions we provide across the energy and built environment markets. As we guide our clients, so too must we retain absolute clarity and focus our response to, and management of, climate change issues. Our approach Oversight of Wood’s strategic direction and performance sits ultimately with our Board, informed by our Board Committees, and delivered by our Executive Leadership Team. Climate governance falls into Wood’s principle risks and uncertainties, summarised primarily in our latest Annual Report and Accounts as “a Failure to meet our ESG responsibilities”. With a bottom up and top down approach to managing risk, our risk management framework ensures we Mitigation Guided by our company wide standards continually manage our principle risks Wood is already advising several clients of operation, as well as our sustainability and identify emerging risks through on reducing carbon emissions from their on projects framework (see page 114), our corporate governance structure. projects and assets. Solutions range building sustainability factors into Completion of risk registers at a project/ from modifying offshore installations Woods operational requirements, contract level, to a Business Unit (BU) to connect to floating wind farms, ensures we align to evolving climate risk and functional level, ensures we have developing a masterplan for carbon factors and our sustainability strategy. a base foundation for effective risk capture and storage (CCS) from management. Quarterly BU and biWood’s ongoing work on scenario industrial sites, assessing the feasibility modelling and analysis in 2019, has annual functional risk profile reviews of hydrogen-powered passenger ferries are conducted by respective leadership helped to inform our strategic direction, and providing software to monitor as well as helping to: teams, with additional review by Wood’s emissions from petrochemicals facilities. Chief Executive and Group CFO. • Ensure our business is financially resilient and growing in the Emerging risks are identified through Adaptation low-carbon energy transition regular business review and escalated Complementing our work on through our monthly leadership reporting • Support our clients with energy transition, to support the understanding and supporting and governance framework. Twice decarbonisation commitments of annual board and board committee their growing needs to deliver on companies and governments in a range climate-related and net zero targets reviews ensure all principle and emerging of industries, Wood’s strategic focus and risks are captured before disclosure in • Align our business to best support capabilities on sustainable infrastructure Wood’s Annual Report and Accounts. future climate scenarios development, is helping to solve the challenges of rapid urbanisation and Read more on our governance Read more on our work to address climate address the social, economic and resilience on pages 114-119 structure and principle risks on page 21, or pages 45-49 of our Annual Report environmental impacts of climate and Accounts 2019 change to strengthen global resilience. Learn more about our work to advance the energy transition on pages 86-89 Principle risk: Failure to meet our ESG responsibilities Risk profile: Not meeting our environmental, social and governance (ESG) responsibilities leads to the business becoming an unattractive investment proposition. Risk management: Review & adaption: Annual disclosure: Risk registers completed at: • Quarterly BU and bi-annual group function risk profile reviews Annual Report • Business Unit • Bi-annual risk committee review and Accounts • Business Grouping • Bi-annual Board, Audit and Safety, Assurance & • Individual contract/project Business Ethics Committee reviews • Function John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 75 Reducing our environmental impact We have identified two significant, Our two major uncertainties create four scenarios: strategic drivers impacting our world, A. Degree of alignment across key stakeholders, i.e. social, government, investors and businesses B. Rate of innovation and the adoption of renewable and low carbon energy our industry and our business in the years ahead. A1 A2 B1 Tailwind Turbulence (A1) Aligned social, economic & political world (A2) Polarised social, economic & political spectrum Energy (B1) Rapid technological innovation & deployment (B1) Rapid technological innovation & deployment transition B2 Headwind (A1) Aligned social, economic & political world Doldrums (A2) Polarised social, economic & political spectrum (B2) Incremental technology development & (B2) Incremental technology development & adoption adoption The first is energy transition, specifically “How will energy source, distribution and demand change over the next 15 Substantial investments years?” In early 2019, a team of experts Rapid in renewables; rapid technology improvement from across Wood took part in a twoTailwind Transformation in day scenario planning workshop to grid infrastructure Speed of energy transition develop, to answer that question. The Strong societal pressure result was Wood’s energy transition Turbulence Firm government action scenarios, four real world possible to address climate change futures, informing our strategic direction in relation to the world’s rapid Headwind evolution to a cleaner planet. These scenarios helped us articulate real world Troubled global economy solutions for achieving the transition Little societal interest to lower carbon energy sources, and a Doldrums Gas reigns sustainable built environment. Slower advances in renewable technologies Limited grid infrastructure development Slow Limited Depth of energy transition Deep Sustainable Sustainable infrastructure development scenarios infrastructure Cities as engines of a sustainable, wealthy world The second mega trends links to Flecks Blaze the drive in demand for a more • Global economic peaks and troughs • Economic growth throughout 2020s sustainable world, economically, driven by digital and tech boom • Constrained levels of finance socially and environmentally and the available for infrastructure projects • Governments begin to take control of infrastructure that supports it. • Big Tech evolves and digital critical digital resources adoption thrives • Society accedes to deep digitisation; In late 2019, a team of infrastructure • Society upended by technology; accepts loss of privacy and control for practitioners from across Wood winners and losers economic growth and stability came together in a scenario planning • Virtual offices and decentralisation • Boom in digital construction and big data workshop to ask the question; ‘How of production in infrastructure leads to efficiencies which unlock new finance streams will urban infrastructure evolve • Rate of urbanisation begins to slow as people begin to move • Sustainability and resilience accelerate over the next 15 years?’. Through Human and data deep connectivity away from large cities to smaller alongside a rapid energy transition using the intuitive logics scenario communities • Infrastructure project returns planning methodology, the scenarios • Societal shift to more communal reach new benchmarks focused primarily on cities as the and sustainable living • Urban infrastructure is transformed main driver of urban infrastructure with help of technology transformation. The result was four potential Embers Beacons futures, again giving the opportunity • Economic turbulence • Good leadership and infrastructure to identify services and solutions • Insufficient infrastructure financing planning drive progress required for each. markets • Large-scale investment in urban • Overly bureaucratic infrastructure infrastructure focused on improving planning quality of life and tackling congestion • Social resistance to technology and and pollution data collection • Society turns against digitisation • Slow energy transition; and automation; heavy regulation of no circular economy digital and technology • Increasing pressure on public services • Infrastructure projects rely on existing solutions; inefficiencies remain • Increase in the number of failing cities and widening ‘wealth division’ • Moderate energy transition and between cities / regions worsening of extreme weather events • Proliferation of underdeveloped urban • Widescale changes in urban centres, slums and underprivileged transportation crowded cities in developing world • Huge drive towards resilience and sustainability in cities 76 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index Disclosure 2019 submission We recognise the importance of Our 2019 CDP Climate Change submission retained our annual Taskforce on providing transparency in reporting Climate-related Financial our efforts to tackle climate change. disclosure score of a ‘C’, which we aim to improve over the next two years, Disclosures (TCFD) As a business seeking to lead transformative change on climate in particular with the introduction of Supporting the goals of the related issues, we believe reporting our our 2030 target to reduce scope 1&2 Paris climate agreement, TCFD progress helps us to continue to evolve emissions by 40% and expanding our was created by the Financial our approach and demonstrate our scope of reporting from a European Stability Board (FSB) to provide impact towards global sustainability reporting boundary to Global. a framework for companies and goals. other organisations to improve A the reporting of climate-related Leadership Arisks and opportunities. CDP climate change B Our primary method of disclosure Management BWood’s submission to the CDP on climate change is our annual C Climate Change question set, Awareness Cresponse to CDP Climate Change. D which is fully aligned to the As the largest registry of corporate Disclosure Drecommendations of TCFD, GHG emissions in the world, CDP helps us to disclose our key disclosure allows investors & cities to risks and opportunities on Average performance: better understand risk, capitalise on climate change issues, alongside opportunities and make investment Industrial support services Awareness: C additional disclosure in our decisions that drive action toward a Annual Report and Accounts and more sustainable world. Wood has Europe Annual Sustainability Report. been submitting to the voluntary Awareness: C questionnaire since 2011, helping us to: Find out more on Wood's Global average alignment to TCFD recommended • Identify the key risks and Awareness: C disclosures on page 120 opportunities associated with climate change Find our latest CDP Climate • Increase transparency to our Change submission at: shareholders, clients, and the www.cdp.net/en/climate general public • Allow us to benchmark our Supporting the Sustainable organisation against our peer Development Goals (SDGs) and industry groups The SDGs supported in this section are shown below. For more information on the targets being addressed, see our SDG mapping index in our report index. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 77 Reducing our environmental impact Our commitment: 40% carbon reduction by 2030 Our carbon Our carbon journey Wood will seek to reduce our footprint How we implement and communicate global scope 1 & 2 emissions our carbon footprint across our The Paris agreement in 2015 saw business, is vital to realising our own by 40% by 2030*. 195 of the world’s governments as well as global carbon reduction commit to prevent dangerous climate ambitions. Our Wood Carbon Using our Wood Lifecycle delivery model change by limiting global warming Reporting and Accounting Standard, SCORE (Substitute, Capture, Offset, to well below 2 degrees Celsius. The released in 2018,and prepared in line Reduce, Evaluate) methodology to guide Paris Agreement marks a significant with the principles of the Greenhouse our journey so far, we will utilise our positive step in global action to tackle Gas Protocol, provides a standardised range of internal capabilities and the climate change. approach to reporting our carbon SCORE roadmap to further assess and footprint and helps to communicate deliver our emissions target. As a member of the United Nations exactly what we report and how. Global Compact, we manage our Supporting Sustainable Development business to reflect the principles of the Goal 13 and guidelines and protocols UN Global Compact and in support of Committing to a established by the Intergovernmental the 17 UN Sustainable Development science based target Panel on Climate Change and Goals, this includes goal 13 on climate In line with the Paris climate accord, Global Reporting Initiative, Wood’s action. Alongside our ambition to Wood has committed to setting benchmarked reduction target, set reduce our own carbon emissions, a Science Based Target aligned for implementation in 2020, is aligned working with our customers, we to global ambitions to limit global to a science-based methodology to believe we have the potential to temperature rise to well below seek an absolute carbon reduction contribute much greater reductions to 2-degrees or 1.5-degrees. Achieving in emissions. We firmly believe our global greenhouse gas emissions. early alignment of our data collection commitment extends beyond the and reporting in 2019, has enabled minimum contribution towards global early approval from Wood’s Board goals; our passion to succeed and over and Executive Leadership to commit deliver where possible, runs to the heart to setting a Science Based Target, of the way we run our business and we from a 2019 base line year. commit to deliver on any target set, then seek to stretch beyond. *excludes direct emissions from the Martinez Power Plant. 78 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index Our three-year strategy Our three-year strategy to align our global business on carbon data reporting, on both scope and boundary, began in October 2017 towards full alignment by September 2020. In 2019, we expedited our strategy to complete alignment of our reporting by September of that year; this followed a successful migration of our business onto a single, global reporting system. Target setting timeline 2017 Year 1 Migrating to one reporting system and laying the process to support data collection. 2018 Year 2 Align and begin reporting combined scope 1 & 2 emissions on an operational basis. Alignment and reporting of scope 3 emissions was also achieved in year two ahead of schedule, in line with a materiality assessment conducted in Year 1. 2019 Year 3 Commitment towards setting a science-based target aligned to global goals to limit future temperature rise. 2020 Score methodology Advise Assess Deliver Substitute Market analysis Design Capture Objectives / ToR Baseline audit Target setting Cost Economic and Decarbonisation Implement estimates financial analysis roadmap Offset Corporate Monitor strategy Reduce Policy impacts Cross check and recycle Insight / advisory (recycle) John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 79 Reducing our environmental impact Total GHG emissions from all scopes Carbon performance overview A total split of emissions is shown For the first time, since the formation in the table to follow. The emissions of Wood, we are able to report a stated include one owned power plant combined Wood carbon footprint for in Martinez, California, which makes up 2019; this has meant our legacy WG 68% of our total 2018/19 emissions. business moving to an operational scope, from a previous financial boundary and both legacy companies becoming aligned on scope 1, 2 and 3 2018/19: 637,329 reporting. As a result of the reporting change tCO₂e towards an aligned scope and operational boundary, our emissions 2017/18: comparison between 2018/19 and 2017/18 shows an expected increase of 24% in our scope 1&2 emissions, as well as an 83% increase in 496,862 tCO₂e scope 3 emissions; we expect our 2020 reporting period to be more comparable, with two full years of ▲ 28% emissions data reported, from our 2019 baseline. Our emissions calculations are based on the globally recognised Greenhouse Gas Protocol and recognised national conversion factor guidelines (e.g. Environmental Protection Agency, Environment Canada, DEFRA). Note: Data is for a full carbon year on an operational boundaries basis Supporting the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) The SDGs supported in this section are shown below. For more information on the targets being addressed, see our SDG mapping index in our report index. 80 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index Scope 1: Scope 2: Scope 3: Direct GHG emissions Indirect GHG emissions Indirect GHG emissions • Natural gas • Purchased electricity • Air travel • Fuel used in plant and equipment • Steam • Rail travel (e.g. generators, lighting towers, etc.) • Non-company vehicle (hire care • Company vehicle mileage and mileage from employee's vehicles used for business journeys) • Transmission and distribution of purchased electricity 2018/19: 2018/19: 2018/19: 463,462 tCO₂e 101,503 tCO₂e 72,364 tCO₂e 2017/18: 2017/18: 2017/18: 415,613 tCO₂e 41,769 tCO₂e 39,455 tCO₂e ▲ 12% ▲ 143% ▲ 83% Scope one emissions increased by 12% Scope two emissions increased by 143% Scope three emissions increased by 83% in 2019 compared to 2018. This is mainly in 2019 compared to 2018. This is mainly in 2019 compared to 2018. This is mainly attributed to the change from financial attributed to the change from financial attributable to an increase in reporting to operational boundary across our to operational boundary across our scope for our legacy Wood Group legacy Wood Group business, including a legacy Wood Group business. business and an increase in reporting wider reporting of company vehicle fuel boundary to reflect global emissions. consumption. We attribute a reduction in onsite fuel to ongoing efficiency measures and portfolio rationalisation. 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Natural gas 8,354 7,024 9% ▲ Purchased 101,077 41,629 143% ▲ Air travel 53,740 26,663 102% ▲ Onsite fuel 20,209 21,223 5% ▼ electricity Rail travel 52 165 68% ▼ Company vehicle 49,521 8,780 464% ▲ Steam 425 140 204% ▲ Non-company 10,357 9,074 14% ▲ Direct emissions 385,378 378,611 2% ▲ vehicle Transmission & 8,215 3,553 131% ▲ distribution John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 81 Reducing our environmental impact Protecting & conserving Energy consumption natural resource 2019: 2018: 582,771 249,674 The natural resources our planet provides, such as organic materials, MWh MWh water, energy, and fertile land are vital to sustaining life on earth. However, mankind’s rapidly growing consumption ▲ 65% of these resources is causing severe Energy consumption increased by 65% in 2019 compared to 2018. This is mainly attributed to the damage to the natural world and our change from financial to operational boundary across our legacy Wood Group business. 2018 planets fragile eco-system. Increasing reported figures have been restated to account for an error in reporting energy consumption for demand from a growing global our Martinez location; this correction only relates to energy consumption figures (excluding direct population of over 7 billion people emissions) and emissions reported remain accurate. Total MWhs for 2019 are correct in this report, however MWhs differ from the total MWhs stated in Wood’s 2019 Annual Report and means approximately 60 billion tons Accounts, due to an oversight in reporting related to scope 1 emissions. Updated figures will be of renewable and non-renewable re-stated in Wood’s 2020 Annual Report and Accounts. resources are now extracted globally every year – having nearly doubled since 2019 2018 1980. How we manage and conserve Natural gas 43,745 50,105 13% ▼ resources is core to how we all, reduce our carbon footprint and our impact on Electricity 284,342 111,934 154% ▲ the natural world. Onsite fuel 78,999 86,300 8% ▼ Heat & steam 2,417 1,335 81% ▲ Mobile fuel 173,267 Not reported Energy management Two thirds of global greenhouse gas Energy intensity emissions come from the energy we use for heating, electricity, transport, We measure energy intensity against two key metrics; per number of employees and industry; as the world works (average full time equivalent) and per unit of revenue ($1million). towards more sustainable energy solutions, how we consume energy 2019: 2018: 10.49 4.84 and ultimately conserve resource, has never been more important. We MWh per Employee MWh per Employee recognise the importance of continually improving energy efficiency, through the efficiency measures we drive across our business and the sustainable 2019: 2018: 58.9 22.62 culture we promote. Our direct energy consumption is associated mainly with MWh per $1m Revenue MWh per $1m Revenue our office and site locations utility consumption of electricity, natural gas, heating oil, steam, and generator fuel. Note: Data is for a full carbon year on an operational boundaries’ basis. We have excluded direct emissions from our Power Generation Plant in Martinez, California due to the scale of consumption, to better provide comparison of our global consumption. 82 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index Land and biodiversity Urban areas have more than doubled since the early nineties and three-quarters of the land-based environment and about 66% of the marine environment have been significantly altered by human actions. We work with our customers to optimise operations, reduce environmental liabilities, and maximise efficiencies across operational life cycles. In addition to our broad environmental and infrastructure consultancy services, our physical operations are conducted primarily on behalf of our clients, where we responsibly meet customer expectations and our own minimum standards of operation. Wood’s Environmental Standards set the minimum requirements for our business in areas we deem to have environmental responsibility. Making sure that we protect and enhance the environment is an essential element of Wood’s Values and HSSEA policy Innovative Wood managed all environmental commitments. We mandate all our aspects of the parkway project, operational assets to meet group-wide habitat protection including: SAR salvage of more minimum requirements that include our Wood is proud to have been part than 200,000 plants; snake approach to: of the Rt. Hon. Herb Gray Parkway tracking with radio telemetry; project in Ontario, Canada, monitoring during construction; site • Habitat Protection restoration management; baseline managing the Species at Risk • Environmental Studies (SAR) program delivery. Situated and construction monitoring under • Protected/Sensitive Environments in the Canadian municipalities of SAR permitting compliance; and Windsor, LaSalle, and Tecumseh, sustainability planning. • Invasive Species the 11-kilometre, $1.4 billion • Mitigation Plans Innovative techniques used to highway infrastructure project increase habitat diversity include is focused on improving the Our project sites are required to the demolition of a housing movement of people and goods include land and biodiversity aspects development to create a new through Canada’s busiest trade and impacts, as part of environmental tallgrass prairie that repurposed corridor with the US. assessments in compliance with house foundations to create our mandatory standards. To One of the unique aspects of overwintering areas for snakes. support implementation, Wood’s the project is its three large eco Currently, Wood is providing Environmental Standards Selfpassages, allowing wildlife to environmental management for Assessment Tool is designed to aid cross between two natural areas the operations maintenance and compliance with the group wide that had been separated by road repair phase of the project. In standards, assessing against a development since the 1920s. In 2020, we will complete a decade of maturity scale designed to drive addition, the project included the permit-based wildlife monitoring, continuous improvement. creation of more than 17 kilometres with final reporting set for 2021. of trails set within more than 120 Focused training on all aspects of our hectares (300 acres) of green standards are also made available to Find out more at: space situated alongside the two woodplc.com/parkway the business. highway extensions and across the 11 tunnel tops. Read more on our approach to environmental training and awareness building on pages 90-93 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 83 Reducing our environmental impact Water preservation Wood's operations are conducted Improving aging and protection primarily on behalf of our clients, where we responsibly meet customer water infrastructure 97% of the water on earth resides expectations and our own minimum Barbados is one of the most wateras saltwater in our oceans, unfit for standards. scarce countries in the world, depending human consumption. With two thirds of the remaining water, frozen in our polar primarily on groundwater sources for Our Environmental Standards set the ice caps and glaciers, leaving only 1% supply and supplemented with one minimum requirements for our global of the fresh water available worldwide, desalination plant. With a population operations to preserve and protect for human consumption. It is predicted of 280,000+, the islands distribution water resource. Water related aspects that by 2030, global demand for water system comprises of 3,200 kilometres and impacts often vary by location, will outstrip supply by 40%, leaving over of water mains, 27 reservoirs, 22 pump due to the variable nature of physical half of the population living in water stations and 14 booster pump stations, landscape, climate and social factors at stressed areas. with parts of the aging infrastructure play; as a result, we seek to assess and prone to leakage and failure. manage water risk at a regional level in We recognise our duty to ensure line with our global standards. Wood is a key contractor to the we take all reasonable precautions to preserve water and ensure that Barbados Water Authority, providing Our project sites are required to our activities do not contribute to engineering design and construction include water preservation and degradation of global water resources. management services, helping to protection aspects and impacts, as Water is an essential ingredient to the replace 49 kilometres of water main, part of environmental assessments operations of our business and that of repair ten inground reservoirs, and in compliance with our mandatory our customers, and we acknowledge replacing seven new glass lined steel, standards. To support implementation, our responsibility to enable more above ground water reservoirs, ranging Wood’s Environmental Standards sustainable stewardship of the world’s in capacity from 33,000 to 1.5 million Self-Assessment Tool is designed to shared freshwater resources. gallons. aid compliance with the group wide standards, assessing against a maturity With a challenging 23 month schedule, Wood provides engineering and scale designed to drive continuous our work will ensure the fast track environmental service expertise to a improvement. Focused training on all design and construction needed broad range of clients across every aspects of our standards are also made to minimise service disruption to a aspect of the water sector from available to the business. water scarce region and vulnerable upstream water resource management to addressing water scarcity and climate community dependent on the supply of Read more on our approach to clean, safe water. change. We work with government, environmental training and awareness industrial, energy, mining and oil & gas building on pages 90-93 sector customers across the globe to provide sustainable solutions to this vital and complex challenge. 84 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index Waste management Fuelled by rapid population growth and urbanisation, global waste generation is expected to increase by 70% in 2050, from 2016 levels. Our operations primarily focus on client delivery of engineering and consultancy solutions, which meet our customer expectations and the standards we set ourselves on delivering these services. We take appropriate steps to reduce the amount of waste we produce. Where waste generation is unavoidable, we mandate the appropriate management, in line with global standards and local regulations. Our project sites are required to include waste management aspects and impacts, as part of environmental assessments, in compliance with our mandatory standards. Focused training is available to the business on all aspects of our standards. To support implementation, Wood’s Environmental Standards Self-Assessment Tool is designed to aid compliance with the group wide standards, assessing against a maturity scale designed to drive continuous improvement. Woods own impact on waste Joining the conversation generation, predominantly comes from Plastic working group our office locations, where the methods on single use plastic Central of waste management and disposal can At Wood, we recognise the negative vary by region. As a global organisation, impact disposable plastic use Focus on creating global action: we recognise the importance of raising has on the environment and as a • Set and monitor targets awareness on issues such as waste responsible business we want to play • Develop strategy management; in particular, sharing best our part in reducing our reliance on • Collaborate with key stakeholders practice on the challenges faced and the single use plastic and work towards e.g. real estate, supply chain solutions to resolve. more environmentally friendly and sustainable solutions. Read more on our approach to environmental training and awareness In early 2018, we set about Plastic working Plastic working building on pages 90-93 establishing a global working group West group East group of passionate employees to help us tackle single use plastic in Focus on creating local action: our business and in late 2019, we • Educaton and awareness widened the conversation with the addition of two regional teams to • Develop and roll out initiatives target our action our eastern and • Creating case studies to share with the western hemisphere. Volunteers wider Wood. in our two regional groups focus on creating local action, whilst our central team work to generate strategic change across the business. Supporting the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Read more about our plastic The SDGs supported in this section are working group on page 93 shown below. For more information on the targets being addressed, see our SDG mapping index in our report index. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 85 Reducing our environmental impact Advancing the Bridging the gap Advancing renewable towards a greener future energy solutions energy transition High on the energy transition agenda is Beyond mitigation we have to develop From 1850 to 2019, 2,400 gigatons the need to reduce the environmental alternative solutions at a scale that of CO2 have been emitted by human impact of fossil fuels. Society must allows us to move into clean, fully activity, with only 75% of our current move away from coal, reduce the sustainable energy systems. We are energy demand being met by carbon intensity of oil and gas, and helping to deliver projects that advance renewable sources. In order to reduce apply more resource and investment to the development and adoption of global greenhouse gas emissions mitigating solutions like carbon capture renewable energy sources, helping to and meet the goals of the Paris and offset options. increase efficiency, decrease operational Agreement, the world must transition cost and open up potential for larger from an energy system dominated by Bridge solutions create the opportunity scale deployment. fossil fuels to more sustainable, low to step away from the more carbon carbon solutions. intensive systems, and carbon capture offers the prospect of recovering harmful At Wood, we are committed to emissions and storing them permanently helping our customers meet the goals so they cannot affect our environment. of energy transition and climate change, through the services we provide, the solutions we bring to Delivering modifications market and the contribution we for wind-powered add to the global conversation on renewable energy solutions. North Sea platforms Helping to deliver more sustainable solutions to existing energy assets, is just one area Wood is able to demonstrate support for adopting clean energy solutions. In 2019, Wood was awarded a three-year contract to deliver modifications to two offshore installations in the Norwegian North Sea, to connect electric power from floating wind turbines that form part of Supporting the Sustainable the Hywind Tampen development. Development Goals (SDGs) The SDGs supported in this section are Replacing energy currently generated shown below. For more information on by gas turbines, successful completion the targets being addressed, see our SDG of this work will reduce the client’s mapping index in our report index. operational footprint by more than 200,000 tCO2e per year. Find out more at: woodplc.com/wpnsp 86 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index Wind power Solar power Reducing carbon intensity Harnessing the power of onshore Helping deliver medium to large scale of chemical production and offshore wind, we are helping to solar farms, Wood has provided advance and realise the full potential engineering, design, and installation Acting as owner’s engineers, Wood of wind power towards global services for over 35GW of solar energy Supported Shell’s first solar PV plant, energy generation. Some example projects to date and continue to provide located at the Shell Nederland Chemie wind projects include: expertise and advice to support solar Moerdijk Chemical Facility in the projects worldwide. We have worked on: Netherlands. Consisting of 76,000 solar • The world's largest photovoltaic panels, the plant is one of commercial wind turbine • Largest single-site PV plant the largest facilities of its kind in the • The world's largest offshore • UK’s largest solar PV project Netherlands, generating power for the wind farm refinancing onsite chemical facility. • The world's first commercial • Egypt’s largest solar PV plant This project is an example of Wood’s floating wind project • World leading guidelines for capabilities to support our client’s • Europe’s largest wind farm renewables, including IFC solar objectives to improve utilisation, energy guidebook efficiency and reduce the carbon • Optimised the performance and intensity of their operations. delivery of over 50 wind farms 500+ 76,000 116GW+ projects solar photovoltaic panels total capacity supported 13 For more information visit: 10% years woodplc.com/ssppn of advisory work of global wind power 35GW+ 740+ of solar PV projects projects (150+offshore) Advising on the world’s first utility-scale wind farm Awarded in 2019 as technical advisor to the Vineyard Wind Project, located of the coast of Martha’s Vineyard, Massachusetts, US, Wood will provide support over a four year contract on design, construction and operational strategies, as well as commercial arrangements to support the debt financing and tax equity funding process for the project. Once complete the 800MW offshore wind farm, which consists of 84 9.5MW wind turbine generators (WTGs), will be able to meet the energy needs of over 400,000 homes and businesses, while reducing carbon emissions by over 1.6 million tonnes per year. For more information visit: woodplc.com/rovwp John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 87 Reducing our environmental impact Carbon capture Supporting UK industrial Evaluating the specific needs of different industrial processes on Carbon capture will play a crucial decarbonisation three operating sites has led to a role in emissions mitigation. We are Unlocking the capacity of carbon plan involving several complementary helping to reduce the carbon intensity capture technology to aid industrial technologies, including use of renewable of operations through capture, decarbonisation, has the potential to power to generate green hydrogen storage and alternative uses. In the advance the energy transition and help through electrolysis, generation of International Energy Agency (IEA) governments and business alike, to win blue hydrogen with integrated carbon Sustainable Development Scenario the global race to net zero by 2050. capture, and post-combustion carbon (SDS), which outlines requirements for capture from existing stacks. meeting the Paris agreement targets, Awarded a contract by VPI Immingham, Carbon Capture and Storage accounts Wood’s expertise in the area of carbon The Humber Zero project will form for 7% of the cumulative emissions capture is helping support concept a significant element of the UK’s reductions needed globally to 2040. delivery and early design for the Humber industrial decarbonisation strategy, This implies a rapid scale-up of CCUS Zero project in the UK, which aims to making up one third of the Humberside deployment, from around 30 million create a zero-carbon industrial cluster. industrial cluster. It is one of five tonnes(Mt) of CO2 currently captured Integrating established industrial locations – along with Teesside, each year, to 2,300 Mt per year by 2040. sites with state-of-the-art technology Merseyside, South Wales and North to carbon capture, the concept will East Scotland – identified as well60+ help reduce carbon emissions from suited to early carbon capture, usage power and petrochemical facilities, and storage (CCUS) deployment by the CCS studies as well as create a sustainable Committee of Climate Change (CCC). platform for industrial growth and 30+ economic development, whilst meeting For more information visit: decarbonisation targets. woodplc.com/wsuki years experience The innovative concept includes three phases of development over the next Net zero decade to capture, treat, and compress up to 8 million tonnes per annum of Teesside Pre-FEED 700 MWe carbon dioxide for permanent storage CCGT 95% carbon capture total in the geological formations below the CO2 capacity of 6 MTPA UK North Sea. 1.1 GW Benchmarked CCGT with post combustion CCS 88 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index Hydrogen The use of hydrogen as a global source of renewable energy, is expected to grow ten-fold by 2050 and predicted to deliver up to a quarter of global CO2e reduction in that same period. With large capital projects emerging, governments are increasingly investing in hydrogen studies to capture the potential of hydrogen power on new and existing infrastructure. 10+ hydrogen units licensed and designed Pioneering: • Blue hydrogen innovation >90% CO2 reduction • Bio-hydrogen development • Modular hydrogen units for a range of capacities Supporting a world-first hydrogen project In the UK 30% of total carbon emissions come from domestic heating and cooking; Providing renewable heat from a UK-wide conversion to hydrogen gas, as a potential reduction solution, would reduce emissions in the domestic heating sector by a minimum of 73%. When powered by renewable energy, the generation and burning of hydrogen produces no carbon, making it the most effective, scalable way of providing heating while fighting climate change. Supporting our client SGN, in collaboration with the Machrihanish Hydrogen production and potential Airbase Community Company Business Park and Airport, Wood successfully Green Hydrogen – Hydrogen produced from renewable energy sources delivered engineering design services Blue Hydrogen Hydrogen produced from non-renewable energy sources for a proposed development in Argyll, on the west coast of Scotland, which will form part of the world’s first 100% hydrogen gas distribution network. Green Hydrogen Blue Hydrogen Wood’s scope of work focused on Renewable the practicality of constructing and Electricity Hydrogen Gas demonstrating a 100% hydrogen Network distribution network capable of serving Electrolysis Commercial Domestic homes and small businesses at SGN’s Hydrogen 100 (H100) trial project at Grid Power Machrihanish, Argyll. SGN manages the network that distributes gas to 5.9 Methanation and blending million homes and businesses across Storage Agriculture Logistics Scotland and parts of southern England; H100 Fife is part of Gas Goes Green, the Bio Feedstocks industry blueprint for cutting out carbon Existing Natural Gas Grid emissions, playing a key role in helping Steam the UK reach net zero carbon output Methane and greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. Reforming Power Industry Natural Gas CO2 Capture John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 89 Raising environmental awareness and competence Effective communication and understanding on environment issues, is crucial to inform, educate and empower our employees. Raising environmental awareness on the key issues that impact our business and wider society ensures we continue to demonstrate our commitment to protect and preserve the world around us. Our people form the foundations of our sustainability programme. We must provide them with the knowledge and ability to make daily informed decisions, ensuring environmental issues remain an integral part of Wood’s day to day operations and how we demonstrate care for the environment. Environmental responsibility Everyone at Wood has a responsibility to protect the environment. Ensuring we equip our employees with the necessary competence and tools to deliver against their roles, particularly those with specific environmental responsibilities, is vital to safeguarding our people and the sustainability of our business. Supporting the launch of Wood’s environmental standards in 2018, our efforts in 2019 focused on further development of our suite of materials to support the implementation of the standards, and continuous business improvement on environmental issues. This includes: Foundation material Introduction to the standards: Explaining the purpose, importance, and approach of the standards. Environmental standards self-assessment tool: A gap analysis tool is used to assess compliance with the standards and aid improvement against a maturity scale. A web-based version is also in the early stages of development. 90 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index Supporting awareness and training material Sustainability Through monthly engagement Onshore/offshore champions network sessions, led by our Global environmental awareness: Sustainability Manager, the network Our sustainability champions We run two environmental awareness continued in 2019 towards our goal network helps to connect the training modules created for onshore of having a sustainability champion direction of our global strategy and offshore projects, designed to in each location we operate, on sustainability with local level allow projects to customise the content supported where possible by a local action, around our motto ‘Think to reflect their specific environmental sustainability team. Globally, Act Locally’. We recognise issues and the accommodate the that for any network to be truly To support our network and aid varied project work Wood undertakes. impactful, action must be led by two-way communication, our All materials created in 2019, aim our business and owned by our sustainability action tracker provides to ultimately raise the profile of employees. Our approach centres the mechanism to communicate environmental project management around engaging our people in a and report local action in support of and ensure our employees are given the way that helps to harness their our group strategy. information they need to undertake passion and enthusiasm, to drive their roles without compromising the action that is born from inclusion environment and engagement. We recognise that for Our network began in 2018, with any network to be truly Connecting the CEO nomination of a global impactful, action must be our business sustainability champion in each led by our business and of our internal business units. The To connect our people, projects and purpose of this role, to grow a wider owned by our employees. functions on environmental and wider network of sustainability champions sustainability issues, we require a within Wood and cascade the method of communication that cuts evolution of our sustainability through the levels of our organisation to programme towards driving local drive sustainable action and awareness and business level action to support on key sustainability topics. our overarching strategy. Through our employee networks and working groups, we engage through a variety of communication methods, both formal and social, across Wood. Read more on our employee networks Communicating and CEO nominated on pages 37-39, or pages 38-41 of our reporting our actions: champions: 2019 Annual Report and Accounts Available for all our employees to report Lead and drive actions any actions taken to support our designed to advance and sustainability strategy. The information embed our sustainability held within the SAT will help us to strategy within their BU. Wood’s Sustainability have greater visibility of the actions being taken across Action Tracker Wood and aid reporting. Launched in early 2019, our internally designed web-based Sustainability Action Tracker (SAT) is available to all Sustainability Global employees and accessible through both Action Tracker sustainability desktop and mobile applications. (SAT) champions Reporting our Lead & embed Aligned to our people, planet and actions BU direction profit strategy, the SAT is a global repository to allow our people to Sustainability report and track individual and team Network actions, that contribute to Wood’s Local Regional/ sustainability strategy. With an initial sustainability service line launch in early 2019, the tracker has champions points of contact evolved with a second revision released Driving Facilitating in December 2019, to include the ability local action communication to browse activities by name, business line or theme, as well as add additional Communication information to existing records. points of contact Local champions: Identified points of contact Passionate, self-nominated, within a specific region or service employees who help line in place to help facilitate facilitate meaningful local communication between the action, aligned to our Global Sustainability Champions sustainability strategy. and the Local Champions. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 91 Raising environmental awareness and competence Sustainability week Aligned to the launch anniversary Our sustainability People of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDG’s), Wood’s commitments • Support Wood's Safety Shield annual Sustainability Week has become • Support our Global Cause: a key date in the group’s calendar Aligned to our sustainability strategy, Education of events and a catalyst to driving our sustainability commitments • Support our employee networks year-round actions, in support of our provide a common set of global sustainability strategy. objectives for our business to drive local action in support of Wood’s Planet Occurring the last week in September, sustainability programme. • Reduce your own and Wood's Sustainability Week provides the carbon footprint global platform to raise awareness on Each commitment talks to the • Reduce your own and Wood's sustainability issues, our progress to key elements of our people, planet use of disposable plastic date, as we evolve our strategy, and and profit agenda. Intentionally • Reduce the environmental a call to action for our business to set set as high-level objectives, the impact of your commute and renewed sustainability commitments for commitments form the foundational business travel the year ahead. In 2019, we refreshed approach for our local sustainability our sustainability commitments, to teams to follow, complementing our Profit better align each of our nine global business strategy and connecting objectives on local action, to the key local employee action with Wood’s • Promote ethical behaviour aspects of our sustainability strategy wider sustainability journey. • Create sustainable profit and global programmes. and better use of our resources • Connect and work better together Through our sustainability commitments homepage, employees were able to access multiple resources, aimed at supporting activities throughout the week and beyond, including: • A series of sound bite videos presented by subject matter experts and leaders from across Wood on key areas of focus across the people, planet, profit agenda • A series of fact sheets supporting our sustainability commitments • Launch of Woods ‘A guide to reducing single use plastics’ Launch of our internal UN SDG homepage, providing simple guidance on each of the 17 SDG’s, as well as a series of one-page case studies to link Wood’s actions to the global targets sitting under each goal. As we progress with our sustainability programme, sustainability week will continue to develop as a platform to communicate our year-round actions to support sustainability and promote these in line with the UN SDGs and our collective impact on advancing global sustainability goals. Supporting the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) The SDGs supported in this section are shown below. For more information on the targets being addressed, see our SDG mapping index in our report index. 92 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index Supporting global awareness campaigns We recognise the importance of supporting internationally recognised days that help promote issues of global interest and concern. Raising awareness on environmental issues, through the medium of global awareness days, gives us the platform to explain the issues at play, help our employees understand the ‘call to action’ and promote individual responsibility to drive forward action. We observe two main dates in our global calendar of events dedicated to environmental awareness, Earth day in April and World Environment Day in June. In addition to these dates, our annual Sustainability Week at the end of September, provides additional opportunity to shine a light on environmental issues and action to support the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Reducing single A guide to reducing Global awareness days: use plastics single use plastics 2019 highlights Published during Sustainability Week With over 50% of consumer plastic in September, our guide to reducing Wood’s support for Earth Day 2019, being single use, our obsession single use plastics was a collaborative centred around the theme ‘Protect our with the convenience of single effort by the global working group. Species’, helping highlight the rapid use plastic has seen over 8 million extinction of species in the world today, tonnes of plastic waste seep into Structured around the 4-R’s principle, largely impacted by human activity. our oceans every year. To change the Reduce, Reuse, Replace and Recycle, Supported by a variety of awareness tide on plastic, we need to adapt the guide is intended to educate material to communicate the facts on our behaviours and begin not only the reader on the issue and provide species decline, our global campaign the task to remedy the damage handy hints and tips to help reduce focused on bees, trees, birds and fish, already done, but reduce our overall our use of plastic. explaining the issues at play and linking consumption, accelerated by today’s throwaway society. Created primarily as an internal each topic back to our environmental awareness tool for employees, the standards. In response to the global focus and guide has been drafted with the In 2019, we ran our very first, group challenge on single use plastics, intent to be more widely shared with wide photo competition to connect Wood’s Single Use Plastic Working our customers, friends, and family, our people and promote year-round Group, set up in 2018, extended with guidance as applicable for awareness on environmental issues. in 2019 to include an eastern and home, as it is the workplace. Opening on Earth Day and concluding western hemisphere team, to 50% on Environment Day, aligned to the further drive group wide focus on ‘Protect our Species’ theme, the single use plastic use. competition attracted over 300 entries of consumer plastic is single use See page 85 for further details on from across the group, with the winner the working group structure receiving £250 for the charity of their choice. As a global business, we recognise 8 million Our support for World Environment Day the varying regional challenges on tonnes of plastic waste seep in 2019, focused on the theme ‘Beat reducing single use plastic; a key into our oceans every year Air Pollution’, chosen by the annual focus of the working group in 2019, host country, China. Supported by a was on sharing best practice to variety of materials to raise awareness, tackle these local challenges, using including posters, toolbox talks and our dedicated internal webpage as fun quizzes, we culminated the event the mechanism to share material with the call to action for employees to and our annual sustainability week, pledge their individual commitment to at the end of September, as the help combat air pollution, sharing this group wide communication platform on our internal Yammer space, using the to promote the team’s efforts. #BeatAirPollution. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 93 Profit We commit to deliver sustainable value to our people, clients, investors and communities. Delivering a sustainable business Wood is committed to meeting the needs of our stakeholders, industry and society. Creating sustainable value through the services and solutions we provide to market; our business strategy, seeks to increase our contribution to global sustainability goals and continue to deliver sustainable profit. Read more on page 96 Responsible business practice Wood is committed to operating with ethics and integrity in all that we do. Our values underpin our approach to business and our passion to always ‘do the right thing’ drives how we choose to live and work, across our locations. Read more on page 104 Unlocking innovation Every new solution starts with a journey into the unknown and the courage to challenge the norm. Sustainability is transforming the competitive landscape we see today, with companies increasingly forced to adapt their thinking to support sustainability development. Read more on page 108 Sustainability on projects Our commitment to care for our people, communities and environment is a vital component of how we plan, design and operate our projects and sites. Read more on page 114 94 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index In this section: Delivering a sustainable business 96 Responsible business practice 104 Unlocking innovation 108 Sustainability on projects 114 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 95 Delivering a sustainable business Wood is committed to meeting the needs of our stakeholders, industry and society. Creating sustainable value through the services and solutions we provide to market; our business strategy, seeks to increase our contribution to global sustainability goals and continue to deliver sustainable profit. At Wood, we believe sustainability as not just imperative to how we run our business, but an opportunity for Wood to deliver on our vision to inspire with ingenuity, partner with agility and create new possibilities, through today and into tomorrow. Our clearly defined purpose and strategy, underpinned by our culture, is fundamental to sustaining value over the longer-term. We recognise the importance of internal and external relations, to better understand the sustainability drivers of our multiple stakeholder groups. We are an organisation that openly welcomes diverse perspective, to better shape our decision making both on a day to day operational level, executive and board level. For more information on our approach to effective stakeholder engagement, see page 08-10 of our Annual Report and Accounts. 96 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index Measuring our Adjusted EBITDA margin % Supporting local economic impact Wood is committed to the communities where we live and work, reflecting During 2019 we retained our strong 10.2 an inclusive and fair approach to strategic and financial focus. 7.8 8.6 procurement practice and supporting 6.9 Delivering earnings growth, EBITDA local supply chains. As a global business, margin improvement and strong cash 2016 2017 2018 2019 operating in over 60 countries worldwide, flow generation. We have an enduring our operations rely on flexible and and differentiated investment platform responsive supply chain partners to based on an asset light, cash generative Adjusted diluted EPS (AEPS) help deliver to our customers. Locally cents sourced suppliers, are often crucial model which is supported by a commercially versatile approach and a to meeting operational demand and measured risk appetite. The flexibility in 53.5 through working with local suppliers, we our operating model enables us to react 42.9 46.6 46.0 create sustainable value that helps to quickly to changing market conditions, support the communities we impact, and strategically positioning ourselves in 2016 2017 2018 2019 strengthen the local economy. 2019, to better support opportunities to advance emerging trends in energy In many of the countries Wood transition and deliver sustainable operates, our contracting terms often Dividend per ordinary share infrastructure solutions. cents mean varied control over contractor selection and procurement spend; in In the last five years, Wood has diversified a number of situations, the ultimate our end markets such that upstream/ 35.0 35.3 decision sits with our client, however 34.3 midstream oil and gas represents only 33.3 we do exert influence on sustainable 35% of current revenue streams. In procurement decisions where possible. achieving a more versatile portfolio, 2016 2017 2018 2019 Many of our clients are bound by local across a breadth of markets and range recruitment legislation and many of of capabilities, since 2012 we have taken Wood’s clients set target procurement a number of measures that included: Upstream/midstream oil and gas revenue targets that deliver sustainable value back to local communities. • Acquiring US shale capability, petrochemicals and automation A current example of our approach to 2012 2020 • Simplifying our operating structure meeting country and client requirements c90% c35% is our work in Saudi Arabia, working • Broadening our end markets through for the national oil company, Wood AFW acquisition and subsequent activities are bound by the In Kingdom integration and revenue synergies Total Value Add programme (IKTVA). • Optimising our portfolio, most Our tax strategy is available at: The requirements of IKTVA are all recently disposing of our nuclear and woodplc.com/taxstrategy encompassing and also includes noninfrastructure assets supply chain aspects such as supporting early careers and graduate intake. Wood contributes both directly and The IKTVA requires Wood as a company, indirectly to economies and society, with an In Kingdom permanent office, to through the taxes we contribute, incrementally increase our IKTVA score the jobs we create, and the support year on year, to drive support for local we provide to communities to drive manufacturers and consider local supply sustainable development. beyond just project materials and services. Local Procurement USD $m procurement expenditure by country Europe $m Americas $m Australia & Asia Pacific $m Middle East $m Belgium 12.6 Americas 1613.39 Australia 147.12 Abu Dhabi 12.84 Europe 0.75 Argentina 0.08 Brunei 33.68 Kuwait 107.66 France 4.42 Canada 60.02 China 0.39 Oman 1.74 Germany 68.21 Chile 0.76 India 12.1 Qatar 8.14 Holland 0.23 Mexico 0.37 Malaysia 144.7 Saudi Arabia 33.88 Italy 41.54 Peru 3.34 New Zealand 0.01 Turkey 6.9 Kazakhstan 182.36 South Korea 0.23 United Arab Emirates 56.86 Norway 39.14 Africa $m Thailand 7.86 Romania 10.95 Cameroon 0.26 Undefined location $m Russia 17.5 Congo 0.23 Undefined location 217.04 Spain 26.8 South Africa 3.5 Switzerland 0.54 UK 739.12 Wood total: 3617.26 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 97 Delivering a sustainable business Future Ready Now Strategic focus Energy Alongside meeting the needs of our transition As a global engineering and consultancy stakeholders, Wood’s strategy is business, working across the energy impacted by the global megatrends and built environment markets, our The energy transition is about providing that shape our continually evolving secure and reliable access to energy impact on sustainability is widespread. world. Wood is not sheltered from the Our potential to lead transformative that’s more sustainable, affordable, safe, positive and negative impacts these and available in the right product and in change sits at the heart of our business megatrends have on every companies’ strategy. We continue to diversify our the right places. The energy transition business strategy; incorporating will impact all parties within the wider business to best position Wood to the material trends that impact our support the global energy transition energy industry and society as a whole – operations helps inform our decision there’s no silver bullet and it will require journey and advance climate resilience, making, retain competitive edge through our focus on sustainable changes across the board as part of and enable our long-term business a long-term and shared commitment infrastructure development. success. Wood’s strategy is shaped to create the energy systems of the by four primary trends we see across future. The challenges are complex the service lines and markets we and interlinked (society, government, operate. Our capabilities are levered to and industry), but the longer we defer structural growth in energy transition them, the harder they will be to address. and sustainable infrastructure and Wood already has a strong track record aligned to the increasing role of digital of delivering projects that reflect & technology and the requirement to the Energy Transition, aligned to our develop the necessary future skills. four-fold framework to support global sustainability issues. Read more about our framework on page 115 Read about work to advance the energy transition on pages 86-89, or page 06 of our 2019 Annual Report and Accounts 98 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index Sustainable Digital and Future infrastructure technology skills development Over the last 50 years, technology Increasing demand for the skills of More than half of the world’s has advanced at an exceptional rate. tomorrow means employers are population now live in urban areas, Continually evolving, for better or seeking more from their people than expected to grow to over two thirds by worse, technology is reshaping our ever before to stay relevant and 2050. Rapid urbanisation is a modernfuture and helping tackle modern day competitive. The world of work is day phenomenon that is transforming challenges with ever increasing speed, undergoing unprecedented levels of how we live, work, travel and connect ease and sophistication. Our digital change, brought on by advancing as society; bringing more urgent and technology capability is structured technology, demographics, challenge to sustainable infrastructure to develop improvements across the globalisation and climate change; development to future protect and asset life cycle, exploring solutions for skills development is crucial to improve communities, business and connected design, connected build enabling people to thrive in the industry. At Wood, our technical and connected operations. In each workplace of tomorrow. consultancy services aid infrastructure area we look at near-term solutions development that is built to improve and far future technologies. Strategic Read more on our work to support daily life, ensure survival and safety of partnerships are a key component for future skills on pages 41-47, or page 43 of our 2019 Annual Report and Accounts citizens, and support continued growth us, making the best use of our abilities in the face of increasingly disruptive and leveraging the experience of others climate events. where appropriate. Read more on our work to support Read more on our work to embrace sustainable infrastructure development digital and technology on pages on pages 114-119, or page 07 of our 2019 108-113, or page 60 of our 2019 Annual Report and Accounts Annual Report and Accounts Our strategy is to create a premium, differentiated, higher margin consulting, projects and operations solutions business Energy Sustainable transition infrastructure Services aligned development to the transition Capabilities to solve to alternative the challenges of energy sources and Our purpose rapid urbanisation decarbonisation To create a sustainable future Future for energy and the Digital & skills built environment technology Investing in agile and Utilising the increased digitally connected role of technology to teams to accelerate enhance the delivery value for Wood and of our technical our clients capabilities John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 99 Delivering a sustainable business Powering Agile Exceptional teams execution our strategy Four strategic enablers help to drive Our people play a pivotal role in Delivering outcomes that are our strategy and define our company the success of our business. consistent, predictable and superior, priorities when it comes to achieving We invest in internal resource to builds trust in Wood’s service offering. success. We are committed to focusing help develop awareness, skills Robust operational assurance activities on delivery and fully unlocking our and knowledge on key personal ensures our business meets Wood’s potential to achieve superior outcomes. development topics; assisted standards of delivery, aligning to our by our global job framework, 12 delivery assurance absolutes, which Our business unit strategies align with which helps to apply common are typically delivered through Wood and support our overall Wood strategy, language to job structures and policies, standards and procedures, and ensuring we are all working towards profiles, we focus on employee when regularly assured at all levels in the same goals at every level of the development. We believe this the business, enable Wood to achieve business. approach demonstrates care execution excellence. for our people, creates a culture Our strategic enablers of pride in working at Wood and Read more on our approach to responsible helps to attract the talent of business practice on pages 104-107 and our Agile teams tomorrow to a challenging and focus on health and safety on pages 48-59 We deploy our most talented people rewarding career. with agility to deliver the right solutions now and in the future. Our ability to Read more on our developing adapt keeps us relevant and offers culture and commitment to great opportunities for our people. future skills on pages 30-47, or pages 38-41 of our 2019 Annual Report and Accounts Exceptional execution We are differentiated by our shared commitment to consistently delivering exceptional outcomes that add value and build trust. We have around 90% repeat business and have developed leading market positions from our long track record of delivering safe and best in class projects. Commercial acumen We employ an asset light, flexible model allowing us to respond quickly to changes in market conditions and allocate capital where it impacts most. Our contracting structures are largely reimbursable with a range of specific contracting structures to align with client needs within our measured risk appetite. We have a broad client base with a wide mix across sectors giving us low client dependency. Technological advantage We deliver greater efficiencies and create new solutions through combining our unique know-how with leading-edge, enabling technology. We provide solutions to some of the world's most complex projects and draw on our extensive expertise and know how to bring new perspectives on the challenges these projects present. 100 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index Commercial Technological Supporting the Sustainable acumen advantage Development Goals (SDGs) The SDGs supported in this section are shown below. For more information on Ensuring we focus on delivering and We create new possibilities through the targets being addressed, see our SDG retaining value for our customers harnessing the opportunities of digital mapping index in our report index. and Wood, we continue to be and technology to solve the evolving commercially astute in how we deliver challenges of industry. We promote our services to market. Our financial a culture of innovation at Wood, that management framework outlines our takes advantage of digital technologies employee’ individual responsibility and at every stage of our work; providing our commitment to financial responsibility, people with the freedom to apply fresh from maintaining healthy cash flow to thinking and creative challenge, helps us delivery of anticipated returns, as key to create more efficient and effective nutrients to allowing our business to solutions in delivering our services. grow. Supporting this, our customer management framework helps us to Our in-house magazine, Inspired, understand our customers, greater showcases some of our latest meet their business needs and nurture developments. Our improvements lasting business relationships. take many forms, from cutting edge technologies, to progressive thinking and new behaviours. Download the latest copy of Inspired at: woodplc.com/who-we-are/our-advantage John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 101 Delivering a sustainable business Art of the possible Many of our leadership and technical experts attended the show, with Energise our future Wood also hosted OPITO’s ‘Energise Demonstrating exactly what Wood some taking part in organised panel Your Future’ event where groups of does is an ever-evolving challenge. discussions: school children, between the ages of Our ambitious strategy and direction 15-18, interested in a STEM career has seen our business transform over • CEO Asset Solutions EAAA chaired a panel session on the benefits of visited the stand. Wood’s skills pool the last decade and being able to advisor was on hand to answer the communicate and market our services strengthening standardisation in the oil & gas sector children’s questions in careers and effectively is an important part of our talk through post-school options strategy and focus. • Executive president of People & such as apprenticeships. Organisation, spoke on a panel In 2019, Wood exhibited at Offshore discussion around securing Europe 2019 from 3-6 September, generation 2035, sharing thoughts “We’re a business that has where we showcased the Art of the on retaining existing talent in an evolved significantly since the last Possible. With over 38,000 people organisation Offshore Europe event in 2017, so visiting the event over the course of the • Group head of strategy & analysis it was important that we gave four-day show, delegates from over 119 countries travelled to attend this delivered engaging presentations a clear signal to the market that important industry showcase. focusing on scenario planning for we’ve changed – that we’re more 2035 in our Energy Transition Zone diverse, more pioneering and Our Art of the Possible campaign • Senior vice president digital & more innovative than ever before. centred around an art gallery theme – technology operations, shared her By presenting ourselves very showcasing our expertise on the stand insight on the energy transition differently, we really stood out through engaging and interactive and the collective approach needed artwork, illustrating the history of from the crowd and prompted for success at an Oil & Gas UK innovation at Wood and across the breakfast session questions with visitors that energy industry. allowed us to tell our story and • Technical director subsea and export systems, chaired two sessions on reposition our brand perception.” Every individual piece of art highlighted a specific aspect of the great work we field development and subsea flow Wood Creative Services Director do and some of the ingenious things we assurance have made possible in conjunction with our customers. Developed by a truly collaborative in-house mix of teams, the exhibition looked to the future and shared some of our thinking on what will come next. 102 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index Inspire Awards: Excellent financial performance Celebrating our people across Wood, our annual Inspire award for Excellent Financial Performance recognises individuals and teams that have shown innovative thinking to come up with an original solution for a positive impact, which could be repeated and applied across Wood. Winning the award in 2019, Stephen Hope and Carolina Castro demonstrated true team spirit in delivering an outstanding financial return for the business. When an overseas client experienced financial issues on their contract, Stephen Hope took the lead in addressing the recovery required. Over ten months, Stephen identified improvements and changes that will lead to a significant recovery of the contract financials. Stephen worked between the overseas location and his home in the UK but physically changed his working day to Inspire Awards: This allowed us to build forecast timesaving into our bid, giving us the local time zone to ensure progress Exceptional a competitive advantage, while was maintained. customer service maintaining strong margins. This To support this, Carolina Castro was all supported by Michael’s Demonstrating exceptional covered Stephen’s role in addition positive customer relationship and execution through the actions to her own while he was assigned to has resulted in Wood being awarded of our people, our annual Inspire the project. Their commitment and several contracts in this key market. award for Exceptional Customer flexibility truly demonstrated Wood’s Service recognises individuals Stand Up, Team Up and Don’t Give or teams who have overcome What the judges said Up behaviours and resulted in a major significant barriers to deliver turnaround in financial performance This is a great example of how challenging objectives, consistently listening to and understanding our across the project in 2018 and beyond. and repeatedly delivering customers’ needs and putting them at exceptional work to stakeholders, the centre of creating a Wood solution What the judges said and actively promoting can be extremely successful and will We all agreed Stephen and collaboration within Wood to find a grow our business. Positioning and Carolina were worthy winners. Their better solution for our customers. evolving a solution with the customer, submissions stood out for a number in direct response to customer needs, Demonstrating technological of reasons: the material financial enabled mutual investment and advantage, Michael Greenshields turnaround achieved and their inspiring commitment to its success through a embraced innovation and worked commitment and dedication to achieve partnership approach to working. closely with our customer. The this, the demonstration of excellent customer was interested in using team working across geographic areas The impact of this has been a strong electronic tablets with relevant customer relationship and trust upon and different parts of the group, and software to increase efficiency by the great teamwork in backfilling roles which we have won more work and reducing offsite reporting. Michael gained competitive advance in a key to make this happen. came up with a solution that used market with an important global tablets with drop-down menus, customer. instead of traditional pen and paper methods to allow automatic production of significant sections of reports and defect databases. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 103 Responsible business practice Wood is committed to operating with ethics and integrity in all that we do. Our values underpin our approach to business and our passion to always ‘do the right thing’ drives how we choose to live and work, across our locations. Delivering our services in a safe, ethical and responsible manner, ensures we remain a trusted partner of choice for our people, our clients and investors. Bringing our values to life We share the expectation that to be successful, we must all act with honesty, openness and fairness. Through consistent programmes, continuous improvement measures and reinforced messaging, we maintain a global conversation on how we conduct our business activities and set the clear expectation to all Wood’s employees and business partners to meet our standards of conduct. Guided by our values of Care, Courage and Commitment, we share the collective responsibility to maintain, protect and strengthen Wood, and ensure we embed and sustain a strong ethical culture across our global operations. Care Courage Commitment Read more about our vision, values and behaviours on page 09, or visit: woodplc.com/values 104 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index Setting standards Our partners Reporting in confidence of business conduct As a global engineering and consultancy business, we recognise the active Providing our employees and stakeholders with a mechanism Reinforcing the importance of doing role our supply chain partners play to report any misconduct is crucial the right thing, Wood’s Code of in reaching our sustainability goals to fostering an ethical culture at Conduct (Our Code) demonstrates the and the importance of a shared Wood. Internally our employees and application of our values and behaviours, commitment and understanding of contractors can report misconduct and sets the standards expected by our approach to business conduct. through their line management, as everyone working for, or on behalf of Aligned to our Code of Conduct, Wood’s well as contacting our People and Wood. Our Code is mandatory, as a Supply Chain Code of Conduct sets Organisation function; externally, condition of employment to ensure we the expectation of anyone working on at a local level we ensure processes maintain standards of ethical behaviour behalf of Wood to comply with all laws, exist to capture community and other and safeguard our individual and Wood’s and to act ethically and with integrity stakeholder concerns through active reputation and integrity across our at all times. engagement and consultation. operations. Constructed around four key elements: Our subcontractor award and Available to all employees and administration policy further helps stakeholders, our Ethics Helpline allows • Protecting our vision and values to define how we identify and select for confidential reporting on any • Doing the right thing subcontractors, how we administer activities or interactions that potentially these subcontracts and engage with breach our Code of Conduct. Operated • Caring for each other and our contracting companies. Our internal by an independent third party, the communities methods of monitoring and reporting helpline allows concerns to be reported • Protecting information and assets ensures we continually assess our supply confidentially 24 hours a day, 7 days base to ensure compliance with our a week in many languages; anyone Our Code guides employees on how standards and continual improvement. making contact through the helpline to react when faced with ethical has the option to remain anonymous, decisions and provides several ‘Speak Through any third-party engagement with no calls recorded. up resources’ to encourage reporting we import an element of risk into the of anything employees feel does not business. In 2019, we reviewed our In 2019, a total of 139 concerns were reflect our values, our policies or the management of third parties, such as raised through the helpline and internal law. Supporting Our Code, a suite of commercial intermediaries, suppliers channels. All concerns raised are fully global policies and procedures, available and joint ventures, focusing primarily on investigated and where necessary in multiple languages cover a number of the risk posed to Wood by commercial disciplinary or remedial actions taken as specific topics, including: intermediaries. Taking the policy appropriate. decision not to engage with any new • Anti-bribery and anti-corruption sales agents other than those required The majority of concerns received in • Commercial intermediaries by law, we reviewed our global register 2019 originated from internal channels; of commercial intermediaries reducing we believe this indicates trust amongst • Competition law our employee base towards our internal the total number of those actively • Conflicts of interest engaged by 50% by the end of 2019. governance and a measure on the open • Data protection, including and honest ethical culture we seek to breach response Investigations into Wood’s historical continually promote. use of agents and other matters has • Ethics reporting and anti-retaliation led to a greater focus on third party Upon review of all concerns, 33 • Ethics investigations engagement and the risk this poses allegations were substantiated, to our business. To minimise the risk resulting in 13 cases where termination • Gifts and hospitality from interactions with third parties, of employment was deemed necessary, • Sanctions, export controls and for serious violation of company policy. we have due diligence requirements anti-boycotts in place for onboarding employees, evaluating merger & acquisition targets, appointing resellers, and engaging outside legal counsel in addition to the processes for commercial intermediaries. Further guidance for other third-party relationships will be developed in 2020. Our Supply Chain Code of Conduct is available at: woodplc.com/scm Our Code of Conduct and information on Read more on governance on our helpline is available at: pages 20-23 woodplc.com/ethics Find out more on our third parties and current investigations on pages 30-31 of our 2019 Annual Report and Accounts John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 105 Responsible business practice Combatting bribery Wood’s Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer (CECO), with direct access to Ensuring the continued adequacy of Wood’s Anti-Bribery and Antiand corruption our Executive Leadership Team (ELT) Corruption programme (ABAC), in and board of directors is responsible 2019 we partnered with Deloitte to Wood is committed to playing our part for implementing an ethical culture assess our programme and related in the global fight against bribery and throughout the business and ensuring controls, and to benchmark against corruption. We recognise the widethe continuous enhancement and those of similar organisations. The reaching impacts of corruption on development of the global Ethics and programme, which is ongoing, included society, politics, the environment and Compliance program. Our ethics and a survey in 2019 to gather insight into economy. Corruption erodes the social compliance team provide guidance and leadership perceptions followed by fabric of society and breeds mistrust support to the wider business to help several interviews with leaders in the in political systems, institutions, and determine areas of risk and implement UK and US. Ongoing into 2020, work leadership. methods of mitigation; where we will continue with site visits to areas In addition to our commitment to carry determine areas of heightened risk to where heightened risks of bribery and out our business dealings ethically bribery and corruption, we strengthen corruption may be present, in order to and following all anti-corruption laws, internal controls to manage the risk. evaluate application of the programme our Code of Conduct states ‘We In addition, we monitor all of Wood’s controls at a local level. support initiatives that are designed principal risks and uncertainties, as part to eliminate corruption, protect global of the Group risk management process Read more on our principle risks and markets and ensure that money is and internal audit processes. uncertainties on page 45-49 of our 2019 Annual Report and Accounts exchanged lawfully.’ Our code of conduct and related policies Our business ethics and compliance include guidance on avoiding and program and Anti-Bribery and Antideclaring potential conflicts of interest, Corruption programme (ABAC) is as well as guidance on the offer and built on the essential elements of acceptance of gifts and hospitality. an effective compliance program We ensure that our anti-corruption as defined by the Official Guidance policies, standards and procedures are – UK Bribery Act, US DOJ / FCPA communicated to all directors, officers, Compliance Program Hallmarks, and employees, and, where necessary the Good Practice program guidelines and appropriate, to our commercial endorsed by the Organization intermediaries and business partners. for Economic Co-operation and Development. Inspire Awards: What the judges said Outstanding conduct Marco Guadagnini and Roberto Schnarndorf Filho were chosen as Placing a spotlight on our people, our the global winners in recognition global annual inspire award for Inspiring of their determined efforts, over Teamwork recognises the role models several years, to improve the who have helped to champion Wood’s environmental performance of an Code of Conduct by going the extra mile operating base that Wood acquired to ensure that our company and business in Brazil. partners always do the right thing. Working collaboratively with Marco Guadagnini and Roberto the Wood team, expert advisors Schnarndorf Filho from our Brazil and the local authorities, Marco operations demonstrated sustained and Roberto skilfully oversaw a commitment to environmental programme of improvements compliance, throughout a period of that allowed the base to continue continually evolving legislation. Working operations until its environmental with local authorities to ensure our licence could be renewed. The operations complied with the latest judges considered their collective local authority regulations, their tenacity in securing key stakeholder collective persistence and tenacity cooperation was essential to the ensured they overcame multiple success of the programme and the roadblocks and challenges to improve eventual licence renewal. environmental performance on site. 106 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index Training and awareness building To maintain and develop a transparent culture towards ethics and integrity, regular training and awareness building is crucial to ensuring our employees and partners remain informed and best equipped to tackling the business conduct challenges in our day to day operations. In 2019, our annual mandatory code of conduct computer-based training launched to approximately 43,000 office-based employees. Training employees on our code of conduct, this year’s training module included specific focus on IT security, our IT Acceptable Use Policy, and antibribery and corruption. In addition to office-based personnel, approximately 14,000 site-based employees were Respecting data Learnings from all incidents are widely shared through the circulation of privacy required to receive face-to-face ethics privacy and protection moments, process improvements training facilitated through group and training delivered on a risk-based discussions. Site-based personnel We live in a continually evolving digital approach to employees in areas of the sessions included particular focus world, where data protection and business where recurrence is most likely. on “Own your signature” on record advancement is a critical asset for any integrity, avoiding conflicts of interest business to remain sustainable in an and protecting client assets. increasingly connected global economy. Training and awareness By 2025, it is predicted that 75% of the As part of targeted training on data Our annual training is supplemented world’s population will interact with privacy, in 2019, more than 450 with risk-based training, webinars data on a daily basis, how we use and employees responsible for handling and communication campaigns to protect that data is more important personal data attended a series of targeted populations on data privacy, than ever. With less than 60 percent of training and awareness sessions related managing confidential information countries enforcing laws to secure the to privacy matters. In addition, we and leadership accountability on protection of data and privacy, as a launched an online IT security training ethics and compliance. In 2019, global business, Wood is committed to module to all employees to increase approximately 9,000 US-based ensuring the privacy and integrity of all awareness and understanding on data employees received anti-harassment data that we hold. security and help our people spot and training, with a wider roll out planned report potential threats to Wood’s IT for 2020 across other geographies. Led by our Group Data Protection infrastructure and data privacy. Officer and reporting direct to our Our commitment to ethics and Executive Leadership Team (ELT) Wood operates a network of Data compliance is a key element of our through the Ethics and Compliance Protection Ambassadors (DPAs) to help wider Sustainability Commitments function, our data privacy and support our data privacy and protection and annual sustainability week protection team deliver on Wood’s programme and raise awareness of celebrations. strategic commitment to securely privacy principles across the business. manage and improve our use of With a growing network of almost Read more about our sustainability personal data at Wood. As part 100 employees globally, our DPAs commitments and annual sustainability of our evolving data privacy and receive regular communications to week on pages 90-93 protection programme, in 2019 we help promote our evolving data privacy introduced a new data privacy impact requirements and in 2019, we conducted assessment and mapping tool, to help a group survey to identify actions that the business more efficiently assess will enhance the network’s effectiveness privacy implications across the various to better connect through bi-monthly Wood systems that contain personal training and information sessions. We data. Accompanied by training and will continue to develop our data privacy policy amendments, the tool will help and protection programme and DPA proactively mitigate data privacy network in 2020, as well as integrate Supporting the Sustainable risks in the early stages of projects or Development Goals (SDGs) new laws coming into force in California The SDGs supported in this section are implementation of systems. and Brazil, that will help strengthen and shown below. For more information on develop our approach to data privacy the targets being addressed, see our SDG We continue to record and investigate and protection. mapping index in our report index. all data incidents at Wood; the majority of those reported in 2019 continue to be low-level in nature and attributable Read more on our approach to data in the most part to an inadequate data privacy, including our Global Worker Privacy Notice at: handling process. woodplc.com/ethics John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 107 Unlocking innovation Every new solution starts with a journey into the unknown and the courage to challenge the norm. Sustainability is transforming the competitive landscape we see today, with companies increasingly forced to adapt their thinking to support sustainability development. In times of crisis, innovation holds the key to progress and the inspiration to do better, for the sake of tomorrow. At Wood, we believe that by working together we can be future ready, now. In an ever-changing world, we recognise that to remain sustainable, we must continue to adapt to the needs of tomorrow, through inspiring change in the way we work today. Harnessing the ingenuity and expertise of our people is a strategic focus for Wood, helping enable our people to turn ideas into action and realise our vision to create new possibilities. Technology enabling sustainability Technology has revolutionised the world we live in today, influencing every aspect of society and connecting our lives in smarter, more efficient ways than ever before. In meeting the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals, technology will play a vital role in driving sustainable economic growth. Led by our Chief Technology Officer and digital and technology team, Wood takes a strategic approach to how we help our clients grow through the transformation of people and processes by continually exploring, unlocking and deploying the latest innovations across energy and the built environment. From concept to design and delivery, our digital and technology capability is structured to develop improvements across the asset life cycle, exploring solutions for connected design, connected build and connected operations. 108 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index Our diverse global portfolio, across a broad range of industrial sectors gives Wood a unique platform to spot innovative solutions where applying ideas, innovation and business transformation from one sector to another can be a major differentiator. Connected Connected Connected design build operate In the design stage, there is At build-level, enhancements Connected operations will leverage our tremendous potential to enhance our to project management and outstanding automation knowledge. performance and reduce costs for our construction support will capitalise Control systems allow us to operate customers. Collaborative technologies on the efficiencies created at design remotely, gathering and processing data, will help us share and review solutions stage. New software and hardware not just across assets but across entire with a much wider audience, refining solutions will transform workflow infrastructures, connected facilities our concepts and targeting design through construction and and networked ecosystems. This allows challenges before they reach the later into commissioning. us to predict and respond accordingly, stages of development. optimising schedules through machine learning and monitoring equipment to maximise operations and prevent failure. Pre-FEED FEED Design Construction Commissioning Operate Maintenance John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 109 Unlocking innovation Future of Delivering remote Real time visualization of plant and industrial internet of things (IIoT) data, tidal energy working solutions as well as schematics, manuals and procedures to be called up, on-demand. Generating energy from the natural Technology is revolutionising the way surge of our ocean waters is one of the we engineer and build, from creating Forge inspection rounds digitizing oldest types of energy harnessed by more efficient design, to software and both simple and complex inspection man and a reliable source of renewable hardware solutions that transform rounds workflows, end-to-end device energy; with over 70% of our planet the workflow from build through to and OS agnostic solution with full covered by oceans, the stored energy commissioning. Wood is focused on offline mode. potential of tidal power is enormous. leveraging technology to deliver at the Geo-location, navigation and asset As with other sources of renewable build-level, first time, safely and with visualization to locate field workers energy, cost is a major factor in proving increased efficiency. With engineering and provide them with directions to tidal energy to be a viable alternative data driving the build stage, our remote equipment and work orders. to fossil fuel consumption, however worker solutions can monitor progress advancements in technology is helping of build, test the fit of the design and Through partnerships, we are to realise operational efficiency and provide a platform for a remote and embracing the industry opportunity commercial viability. collaborative build at the front line. to deliver new solutions and services that improve operational efficiencies, In early 2019, a consortium, led by Wood’s ongoing collaboration with the advance digital capabilities and build Nova Innovation in collaboration with global engineering company Honeywell, innovative ecosystems. 11 other organisations including Wood, is helping to equip our frontline won a major new European project workforce with some of the most that will use artificial intelligence (AI) advanced technologies available today, Read more about our partners in advancing digital technology at: to improve tidal turbine performance providing instant access to crucial woodplc.com/digital-and-technology/ and accelerate the commercialisation knowledge and information needed our-partners of tidal energy. The €5 million ELEMENT to streamline operations and ensure project will incorporate state-of-the-art productivity. Solutions transforming our Read more about our connected worker AI technology from wind energy into operations include: solutions at: tidal turbines to deliver an adaptive woodplc.com/dtecw control system that improves turbine Expert on call, connecting workers in performance; slashing the lifetime cost real time to colleagues in central control of energy by 17% and driving the tidal rooms or remote offices and other sites energy sector to commercial reality. when they need advice or support. The control technology will be Video assist, enabling workers to call demonstrated on a floating tidal device up video tutorials guiding them stepin the Étel estuary in Brittany in France by-step through complex tasks when and on a seabed-mounted Nova M100 they encounter them. turbine in the Shetland Tidal Array in Scotland. Starting in June 2019, the project will run until May 2022. It was won as a competitive contract awarded by the European Union’s Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme. The 100% funded project will help to maintain Europe’s global leadership in marine energy while driving down the cost of this emerging technology sector. Read more about our success with the ELEMENT project partnership at: woodplc.com/ecatp 110 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index Inspire Awards: Optimising The Unika 1 wind farm will Impactful Innovation have a generation capacity of performance approximately 150 MW and will be Celebrating the ingenuity of our Zambia’s first utility-scale gridpeople, our annual Inspire award In a rapidly changing business landscape, connected wind power project, being for Impactful Innovation recognises the traditional view of digital technology developed by Mphepo Power. Wood individuals or teams who have made as an opportunity or choice, has become has also provided Mphepo Power’s a positive impact on our business, more an imperative to a company’s shareholder, Buffalo Energy, with our customers, wider industry, long-term sustainability. Through our the Feasibility Assessment Report, environment or society through connected worker packaged solutions Environmental and Social Impact their impactful innovation. we blur the lines between field and Assessment (ESIA) Scoping office, to fully integrate operations and Report, Terms of Reference (ToR), Winning the global award in 2019, provide the front-line support when and Environmental Project Brief Wood’s Augmented Machine where it is needed. (EPB) and Environmental and Learning team created and Social Management System (ESMS) delivered an innovative solution to a Deploying digital technology solutions for two 20 MW solar power plants major LNG operator for Augmented to enhance connected operations, near Sesheke, Zambia. Machine Learning (AML), applied allows us to operate remotely, gather to predictive analytics, embodying and process data, across not just Each of these projects build on the complete Wood vision for how assets, but entire infrastructures; Wood Renewables’ extensive project we aspire to operate. The team helping to connect, predict and respond experience in Southern and Eastern used subject matter expertise in more efficiently, through machine Africa, including: Wood constructed, the field of predictive maintenance learning, monitoring equipment and commissioned, operated and and reliability improvement to take materials that maximise operations and maintained four met masts a novel and innovative approach help prevent failure. in Malawi between 2016 and 2018. to the machine learning, predictive Wood acted as Lender’s Technical analytics challenge we knew the Wood’s use of Galion Lidar technology Advisor on the ground breaking customer was working on. They is one exclusive partner solution International Finance Corporation collaborated with the customer’s that pioneers cutting edge wind (IFC) Scaling Solar project in data science and IT teams to ensure speed measurement technology, to Zambia, and acted at Owner’s the application could function in allow visualisation of wind speed Engineer for two solar project in the customer’s cloud computing and directional data to provide wind Kenya. Wood project managed and data science environment. This farm developers powerful options for the feasibility, development and solution opens new possibilities assessing the wind resource at proposed construction of a micro-hydro for both Wood and our customer. or operational wind farm sites. and mini-grid scheme in Malawi, It showcases how it is possible to supported and completed multiple enhance machine learning with In 2019, Wood installed its Galion ESIA studies for solar and wind subject matter expertise and Lidar system alongside a 120 m tall farms in Kenya and Uganda and contextual data analytics. meteorological (met) mast at the Unika project managed geotechnical and 1 wind farm site near Katete in Eastern hydrological studies for solar power Province, Zambia. The met mast was What the judges said plants in Kenya, Mozambique and constructed by Wood’s subcontractor Malawi. This entry was chosen as the global and commissioned by Wood’s engineers on site. The Galion Lidar is powered winner as it exemplifies our values: Read more about our recent success Inspire with ingenuity, partner with by an off-grid solar power supply, with Galion Lidar at: provided by our subcontractor. Wood is agility and create new possibilities. woodplc.com/orfct responsible for ongoing operation and It leverages Wood’s traditional maintenance of the wind measurement Read more about our wider engineering domain knowledge and operate solutions at: augments it with enabling digital equipment, and will deliver at least 12 woodplc.com/dtsco months of high quality wind data from technologies such as artificial the met mast and Galion Lidar for intelligence and predictive data a bankable energy yield assessment, analytics in order enable ways for us required for project permitting and to create more value for our clients financing. (a global operator) .The Wood team demonstrated strong leadership in the face of many emergent challenges within a very tight project schedule. This solution lays a digital foundation for productivity, reliability and availability improvement for the client, ensuring that their assets work at optimal effectiveness. This type of solution has wide applicability across our customer base. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 111 Unlocking innovation CoLab Virtual CoLab Co-creating solutions to our Virtual CoLab allows us to bring peers, client’s biggest challenges CoLab is Wood’s revolutionary clients and partners from across the • Bringing together expertise from approach to turn the impossible into globe together in a way we couldn’t have Wood and our partner network possible. Turning ideas into actions, imagined previously. CoLab engagements through CoLab we solve our clients’ • We source the best combination are hosted using an interactive online biggest challenges – together. of expertise and tailor this to your platform mirroring the process, practices challenge Combining the collective ingenuity and engagements supported through physical locations. We are currently • In a facilitated manner using our of our industry experts with our CoLab process industry-leading data, digital and planning CoLab sessions with a number technology capabilities, CoLab fuels of our clients located in UK, Australia, • We provide a facilitated guide from innovation. It is aimed at facilitating United States and China, to understand defining the challenge statement, collaboration amongst the right their issues so we can unlock solutions to brainstorming ideas, solution people in order to co-create the right their critical challenges together. Based development and benefits realisation solution to a defined challenge. Be on a three-phased approach, our CoLab • Using dedicated innovation spaces it with our peers, our clients, or our process utilises our People, Practices built to stimulate innovation and partners. CoLab is our way to harness and Places to co-create solutions to our creative thinking people expertise and technology client’s biggest challenges. • We create CoLab environments capabilities to ensure Wood and our including access to relevant Read more on our CoLab environment at: clients are future ready. technologies and resources woodplc.com/digital-and-technology/colab CoLab Physical innovation hubs: A dedicated space in Houston and Aberdeen to collaborate and innovate using latest technologies. The space People is home to latest technologies from our partners and is designed in a way to facilitate creative thinking and creation of solutions for our client’s biggest problems. CoLab Online: Acting as our innovation management platform, the online CoLab experience, allows our employees to tap into the collective ingenuity of employees, partners and customers to find the Places Practices best ideas based around specific “challenges”, which are issued on CoLab Online and Wood personnel submit ideas on how to best solve. 112 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index Connecting the conversation We match our passion for innovation with our appetite to create sustainable change that brings positive impact, not just for Wood, but the industries we operate in and the communities we impact. We recognise the value in business collaboration to tackle common industry challenges; embracing the power of collective ingenuity, expertise and best practice to harness the opportunity today to create a better tomorrow. Designing success Key to our strategic focus on digital and technology, Wood’s ongoing collaboration with Microsoft helps combine shared expertise and knowledge, with the latest technology and industry innovation to help solve some of our biggest challenges. Together, we focus on opportunities around Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Power of prediction machine learning, as well as the control Supporting the Sustainable Embracing the opportunities of a Development Goals (SDGs) of robotics and drone technology. The SDGs supported in this section are Harnessing the advancements in digital future, Wood’s partnership with shown below. For more information on technology today in helping deliver Aspen Technology, a global leader in the targets being addressed, see our SDG cutting edge solutions to our clients, asset optimization software, is helping mapping index in our report index. we also look to the future trends of advance the use of Artificial Intelligence technology to best prepare and remain (AI) across industrial manufacturing to future ready, now. improve performance, increase safety and create more sustainable solutions Our partnership with Microsoft today whilst preparing for tomorrow. empowers our technicians to collaborate more efficiently by working As part of our connected operations together from different locations and maintenance programmes, using and solving problems in real time Aspen Mtell technology, which analyses with Dynamic 365 remote assist on historical and real-time operational and HoloLens, Android or IOS devices. maintenance data to discover precise Enabling greater accuracy in the design failure signatures, we are able to detect stage, a great example is HoloLens, patterns in operating data, allowing our which allows a digital overlay of the customers to take prescriptive action design over the current build, helping and avoid unplanned downtime. Using determine the correct specification predictive technology to ensure first and build and potentially avoiding time delivery, we enable a safer, more costly re-work, before heading to the efficient, and sustainable solution to construction site. current industry challenges. In addition, Wood is also working with Mtell is part of our connected Microsoft to develop technology that operations and maintenance will increase the efficiency of renewable programmes that will allow our clients solutions through Digital Twin solutions; to detect patterns in operating data as well as exploring the potential to allowing them to take prescriptive create a global industry standard for action and avoid unplanned downtime. emissions monitoring, to help our clients Together, our vision is to drive value track their carbon footprint. Working through digital twin across the full together, we believe we can not only asset lifecycle, working to optimise deliver solutions that benefit our asset performance, monitoring and customers but also advance the global control across any environment. Sustainable Development Goals through partnership and knowledge sharing. Read more about our partners at: woodplc.com/digital-and-technology/ our-partners John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 113 Sustainability on projects Our commitment to care for our people, communities and environment is a vital component of how we plan, design and operate our projects and sites. Our strategic approach to sustainability, extends to every aspect of Wood’s operations; embedding sustainable practice into our projects is vital to achieving our own sustainable development goals and demonstrating our contribution to global sustainability. Project lifecycle Our global service offering is diverse in nature, across energy and built environment. We assess our social, environmental and economic impacts across the project lifecycle, from initial design to execution, operation and decommission/restoration. We believe every project is unique, and our teams at Wood, take time to understand the opportunities and risks each project presents, to ensure we deliver a successful project that brings sustainable value every time. Planning and engagement We understand the importance and value of early engagement with communities and stakeholders potentially impacted by our operations. Inclusive stakeholder engagement ensures we respect the locations and communities we work alongside, better design our projects from day one and align to all relevant regulations and international standards. Our mandatory standards, policies and procedures guide each of our projects on the minimum requirements, to ensure we respect, nurture and empower the people, communities and locations we impact. 114 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index Design to operate Our sustainability framework applies our sustainability lens to the key social, environmental and economic Contributing to Central to advancing the global agenda on energy transition and sustainable impacts of our project operations. Global Sustainable development, our four fold framework Intended to provide focus across the Development approach bases the sustainable development goals at the centre of lifecycle of any project, the framework complements our existing standards, Through our consultancy, project and Wood’s focus, ensuring we leverage policies and procedures to ensure we operation service lines, we are able partnerships and wise investment to evenly assess sustainability issues to demonstrate our impact towards deliver sustainable infrastructure and from initial engagement and design to global sustainability and the UN future energy solutions. operation, across all our projects and Sustainable Development Goals. sites. We believe our projects provide a Aligned to our focus on Energy Working in partnership unique window into our organisation, allowing us to demonstrate sustainable and the Built Environment, and Through key partnerships and wider practice and ensure we maximise the shaped by the four primary global collaboration, we believe we can deliver contribution by Wood to support global trends most impactful to Wood’s scalable, sustainable solutions that sustainable development. operations, our strategic purpose support the 17 Sustainable Development seeks to deliver a sustainable Goals and help build resilience in cities future that contributes to our part and communities worldwide. Partnership with in society and our shared ambition Global Resilient Cities towards achieving the global sustainability goals through the Read about our partnership with GRCN at: Network (GRCN) www.resilientcitiesnetwork.org/recovery work we undertake and how we operate our business. Wood has been a partner of Global Resilient Cities Network (GRNC) (and its predecessor organization 100 Resilient Cities) since 2015. GRCN, along Oil & Gas Energy efficiency with its supporting partners, has a goal Mining Climate resilience to empower, pilot and amplify resilience Transportation Circular economy work in cities around the world. The Global Resilient Cities Network (GRCN) is a city-led organization that is driving urban resilience action to protect vulnerable communities from Stimulate climate change and other physical, Innovation Wise Investment Renewables social and economic urban adversities Research & Development Hydrogen & CCUS Digital & Technology Partnership Energy Storage and challenges. GRCN is comprised of Sustainable 98 member cities of the former 100RC Development Goals program in 40 countries. Collectively Project finance representing 220 million city dwellers st Su e ur ai t and 79 endorsed resilience strategies, na uc ble st r containing over 4,000 city-led and impactA s s e t I n fra So s oriented resilience initiatives aimed at u rc on e Tec u ti Renewable power h n ica l S o l Electrification building safer and healthier cities. Distributed energy S ec Smart grids rg y ure I Commercial agreements ntegrate d Ene Energy access Working in partnership to share resources, experience and expertise, Wood is able to demonstrate support for cities in the network, helping to shape the global resilience movement, develop innovative technologies and create smart infrastructure solutions. Examples of our work to date include helping the city of Houston integrate energy transition Sustainability framework into city resilience and our work applying a resilience screen to GRCN cities to Social impact Environmental impact Economic impact advance bankable sustainable and Environmental resilient projects for impact. Health, safety & security Supply chain management Business conduct & “Collaboration with Wood enables Human rights Carbon management ethics cities to translate their resilience Anti-bribery & strategies to action and prioritize Diversity & inclusion Resource efficiency corruption investments in sustainable and Community / stakeholder resilient infrastructure, delivering for Biodiversity Innovation engagement & investment today and generations to come.” Building sustainability in projects GRCN, Acting Executive Director John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 115 Sustainability on projects Resilience shift Banking on In 2019, Wood continued a variety of partnerships, including those within Created to inspire and empower a investment the finance sector to collaborate global community to make the world and combine our strengths to better As the world wakes up to the safer through resilient infrastructure, support our clients in meeting opportunity of sustainability, companies the Resilience Shift aims to ensure their own sustainability targets. As that actively contribute to sustainable infrastructure systems are able to discussions progress in 2020, we hope development are increasingly favoured withstand, adapt to, and recover to identify and combine activities by investors looking to ethically balance quickly from anticipated or unexpected on common development objectives economic performance with positive shocks and stresses now and in the and demonstrate the power in social and environmental impact. future. Supported by Lloyd’s Register collaboration towards advancing Socially Responsible Investing (SRI) is Foundation and Arup, The Resilience global sustainable development. an investment strategy that has grown Shift provides knowledge and tools to an estimated $31 trillion globally, for those responsible for planning, with sustainable investment seen as Download the document ‘Resilience Shift financing, designing, delivering, increasingly good for business, as it is Primer: Electric Utilities. An industry guide operating and maintaining critical for social conscience. to enhancing resilience’ at: infrastructure systems. www.resilienceshift.org/publication/ We recognise the growing pace, and primer-electric-utilities/ Wood has supported The Resilience importance of Environment, Social and Shift since 2017 with a range of Governance (ESG) factors in financial Find out more about The Resilience Shift at: sustainability and resilience projects www.resilienceshift.org management and investment, and across a number of sectors, as the current and future implications for well being an ambassador for the Wood in both attracting and retaining organization and ally in advancing sustainable investment. global resilience. Through our partnership with Resilience Shift, we It is estimated that, in the next two help to develop resilience tools, guide on decades, the worldwide funding access to financing and industry best gap for infrastructure could reach practices for energy resilience; in 2019 well over US $10 trillion. Availability we supported the publication of an of financing is identified as a key industry guide to enhancing resilience in uncertainty in Wood’s scenario planning the electric utilities sector: on sustainable urban infrastructure; working together with the financial sector we are partnering with a number of organisations, to provide technical guidance and accelerate the uptake of sustainable and resilient infrastructure in the market. 116 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index Reducing the production cost of tidal power by 30% Making noise in wind The solution Gaining APO Innovation Seed Funding farm technology with in 2019, Wood teams developed a More predictable than other renewable energy sources, wave and tidal power AI technology machine learning model that will holds the potential to provide unlimited enable effective wind farm noise Noise pollution, particularly in renewable energy to contribute; classification from the presence of densely populated areas can be advancements in technology and extraneous environmental noise, to a major factor in operations, in intensive industry research, has seen within a 98% accuracy, to provide particular in the advancing field marine renewable energy emerge as accurate and automated feedback of renewable energy. As we move one of top renewable energy solutions of wind farm noise. Using Noise AI to towards a more sustainable energy to replace fossil fuel generation and assess the filtrated data with noise future and the more common use reduce the commercial barriers to limits allows for adaptive controlling of of renewable sources, decreasing wider adoption. In 2016, a European the turbines and increased efficiency. the effect of environmental tidal energy consortium of 7 partners, impacts such as noise is crucial The development team at Wood used including Wood, led by Nova Innovation in maximising operational noise data from a current wind farm, in Scotland, secured funding from the efficiencies and expanding the routinely limited for noise compliance, European Commission to demonstrate pace of deployment. In the wind to test our Noise AI solution. Noise and validate an innovative direct drive energy sector, Woods expertise in AI identified that power output of power take-off (PTO) subsystem for machine learning for management the wind farm could be increased tidal turbines. of environmental noise, seeks by at least 31%, increase a potential Running for 36 months and completing to help increase turbine energy annual revenue return to the client of in 2019, The Tidal turbine Power takeproduction, without exceeding noise 250,000 USD. off Accelerator (TiPA) project set out limits and industry regulations. with the goal of reducing the cost Next steps of tidal power production by 20 per The challenge Wood’s Noise AI solution machine cent. Delivered through an integrated Industrial operations often use learning technology has potential for research and development approach, noise monitoring as a method to wider industry application, particularly the TiPA project brought together world manage neighbourhood noise and in the mining and refinery sectors, leading partners with a wide range of remain within regulated noise limits. based on our understanding and expertise, to develop an innovative PTO However, the presence of extraneous expertise in these areas. Whilst we solution for the tidal energy sector. environmental noise makes it look for opportunities to apply our difficult to assess the contribution Noise AI technology to the wind A large number of project deliverables of the operational noise to the farm industry, Wood has agreed a were produced throughout the threetotal, making the filtration process collaboration with a mining industry year duration of the project. These were time consuming and manual. This client to develop and implement used to raise market confidence in the unreliability in data, often results Noise.AI in the field and help remove maturing tidal energy industry and to in operators limiting production constraints on production and improve maximise the benefit of the project to more than is necessary or failing to compliance with regulations. the ocean energy sector as a whole. achieve noise compliance. Edinburgh University analysis concluded that the new generator reduced production cost by 29 per cent, unlocking a global market worth €1.3 billion and exceeding the project’s original objective. “This project really shows how a range of industry and academic partners working collaboratively can substantially reduce the cost of renewable energy. Tidal power shows great promise in many parts of the globe and this work will accelerate its deployment at scale.” Director of innovation within renewables at Wood Energy John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 117 Sustainability on projects Forecasting the future Developing the network In addition, we provide a weather Challenged with the need to expand data feed to Ontario 511, a traveller Over 1.35 million road deaths occur information app, containing driving the RWIS station network, particularly globally each year, with over half condition forecasts for highways across in areas where weather conditions vary of those killed being pedestrians, the province. Wood also provides significantly as a result of the differing motorcyclists, and cyclists. The Quarterly Outlook Reports with geography and infrastructure, the unpredictability of weather patterns forecasts of the coming seasons, as well introduction of mobile and virtual RWIS’ and their exacerbation by the effects of as pre-storm Severe Weather Reports created the opportunity to densify and climate change and extreme weather before severe storms. more efficiently operate the network. events, make road safety an increasing concern and a focus on the sustainable In the winter of 2019, the virtual RWIS, development agenda. Hazard prediction created using in-house algorithms and using data from nearby RWIS In response to the global demand Wood’s weather forecasting experts from weather-sensitive industries stations and mobile RWIS, identified have supported the Ministry of that forecasts become more “impactsignificant differences in weather and Transportation of Ontario (MTO), based” and focused on thresholds that road forecasts between RWIS stations. since 2016 with analysis of their highly impact operations, Wood has developed Findings from Wood’s data analysis developed Road Weather Information a Hazard Dashboard product that helped better identify freezing rain and System (RWIS), which monitors road revolutionizes the way forecast data snow, the early onset of freezing rain weather conditions across the Province is presented, emphasizing not the conditions and precipitation timings, of Ontario. The system includes 150 forecast parameters themselves but as well as identify road temperature roadside weather stations, placed the likelihood of crossing thresholds variations, particularly around the at strategic locations along the that impact operational decisions. freezing mark, where road safety is provincial highways. These weather Wood’s Hazard Dashboard supports most crucial. stations monitor atmospheric weather industry resilience and road safety in an conditions, pavement temperatures ever-evolving climate. and road conditions through the winter; Real time support providing critical input for the creation Helping to communicate forecasts, the of pavement temperature forecasts; Wood Weather Web Portal displays which are used by the winter road Built real time field data readings and maintenance teams when treating camera images on the internet, as environment and clearing the roads during each well as weather and road forecast winter storm. Polling the roadside RWIS information and historical data; our stations through cellular modems in team of meteorologists are also real time all year round, the data is then available for consultation on a 24/7 sent to a weather database hosted in basis through provision of a toll-free the Internet Cloud. number. Wood is also responsible for the maintenance and repairs of the network; subcontracting this field work to Complete Systems Installations (CSI) based out of Arnprior, Ontario. 118 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index Runway success Providing a range of technical Supporting the Sustainable environmental support dating back to Globally, over 4.54 billion people Development Goals (SDGs) 2012, in 2019 we gained an extension The SDGs supported in this section are travelled by air in 2019. In an era where to the consultation programme Wood shown below. For more information on the world is waking up to the threat is managing for the airport expansion the targets being addressed, see our SDG from global warming, the airline programme. The consultation aspect mapping index in our report index. industry and the infrastructure that of the project is one of the largest supports, is facing increasing pressure ever undertaken in the UK for an to become more environmentally infrastructure project and included friendly and adapt to more sustainable delivery of over 100 consultation events, solutions that will minimise the the issue of consultation material to industries impact on the environment. 2.7 million addresses and over 40,000 pieces of consultation feedback As one of the largest environmental recorded and analysed. Our detailed projects in the UK, Wood has provided understanding of public consultation environmental consultancy solutions and engagement, at any scale, gave relating to the proposed expansion of stakeholders many opportunities to get Heathrow Airport. One of the world’s involved and provide their feedback. It busiest airports, expanding the facility also ensured that consultation met or at Heathrow is a major undertaking and exceeded best practice, while complying our services are focused on ensuring with the requirements of the Planning that the design, build and operation Act 2008 and the Civil Aviation of the airport is as environmentally Authority’s CAP1616 Airspace Change sensitive and sustainable as possible. process. Woods scope on the project includes Heathrow Airport’s expansion is assessing the environmental impacts estimated to bring £211bn of economic of the expansion on noise pollution, impact to the UK; our work as part air quality, waste generation and of an integrated design team on the groundwater, whilst also improving the expansion project is sustainabilityoperational efficiency of the airport. focused on the ensuring the planning Over the course of the project, we and design of the new runway will deliver engineering surveys that supports the UKs commitment to will assess more than 1,000 individual carbon reduction and creates lasting locations, as well as provide river and infrastructure that delivers social value flood engineering and airfield drainage. back to its surrounding community and the city of London. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 119 Index Task Force on Climate Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Wood supports the principles of the TCFD recommended disclosures through the information we publish in our Annual Report and Accounts, Sustainability Report and voluntary CDP Climate Change reporting. The below index is intended to guide our stakeholders to where we disclose information against each of the recommendations, where this is held in the public domain. TCFD recommended disclosures Where to find more information Governance Disclose the organization’s governance around climate-related issues and opportunities. a) Describe the board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities. SR (pg 20-23, pg 74-77) b) Describe the management’s role in assessing and managing SR (pg 20-23, pg 74-77) climate-related risks and opportunities. Strategy Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s business, strategy and financial planning where such information is material. a) Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organization CDP (Section 2.1) has identified over the short, medium, and long term. b) Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s SR (pg 20-23, pg 74-77) businesses, strategy and financial planning. AR (pg 34) c) Describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking into consideration different SR (pg 20-23, pg 38-39, pg 74-81 & pg 96-99) climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenario. AR (pg 34) CDP (Section 3) Risk management Disclose how the organization identifies, assesses and manages climate-related risks. a) Describe the organization’s processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks. SR (pg 20-23, pg 74-77) AR (pg 45-49) CDP (section 2.2) b) Describe the organization’s processes for managing climate-related risks. SR (pg 20-23, pg 74-77) AR (pg 45-49) CDP (Section 2.2) c) Describe how processes for identifying, assessing and managing climate-related risks are SR (pg 20-23, pg 74-77) integrated into the organization’s overall risk management. AR (pg 45-49) CDP (Section 2) Metrics and targets Disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage relevant climate-related risks and opportunities where such information is material. a) Disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess climate-related risks SR (pg 20-23, pg, 40-42, pg 74-77) and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk management process. b) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2 and, if appropriate Scope 3 GHG emissions, SR (pg 38-39, pg 78-82) and the related risks. AR (pg 33-34) c) Describe the targets used by the organization to manage climate-related SR (pg 78-82) risks and opportunities and performance against targets. CDP (section 4) SR: Sustainability Report AR: 2019 Annual Report and Accounts CDP: CDP Climate Change 120 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index SDG mapping We aim to demonstrate our contribution to the UN Sustainable Develeopment Goals (SDGs), through the services we provide, the work we choose and how we deliver. Reference to our impact on all 17 SDGs is woven throughout the relevant sections of this report, as indicated by this SDG mapping index. SDG Sectional reference 1 No Poverty 1.2 By 2030, reduce at least by half the proportion of men, women and children of all ages Our people and culture (pg 34-35) living in poverty in all its dimensions according to national definitions Investing in our communities (pg 62-67) 1.5 By 2030, build the resilience of the poor and those in vulnerable situations and reduce their Investing in our communities (pg 62-67) exposure and vulnerability to climate-related extreme events and other economic, social and environmental shocks and disasters 2 Zero Hunger 2.1 By 2030, end hunger and ensure access by all people, in particular the poor and people in Investing in our communities (pg 62-67) vulnerable situations, including infants, to safe, nutritious and sufficient food all year round 3 Good Health and Well-Being 3.4 By 2030, reduce by one third premature mortality from non-communicable diseases Health, safety and security (pg 56-57) through prevention and treatment and promote mental health and well-being Investing in our communities (pg 63-65) 3.6 By 2020, halve the number of global deaths and injuries from road traffic accidents Health, safety and security (pg 53-55) Sustainability on projects (pg 118) 3.3 By 2030, end the epidemics of AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria and neglected tropical Health, safety and security (pg 56-57) diseases and combat hepatitis, water-borne diseases and other communicable diseases Investing in our communities (pg 66-67) 3.9 By 2030, substantially reduce the number of deaths and illnesses from hazardous chemicals Investing in our communities (pg 66-67) and air, water and soil pollution and contamination Managing environmental risk (pg 70-73) 4 Quality Education 4.4 By 2030, substantially increase the number of youth and adults who have relevant skills, Our people and culture (pg 30-35, 38, 45including technical and vocational skills, for employment, decent jobs and entrepreneurship 47) Delivering a sustainable business (pg 98 -103) 4.5 By 2030, eliminate gender disparities in education and ensure equal access to all levels Our people and culture (pg 30-35, 40) of education and vocational training for the vulnerable, including persons with disabilities, indigenous peoples and children in vulnerable situations 5 Gender Equality 5.1 End all forms of discrimination against all women and girls everywhere Our people and culture (pg 30-35, 38) Investing in our communities (pg 64-66) 5.4 Recognize and value unpaid care and domestic work through the provision of public Our people and culture (pg 37-39) services, infrastructure and social protection policies and the promotion of shared responsibility within the household and the family as nationally appropriate 5.5 Ensure women’s full and effective participation and equal opportunities for leadership at Our people and culture (pg 30-35, 37-39) all levels of decision-making in political, economic and public life 6 Clean Water and Sanitation 6.4 By 2030, substantially increase water-use efficiency across all sectors and ensure Investing in our communities (pg 66-67) sustainable withdrawals and supply of freshwater to address water scarcity and substantially reduce the number of people suffering from water scarcity 7 Affordable and Clean Energy 7.1 By 2030, ensure universal access to affordable, reliable and modern energy services Reducing our environmental impact (pg 74-77, 82-89) Delivering a sustainable business (pg 98 -103) Unlocking innovation (pg 108-113) Sustainability on projects (pg 114 119) 7.2 By 2030, increase substantially the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix Reducing our environmental impact (pg 74-77, 86-89) Delivering a sustainable business (pg 98 -103) Unlocking innovation (pg 108-113) Sustainability on projects (pg 114 119 7.3 By 2030, double the global rate of improvement in energy efficiency Managing environmental risk (pg 70-73) Reducing our environmental impact (pg 74-77, 86-89) Delivering a sustainable business (pg 98 -103) Unlocking innovation (pg 110-111) Sustainability on projects (pg 114-119) John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 121 Index SDG mapping (continued) SDG Sectional reference 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth 8.7 Take immediate and effective measures to eradicate forced labour, end modern slavery Respecting human rights (pg 28-29) and human trafficking and secure the prohibition and elimination of the worst forms of Responsiblebusiness practice (pg 104-107) child labour, including recruitment and use of child soldiers, and by 2025 end child labour in all its forms 8.8 Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working environments for all Respecting human rights (pg 28-29) workers, including migrant workers, in particular women migrants, and those in precarious Health, safety and security (pg 48-59) employment Responsible business practice (pg 104-107) Unlocking innovation (pg 108-113) 8.5 By 2030, achieve full and productive employment and decent work for all women and Our people and culture (pg 30-35, 37-39, men, including for young people and persons with disabilities, and equal pay for work of 45-47) equal value Delivering a sustainable business (pg 96 -103) 8.6 By 2020, substantially reduce the proportion of youth not in employment, education or Our people and culture (pg 34-35, 45-47) training Investing in our communities (pg 64-67) 8.2 Achieve higher levels of economic productivity through diversification, technological Our people and culture (pg 46) upgrading and innovation, including through a focus on high-value added and labourHealth, safety and security (pg 54) intensive sectors Delivering a sustainable business (pg 98 -103) Unlocking innovation (pg 108-113) 9 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure 9.5 Enhance scientific research, upgrade the technological capabilities of industrial sectors Our people and culture (pg 46) in all countries, in particular developing countries, including, by 2030, encouraging innovation Health, safety and security (pg 54) and substantially increasing the number of research and development workers per 1 million Delivering a sustainable business people and public and private research and development spending (pg 96-103) Unlocking innovation (pg 108-113) Sustainability on projects (pg 114-119) 9.4 By 2030, upgrade infrastructure and retrofit industries to make them sustainable, with Unlocking innovation (pg 108-113) increased resource-use efficiency and greater adoption of clean and environmentally sound Sustainability on projects (pg 114-119) technologies and industrial processes, with all countries taking action in accordance with their respective capabilities 10 Reduced Inequalities 10.2 By 2030, empower and promote the social, economic and political inclusion of all, Respecting human rights (pg 28-29) irrespective of age, sex, disability, race, ethnicity, origin, religion or economic or other status Our people and culture (pg 30-35, 36-39, 41-47) 10.3 Ensure equal opportunity and reduce inequalities of outcome, including by eliminating Respecting human rights (pg 28-29) discriminatory laws, policies and practices and promoting appropriate legislation, policies Our people and culture (pg 41-47) and action in this regard 11 Sustainable Cities and Communities 11.6 By 2030, reduce the adverse per capita environmental impact of cities, including by Managing environmental risk (pg 70-73) paying special attention to air quality and municipal and other waste management Raising environmental awareness and competence (pg 90-93) 11.b By 2020, substantially increase the number of cities and human settlements adopting Reducing our environmental impact and implementing integrated policies and plans towards inclusion, resource efficiency, (pg 74-77, 83-89) mitigation and adaptation to climate change, resilience to disasters, and develop and Delivering a sustainable business implement, in line with the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015–2030, (pg 98 -103) holistic disaster risk management at all levels Sustainability on projects (pg 114-119) 11.2 By 2030, provide access to safe, affordable, accessible and sustainable transport Reducing our environmental impact systems for all, improving road safety, notably by expanding public transport, with special (pg 74-77) attention to the needs of those in vulnerable situations, women, children, persons with Sustainability on projects (pg 118-119) disabilities and older persons 11.4 Strengthen efforts to protect and safeguard the world’s cultural and natural heritage Our people and culture (pg 34-35) 122 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index SDG mapping (continued) SDG Sectional reference 12 Responsible Production and Consumption 12.4 By 2020, achieve the environmentally sound management of chemicals and all wastes Managing environmental risk (pg 70-73) throughout their life cycle, in accordance with agreed international frameworks, and Raising environmental awareness and significantly reduce their release to air, water and soil in order to minimize their adverse competence (pg 90-93) impacts on human health and the environment 12.2 By 2030, achieve the sustainable management and efficient use of natural resources Managing environmental risk (pg 70-73) Raising environmental awareness and competence (pg 90-93) 12.8 By 2030, ensure that people everywhere have the relevant information and awareness Raising environmental awareness and for sustainable development and lifestyles in harmony with nature competence (pg 90-93) 13 Climate Action 13.2 Integrate climate change measures into national policies, strategies and planning Reducing our environmental impact (pg 74-79, 86-89) Delivering a sustainable business (pg 96 -103) Unlocking innovation (pg 108-113) Sustainability on projects (pg 114-119) 13.1 Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-related hazards and natural Reducing our environmental impact disasters in all countries (pg 74-77, 83-89) Delivering a sustainable business (pg 98 -103) Unlocking innovation (pg 108-113) Sustainability on projects (pg 114-119) 13.3 Improve education, awareness-raising and human and institutional capacity on climate Reducing our environmental impact (pg change mitigation, adaptation, impact reduction and early warning 74-79, 86-89) Raising environmental awareness and competence (pg 90-93) Unlocking innovation (pg 108-113) 14 Life Below Water 14.1 By 2025, prevent and significantly reduce marine pollution of all kinds, in particular from Raising environmental awareness and land-based activities, including marine debris and nutrient pollution competence (pg 90-93) Reducing our environmental impact (pg 85) 15 Life On Land 15.5 Take urgent and significant action to reduce the degradation of natural habitats, halt Reducing our environmental impact the loss of biodiversity and, by 2020, protect and prevent the extinction of threatened (pg 83) species 16 Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions 16.2 End abuse, exploitation, trafficking and all forms of violence against and torture of Respecting human rights (pg 28-29) children Responsible business practice (pg 104-107) 16.10 Ensure public access to information and protect fundamental freedoms, in accordance Respecting human rights (pg 28-29) with national legislation and international agreements Responsible business practice (pg 104-107) 16.b Promote and enforce non-discriminatory laws and policies for sustainable development Respecting human rights (pg 28-29) Responsible business practice (pg 104-107) 16.5 Substantially reduce corruption and bribery in all their forms Responsible business practice (pg 104-107) 17 Partnerships For The Goals 17.16 Enhance the Global Partnership for Sustainable Development, complemented by multiRespecting human rights (pg 28-29) stakeholder partnerships that mobilize and share knowledge, expertise, technology and Our people and culture (pg 34-35, 37-39) financial resources, to support the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals in all Unlocking innovation (pg 108-113) countries, in particular developing countries Sustainability on projects (pg 114-119) 17.8 Fully operationalize the technology bank and science, technology and innovation Unlocking innovation (pg 110-113) capacity-building mechanism for least developed countries by 2017 and enhance the use of Sustainability on projects (pg 114-119) enabling technology, in particular information and communications technology John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 123 Index GRI standards content index The content shown throughout this report has been compiled using the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards (Core option) as a guide towards sustainability reporting and disclosure. Mapping our progress against the GRI standards for the first time in this report, this index is intended to provide transparency on our programme evolution and will act as our reference towards future disclosure and reporting goals. To this effect, a partial or full response is indicted against each disclosure reference to provide oversight and direction for future reporting. Beyond our material topics, where information has been available we have included additional disclosure reference. Source information can be found in the reference column, where in some instances a direct response has been included. GRI 101: Foundation Indicator Disclosure Reference Partial Full 1.1 Stakeholder inclusiveness AR (pg 08-10), SR (pg 10-19, 23) ● 1.2 Sustainability context AR (pg 26-44), SR (pg 10-19, 23) ● 1.3 Materiality SR (pg 16-19) ● 1.4 Completeness SR (pg 10-23) ● 1.5 Accuracy SR: (pg 02) and Throughout ● 1.6 Balance SR: Throughout ● 1.7 Clarity SR: Throughout ● 1.8 Comparability SR: Throughout ● 1.9 Reliability SR: (pg 02) and Throughout ● 1.10’ Timeliness Calendar year reporting. Report published on 13th August ● GRI 102: General Disclosures Indicator Disclosure Reference Partial Full 102-1 Name of organisation John Wood Group plc Trading as Wood plc. ● 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services SR (pg 06-09) ● 102-3 Location of headquarters Aberdeen, United Kingdom ● 102-4 Location of operations SR (pg 06-07) ● 102-5 Ownership and legal form AR (pg 172-184) ● 102-6 Markets served SR (pg 06-09), AR (pg 02-05) ● 102-7 Scale of the organisation SR (pg 06-09, 33), AR (pg 02-05) ● 102-8 Information on employee and other workers SR (pg 33) ● 102-9 Supply Chain SR (pg 23, 28, 97, 104-107), AR (pg 26-44) ● 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and it’s supply No significant changes ● chain 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach SR (pg 68-93, 104-113) ● 102-12 External initiatives Wood does not currently hold a group wide listing ● of external initiatives, other than those referenced throughout this report 102-13 Membership of associations Wood does not currently hold a group wide listing of ● association memberships, other than those referenced throughout this report 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker SR (pg 04-05) ● 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior SR (pg 08-09, 20-23, 30-31, 104-107) ● 102-18 Governance structure SR (pg 20-23, 27), AR (pg 50-100) ● 102-40 List of stakeholder groups SR (pg 10-11, 23), AR (pg 08-10) ● 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Wood does not currently have the ability to report on collective bargaining globally 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders SR (pg 10-11, 16-19, 23), AR (pg 08-10) ● 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement SR (pg 10-11, 16-19, 23), AR (pg 08-10) ● 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised SR (pg 16-19), AR (pg 08-10) ● 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements AR (pg 172-184) ● 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries SR (pg 02-03, 10-19) ● 102-47 List of material topics SR (pg 16-19 ) ● 102-48 Restatements of information SR: Throughout, where applicable ● 102-49 Changes in reporting SR (pg 16-19 ) ● 102-50 Reporting period 1 January — 31 December 2019 ● 102-51 Date of most recent report Thursday, August 13, 2020 ● 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual ● 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report woodplc.com/contact-us ● 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards SR (pg 02-23) ● 102-55 GRI content index SR (pg 124-126) ● 102-56 External assurance SR (pg 02), external assurance is not currently conducted SR: Sustainability Report AR: 2019 Annual Report and Accounts CDP: CDP Climate Change 124 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 Introduction People Planet Profit Index GRI 201: Economic performance Indicator Disclosure Reference Partial Full 1.1 Management approach disclosures SR (pg 06-07, pg 30-47, pg 96-97), AR (pg 12-44) ● 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities SR (pg 74-89, pg 114-119, pg 120), AR (pg 34, pg 45-49) ● due to climate change 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans SR (pg 42), AR (21-25, 164-169) ● 201-4 Financial assistance received from government None received ● GRI 202: Market presence Indicator Disclosure Reference Partial Full 1.1 Management approach disclosures SR (pg 23, pg 26-29, pg 33, pg 45, pg 96-97) ● GRI 203: Indirect economic impacts Indicator Disclosure Reference Partial Full 1.1 Management approach disclosures SR (pg 10-15, pg 60-67, pg 96-97, pg 114-119) ● 1.2 Management approach disclosures SR (pg 10-15, pg 60-67, pg 96-97, pg 114-119) ● GRI 204: Procurement practices Indicator Disclosure Reference Partial Full 1.1 Management approach disclosures SR (pg 23, pg 26-29, pg 96-97) ● 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers SR (pg 96-97) ● GRI 205: Anti-corruption Indicator Disclosure Reference Partial Full 1.1 Management approach disclosures Code of conduct available at woodplc.com/ethics, AR (pg ● 30-31), SR (104-107) 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Code of conduct available at woodplc.com/ethics, AR (pg ● 30-31), SR (104-107) 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies Code of conduct available at woodplc.com/ethics, AR (pg ● and procedures 30-31), SR (104-107) 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Code of conduct available at woodplc.com/ethics, AR (pg ● 30-31), SR (104-107) GRI 206: Anti-competitive behavior Indicator Disclosure Reference Partial Full 1.1 Management approach disclosures Code of conduct (pg 25) available at woodplc.com/ethics ● GRI 207: Tax Indicator Disclosure Reference Partial Full 1.1 Management approach disclosures TS (pg 1-2) woodplc.com/taxstrategy, AR (pg 58-100), SR ● (pg 97)Code of conduct available at woodplc.com/ethics 207-1 Approach to tax TS (pg 1-2) woodplc.com/taxstrategy, AR (pg 58-100), SR ● (pg 97)Code of conduct available at woodplc.com/ethics 207-2 Tax governance, control, and risk management TS (pg 1-2) woodplc.com/taxstrategy, AR (pg 58-100), SR ● (pg 97)Code of conduct available at woodplc.com/ethics 207-3 Stakeholder engagement and management AR (pg 8-10), SR (pg 10-11, pg 20-23) ● of concerns related to tax GRI 302: Energy Indicator Disclosure Reference Partial Full 103-1 Explanation and reporting boundary SR (pg 80-82) ● 103-2 Management approach and components SR (pg 80-82) ● 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization SR (pg 80-82) ● 302-3 Energy intensity SR (pg 80-82) ● 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption SR (pg 80-82) ● GRI 303: Water and Effluents Indicator Disclosure Reference Partial Full 1.1 Management approach disclosures SR (pg 84) ● GRI 304: Biodiversity Indicator Disclosure Reference Partial Full 1.1 Management approach disclosures SR (pg 83) ● GRI 305: Emissions Indicator Disclosure Reference Partial Full 1.1 Management approach disclosures SR (pg 78-82) ● 1.2 Management approach disclosures SR (pg 78-82) ● 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions SR (pg 80-82), AR (pg 33) ● 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions SR (pg 80-82), AR (pg 33) ● 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions SR (pg 80-82), AR (pg 33) ● 305-4 GHG emissions intensity AR (pg 33) ● 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions SR (pg 80-82), AR (pg 33) ● John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 125 Index GRI 307: Environmental Compliance Indicator Disclosure Reference Partial Full 1.1 Management approach disclosures SR (pg 70-73), AR (pg 32-34) ● 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations SR (pg 70-73), AR (pg 32-34) ● GRI 401: Employment Indicator Disclosure Reference Partial Full 1.1 Management approach disclosures SR (pg 30-33, pg 41-47 & pg 104-107), AR (pg 38-41) ● 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover SR (pg 33, pg 45) ● 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not SR (pg 42) ● provided to temporary or part-time employees GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety Indicator Disclosure Reference Partial Full 1.1 Management approach disclosures SR (pg 48-59) ● 1.2 Management approach disclosures SR (pg 48-59) ● 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system SR (pg 48-57) ● 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident SR (pg 48-57) ● investigation 403-3 Occupational health services SR (pg 48-57, pg 107) ● 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on SR (pg 48-57) ● occupational health and safety 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety SR (pg 48-57) ● 403-6 Promotion of worker health SR (pg 48-57, pg 42) ● 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety SR (pg 48-57) ● impacts directly linked by business relationships 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety SR (pg 48-57) ● management system 403-9 Work-related injuries SR (pg 48-57) ● 403-10 Work-related ill health SR (pg 48-57) ● GRI 404: Training and Education Indicator Disclosure Reference Partial Full 1.1 Management approach disclosures SR (pg 30-47) ● 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition SR (pg 30-47) ● assistance programs GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity Indicator Disclosure Reference Partial Full 1.1 Management approach disclosures SR (pg 30-47) ● 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees SR (pg 30-33), AR (pg 41) ● 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men SR (pg 30-33), AR (pg 41) ● GRI 406: Non-discrimination Indicator Disclosure Reference Partial Full 1.1 Management approach disclosures SR (pg 26-47, pg 104-107), AR (pg 30-31, pg 40-41) ● GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Indicator Disclosure Reference Partial Full 1.1 Management approach disclosures SR (pg 26-47, pg 104-107), AR (pg 30-31, pg 40-41) ● GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor Indicator Disclosure Reference Partial Full 1.1 Management approach disclosures SR (pg 26-29, pg 104-107) ● 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of SR (pg 26-29, pg 104-107) ● forced or compulsory labor GRI 410: Security Practices Indicator Disclosure Reference Partial Full 1.1 Management approach disclosures SR (pg 58-59) ● GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples Indicator Disclosure Reference Partial Full 1.1 Management approach disclosures SR (pg 34-35) GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment Indicator Disclosure Reference Partial Full 1.1 Management approach disclosures SR (pg 26-29, pg 104-107) ● GRI 413: Local Communities Indicator Disclosure Reference Partial Full 1.1 Management approach disclosures SR (pg 23, pg 60-67, pg 96-97) ● GRI 418: Socioeconomic Compliance Indicator Disclosure Reference Partial Full 1.1 Management approach disclosures SR (pg 104-107) ● 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social SR (pg 104-107), AR (pg 30-31) ● and economic area 126 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2020 John Wood Group PLC 15 Justice Mill Lane Aberdeen AB11 6EQ UK Tel +44 1224 851000 Visit our website at: woodplc.com
