Corporate Responsibility report 2019 Communication on Progress · Tryg A/S · Klausdalsbrovej 601, 2750 Ballerup · Denmark · CVR no. 26460212 Contents Tryg at a glance 3 CEO statement – Growing a sustainable business 4 Overview of governance, targets and performance 5 Corporate Responsibility strategy 6 Corporate Responsibility Board 7 Actively creating peace of mind 8 Safety 8 Traffic 10 Health 10 At home 10 Making a lifebouy 11 Climate and environment 12 Responsible workplace 14 Diversity and women in management 14 Strategic partnerships 15 Business ethics 16 Data security and GDPR 16 Whistleblower 16 Responsible investments 16 Human rights and responsible supply chain management 17 Corporate governance 18 Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) data 20 Legal requirements 22 The UN Global Compact and the UN Sustainable Development Goals 23 Editor Corporate Responsibility | Publication 22 January 2020 | Layout Marketing | Compliance review Ernst & Young | Proofreading Semantix Tryg at a glance 1,083 4 13.1% Employees Market position Market share 419 5 3.3% Employees Market position Market share 2,650 1 21.6% Employees Market position Market share Purpose Great diversity Attractive TryghedsGruppen 4 million of products dividend policy customers As the world changes, we make it We offer a broad range of insurWe aim to distri­­b­­ute steadily Owns 60% of Tryg and annually Our 4,151 em­ployees provide easier to be tryga). ance products for private individincreas­ing dividends in nominal contributes around DKK 600m peace of mind for 4 million uals as well as businesses. terms and to pay out to projects that create peace of custom­ers and handle approxi60-90% of our profit. mind via TrygFonden. mately 1 million claims on a yearly basis. a) ‘Tryg’ means feeling protected and cared for. Business areas Tryg is one of the largest non-life insurance companies in the Nordic region. We are the largest player in Denmark and the fourth-largest in Norway. In Sweden, we are the fifth-largest insurance company in the market. Private Commercial Corporate Sweden Private provides insurance products to Commercial provides insurance products Corporate provides insurance products Sweden provides insurance products to private customers in Denmark and Norway. including motor, property, liability, workers' including property, liability, workers' private individuals within car, house, pet, Private offers a range of insurance prodcompensation, travel and health to small compensation, transport and group life to child, boat and accident insurance. ucts including car, contents, house, acciand medium-sized businesses in Denmark corporate customers. dent, travel, motorcycle, pet and health. and Norway. Portfolio 55% 20% 18% 7% Employees 1,317 495 290 386 Contents Corporate Responsibility report 2019 | Tryg A/S | 3 CEO statement Growing a sustainable business As a non-life insurance company, our core business is ensuring peace of mind for our customers in their everyday lives, which is embedded in our purpose: as the world changes, we make it easier to be ‘tryg’a). We create value for society by enabling people and businesses to protect themselves from risks – both prior, during and after an event through claims prevention. As the world is transforming and risks are becoming increasingly complex due to globalisation, climate change, urbanisation and technological development, we want to make insurance simple. Highlights 2019 Claims prevention is key to our purpose – moving from a passive peace-of-mind provider to an active peace-of-mind creator – and to our corporate strategy initiative ‘new products and services’ contributing to realising our target of DKK 1bn in premiums in 2020+. In 2019, we launched a product for our commercial segment called ‘Mobile blocker’. Studies show a 12 times higher risk of crashing your car when you use your mobile phone to text or read while driving. Mobile blocker prevents drivers from using their mobile phone while driving to ensure their safety and provides employers with a tool to ensure the health and safety of their employees and other road users. Working with diversity and inclusion is an important parameter for a successful company. Personally, I am very engaged in the diversity agenda through my involvement in the Danish Diversity Council, and I believe that establishing targets for women in management and having rotation agreements are important actions that we have put into practice in Tryg. However, I believe that we can do more than only focus on gender; we can focus on becoming a more diversified company. In 2019, we have focused on the underlying barriers to being more diversified, such as unconscious bias in our recruitment processes. This is the first step towards building knowledge. In 2019, the share of women in management positions was 35% compared to 33% in 2018. This is progress, but there is still work to be done if we are to reach our target of 41% in 2020. We have established several initiatives for a focused effort on this. We remain committed to the Nightravens and Lifebuoys initiatives in Norway. Statistics show that there is a continued need for these preventive initiatives, as we have seen an increase in drowning accidents in Norway. As a result, we increased our contribution from 2,000 lifebuoys to 2,500 in 2019. Anchoring Corporate Responsibility successfully requires management attention. The Executive Board has established a Corporate Responsibility Board chaired by our Group CFO, Barbara Plucnar Jensen. I am closely following the progress and dialogue from the meetings. COP report This Communication on Progress (COP) report underlines Tryg’s continuous commitment to the UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles on human rights, labour rights, environment and anti-corruption. Morten Hübbe Group CEO a)Tryg means feeling protected and cared for. Contents Corporate Responsibility report 2019 | Tryg A/S | 4 Overview The table illustrates governance, targets and performancea) Human rights and Climate and environmental Business ethics workplace responsibility sustainability The UN Global Compact Principles 1-6 Principles 7-9 Principle 10 (cross-cutting all principles) The UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Targets 41% women in management 2% carbon emission reduction positions in 2020 in 2020 Results 2019 35% 1% reduction Highlights 2019 • New improved due diligence • Tryg’s head office in Denmark reno• One high-risk supplier audit procedure for suppliers established vated using recycled material conducted • Training procurement personnel and • Transport survey launched • All new employees completed auditors in sustainability audits • Co-driving app launched mandatory e-learning on GDPR • Environmental app for our apprai­ • GDPR Board established sers launched • Corporate Responsibility Board • Tryg days in Norway focusing on established with CFO as chair SDG 12 • Launch of new process for ethical screening of investments • New ethical screening provider • Active Source Management process for external managers established Policies and action plans • Corporate Responsibility policy • Corporate Responsibility policy • Corporate Responsibility policy • Competency and diversity policy • Environmental report/Eco-light• Responsible investment policy • General action plan for diversity house report for Norway • Policy for execution of active including women in management ownership • Outsourcing policy • Process for ethical screening • Code of Conduct • Personal data policy • Code of Conduct including anti-corruption • Tax policy • Remuneration policy • Statutory corporate governance report • Investor Relations policy Systems and due • Employee satisfaction survey • Eco-lighthouse certification • Whistleblower hotline diligence processes • Risk assessment and materiality • GDPR risk assessment and assessment monitoring • Vendor management system and internal audits Organisational anchoring HR Facilities Group Legal/Compliance Procurement/sourcing Procurement/sourcing Investments Investor Relations Corporate Responsibility team a) Please view extensive Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) data on pages 20-21 for specific data. Contents Corporate Responsibility report 2019 | Tryg A/S | 5 Corporate Responsibility strategy Tryg’s Corporate Responsibility strategy focuses on four elements: actively creating peace of mind, climate & environment, responsible workplace and business ethics. Actively creating peace of mind Climate & environment Responsible workplace Business ethics Activities which create peace of Tryg’s climate and environmental Tryg’s commitment to managing Tryg’s regulatory obligations and mind in society such as Lifebuoys impact and our efforts to reduce a responsible company through underlying actions to ensure and Nightravens in Norway or our impact through a carbon responsible investing and taking compliance such as action plans, claims prevention products that emission reduction target of 2% care of our employees and policies, management systems create peace of mind such as Tryg in 2020, as well as working with customers through our focus or responsible supply chain Drive or rat blocker. waste management and responsion diversity and good customer management. ble consumption. In Norway, eight relations. Tryg has a target of 41% sites are Eco-lighthouse-certified. women in management positions in 2020. Next step For the coming 2023 strategy period, we are looking into areas in which Tryg as a company and through its business can have an impact, for example in our claims handling processes and in our efforts to make the company more sustainable both internally and towards our suppliers and our customers. Employees Tryg’s business model Distribution Own sales force Tryg is a non-life insurance company. Tryg makes it easier to be ‘tryg’a) and partners for its customers by offering them insurance against risks, efficient claims handling, and advice and services to prevent claims from arising in the first place. Making it easier for our customers to feel protected Pricing Employees Products Employees and cared for benefits all Tryg’s stakeholders – our customers, our Insurance employees and our shareholders. Pricing according Prevention Full non-life Claims handling product range Tryg’s Corporate Responsibility efforts are closely linked to our busito risk profile ness model and core business. While providing a safety net across the Nordic countries for our customers as insurance providers in case of a claim, we also offer prevention initiatives to reduce and limit claims. Processes Combination of We thereby provide safety before, during and after a claim. in-house & sourcing a)Tryg means feeling protected and cared for. Employees Tryg’s majority shareholder Tryg’s majority shareholder, TryghedsGruppen, holds 60% of the shares in Tryg and annually contributes around DKK 600m to projects that create peace of mind in Danish society via TrygFonden. A substantial share of TryghedsGruppen’s profit derives from the dividend paid out by Tryg to its shareholders. Part of the profit contributes to financing TrygFonden’s activities. In 2019, Tryg paid out around DKK 1,223m in dividend to TryghedsGruppen. For the fourth year running, TryghedsGruppen paid out a member bonus to Tryg’s customers in Denmark corresponding to 8% of the annual premiums paid for 2018. Contents Corporate Responsibility report 2019 | Tryg A/S | 6 Corporate Responsibility Board As a step towards strategically driven Corporate Responsibility efforts in Tryg, we have established a Corporate Responsibility Board on which our Executive Board is represented by Group CFO Barbara Plucnar Jensen, as chair, as well as Vice Presidents from key areas representing Tryg across the Nordic countries. When necessary, key business areas are requested to allocate one person. The Corporate Responsibility Board plays an advisory role in supervising the company’s strategic direction and initiatives, as well as recommending actions which are reported to the Executive Board. Furthermore, the Corporate Responsibility Board approves the Corporate Responsibility report before final approval by the Executive Board. Moreover, it oversees and monitors performance of KPIs, Tryg's strategic direction and follows up or initiates initiatives for Tryg. The Corporate Responsibility Board discusses Corporate Responsibility risks, opportunities and recommends actions for further improvements. The Corporate Responsibility Board meets four times a year. “More companies are attaching importance to ESG criteria, and our job is to implement them at a corporate level. In all our initiatives, we have to ask: How can we affect the agenda? For example, by setting standards for our suppliers. Or by developing insurance What is ESG – Environmental, products with a preventive element such Social and Governance? as Tryg Drive or Mobile blocker, which both ESG data are non-financial data and a supplement to Tryg’s promote responsible and safe driving. In that financial data. ESG data are used way, we ensure that ESG becomes a driver for by investors and analysts to innovation that can contribute to transitioning benchmark companies. us from being a traditional insurance comSee pages 20-21 for ESG data. pany into an active peace-of-mind creator in society.” Barbara Plucnar Jensen, Group CFO Corporate Responsibility Board Chair Barbara Plucnar Jensen, CFO Corporate Responsibility team Private Commercial Procurement/ Legal & Investor Corporate Communications HR Facilities Investments Sourcing Compliance Relations Claims Contents Corporate Responsibility report 2019 | Tryg A/S | 7 Actively creating peace of mind Actively creating peace of mind Actively creating peace of mind is one of the strategic elements of our Corporate Responsibility strategy through which Tryg can contribute to society as well as offering relevant products with a preventive element to our customers. On the following pages, we highlight four themes through which Tryg is committed to actively creating peace of mind: Safety, traffic, health and at home. Safety The Nightravens and Lifebuoys are two examples of preventive initiatives forming part of our Corporate Responsibility efforts. If we prevent crimes from happening by being present or making people feel safer in the nightlife or along the coastline, near lakes and harbours, we benefit our customers, our business and society. Nightravens The Nightravens are local groups of volunteers who walk the streets at night to create a safe environment, offering help and preventing unwanted incidents. The main target group is young people, and the mission of the Nightravens is to be present where young people hang out in the streets or local squares. There are more than 300 Nightravens groups in Norway made up of a diverse mix of volunteers in terms of their nationality, gender and age, which have the additional effect of working as a social community network for the volunteers. The national Nightravens Conference 2019 Since the early 1990s, Tryg has been the Nightravens’ main partner. In addition to the service provided by the Nightravens Secretariat and our close cooperation with the Nightravens Board, Tryg plans and hosts the national Nightravens Conference in Bergen, Norway, every other year. The conference was held in 2019 and gathered 180 Nightravens representatives from all over Norway. Nightravens from Denmark, Sweden and the Faroe Islands also attended the conference, alongside representatives of the public health and social services for young people and the police. Tryg’s commitment to running the Nightravens secretariat contributes to SDG 16 ‘Peace and Justice’, specifically indicator 16.1.4 | Proportion of population that feel safe walking alone around the area they live. We were there when it didn’t happen Interview with Monika Tofte Hanssen, Is there an event which has made a special Because I had been a Nightraven for a long time Chairman of the Nightravens Board. impression on you? and I knew the boy, who lived in the area, I knew Yes, a long time ago, it was winter and very cold. We who he was and where he lived. We walked him Why did you become a Nightraven? were out walking quite late at night. In a ditch, we home that night and delivered him to his parents. I wanted to engage with in my local community and came across a young guy who lay sleeping in the If we had not walked by, I don’t know what would with the young people living in the local community. cold, which potentially could be dangerous. have happened to him. Why do you think it is important to be a Nightraven? I think it’s important to be a Nightraven because you can be there for the young people and for people who need help and guidance. Nightravens make a difference. How are you contributing to making a difference? The Nightravens have a saying: We were there when it didn’t happen. The feedback we get from people working with young people and from the police is that when the Nightravens are out walking the streets, they have a calming effect on unrest and vandalism. The young people feel safer when the Nightravens are walking the streets. Contents Corporate Responsibility report 2019 | Tryg A/S | 8 Actively creating peace of mind Lifebuoys Since 1952, Tryg’s iconic lifebuoys have created safety along the coastline, lakes and rivers in Norway. The lifebuoy is a vitally important rescue tool, and for decades, Tryg has provided lifebuoys to Norwegian society. Tryg’s more than 47,000 lifebuoys are located from Lindesnes at the very south of Norway to Svalbard, the Norwegian archipelago in the Arctic Ocean. Honorary award for saving a life The Norwegian Lifesaving Society (NLS) hands out an honorary award to a person who has saved a person from drowning. Tryg contacts the NLS nomination committee if a Tryg lifebuoy has been used to let them know of the person we think should be nominated. In 2019, the award was presented to Håkon Olsen at a ceremony hosted by Tryg in Bergen. The Norwegian Lifesaving Society is a nationwide humanitarian association founded in 1906, which works to promote lifesaving skills and arrange swimming courses and lifeguards all over Norway. Safe in water Tryg has worked for a long time with the Norwegian Society for Sea Rescue, Region West, to offer the course ‘Safe in water’. The ‘Safe in water’ course is aimed at 12 to 14-year-old schoolchildren. The courses are run eight times a year in autumn and winter and give the children a chance to experience being in the cold water, while being supervised by skilled instructors, wearing wetsuits and life jackets. Participating schools receive a full day of education in understanding the risks associated with water, practising first aid and learning the key principles of self-rescue and lifesaving. Learning to throw Tryg lifebuoys is also an important part of the course. Around 200 schoolchildren received training in 2019. The Norwegian Society for Sea Rescue is a nationwide humanitarian association whose purpose is to save lives, salvage assets and protect the coastal environment of Norwegian waters. The National Drowning Prevention Council Tryg is working with the National Drowning Prevention Council to increase safety along the coastlines and harbours in Norway. In 2019, the council sent out a message to all municipalities on how to increase safety along shores and coastlines, offering advice on suggested safety measures. Tryg’s commitment to preventing drownings through the lifebuoys contributes to SDG 16 ‘Peace and Justice’, specifically indicator 16.1.4 | Proportion of population that feel safe walking alone around the area they live. Håkon saved a young man from drowning One night in September 2019, Håkon Olsen heard “I couldn’t haul him up because it was too far down the sound of yelling and cries for help outside his from the quay to the water. I pulled him towards a window. “Normally, the noise is from young people small platform and jumped down to get him onto coming home from a night out,” he says. solid ground: “It was last minute”. He went outside and shouted to see if there was The 20-year-old man was very cold and completely anybody there: “I couldn’t see a thing, so I shouted exhausted. “I just sat there with him. He was in a and heard somebody crying ‘help, help’”. The cry complete state of shock.” for help came from somewhere in the cold and dark water. “Normally I’m not awake at that hour. If I hadn’t heard him, I’m not sure he would have survived,” Håkon Olsen trained as a lifeguard, so the automatic Håkon Olsen finished. control kicked in: “I grabbed the lifebuoy which is placed just outside my apartment, and threw it out on the water”. It was very dark so Håkon had to go by the sound. It took three attempts: “Finally, the young man caught hold of the lifebuoy,” he says. Contents Corporate Responsibility report 2019 | Tryg A/S | 9 Actively creating peace of mind Traffic Health At home Mobile blocker Tryg Online Psychologist Alarm and rat blocker Motor insurance is one of Tryg’s largest Commercial Norway launched Tryg Online Tryg offers a wide range of insurance products premium income classes accounting for 30% Psychologist to proactively prevent psychowith a preventive element such as our home of premiums, and the safety of our customlogical problems escalating and to safeguard alarm. ers and lowering the risk of accidents are employee well-being. The service is available high priorities for Tryg. Through our claims via video or by phone to deal with problems In 2018, Tryg included a rat blocker with its prevention initiatives, we offer products which such as anxiety, mild depression, sleep issues, house insurance ‘super’ package in Denmark, help and increase traffic safety. Examples of conflicts at work and family problems. to help customers prevent damage caused prevention initiatives are Tryg Drive, Sidekick by rats, such as damage to sewers, plug wires in Norway and Smart car in Sweden, which Tryg Online Psychologist covers five online or pipes. 55% of our customers choosing the help to minimise unnecessary unease and consultations with a psychologist and five super package include a rat blocker. reward and promote responsible driving for all online classes on stress management with a customer groups. guarantee of help within 72 hours. The rat blocker prevents rats from entering the main sewers and sewage pipes and Studies show that the risk of crashing your car Personal insurance gaining access to homes. A follow-up survey is twelve times higher when you text, type a For some people, going to dentist is not just among our customers showed a significant number or read on your mobile while driving. about toothaches. They worry about the bill increase in peace of mind with 87.7% claimResults from the Netherlands show that a and the cost of possible fillings or root canals. ing to feel more secure in their homes after device preventing mobile usage while driving Tryg’s personal insurance offers a safety net installing the rat blocker. can reduce the number of traffic accidents. in case of unexpected bills – and thereby prevents dental problems and claims from Advice on protecting homes from As part of our strategic focus on prevention, escalating due to customers’ financial worries. climate-related risks we have launched a product called ‘Mobile On our Danish and Norwegian customer blocker’ for our commercial segment to help The personal insurance comes in three differwebsites, we offer advice for customers who prevent traffic accidents. Mobile blocker is ent variants: treatment in connection with are exposed to climate-related risks on how a simple solution whereby a small device is regular dental appointments, treatment in to minimise the effect of storms, cloudbursts placed on the windscreen in the car. The decase of accidents, and chew incidents. and flooding. vice communicates with an app, and when the car is in motion, the mobile screen is automatically blocked for hand-held usage – for the benefit of drivers, our commercial segment, road users and Tryg. Products such as Tryg Drive, Sidekick, Smartcar and Mobile blocker contribute to realising SDG 3, ‘Good health and well-being’, specifically target 3.6 |By 2020, halve the number of global deaths and injuries from road traffic accidents. Contents Corporate Responsibility report 2019 | Tryg A/S | 10 Actively creating peace of mind Making a lifebouy Norway has 100,000 kilometres of coastline and the world's second-longest coastline. Since 1952, Tryg’s iconic lifebuoys have contributed to safety along the coastline, lakes and rivers in Norway. Every year they contribute to saving lives. However, Tryg is not doing it all by itself all lifebuoys need a 'sponsor' who has agreed to maintain and look after the lifebuoy. 1 Tryg livringene representerer et sterkt samarbeid mellom norsk Granulatet støpes så til «tabletter». produksjon og maritim kompetanse Og satt sammen utgjør dermed hos Polyform AS, og den unike Disse er i denne tilstanden harde og disse det kjente farge-mønsteret påjobben Tryg gjør for å sikre folks liv kompakte. livbøyene. og helse rundt om kysten vår. The lifebuoy 'sponsor' is responsible for Casting the lifebuoy parts putting up the lifebuoy and maintain it to The iconic red and white colours are cast individually and are cooled before being packed and ensure that it is ready to use in life-or-death sent where they are to be assembled. situations. Lifebuoy 'sponsors' can be municipalities, harbours, boat associations or private persons. 2 3 4 ht mønsteret i . ik form som er og en kraftfull menter. høyt trykk og Expanding powers Casting and assembling the lifebuoy Mounting reflectors on the lifebuoys Small pockets of air expand to provide the The parts are assembled according to the The reflectors are mounted on the lifebuoys unique life-saving ability. iconic red and white colour combination, and by a company called 'Vekst Ålesund'. The a special machine imprints a Tryg logo. company employs people who are unable to get a regular job with carefully scheduled assignments. 5 6 Painting Tryg letters by hand The lifebuoys end up at Tryg The next step is painting the Tryg letters by hand. This is done by a company called 'Grønneviken', Ivar also works at Grønneviken and is which employs 190 people, who have fallen outside the regular job market. Irene has painted showing a finished lifebuoy. The lifebuoys Tryg lifebuoys since 2007 and has painted 16,000 lifebuoys for Tryg. are numbered and sent out to the lifebuoy sponsors, who put them up so they can save lives. Contents Corporate Responsibility report 2019 | Tryg A/S | 11 Climate and environment Climate and environment Tryg has a direct impact on the climate and the environment through our operations and an indirect impact through our business activities. We have focused our efforts on our internal operations and initiatives to improve our footprint, while also reducing costs. Although Tryg is not an energy-intensive company since our carbon emissions are mainly associated with heating and electricity use at our offices, car and air travel, we acknowledge that we are part of the solution when it comes to minimising carbon emissions. In 2016, Tryg sold its head offices in Denmark and Norway and made lease-back agreements. We encourage our building owner to make resource and efficiency improvements to the buildings and invest in renovating the buildings to keep them energy-efficient. Our materiality assessment showed that the climate and the environment continue to be material issues for Tryg and for our stakeholders. Extreme weather events such as flooding, cloudbursts and storms present a risk to Tryg and are causing harm and concern to our customers and society since environmental and climate-related events can increase the frequency of climaterelated claims. Therefore, we advise our customers on how to protect their homes. Tryg’s Corporate Responsibility policy further outlines our commitment to minimising our climate and environmental footprint. Download Corporate Responsibility policy Climate and environmental initiatives Tryg has initiated a process which involves continuously installing more efficient and climatefriendly LED lighting at our offices, as well as installing more screens for Skype meetings to reduce air travel and making electric cars available for external meetings. In Norway, four of our office areas were moved to save energy and resource consumption per employee in 2019. In Denmark, two offices were merged as well. In Norway, we removed our oil boiler, and our heating and cooling systems were connected to a heating pump system to further reduce our environmental impact. At our main office in Norway, a new ventilation system will be installed by 2020 with higher heating recovery than we have today. In 2019, Tryg appointed a working group to look into potential improvements at our main office in Denmark. This resulted in a list of potential recommendations which were listed according to impact and feasibility. In the coming years, Tryg will initiate a process to implement the suggestions. In 2019, Tryg initiated a process of reusing taps and other building materials in connection with the renovation of our premises. One of the areas in which Tryg has a potential adverse impact on the environment is waste production, which is why we are committed to reducing waste and consumption. We continuously work on minimising and sorting our waste at local waste stations to bring down waste volumes. In 2019, Tryg outsourced the canteen operations at our head office in Denmark. The new supplier was elected on its high food quality standards and Corporate Responsibility efforts. The canteen caters for approximately 900 Tryg employees every day. This means that our food waste is managed and limited, and our waste is sorted. As the strain on our environmental resources continues, we want to ensure that we dispose of our waste, limit and manage it in the best possible way. Following the arrival of the new canteen provider, we have established a new sorting system in our canteen, which includes food waste and regular waste fractions. In collaboration with our canteen staff, we are working to establish a waste target. In 2019, Tryg launched an app for our appraisers designed to make it easier for them to track and pick the fastest route on the day of inspection to save both time and fuel. With the app, our appraisers no longer have to print maps and case files, but can refer to everything in the app for a smoother and easier reporting and documentation process. Contents Corporate Responsibility report 2019 | Tryg A/S | 12 Climate and environment A recent transport survey in Denmark showed that 76% of Tryg’s employees come to work by car every day, and more than 36,000 people in the region commute to Ballerup by car every day. Between 1981 and 2017, the average number of people in a car in Denmark dropped from 1.84 to 1.31 and is today down to 1.05 person per car. This increases the number of cars on the roads with a lot of empty seats. Additionally, the Danish government expects traffic around the four biggest cities in Denmark to increase by 149% in 2030. In 2019, Tryg co-launched a car-pooling app in Denmark called ‘TaMed’ together with seven other companies in the region, the aim being to encourage colleagues from other companies and from Tryg to co-drive as part of the sharing economy and to contribute to minimising the number of cars on the roads and reducing carbon emissions. Trips are booked via an app, which allows you to sign up to a trip or search for a trip. The saved carbon emissions are also shown in the app. The app comes with a cancellation insurance for a taxi if the driver does not show up, supplied by Tryg. Tryg’s carbon emissions In 2019, Tryg’s carbon emissions decreased by 1% compared to 2018. The decrease is mainly due to a new carbon emission calculation method. For further details, please see ESG data overview on page 20. Our target is to reduce our carbon emissions by 2% in 2020. The Corporate Responsibility Board is looking into the next strategy period and determining our new carbon emissions reduction target. Carbon emissions Tonnes 6,000 The carbon emission chart covers the head 5,000 offices in Denmark and Norway; air and train 4,000 travel also include Sweden while car only applies for 3,000 Denmark. 2,000 1,000 0 Electricity Heating Air and Car District Total 2019 2018 oil train travel heating ‘Eco-lighthouse’ in Norway ‘Eco-lighthouse’ is a climate and environmental certification scheme in Norway based on a comprehensive environmental management system. Eight of our Norwegian offices are certified under this scheme. We produce an annual Eco-lighthouse report to describe progress and document the policies and procedures in place to manage our impact on the climate and the environment. At the beginning of next year, we will start work on the recertification of our offices. Tryg days focusing on reducing food waste Tryg is focused on reducing our In 2019, ’Tryg days’ were arranged in Norway. One of the themes focused on raising awareness of carbon emissions and is committed to SDG 13, Climate the UN’s Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 12 in relation to our reduction of waste, especially Action, specifically target 13.1 | food waste. In collaboration with our canteen, a vegetarian menu was served, and food waste Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-related was sorted and weighed over the period. hazards and natural disasters in all countries and target 13.3 | Improved education, awareness raising and human and institutional capacity on climate change mitigation, adaptation, impact reduction and early warning. Tryg’s focus on waste reduction contributes to SDG 12, Responsible Consumption and Production, specifically target 12.5 | By 2030 substantially reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse. Contents Corporate Responsibility report 2019 | Tryg A/S | 13 Responsible workplace Responsible workplace Providing a healthy and safe working environment and securing the well-being of our employees is vital to Tryg. Our materiality assessment indicated that there is a risk that Tryg can have adverse impacts on its employees through, for example, dissatisfaction, discrimination, or the physical or psychosocial working environment. To mitigate this risk, we are continuously working to improve working conditions for our employees. Tryg has collective bargaining agreements in the Scandinavian countries where more than 99% of our employees are based. The majority of our Scandinavian employees are covered by these agreements, and the rest are on individual contracts. All Tryg employees are covered by national standards and requirements. Workplace responsibility Being a diversified and inclusive workplace is an important priority to Tryg. We believe that a diverse representation of employees and, more importantly, diversity of thought are key to the future success of Tryg. We need a diverse pool of employees with different skills and competenEmployee satisfaction cies to match the changing needs in society and the changing needs of our customers. Focusing on diversity and inclusion requires looking behind the barriers and focusing on the underlying Index structures, HR processes and the culture within the organisation. 80 78 78 74 72 Employee satisfaction 60 71 68 The annual employee satisfaction survey is key to measuring employee satisfaction and provides 40 us with a starting point for talking about well-being in the workplace as well as individual job satisfaction. 20 0 Tryg Nordic Nordic In 2019, the overall employee satisfaction score remained high at 78, which is unchanged since financial market 2018. The score is above the average of the Nordic sector. In 2019, 24 departments received 2019 2018 extra support for their work with the survey results, compared to 27 departments in 2018. Focus on diversity and women in management Employee mix A recent BCG Global Diversity & Inclusion Survey from 2019 revealed that Denmark’s national average on gender balance in leadership was 27%, which placed Denmark as a ‘wake-up’ nation % at the lower end of the scale. This indicates that no company should disregard or not contribute 60 to resolving this structural issue. 50 40 At 35%, Tryg’s gender balance in leadership is well above the national average in 2019. Com30 pared to 2018, the number of women in management positions is up slightly from 33%. In 2019, 20 the share of women in management positions was up 2 percentage points compared to 2018. A 10 stable trend was seen in 2019, most probably due to intense focus and a CEO approval process 0 for all new candidates for management positions. When recruiting, Tryg focuses on getting the Men Women Age Age Age Flexi best competencies for the job. Going forward, Tryg will continue its efforts to attract women to <30 30-49 >50 job years years years management positions and our strong focus on increasing diversity of thought at all levels in the organisation. However, our target for women in management positions is 41% in 2020, hence further action will be required to meet the target. In 2019, we increased diversity on our Executive Board through the hiring of our new CFO, Barbara Plucnar-Jensen, which takes diversity on the Executive Board to 25%. Tryg’s Supervisory Board is composed of six men and six women, and under Danish law as well as Tryg’s own policy, there is equality among the genders. Focusing on gender diversity is one element in our diversity and inclusion strategy. The next step is to look more broadly at diversity and to promote diversity of thought in our management teams. To boost this, Tryg's action plan for 2020 focuses on eliminating unconscious bias in HR processes and increasing diversity of thought in specific management teams when recruiting. Steps to increase diversity Tryg has an action plan for diversity including women in management which guides our actions Tryg’s commitment to increastowards realising our 2020 target. In 2019, we focused on reducing unconscious bias in our ing the number of women in management positions recruitment processes. Through data collection and dialogue with all management levels, we contributes to SDG 5, ‘Gender raised awareness of why unconscious bias occurs and of the opportunities that can come from Equality’ specifically indicator having a more diverse pool of employees. 5.5.2 | Proportion of women in managerial positions. Contents Corporate Responsibility report 2019 | Tryg A/S | 14 Responsible workplace We have taken specific steps to ensure approval of all final candidates for management positions by our CEO and HR director, as well as ensuring that all management positions are advertised both internally and externally to give diverse internal and external candidates the opportunity to apply. Furthermore, we are increasing awareness in the organisation of unconscious bias in recruitment processes though dialogue and workshops. To support our target and action plan, an internal rotation programme has been put in place to improve conditions and career opportunities for talented women and men. Additionally, four women attended our Advanced Leadership Programme. Five women will join the programme in 2020. Tryg remains a committed member of the Danish Diversity Council to help inspire and grow the number of women in management positions. To inspire positive role models in Tryg, our LeadTheFuture programme encourages female managers to act as role models by sharing their experiences and knowledge about their own career choices. Download General action plan for diversity including women in management Strategic partnerships As part of our commitment to the UN Sustainable Development Goals and SDG 17 on partnerships, we believe that working across sectors and engaging with various stakeholders are part of Tryg’s commitment to strengthour responsibility and a way to create impact. Therefore, we engage in partnerships for action. ening education and knowledge about insurance for schoolCreating equal opportunities for school children children and our partnership with Teach First contribute One in six children in Denmark leave elementary school without the basic reading, writing or to SDG 4, Quality Education, math skills needed to qualify for an upper secondary education. Social inheritance is a signifispecifically indicator 4.3.1 | Participation rate of youth and cant part of the root cause. A bad start at school can impact your opportunities in life. This is an adults in formal and non-formal issue for society and for companies through the loss of a pool of potential talent. Tryg is an active education and training in the supporter of SDG 4 Quality Education, and wants to be an inclusive workplace. Having a diverse previous 12 months, by sex and target 4.4 | By 2030, substanworkforce starts with ensuring that the conditions needed to educate potential future employees tially increase the number of exist. youth and adults who have relevant skills, including technical and vocational skills, for In 2019, Tryg launched a partnership with Teach First Denmark, a non-profit organisation workemployment, decent jobs and ing to create opportunities for all children in Denmark, and a local school in Denmark named entrepreneurship. Tingbjerg. Eleven children were welcomed as interns for a week at our head office in Denmark, Tryg’s partnership commitwhere they experienced the skills needed to work in an insurance company and the possible job ments contribute to SDG 17, Partnerships, specifically target opportunities – for insurance agents, appraisers or in customer service. 17.17 | Encourage and promote effective public, public-private Making insurance fun and civil society partnerships, building on the experience Tryg is engaged in a partnership with Mattip, a free online portal for math teachers, where math and resourcing strategies of assignments are combined with insurance. partnerships. The assignments are targeted at children aged 9-16. Together with Mattip, we help young people gain knowledge about the importance of insurance, combined with assignments making it fun and relevant. Contents Corporate Responsibility report 2019 | Tryg A/S | 15 Business ethics Business ethics Ethics can determine a company’s future and are essential for responsible business conduct. Tryg is committed to running an ethical, transparent and responsible business. Our materiality assessment showed that business ethics, GDPR and data protection are material matters to Tryg. Building knowledge and capacity on this issue not only internally among our employees through e-learning, but also throughout our business relations, requires continuous attention. Our commitment to ethical and strong corporate governance is the foundation on which we build our business. Tryg’s Code of Conduct defines the rules which all employees and business partners are required to adhere to. Our tax policy and anti-corruption policy further outline our commitment to acting as a responsible company. Data security and GDPR Data security and GDPR are important to Tryg as we deal with personal data on a daily basis, which are some of Tryg’s material risks. In 2019, we made a free learning platform available for our employees called ‘safe colleague’ to test their skills and knowledge about safety measures. Through gamification, our employees learn about basic data security, and guidance is provided on conduct in situations involving data security. In 2019, we also established a GDPR Board to govern compliance with the GDPR regulation. Our Data Protection Officer (DPO) ensures that the necessary systems and processes are in place, and our internal procedures for handling data breaches enable all employees to report any data breaches. An e-learning course on GDPR and IT security is mandatory for new employees as part of our onboarding programme. In 2019, all new employees have completed the online training. In 2020, Tryg will continue its work on data ethics, including the implementation of Insurance & Pension Denmark's guidelines for data ethics. Download Personal data policy Download Code of Conduct Whistleblower Tryg’s whistleblower hotline is available for all our stakeholders to report any violation of our Code of Conduct or other issues and is reviewed by the chairman of the Audit Committee, assisted by Tryg’s Legal and Compliance Director. In 2019, three cases were reported and investigated compared to seven cases in 2018. No cases led to further action. Read more about Tryg’s whistleblower hotline Detecting insurance fraud Insurance fraud can have adverse impacts and implications for Tryg and for our customers. Every year, Tryg investigates cases of suspected insurance fraud through our special investigation unit. In 2019, 2,675 notifications compared to 1,586 notifications in 2018 were passed on to our special investigation unit in Denmark, and 56% were classified as insurance fraud compared to 45% in 2018. In all cases, it is important that we treat our customers with respect, which is why processes are in place to ensure that all investigations are approved in advance and are performed properly and with respect for the guidelines defined by our trade organisation, Insurance & Pension Denmark. Responsible investments Tryg invests DKK 40bn annually, and we have split up our risk profile into two portfolios: a match portfolio and a free portfolio. Our match portfolio, which comprises Nordic government and mortgage bonds, totals DKK 29bn. Our free portfolio, which comprises various bonds, funds, investment properties or equities, totals DKK 11bn. Most of Tryg’s investment assets are managed externally and typically held through commingled fund structures. Tryg’s investment activities are therefore outsourced to our external portfolio managers, who are required to be UN PRI signatories. Contents Corporate Responsibility report 2019 | Tryg A/S | 16 Business ethics Responsible investing is important to Tryg as it ensures that investIn 2019, Sustainalytics was chosen as our new ethical screening proments are conducted in accordance with our values. Our materiality vider, and our screening definitions will be based on their methodology assessment identified responsible investments as a material issue to going forward. The choice is based on Sustainalytics’ broad and leading Tryg. We are at risk of violating international standards when investing expertise within ESG and responsible investments. and want to be transparent about our efforts to mitigate this risk. Human rights and responsible supply Update of policies and new screening process chain management Tryg’s Responsible investment policy and Policy for execution of active Tryg is committed to respecting human rights as described in the ownership were updated in 2019 to ensure a continuous focus on Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Our commitment is enforced responsible investing. Our external portfolio managers are selected through our signatory membership of the UN Global Compact and is on the basis of the same responsible mindset as Tryg’s. However, we outlined in our Corporate Responsibility policy as well as in Tryg’s Code screen our holdings each year to ensure that individual holdings do of Conduct. not deviate from expectations. The screening of portfolio holdings is carried out by an external screening provider. Furthermore, in 2019 we Our materiality assessment indicated that there is a risk of violating launched our formal escalation process, which guides the process after human and labour rights in our supply chain through our outsourcing a screening of investments. activities. To mitigate any violations, we actively monitor our outsourcing suppliers for compliance with our Code of Conduct and the Ten Download Responsible investment policy Principles outlined in the UN Global Compact. We work closely with Download Policy for execution of active ownership our suppliers to promote shared values. Download Process for ethical screening In 2019, we updated our existing supply chain management process to Active Source Management include a Corporate Responsibility pre-assessment strengthening the Tryg’s initiatives on active ownership are primarily directed towards focus on high-risk suppliers. The implementation of the new process managing and monitoring Tryg’s external managers’ responsible inhas been merged with our existing compliance process to include Corvestment processes. During the year, we launched a process designed porate Responsibility risks, to assess the overall risks and how to work to ensure compliance by external managers with Tryg’s responsible with high-risk suppliers on ethical and compliance issues. investment policy called Active Source Management. Implementation of the Corporate Responsibility audit process and supOur primary focus is on selecting external managers who share our plier assessment continued in 2019. Building capacity and training of principles and have policies in place to ensure that investments are internal auditors in Corporate Responsibility audits is an ongoing effort, managed responsibly. External asset managers are UN PRI signatories and during the year the trainings continued. The trainings are held ad or in the process of becoming so. We also ensure that external manhoc as needed before any audits. agers carry out active ownership of individual holdings. In 2019, we expanded our external manager selection process to include a separate In 2019, our audit revealed no violations or red flags among our audited due diligence process on responsible investments. The due diligence high-risk outsourcing suppliers. The process continues in 2020, and all process evaluates all new external managers on their commitment, high-risk outsourcing suppliers are expected to be audited by 2020. processes and execution of responsible investment. The next step is to look into how we can focus on small suppliers catWe continuously work to improve responsible investment practices in egorised as low-risk suppliers, and how to work with them on implecollaboration with managers. menting ethical or compliance issues which can be hard to interpret for a small company with five to ten employees, including employee rights, New external screening provider human rights or understanding the UN Global Compact. Tryg conducts an ethical screening each year based on controversial behaviour and controversial weapons. In 2019, the regular screening Download Code of Conduct led to one company being flagged for controversial behaviour. ConDownload Corporate Responsibility policy troversial behaviour means a violation of the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. Controversial weapons are mainly weapons, more specifically tailor-made, and essential level of involvement and/or significant ownership in companies of the former. Examples include anti-personnel mines, nuclear weapons, cluster weapons, biological and chemical weapons, depleted uranium and white phosphorus munitions. In line with the escalation process, dialogue was initiated with three external managers, which has yielded satisfactory explanations and actions. Contents Corporate Responsibility report 2019 | Tryg A/S | 17 Corporate governance Tryg focuses on managing the company tives. The Supervisory Board is composed of Remuneration of the Supervisory Board in accordance with the principles of good six men and six women, and under Danish law Members of Tryg’s Supervisory Board receive corporate governance and complies with the as well as Tryg’s own policy, there is equality a fixed fee and are not comprised by any Danish recommendations prepared by the among the genders. Members are elected for form of incentive, severance programme or Committee on Corporate governance. The one year at a time and can sit on the Superpension scheme. Their remuneration is based aim is to ensure that Tryg does its utmost to visory Board for a maximum of 12 years. on trends in peer companies, considering meet its obligations towards our stakeholders the required skills, efforts and the scope of and promote long-term value creation. Board committees the Supervisory Board’s work, including the Tryg has an Audit Committee, a Risk Commitnumber of meetings held. The remuneration Download Corporate governance report tee, a Nomination Committee, a Remunerreceived by the Chairman of the Supervisory ation Committee and an IT-Data Committee. Board is three times that received by ordinary Tryg has a two-tier management structure The framework of the committees' work is members, while the Deputy Chairman’s reconsisting of a Supervisory Board and an Exdefined in their terms of reference. muneration is twice that received by ordinary ecutive Board. Tryg’s Executive Board consists members of the Supervisory Board. of the Group CEO, the Group CFO, the Group Download terms of reference COO and the Group CCO. The Executive Board Remuneration of the Executive Board is responsible for the day-to-day management Remuneration Members of the Executive Board are emof Tryg and for following the guidelines and Tryg has adopted a remuneration policy ployed on a contractual basis, and all terms recommendations issued by the Supervisory for Tryg in general which contains specific of their remuneration are established by the Board. schemes for the Supervisory Board, the ExSupervisory Board within the scope of the ecutive Board and other Tryg employees approved remuneration policy. Tryg wants to Tryg’s Supervisory Board is responsible for the whose activities have a material impact on maintain a balance between management overall management of Tryg and is composed the risk profile of the company. remuneration, predictable risk and value creof 12 members from Denmark, Norway and ation for the company’s shareholders in the Sweden, including four employee representaDownload remuneration policy short and long term. The Executive Board’s Total remuneration of the Supervisory Board in 2019 Audit Risk Remuneration IT-Data Nominationtion DKK Fee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Total Jukka Pertola 1,147,500 161,250 245,000 112,500 1,666,250 Torben Nielsen 765,000 236,250 232,500 75,000 1,308,750 Jesper Hjulmanda 90,000 37,500 35,000 162,500 Lene Skole 382,500 157,500 155,000 695,000 Mari Thjømøe 382,500 157,500 155,000 695,000 Carl-Viggo Östlund 382,500 107,500 297,500 787,500 Ida Sofie Jensen 382,500 107,500 245,500 75,000 810,000 Tina Snejbjerg 382,500 155,000 537,500 Lone Hansen 382,500 627,500 Tom Eiling 382,500 107,500 490,000 Anders Hjulmanda 90,000 90,000 Elias Bakk 382,500 382,500 Karen Bladtb 292,500 292,500 Claus Wistoftb 292,500 292,500 a) Resigned from the Supervisory Board in March 2019 b) Joined the Supervisory Board in March 2019. Total remuneration of the Executive Board in 2019 Car Other Total fixed Share-based DKK Base salary Pension allowance benefits salary One-off fee remuneration a) Total fee Morten Hübbe 11,330,000 2,832,500 255,000 26,000 14,443,500 0 4,886,718 19,330,218 Lars Bonde 5,385,056 1,346,264 255,000 26,000 7,012,320 0 2,372,502 9,384,822 Johan Kirstein Brammer 5,175,000 1,293,750 255,000 26,000 6,749,750 0 2,283,665 9,033,415 Barbara Plucnar Jensen b) 4,166,667 1,041,667 212,500 21,667 5,442,500 1,000,000 1,647,717 8,090,217 a) The value of Matching Shares (investment shares) at the time of allotment of the right to participate in the Matching Shares Programme for the Executive Board for the 2019 performance year. b) Barbara Plucnar Jensen took up the position as CFO on 1 March 2019 and was granted a sign-on bonus vesting in 2020. Contents Corporate Responsibility report 2019 | Tryg A/S | 18 Corporate governance remuneration consists of a base salary and Tryg share and dividend TryghedsGruppen a pension contribution of 25% of the base Tryg’s share capital comprises a single share In 2019, for the fourth year running, Tryg’s majority salary. The base salary must be competitive class, and all shares rank pari passu. The majorshareholder, TryghedsGruppen, paid out a member and appropriate for the market and provide ity shareholder, TryghedsGruppen smba, owns bonus to Tryg’s customers in Denmark correspondsufficient motivation for members of the 60% of the shares and is the only shareholder ing to 8% of the annual premiums paid for 2018. Executive Board to achieve Tryg’s targets. owning more than 5% of the company’s shares. TrygFonden The variable pay element consists of a MatchDepending on the development in results, each TrygFonden is the leading and most well-known peace-of-mind foundation in Denmark, supporting ing Shares Programme. The Executive Board year the Supervisory Board proposes hundreds of activities that contribute to this, such may, using taxed funds, buy shares in Tryg A/S the distribution of quarterly dividends, and posas coastal lifeguards, cuddle bears for children in at market price for a predefined amount, sibly an extraordinary annual dividend if further hospitals and defibrillators. Behind TrygFonden is which is dependent on the member’s performadjustment of the capital structure is required. TryghedsGruppen, which owns 60% of the shares ance for the financial year. Four years after the in Tryg, and Tryg contributed DKK 600m to projects purchase, Tryg will grant one matching share Tryg’s dividend policy aspires to distribute a that create peace of mind throughout Denmark in nominal, stable increasing dividend in nominal 2019. per investment share free of charge. terms on a full-year basis based on an annual Annual general meeting distribution of 60-90% of our profit after tax. Tryg’s annual general meeting is held by For 2019, the quarterly dividend was DKK personal attendance as the Supervisory Board 1.70 per share, or a total dividend of DKK 6.80. values the face-to-face dialogue with shareThis equates total dividend payments of DKK holders. The Supervisory Board encourages 2,056m. Additionally, an extraordinary dividend all shareholders to attend the annual general of DKK 1.65 per share, amounting to a total meeting, where they can ask questions of the payment of DKK 500m, will also be paid out on Supervisory Board and the Group CEO. The 27 January 2020. annual general meeting is held at Tryg’s head office in Ballerup, Denmark. Download dividend policy Tryg's anual generel meeting was held at Tryg's head office in Ballerup, Denmark, in 2019, giving our shareholders the chance to sense the special Tryg atmosphere. Contents Corporate Responsibility report 2019 | Tryg A/S | 19 Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) data Unit 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Climate and environmental data Scope 1 direct Car travel Tonnes CO2e 1,437 1,594 Stationary combustion Heating oil Litre 7,844 a) 4,338 Natural gas kWh 155,000 393,800 Scope 2 indirect Electricity consumption, total kWh 8,491,200 b) 7,216,162 District heating, total kWh 4,494,000 3,062,285 Scope 3 indirect Air and train travel, total c) Tonnes CO2e 2,443 2,545 Bio waste Kg 63,116 d) 38,712 Total waste kg 394,984 357,246 Total direct and indirect carbon emissions Tonnes CO2e 5,333 e) 5,386 Social data Total number of employees (FTEs) Number 4,151 4,027 3,373 3,264 3,359 Gender all employees (female/male) % 46/54 46/54 47/53 48/52 49/51 Total share of women in management positions % 35 33 37 36 35 Employees, <30 years % 16 15 16 14 13 Employees, 30-49 years % 53 53 52 54 55 Employees, 50 years and above % 31 32 32 32 32 Flexi job Number 20 15 9 11 11 Employee turnover % 12 12.7 14.6 17 14.7 Total leavers Number 529 431 512 601 537 Share of voluntary leavers % 7.4 10.8 9.5 9.1 8.5 Share of involuntary leavers % 4.6 1.9 5.1 7.9 6.2 Gender pay ratiof) Times 1.21 1.2 1.27 1.25 1.27 Sick leave % 2.65 4.09 4.09 4.11 4.26 Total employee training hours Hours 86,476 71,478 69,960 90,945 81,954 Average employee training hours Hours 20 19 20 26 23 Employee satisfaction Index point 78 78 76 74 73 Customer retention rate Private Denmark % 91.6 91.2 90.2 89.7 89.9 Commercial Denmark % 88.6 88.0 87.7 87.1 87.9 Private Norway % 86.9 86.7 85.8 86.4 86.4 Commercial Norway % 89.0 87.7 86.9 87.5 87.1 Transactional Net Promoter Score (TNPS) Score 68 67 Collective bargaining agreements g) a) The increase in 2019 was mainly due to a colder winter in Norway hence more heating oil was needed in Q1 2019. In Q2 2019, the oil boiler was shut down. b) The increase is due to the inclusion of a new office in Ballerup, Denmark, as a result of the Alka acquisition and due to the hot water reservoir being removed to make room for new ventilation units in Norway. As a result, we have used the electric boilers more than in 2018 to heat water. c) High variety of representative aircraft, average seating capacities, load factors and proportions of passenger km by the different aircraft types have an impact on the carbon emission. This is based on detailed UK Civil Aviation Authority statistics. Furthermore, freight transported on passenger services has also been taken into account. d) The increase is due to the inclusion of garden waste in this category and a new food waste sorting system in the canteen. e) The decrease is mainly due to a new carbon emission calculation method. However, due to the inclusion of a new office in Ballerup, Denmark, as a result of the Alka acquisition, there was an increase in electricity, district heating and waste in 2019. The new calculation method is based on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative (GHG protocol) and is developed by the World Resources Institute (WRI) and World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). This analysis is according to A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard Revised edition, currently one of four GHG Protocol accounting standards explaining how to calculate and report GHG emissions. The reporting considers the following greenhouse gases, all converted into CO2 equivalents: CO2, CH4. (methane), N2O (laughing gas), SF6, HFCs and PFCs. This methodology is based on the operational control aspect that defines what should be included in the carbon inventory, as well as in the different scopes. Hence, climate and environmental data from 2015-2017 has been removed to provide a standard of comparison between the carbon emission and consumption. f) Gender equality of remuneration is calculated based on male salary divided by female salary. g) Please see page 14. Contents Corporate Responsibility report 2019 | Tryg A/S | 20 Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) data Unit 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Governance data Size of the Supervisory Board incl. employee representatives Number 12 13 13 12 12 Supervisory Board meetings Number 8 9 15 15 11 Attendance rate, Supervisory Board meetings % 100 98 97 98 95 Members of the Audit Committee Number 3 4 4 4 4 Audit Committee meetings Number 6 6 6 6 6 Attendance rate, Audit Committee meetings % 100 92 92 100 100 Members of the Risk Committee Number 4 5 5 5 5 Risk Committee meetings Number 6 6 6 6 6 Attendance rate, Risk Committee meetings % 100 88 88 100 100 Members of the Remuneration Committee Number 4 5 5 4 4 Remuneration Committee meetings Number 56 6 4 5 4 Attendance rate, Remuneration Committee meetings % 100 97 100 100 100 Members of the Nomination Committee Number 3 3 3 2 2 Nomination Committee meetings Number 3 2 2 2 2 Attendance rate, Nomination Committee meetings % 100 100 100 100 100 Members of IT-Data Committee Number 4 4 4 3 IT-Data Committee meetings Number 3 3 2 4 Attendance rate, IT-Data Committee meetings % 100 92 100 100 Share of women on the Supervisory Board incl. employee representatives a) % 50 38.46 38.46 41.67 58.33 Board members, <30 years Number 0 0 0 0 0 Board members, 30-49 years Number 1 1 1 0 2 Board members, 50 years and above Number 11 12 12 12 10 CEO pay ratio b) Times 25.63 26.26 22.07 20.83 19.57 Whistleblower cases Number 3 7 7 4 1 Remuneration of the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board c) a) Tryg has equal gender representation on the Supervisory Board under Danish law and according to Tryg's policies. b) How many times the employee salary can be covered by the CEO remuneration as a measure for social equality. Calculated from CEO remuneration divided by employee salary. c) Please see page 18. Contents Corporate Responsibility report 2019 | Tryg A/S | 21 Legal requirements Tryg reports with reference to the fulfilment of targets for the share of the underrepresented gender at management levels and non-financial reporting in accordance with the provisions of Sections 132a and 132b of the Danish Executive Order on Financial Reports for Insurance Companies and Lateral Pension Funds (Nationwide Occupational Pension Funds). Section 132a Readers' guide Status and target for the Supervisory Board on increasing the share of According to Danish law as well as Tryg’s own policy there is equality the underrepresented gender among genders on the Supervisory Board, and Tryg is therefore not Section 132a, subs. 1 required to set targets. A description is available on page 14. Policy, target, action plan and result on increasing the share of the Policy, target, action plan and result on increasing the share of the underrepresented gender at other management levels underrepresented gender at other management levels are available on Section 132a, subs. 2 and 4 page 5 and page 14. Section 132b Readers' guide Corporate Responsibility policy Tryg’s Corporate Responsibility policy is referred on page 5. Section 132b, subs. 2, (2) Business model Tryg’s business model is described on page 6. Section 132b, subs. 2, (1) Key risks A description of key risks has been integrated into the relevant chapters. Section 132b, subs. 2, (4) See pages 12-19. Policies A description of policies has been integrated into the relevant chapters. Section 132b, subs. 2, (2) See overview section on page 5 and pages 12-19. Systems and due diligence processes See systems and due diligence processes in overview section on page 5. Section 132 b, subs. 2, (3) Actions See highlights in overview section on page 5. Section 132b, subs. 2, (3) Results See results in overview section on page 5 or in the relevant chapters. Section 132b, subs. 2, (6) See pages 12-19. KPIs See targets in overview on page 5 or in the relevant chapters. Section 132b, subs. 2, (5) See pages 12-19. Corporate Responsibility report 2019 | Tryg A/S | 22 The UN Global Compact and the UN Sustainable Development Goals The UN Global Compact Tryg has been a member of the UN Global Compact since 2008. The UN Global Compact is based on Ten Principles for responsible business conduct. This means operating in ways that, as a minimum, meet fundamental responsibilities in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact are: Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. The UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) In September 2015, all 193 Member States of the United Nations adopted a plan for achieving a better future for all – laying out a path over the next 15 years to end extreme poverty, fight inequality and injustice, and protect our planet. The 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are based on an ambitious plan formed on 17 specific targets that commit all UN member states to working for a sustainable development and better world in 2030. Tryg has KPIs for SDG 5 (Gender Equality) for 41% women in management in 2020 and SDG 13 (Climate Action) for 2% carbon emission reduction in 2020. Linking the UN Global Compact and SDGs The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact provide a common ethical and practical framework for operationalising Corporate Responsibility. Derived from UN Declarations and Conventions, these universal principles represent the fundamental values. The 17 SDGs have a different vision and relevance for businesses. At the heart of the 2030 Agenda, the SDGs demonstrate long-term targets for businesses and other stakeholders to work towards creating the world we want. Together, the Ten Principles and the SDGs equip businesses with both the values and the vision to help the private sector make the biggest contribution to people and planet. Global challenges – ranging from climate, water and food crises, to poverty, conflict and inequality – are in need of solutions that the private sector can deliver, representing a large and growing market for business innovation. In the rush to transform business models and systems for the future, integrity and values will have a huge role to play. Innovation in one area cannot make up for doing harm in another. Contents Corporate Responsibility report 2019 | Tryg A/S | 23
