2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report Sustaining Excellence CONTENTS OUR STORY OUR COMMITMENT APPENDIX 04 18 53 CEO Message Stakeholder Communication Key Sustainability Indicators 20 60 Discussion with Sustainability Experts Third-party Assurance Statement 21 62 Materiality Assessment GRI Content Index 22 66 COMMITMENT 01. UN Global Compact Absolute Safety OUR WAY 67 25 Awards and Memberships COMMITMENT 02. Transparent and Ethical Management 29 COMMITMENT 03. Differentiated Customer Experience 33 COMMITMENT 04. 05 Environment Friendly Management Management Philosophy 40 Talent Management 07 Company Overview 45 Shared Growth Management 11 Global Network 48 Social Contribution 12 Key Business Strategies 51 Risk Management This report has been published as an interactive PDF, 14 allowing readers to move quickly and easily to pages in Enhancing Corporate Competence the report, and including shortcuts to related web pages. 16 Reference Page Related Link Video Clip Contributions to the UN SDGs OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 03 STORY COMMITMENT WAY OUR STORY CEO Message | Management Philosophy | Company Overview | Global Network | Key Business Strategies | Enhancing Corporate Competence | Contributions to the UN SDGs The 26th Korean Air Travel Photo Contest / Merit Prize / Nam-Soo Woo / Sunrise Over Bagan From the Pagoda / Bagan, Myanmar OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 04 STORY COMMITMENT WAY CEO Message Greetings! I would like to express my sincere gratitude for your continued interest and support. The year 2019 was a difficult year for us as the declining economic Korean Air actively responds to climate change by applying CEO Message growth rate contracted consumer sentiment and slowed the demand strict management standards for environmental issues and for air travel within Korea. Externally, trade disputes between the United clearly communicating the information related to environmental States and China, animosity between Korea and Japan, and protests in management. While replacing the existing aircraft with eco-friendly, Hong Kong, created a challenging business environment. high-efficiency aircraft and actively participating in the ICAO Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation (CORSIA), Management Korean Air, which celebrated its 50th anniversary last year, was able to Korean Air is also making various efforts to reduce the amount of plastic achieve KRW 12.2917 trillion in sales and KRW 286.4 billion by operating used in aircraft and to expand recycling methods. In addition, Korean Air Philosophy profitable businesses, maximizing the joint venture synergy with Delta participates in global environment conservation by planting trees every Air Lines, developing new midto long-distance routes with growth year in Baganuur, Mongolia and the Kubuqi Desert in China. potential, and expanding irregular flights to discover potential demand. As a member of the global community, Korean Air participates in various social contribution activities. Korean Air operated a special Company In addition, Korean Air successfully hosted the annual meeting of Overview charter to support the return of Korean residents in Wuhan and Milan, the International Air Transport Association (IATA), also known as “the where regular air routes were suspended due to COVID-19, and to UN Conference of the Aviation Industry,” in Seoul for the first time, provide emergency relief supplies to the Wuhan area. Korean Air will demonstrating the heightened status of the company, as well as the continue to make social contributions in accordance with the belief of the Korean aviation industry. Global founding chairman, Cho choong-hoon, that “the corporate profit must be Network returned to the society that made it possible.” The worldwide spread of COVID-19, which began in early 2020, has brought about an unprecedented crisis. In response, Korean Air has In terms of governance, the Corporate Governance Charter was employed various measures, such as saving costs, transporting cargo announced to establish a transparent governance structure, and a using passenger planes, and selling off assets. The airline is making compensation committee and a ESG (Environment·Social·GovernKey Business Strategies every effort to normalize and overcome the crisis as soon as possible. ance) committee were established within the Board of Directors. In addition, Korean Air is building a board-oriented management system Respected stakeholders, by separating the CEO and the chairman position of the board and Enhancing Corporate Based on the achievements of the past 50 years, Korean Air has carried strengthening the independence and expertise of the board directors by out various activities to fulfill its social responsibilities, as well as enhance strengthening support for the activities of the outside directors. Korean Air Co., Ltd. Competence management performance, in order to become a 100-year company. Chairman & CEO Cho Won-Tae Korean Air was able to grow continuously over the past half century because we had the constant support of stakeholders. We will do our best to continue the growth and become a 100-year company that is loved and trusted by stakeholders. Contributions to the UN SDGs Thank you! OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 05 STORY COMMITMENT WAY Management Service Philosophy Excellence CEO Message To become a respected leader in the global Management airline community Philosophy MISSION Operational VISION Excellence Company Overview Global Network Innovative Key Business Excellence Strategies Enhancing Corporate Service Excellence Operational Excellence Innovative Excellence • Strengthening service competitiveness by developing unique services • Ensuring flawless operational safety • Establishing an organizational culture that encourages creativity Competence • Offering high-end and differentiated services • Improving profitability through year-round cost reduction efforts and free thinking • Providing high-end seats, including KOSMO Suites 2.0 and • Phasing in fleet modernization for maximized operational efficiency • Creating a democratic and collaborative workplace Contributions to Prestige Suites, and upgrading in-flight entertainment service • Expanding global network by tapping into SkyTeam resources • Fostering talent from around the globe • Promoting corporate image as a global leading service brand • Breaking the silo mentality and promoting change and innovation the UN SDGs • Strengthening management infrastructure through company-wide • Offering top-tier service on a par with global standards backed by IT integration • Developing profitable new business models the SkyTeam alliance • Promoting education/training programs for fostering talent from • Continuing social contribution activities through Global CSR projects around the globe OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 06 STORY COMMITMENT WAY • Taking a comprehensive and systematic approach toward customers • Responding promptly to changing customer needs • Maximizing customer value through Management Enhancing customer by Wandering About (MBWA) practices loyalty with highest CEO Message possible customer satisfaction Management Philosophy • Establishing globally recognized standards and principles Organization • Promoting mutual respect for expertise Adhering to standards in different fields management based on • Pursuing business flexibility while adhering and principles expertise and autonomy • Making system-based decisions to the established standards and principles • Building a harmonious atmosphere Company • Eliminating shortcuts and inefficiency for creative solutions Overview in business operations MANAGEMENT PHILOSOPHY Global Network Key Business Strategies Developing future Creating an innovative growth engines with and change-embracing Enhancing Corporate competent human corporate culture resources Competence • Attracting the best and brightest talents from • Encouraging a progressive and aspiring mindset Contributions to around the globe • Creating an organizational culture that embraces • Continuing bold investments in nurturing talent change • Creating a corporate culture that promotes • Pursuing future-oriented business reform the UN SDGs individual growth for organizational growth by focusing on core competencies OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 07 STORY COMMITMENT WAY Company Overview Summary CEO Message Established in 1969, Korean Air is celebrating its 51st anniversary in Air Fleet (Unit: Aircraft/Year) 2020. As of the end of 2019, it operates 169 aircraft and offers passenger Passenger Cargo Passenger Cargo and cargo transportation services. Its business scope has expanded Aircraft model Number of Average Number of Average Aircraft model Number of Average Number of Average to now include in-flight meals and duty-free shopping, as well as aircraft fleet age aircraft fleet age aircraft fleet age aircraft fleet age development and maintenance of aircraft parts and aerospace business. A380-800 10 7.8 A330-200/300 29 15 Management B747-8i 10 3.7 B777F 12 4.6 Philosophy Organization Status B747-400 2 22.2 4 14.3 B737-800/900/900ER 31 13.6 Company name Korean Air Lines Co., Ltd. B747-8F 7 6 A220-300 10 1.6 260 Haneul-gil Gangseo-gu, Seoul, Korea Headquarters (Gonghangdong 1370) B787-9 10 1.9 Company Total qty: 169 146 10.4 23 6.7 Overview Phone number +82-2-2656-7114 B777-300ER/300/200 44 10.7 Website https://www.koreanair.com Passenger & cargo transportation, aerospace, Revenue (2019) Transportation (2019) Global Business areas (Unit: 100 million KRW) (Unit: 10K passengers/10K tons) Network catering services and in-flight sales KRW 12.2917 trillion Sales (based on separate financial statements) 20,965 (including locally hired employees and Key Business Number of employees excluding executive directors) Total revenue Total Total Strategies Air fleet 169 Routes 127 cities in 44 countries 122,917 2,735 146 Enhancing Corporate Revenue passengers 27.35 million Competence carried in 2019 Revenue cargo 1.46 million tons carried in 2019 Contributions to Refer to the disclosures by Korean Air ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Subsidiaries at http://dart.fss.or.kr 103,660 10,943 8,314 1,993 742 140 6 the UN SDGs * As of Dec. 31, 2019 Flight operations Ancillary Other businesses International Domestic International Domestic routes routes routes routes * Based on separate financial statements OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 08 STORY COMMITMENT WAY Major Businesses Air transport business As of the end of 2019, Korean Air owns a total of 169 aircraft and is operating regularly between 13 cities in Korea and 114 cities in 43 countries worldwide, carrying 27.35 million passengers and 1.46 million tons of cargo. Despite the challenging business environment caused by unstable international situations and CEO Message slowing global economic growth in 2019, passenger route revenues increased by 0.4% from operating in joint venture with Delta Air Lines and seeking to develop profitable routes. However, the cargo transportation revenues were greatly affected by trade disputes and decreased by 15% year-on-year. Sales Management (Unit: 100 million KRW) Philosophy 112,773 2019 112,773 2018 117,131 Company 2017 107,755 Overview * Based on separate financial statements Global Network Key Business Strategies Sales Portion by Business Enhancing Corporate Competence 92% Contributions to Air transport Aerospace In-flight meals the UN SDGs & sales OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 09 STORY COMMITMENT WAY Aerospace business For the past 40 years, our Aerospace Business Division has accumulated experience and obtained outstanding technologies in the areas of engineering, manufacturing, production, maintenance, and performance upgrades of manned aircraft. By participating in aircraft development projects, we are becoming a leading aerospace enterprise CEO Message for both manned and unmanned aircraft. Sales (Unit: 100 million KRW) 7,404 Management Philosophy 2019 7,404 2018 6,505 2017 7,280 Company * Based on separate financial statements Overview Global Network Key Business Strategies Sales Portion by Business Enhancing Corporate Competence 6% Contributions to Air transport Aerospace In-flight meals the UN SDGs & sales OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 10 STORY COMMITMENT WAY In-flight meals and sales business Our in-flight catering provides passengers with meals that meet a range of taste preferences and suit diverse travel time zones. In-flight meals are produced on the ground in our catering facilities according to flight schedules, and provided to airlines to be served on board. The menus are constantly developed to be better suited to CEO Message customers’ tastes by conducting customer surveys. In-flight duty-free shopping service is provided to passengers on our international flights. A variety of goods with strictly controlled quality are selected to meet customers’ needs and ensure satisfaction. Sales Management (Unit: 100 million KRW) Philosophy 2,739 2019 2,739 2018 2,833 Company 2017 2,993 Overview * Based on separate financial statements Global Network Key Business Strategies Sales Portion by Business Enhancing Corporate Competence 2% Contributions to Air transport Aerospace In-flight meals the UN SDGs & sales OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 11 STORY COMMITMENT WAY Global Network Incheon● ●Seoul ●Wonju ●Cheongju ●Pohang ●Daegu SkyTeam ● Passenger and cargo ●Gunsan ●Ulsan ●Busan ●Jinju ● Cargo-only Gwangju● CEO Message SkyTeam, a global airline alliance formed in June 2000, currently consists ● Temporarily suspended ●Yeosu of 19 member airlines, including Korean Air, Garuda Indonesia, Delta ●Jeju Airlines, Middle East Airlines, Vietnam Airlines, Saudia, Xiamen Air, Aerolíneas Argentinas, Aeromexico, Aeroflot, Alitalia, Air Europa, Air ●Saint Petersburg ●Anchorage Oslo● France, China Eastern, China Airlines, Czech Airlines, Kenya Airways, ●Stockholm ●Moscow ●Irkutsk Amsterdam Management London● ●Prague KLM, and TAROM. Every day, around 15,000 SkyTeam flights take off for Paris● ● ●Basel ●Vienna Ulaanbaatar● ●Vancouver ●Toronto Frankfurt●●Zurich ●Ürümqi Seattle● ●Halifax Philosophy 1,036 destinations in 170 countries. This global network offers multiple Saragosa● Milano● ●Zagreb ●Rome ●Vladivostok San Francisco● Chicago● ●Washington ●New York ●Barcelona ●Istanbul ●Tashkent ●Las Vegas ●Washington Madrid● flight options and wider benefits, such as earning and redeeming Los Angeles● ●Dallas ●Atlanta ●Tel Aviv mileage and using airport lounges and joint services provided by all ●Miami ●Katmandu member airlines. ●Dubai ●DelhiChiang Mai● ●Taipei ●Hong Kong ●Honolulu ●Guadalajara ●Hanoi Company Mumbai● ●Yangon ●Da Nang●Clark Bangkok● ●Nha Trang●Manila Overview Phnum Penh● ●Da Lat In addition, SkyTeam members clearly recognize the importance of Phuket● ●Ho Chi Minh ●Cebu ●Guam ●Colombo ●Penang corporate social responsibilities, and are collaborating to promote ●Male Kuala Lumpur● ●Singapore ●Palau sustainable, green corporate policies. Jakarta● ●Denpasar (Bali) ●Lima Global Nadi● Network São Paulo● ●Brisbane ●Santiago SkyTeam CSR Statement ●Sydney Oakland● Key Business Strategies Route Korea 13 13 cities Americas 20 cities Korea 13 cities Enhancing Corporate Japan cities Tokyo (NRT/HND), Osaka, Nagoya, Fukuoka, Kagoshima, Niigata, Okayama, Sapporo, Aomori, Komatsu, Oita, Okinawa, Kitakyushu Europe, Middle East, CIS 24 cities Worldwide 43 countries 114 (101 cities in 37 countries for passengers/ cities Competence China 28 cities Southeast Asia 25 cities 45 cities in 25 countries for cargo) 44 127 Contributions to Beijing, Tianjin, Qingdao, Shanghai (PVG/ SHA), Guangzhou, Xiamen, Shenyang, Wuhan, Total Kunming, Jinan, Weihai, Mudanjiang, Yanji, Shenzhen, Dalian, Changsha, Zhengzhou, Oceania 4 cities countries cities the UN SDGs Xi’an, Huangshan, Hangzhou, Urumqi, Nanjing, SkyTeam CSR Statement Hefei, Guiyang, Zhangjiajie, Hong Kong, Taipei, (114 cities in 38 countries for passengers/ Ulaanbaatar 46 cities in 26 countries for cargo) * As of Dec. 31, 2019 OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 12 STORY COMMITMENT WAY Key Business Strategies Korean Air establishes management strategies Management Strategies and Core Tasks for 2020 CEO Message based on the analysis of the business environment, Establish a sustainable business structure and systematically implements them to create a sustainable business structure. We support the growth through profit-oriented business operations of our flagship business sectors, passenger and cargo transportation, by efficiently utilizing management Management resources, such as continuously replacing older aircraft Philosophy to fuel-efficient aircraft and optimizing the flight routes. As we continue to strengthen our competency in other businesses, including aerospace business and Company Secure fundamental competitive Build a practical organizational culture Overview in-flight meals & sales business, we are establishing Strengthen customer-oriented advantages by improving resource and strengthen change management a stable profit structure. service to maximize profit utilization and productivity capabilities Global • Enhance cost competitiveness by • Maintain an optimal safe operating • Facilitate change and encourage Network improving aircraft utilization rate system at all times proactive attitude in employees by sharing management status • Reorganize routes to be more efficient • Explore new demands through and profitable operation of new routes and expansion • Enhance change management Key Business of irregular flights capabilities of the organization and • Inspect the process and cost for each employees in a rapidly changing Strategies activity and manage execution • Create new revenue streams environment by developing premium services in Enhancing Corporate line with changes in travel/IT trends • Establish an optimal decision-making system based on practicality and Competence communication Contributions to the UN SDGs OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 13 STORY COMMITMENT WAY Passenger Cargo Aerospace In-flight meals business business business and sales business strategies strategies strategies strategies CEO Message The market for passenger air transportation is currently The cargo business division secures continuous growth The aerospace business division has been driving the In addition to the air transportation business and unstable due to uncertainties arising from political conflicts engines through global network operations that meet growth of the Korean aviation industry through a complete aerospace business, Korean Air carries out other aircraft license production and MRO (maintenance, repair, Management with Japan, trade disputes between the USA and China, customer needs and the RMS (Revenue Management business such as in-flight meals and in-flight sales. and the COVID-19 pandemic. Despite the challenging System), or the second phase of the new cargo system, and overhaul), as well as joint development of civil aviation. Philosophy By focusing on R&D, Korean Air is building a portfolio of the business environment, Korean Air will continue to strive for that help improve business processes. nation’s largest unmanned aerial vehicle product line and growth and implement the following operational strategies: promoting overseas market expansion. Since Korean Air’s military unmanned aerial vehicle was developed certified for the first time in Korea in 2014, it has acquired airworthiness certification in 2018 and is currently in mass production. Company The large-scale strategic unmanned aerial vehicles will be Overview undergoing system development and preparation for massproduction in 2020. Recently, Korean Air has been accelerating the development of specialized technologies, such as stealth, hybrid propulsion systems, and autonomous clusters, as well Strengthen global network as the development of tilt drones and hybrid drones capable Global • Operate a global network connecting key destinations in of vertical takeoff and landing and high-speed flight. Network high demand • Enhance stability in terms of schedule by operating highly efficient aircraft (B777F, B747-8F) Establish competitive bidding strategies to • Expand network through strategic partnerships with other maximize profit Key Business airlines (i.e. KE/DL Joint Venture) • Enhance  competitiveness in winning orders for performance Explore new markets improvement projects by promoting technical collaboration Develop new markets with high growth potential • Find new destinations with high growth potential and • Focus on the growing markets, such as Eastern Europe, with overseas companies with advanced technologies Strategies operate regular flights; expand and operate irregular flights • Develop core technology and enhance price competitiveness China, and Central & South America Enhance sales competitiveness of tilt drones and hybrid drones to create diversified demand •Strengthen marketing efforts targeting global manufacturers Enhancing Corporate • Under the joint venture with Delta Air Lines, use the and traders Increase productivity to secure competitive advantage networks of the two companies to increase connecting • Expand the sales of items with high growth potential, •Strengthen technological foundation by developing new flights and domestic sales in the USA such as medical supplies, e-commerce products, fresh/ platforms and specialized technologies Competence Expand affiliate networks perishable cargo, and telecommunication devices •Eliminate inefficiencies and improve productivity through process improvement In-flight meals • Diversify profit base by strengthening cooperation with Improve service quality to meet customer needs existing affiliates and expanding promotions with new • Expand supply to increase profit from in-flight meals • Improve customer satisfaction through quick, accurate, Improve business process to enhance change affiliates • Develop new menus and improve service quality Contributions to and safe transportation management capabilities Strengthen customer-oriented service • Enhance customer convenience by offering improved • Provide technical support to partner companies so they are In-flight sales the UN SDGs • Enhance service quality through website reorganization and IT-based services through website and mobile able to self-manage and improve quality •Develop new products with high preference and expand mobile app service improvement in line with the latest travel • Increase  operational efficiency by automating transportation •Establish an effective business-management culture through sales of product portfolios with high profitability to increase IT trends processes and improving RMS-based work preemptive and integrated management revenue OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 14 STORY COMMITMENT WAY Enhancing Corporate Competence Strengthening the unmanned aerial vehicle business Joint development project agreement with Airbus Opening of the Cloud Command Center CEO Message The global market for unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) is projected to Challenges to adopt new technologies and strategic partnerships In July 2019, Korean Air opened the Cloud Command Center, which grow at an average annual rate of over 10% from 2019 to 2024. Korean are essential in securing new growth engines for the next-generation promotes application of cloud to the entire IT system for the first time in Air has been mass-producing UAVs after several years of system aircraft. Korean Air has been growing based on its abundant experience Korea, and as a large global airline company. Designed to monitor the development along with focused R&D in an effort to secure a new growth in developing and mass-producing aircraft parts, including the cloud transfer for 24 hours, the Cloud Command Center is composed engine in the aerospace business. Korean Air’s UAVs are considered to development and supply of the A320 sharklet and A330NEO sharklet. of a general control room, where control personnel monitor real-time have comparable performance to the state-of-the-art UAVs of the United Based on the years of experience developing and supplying these parts, cloud transfer status and information security, and a conference room Management Philosophy States. In addition, Korean Air is strengthening its competitiveness Korean Air has signed an agreement, “Wing of Tomorrow,” with Airbus that serves as a control headquarters in the event of a failure or security in the drone sector, which is an emerging field of the 4th Industrial to jointly develop a next-generation aircraft wing. Korean Air expects to problem. Data centers, overseas networks, domestic networks, and Revolution. In December 2019, Korean Air received the Ultralight be able to create additional business as it acquires and develops new security control tasks that were operated in various locations are all Vehicle Safety Certification from Korea Aerospace Safety & Technology technologies through this joint project. integrated into the Cloud Command Center, making it easy to understand Institute. Furthermore, we supplied hybrid drones developed as a model the current situation and enabling prompt response to various failures. Company specialized for the IoT (Internet of Things) Cluster Construction Project in Korean Air will continue to develop services for improving customer Overview Busan. Korean Air will continue to strengthen our business capabilities convenience by performing stable cloud migration and leading digital in the field of UAVs, and make them a central part of our business in the transformation through the Cloud Command Center. future. Global Network Key Business Strategies 1 UAV for surveillance and monitoring 2 Hybrid drone 2 Enhancing Corporate 3 Cloud Command Center Competence Contributions to the UN SDGs 1 3 OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 15 STORY COMMITMENT WAY Appointment of the Chairman of Korean Air as Chairman of In addition, Chairman Cho Won-Tae was elected to the Board of Hosting the IATA Annual General Meeting CEO Message the SkyTeam Executive and the IATA Executive Committee Governors (BOG) at the annual meeting of the International Air Korean Air hosted the 75th Annual General Meeting of the International President Cho Won-Tae of Korean Air was appointed as Chairman of Transport Association (IATA) in Seoul on June 2, 2019. The IATA Air Transport Association (IATA) over a period of three days from June 1, the SkyTeam Executive Board on June 1, 2019. In order to respond to Executive Committee consists of the secretary-general and 31 members 2019. The IATA Annual General Meeting is the largest event held the rapidly changing aviation market, SkyTeam has decided to appoint selected from the world’s top airline executives based on expertise annually in the international aviation industry, in which IATA resolutions one of the CEOs of the alliance members to the chairmanship starting and proficiency. As the committee’s top policymaking body, the IATA are adopted and major decisions are approved. The 2019 Seoul General from 2019. Considering the position of Korean Air in the global aviation Executive Committee sets the direction of IATA’s activities, oversees the Meeting was attended by about 1,000 aviation officials, including the Management Philosophy industry and within the SkyTeam, the president of Korean Air, Cho Wonactivities of its affiliates, and reviews and approves the appointment of CEOs of member companies, aircraftand parts-makers, aviation and Tae, was elected as the first chairman. the secretary-general, annual budgets, and membership qualifications. tourism companies, and the media. During the general meeting, various President Cho Won-Tae is expected to contribute to the advancement sessions were held to review and forecast the future of the global air of the global aviation industry based on his professional insight and transport industry and process the approval of 2019 IATA resolutions, experience, as he has been appointed as a key member of IATA, which including the annual IATA activity report. The hosting of the IATA Annual Company leads the world’s aviation industry. General Meeting in Seoul demonstrates the heightened status of the Overview Korean aviation industry. The attendance of key players of the global aviation industry at the Seoul General Meeting proved that Korea’s aviation industry has made a remarkable progress. Global Network Key Business Strategies Enhancing Corporate Competence 2 Contributions to the UN SDGs OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 16 STORY COMMITMENT WAY Contributions to the UN SDGs The United Nations adopted 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to tackle and resolve issues related to the future of humanity, global environment, economy, and society by 2030. As a leading member of the CEO Message international community, Korean Air supports the SDGs and strives to achieve these goals. Korean Air has selected SDGs that are in line with the business direction pursued by the company and is identifying potential impacts of management activities to expand positive impacts and reduce negative impacts. Positive impacts Negative impacts Goals Potential impacts Korean Air’s efforts and page no. on report • Establish a company-wide occupational safety and health system | P. 24 Rapid transportation of medicines, aid and medical services necessary to Management Goal 3 E  nsure healthy lives and promote well-being • Strengthening response system for In-flight medical emergency | P. 24 promote human health for all persons at various ages • Establish an infectious disease response system by crisis level | P. 24 Philosophy Possibility of aviation safety accidents and workplace accidents • Provide transport for relief supplies to disaster areas | P. 48, 50 • Provide lifelong learning programs to employees | P. 43 Goal 4 Ensure inclusive and equitable quality • Offer experience-learning programs for local children (Take off with blue wings of dream) | P. 49, 50 education and promote lifelong learning Provide aviation-related professional education and vocational training • Donating books and building libraries for schools in Chinese rural areas opportunities for all (“Dream Library” project in China) | P. 49, 50 Company Goal 5 A  chieve gender equality and empower Create jobs for women’s economic independence; foster female leadership • Establish human resources policies that respect human rights and diversity | P. 40 Overview all women and girls to expand opportunities for women’s participation in decision-making • Operate a maternity protection system | P. 41 Goal 6 Ensure availability and sustainable Sustainable use and management of water resources • Management of water quality and air pollutants and hazardous chemicals through the establishment of management of water and sanitation for all Risk of spilling pollutant; indirect impact on community water scarcity a company-wide environmental management system | P. 36 Goal 8 Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable Global Create quality jobs; ensure a safe working environment economic growth, full and productive • Promote healthy mindset and body of employees | P. 41, 42 Network Potential violations of human rights for service workers employment and decent work for all Goal 9 Build resilient infrastructure, Fair price and fair mobility; provide easier access to infrastructure promote inclusive and sustainable • Reduce aircraft noise | P. 37 Indirect impact on indiscriminate industrialization in developing countries Key Business industrialization and foster innovation Provide safe and accessible means of transportation for the vulnerable • Conduct Habitat for Humanity activities | P. 50 Goal 11 Make cities and human settlements • Establish sisterhood ties with rural villages | P. 50 Strategies Indirect impacts on indiscriminate tourism that damages the world’s inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable cultural and natural heritages and the residential environment of locals • Provide free tree-planting kits on Arbor Day | P. 50 • Invest in the introduction of new eco-friendly aircraft | P. 34 Enhancing Corporate Goal 13 Take urgent action to combat climate Reduce carbon dioxide emissions during transportation • Reducing GHG emissions through efficient aircraft operations | P. 35 change and its impacts Climate change and indirect impacts on air pollution • Take market-based measures for carbon reduction | P. 36 Competence Goal 15 Protect, restore and promote sustainable Operate security system to prevent trafficking of protected species use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably (plants and animals) and illegal wildlife products manage forests, combat desertification, • Conduct global tree-planting projects to prevent desertification in Mongolia and China | P. 48, 50 Habitat destruction and indirect impacts caused by ecosystem and halt and reverse land degradation and Contributions to disturbances halt biodiversity loss • Implement the SkyTeam CSR Statement, the commitment of the SkyTeam alliance to the UN SDGs Goal 17 Strengthen the means of implementation and  Create synergy effects to achieve SDGs through global partnerships sustainable management | P. 11 revitalize the global partnership for sustainable among various stakeholders • Participate in and implement the market-based measures for addressing climate change issues | P. 36 development • Join and support the UN Global Compact | P. 66 OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 17 STORY COMMITMENT WAY OUR COMMITMENT Stakeholder Communication | Discussion with Sustainability Experts | Materiality Assessment | Commitment 01. | Commitment 02. | Commitment 03. | Commitment 04. The 24th Korean Air Travel Photo Contest / Monthly Best in May / Joon-Wook Park / Shining Scenery of Daegwallyeong / Gangneung, Korea OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 18 STORY COMMITMENT WAY Stakeholder Communication Stakeholder group Economic Value Distribution to Stakeholders in 2019 (unit: KRW 100 million) Stakeholder Subsidiaries Employees Labor expenses 17,814 Communication Leading players financially or Welfare benefits 3,616 operationally responsible for Korean Air Shareholders Dividends 0 Discussion with Sustainability Experts Labor unions, central government, Suppliers local governments Creditors Interest expenses 5,575 Employees, Shareholders Total Tax Service Corporate tax expenses 11 79,961 Research institutes Disadvantaged, non-profit Materiality (business-related), organizations, local communities, media temporary employees & interns Assessment Customers Affecting the performance Affected by the business Local Communities Donations 95 of Korean Air operations of Korean Air Suppliers Rental 319 Commitment ●●●● Fuel expenses 1,832 Manufacturing expenses 7,375 Airport expenses 13,324 OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 19 STORY COMMITMENT WAY Stakeholder communication Government/ Customers Shareholders/Investors Employees and Executives Partner Companies Local Communities Related Organizations • Safety and punctuality • Sales and financial performance • Welfare benefits • Shared growth and fair trade • Communication with local • Aviation safety/aviation security Stakeholder Communication • Service quality • Business outlook • Handling employee grievances • Increase production efficiency communities • Aircraft fuel efficiency improvement • Provide diverse routes • Risk management • Fair evaluation and compensation • Enhance competencies • Social contribution activities • Respond to climate change Main interest of • Provide accurate information • Management hierarchy • Personnel policy without in technology, quality and • Environmental conservation, • Domestic and foreign aviation stakeholders discrimination human resources relief activities policy • Prompt processing of customer • Improve shareholder complaints/inquiries communication and shareholder • Education and career • Share information and enhance value (dividends, etc.) development communication • ESG issue • Promote welfare • Website • General meetings of shareholders • Labor-management council • Portal site for partner companies • Website • Administrative department Discussion with • Korean Air newsroom • Corporate briefings, IR meetings • On-site visit to human resources (intranet) • SNS channel interviews and policy meetings Sustainability Experts • SNS channels • Website (public information) management headquarters • Production Management Council • Community service page • Technical meeting, technical • Intranet (communication/ • Workshops and meetings with consultation • Service center Communication employee information system) partner companies • Government agreements • Voice of Customer channels • Newsletter (KAL Daily Newsbytes) • Quality symposium • Attend international organization • Chatbot • Internal corruption reporting meetings • NPS (Net Promoter Score) system survey • Employee grievance management system Materiality • Active customer communication • Stable profit generation • Employee communication • Operate a dedicated organization • Disaster relief programs • Preemptive response to changes through various channels activities through laborto promote shared growt in aviation security environments Assessment • Establishment and improvement • Operate a community service • Resolve customer complaints of committees within the BOD management consultation • Cash payment in full for purchase; group composed of employees such as biometrics and inquiries channels shortened payment cycle • Standardization of aircraft • Facilitating shareholder/investor • Sisterhood and community service • Promote service improvement communication • Listening to on-site grievances • Technical support and joint fuel reduction technology and • Airline tour program through analysis of customer and improving workplace development of localization propagation of national airline • Expanding corporate information • Love for China projects (building opinions environments • Introduction and implementation of Major activities disclosure (via website) • Support exchange between “Dream Library,” donate PCs, etc.) • Operate customized training partners environment/sustainability related Commitment ●●●● programs for each job level/ • Create wind forest to reduce systems (CORSIA, Greenhouse • Welfare support program Mongolian desertification position Gas Emissions Trading System) • Operate career development • Serve nearby areas affected by • Signed a voluntary greenhouse program airplane noise gas reduction agreement • Pay airport noise charges near • Leading response to domestic local communities and foreign aviation policy OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 20 STORY COMMITMENT WAY Discussion with Sustainability Experts Korean Air provided a venue to gather expert opinions at the headquarters on January 31, 2020 to explore the domestic and global sustainability management trends in the aviation industry, as well as the direction of sustainable management development for the company. Leaders of Korean Air’s Corporate Management team and IR team, and experts in consumer management, climate change, UN SDGs, socially responsible investment, and safety, attended the meeting and discussed the results of 2020 Korean Air’s materiality assessment, policy changes in related areas, the latest trends, ways to improve Korean Air’s sustainability management, and suggestions for information disclosure. Stakeholder Communication Discussion with Sustainability Experts Kim Sung-Cheon Consumer Law Institute Park Sang-Joon Korea Transport Institute Lee Eun-Kyung UNGC Network Korea Lee Jong-Oh Socially Responsible Investment Forum Choi Young-Je Aviation Safety Technology Institute Expecting spread of sustainability to It is necessary to consider Korean Air’s role Need to respond to domestic and In order to effectively respond to the I ask that Korean Air continues to be aware Korean Air’s value chain such as suppliers, in the global agenda of mobility revolution international movements on gender equality expansion of socially responsible investment, of and makes efforts to internalize safety B2B business, and customers. and climate change. and diversity. the organic collaboration of IR functions and culture. sustainability management is important. Korean Air must not only strengthen its The development of autonomous driving Recently, an amendment to the Capital Market Institutional investors are vigorously exercising Korean Air can be considered safer than other sustainability management, but also seek to play technology has brought mobility revolution in Act was passed that required female directors for shareholders’ rights as seen by the increase international airlines, and this can be verified a role in spreading sustainability to the airline the road transport sector. Even in the aviation listed companies with total assets of over of domestic and foreign stewardship code by the indicators disclosed in the Sustainability and travel industries as a representative airline industry, clear changes are taking place, although 2 trillion won. This is an effort to break away subscription institutions, and the announcement Report. In August of this year, the ICAO4) is of Korea. From a perspective of sustainable they may not be as diverse and specific as in the from the existing male-centered group thinking of a responsible investment plan by the National scheduled to make an important assessment Materiality consumption, efforts should be made to road transportation sector. At 2020 CES1), the in governance and add new perspectives. Pension. Shareholders are likely to exert influence of Korea’s aviation safety level. The presence Assessment replace in-flight catering or used items with ecoautomobile industry appeared as if it was trying Issues related to women rights are simmering on dividends, executive compensation limits, of a precautionary system in place will be an friendly alternatives. In B2B businesses, such to step in to the territory of the aviation sector. In in the international community. Even though violations of law, and key management areas important assessment criterion, and I believe as cargo and travel agencies, Korean Air can this regard, it is necessary to present the efforts there are many female employees in Korean of ESG2). As the TCFD3) is gaining interest in that Korean Air is well prepared for this. However, encourage fair-trade as a measure of sustainable Korean Air is making to secure business in the Air, their advancement to the executive level or the international community, there is a growing sometimes safety is taken for granted, like air management to its partners in the supply chain. future and to play a leading role in the mobility high-ranking positions is not common. It is thus interest in identifying and reporting the financial or water, so it is important that the safety culture In addition, it can consider offering training to revolution. People are esspecially interested in the necessary to consider programs and measures impacts of companies due to climate change. be instilled within the organization. We thus urge raise consumer awareness of sustainable tourism environmental issues, such as climate change and to promote diversity and active participation in Korean Air needs to prepare an innovative Korean Air to provide an objective and rigorous across all passenger services. fine dust, as they greatly affect people’s lives in the global initiatives and platforms such as the response to investors’ sustainability management self-assessment of its safety culture and to Commitment ●●●● Korea. Korean Air is doing a good job in promoting UNGC. needs in order to increase corporate value and continuously educate employees’ awareness. and disclosing relevant activities, such as setting fulfill social responsibilities. environmental goals, and managing performance and data. Furthermore, I expect that Korean Air will take bold steps toward changing people’s lives through environmental management according to 2) its corporate vision and values. ESG: Environment, Social, Governance 3)  CFD: Task Force on Climate-related Financial T 1) 4) CES: Consumer Electronics Show Disclosures ICAO: International Civil Aviation Organization OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 21 STORY COMMITMENT WAY Materiality Assessment Korean Air conducted a materiality assessment to identify various Materiality assessment results expectations and concerns of internal and external stakeholders and to identify sustainability management issues affecting management Stakeholder 11 Stakeholder interest activities. With reference to the evaluation criteria provided by the GRI Standards and the method presented by ISO26000, priority of issues Communication 1 was determined through material issue identification, prioritization, 12 2 and validation. The selected material issues were used in the content composition of this report. 3 6 Among the materiality issues, aviation safety and ethical management 5 7 were selected as top priorities for this year. Financial performance, Discussion with talent acquisition-related issues, and customer-related issues ranked 4 higher than in the previous year, because the heightened competition 8 in the aviation industry increased interest in these issues internally and Sustainability Experts 10 9 externally. Materiality assessment process Step 1 Identification 1. Media analysis Impact on business Analyze all articles about Korean Air for the year 2019 2. International standards and evaluation Issue GRI Standards Topic Internal/External Page Number Key industry issues analysis through GRI, SASB, RobecoSAM 1. Aviation safety and security GRI 403, GRI 416 Internal/External 22-24 Materiality Assessment 3. Benchmarking global airline 2. Ethics and compliance management GRI 102, GRI 205, GRI 206 Internal/External 25-28 (Anti-corruption, fair trade, etc.) Step 2 Prioritization 3. Protection of customers’ personal information GRI 418 Internal 32 4. Stakeholder interests Analysis by major stakeholders such as partner companies, 4. Financial performance and market competitiveness GRI 201 Internal 7-15 customers, and expert groups 5. Service for customer satisfaction GRI 416, GRI 417 Internal 29-32 108 responses received through online survey 6. Occupational health and safety GRI 403 Internal 22-24 5. Impact on business 7. Prevention of environmental pollution GRI 305, GRI 306 Internal 36-38 Commitment ●●●● Evaluate the impact on Korean Air’s management activities from the perspective of employees 8. Talent acquisition and capacity building GRI 404 Internal 40-44 153 responses received through online survey 9. Corporate governance structure and operation GRI 102 Internal 26-27 10. Cooperative labor-management relations GRI 402 Internal 44 Step 3 Validation 11. Climate change response strategy GRI 305 Internal/External 34-36 6. External expert review 12. Eco-friendly aircraft and equipment Internal 34 Review of sustainability management issues by experts 7. Final selection after internal review Korean Air executive review OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 22 STORY COMMITMENT WAY Business The year 2019 marked the 100th anniversary of the worldwide Environment launch of the private sector air transportation business. With Stakeholder the technological advancements over the past century, the convenience of air transportation has continued to increase, Communication but the risk of safety accidents still exists. Recently, there have been some large and smaller aviation accidents, which reemphasized the need for the aviation industry to consider safety as the highest priority, more than any other industry sector. The Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport is thus introducing a policy to promote safety investment in the aviation industry, including the pilot operation of the Safety Investment Disclosure System from May 2020. Management In the 2020 stakeholder materiality assessment, aviation safety Discussion with Approach and security were identified as key issues both for internal and Sustainability Experts external stakeholders. Safe operation is an absolute value of Korean Air that cannot be compromised in any way. Korean Air will continue to strengthen the safe operation system to achieve 20 years of operation without loss of human life. 2019 Performance Performance Indicator Goals for 2020 2017 2018 2019 Remain free of Ongoing 17 years of 18 years of 19 years of loss of human Materiality efforts operation operation operation lives, and overall Assessment Absolute at ensuring without without without accidents operational human life human life human life through safety loss loss loss improved aviation safety Safety Commitment ●●●● Continue operations with zero losses of human life COMMITMENT 01. The 25th Korean Air Travel Photo Contest / Merit Prize / Chang-young Jeong / The Dawn over Toronto / Toronto, Canada OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 23 STORY COMMITMENT WAY Operation of advanced safety management system In October 2008, Korean Air was the first Korean airline to obtain The Three-phase Approach to Korean Air’s Safety Management System a national authorization for the Safety Management System (SMS) Predictive approach Proactive approach Reactive approach regulations and operations. The SMS, which defines safety management organizations, responsibilities, policies, and procedures, complies with Implementing safety-management based on Minimizing impact by identifying risks Investigating events that have already occurred the analysis of flight operations and monitoring data through safety reports and examinations and analyzing the causes all relevant domestic and international requirements and standards. Safety Certification Program Stakeholder Communication Korean Air Safety Committee To further promote safety management, Korean Air has established a Safety Committee under the BOD in 2018 and IOSA Certification holds biannual meetings. In efforts to maintain an absolute safe operating system, Korean Air is also holding internal safety meetings regularly to share safety-related information company-wide, discuss any new problems, and consider improvement measures. IOSA (IATA Operational Safety Audit) • An international safety audit program developed by IATA • Korean Air was the first airline in Korea to acquire the certification in 2005 and has retained its qualification Discussion with ever since. Hierarchy of Safety Meetings Participation in the ISAGO program Board of Directors Sustainability Experts ISAGO (IATA Safety Audit for Ground Operations) Safety Committee • A ground safety audit program developed by IATA (biannual) • Korean Air has continued to participate in establishing safety standards for ground aircraft operators and Executive Level operating quality improvement program since 2009. (annual) Central • Review and approval of comprehensive safety Materiality It received the Certificate of Appreciation in 2017. Safety Committee and security plans (CSC) Assessment Airlift Transportation Certification Heads of business divisions • Revision and approval of safety and security and at worksites Executive regulations/procedures Airlift Transportation Program (biannual) Action Council • Review and approval of safety and security• Pentagon’s safety certification program that classifies (EAC) related projects civilian airlines that can be used for business trips Team leaders at • Korean Air has been maintaining its qualification status Monthly Safety & • Irregular flight operations data analysis and the headquarters Commitment ●●●● recurrence prevention since 2001. and worksites Security Meeting • Close cooperation among teams on pending (monthly) (MSSM) safety and security issues OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 24 STORY COMMITMENT WAY Operation of a company-wide occupational safety and health Rapid-response system for infectious diseases management system Korean Air has established an infectious disease management manual Operating safety management organizations For efficient and The Occupational Safety and Health Team, established in November and operates an infectious disease response system based on its systematic safety management, Corporate Safety, Security & Compliance 2018, provides legal safety and health training, and promotes on-site know-how in dealing with foreign infectious diseases such as SARS, Department, under the direct authority of the president, coordinates all safety and health campaigns to enhance employee awareness of and H1N1, MERS, and COVID-19, both at home and abroad. The infectious sectors including Passenger and Cargo Business, Flight Operations, establish a safety and health culture. Each quarter, the Occupational diseases are monitored at all times, but in the event of a pandemic, Cabin Operations, Maintenance & Engineering, Operations Control Safety and Health Committee, which consists of representatives of the an in-house team was established to react preemptively according divisions, and domestic/overseas regional headquarters. In sum, a company and the employees, collects employees’ opinions on health to the national warning stage of the infectious disease crisis. Korean Stakeholder Communication company-wide SMS organization is in effect engaging all Korean Air and safety management work and industrial accident prevention. Air’s infectious disease response system is in compliance with the risk members from management to frontline staff to provide the best safety Furthermore, it holds regular meetings with suppliers and partner assessment and guidelines for infectious diseases laid down by the standards. Furthermore, the Corporate Safety, Security & Compliance companies to discuss relevant issues and conduct joint inspections. Korea Centers for Disease Control, WHO (World Health Organization), Department analyzes data derived from accident investigations, flight CDC (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention), and ECDC data analysis, and aviation safety reporting systems to identify safety Additionally, according to the full revision of the Occupational Safety and (European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control). Korean Air is hazards, assess risks, and prevent accident recurrence. Health Act that came into effect as of January 16, 2020 that required committed to providing prompt and preemptive responses to preventing the strengthening of the health and safety measures of the primary the spread of infectious diseases. Discussion with SMS Excellence reward system In an effort to preemptively identify contractor, Korean Air will also strengthen the on-site inspection and hazards (elements with the potential to cause harm to aviation safety) verification of the implementation of safety and health measures to Infectious Disease Response System Sustainability Experts and reduce risks, Korean Air introduced the SMS Excellence reward for prevent accidents among our employees and suppliers. Crisis alert Stage of spread Response action item level outstanding hazard reports in June 2018. Noteworthy hazard reports are • Monitoring of trends at major institutions selected monthly and announced to the entire company, and certificate Outbreak in Attention • Sharing information and status about the and prize money are awarded to employees whose reports are selected. Emergency medical system response and prevention system overseas only disease In addition, a Safety Champion is selected from these employees every during operation • Organizing and operating of an in-house Korean Air is operating an Emergency Medical Call System (EMCS), response team six months. This reward system encourages the voluntary participation of • Establishing and announcing employee health employees, contributing to creating a culture of safety reporting. which is a medical department dedicated to providing systematic care management guidelines to patients on board and at the airports, and is equipped with medical Outbreak • Establishing and announcing screening Materiality Alert procedures for suspicious patients Assessment devices on board to prepare for various medical emergencies during at home • Establishing and announcing procedures for operation. To inspect and improve the medical devices on board, managing suspected patients on board patients with active symptoms and emergency situations within the • Equipping aircraft with additional medical devices and protective equipment to prevent aircraft are monitored and analyzed systematically. The EMCS also infection in aircraft requires all cabin crew to be trained annually on real-life case studies • Reviewing and re-evaluating action levels of in-house response team to be able to provide a prompt and accurate first aid response and Contained • Supplying in-house infection prevention CPR. In addition, Korean Air provides doctors’ consultation through an Cautious spread within Commitment ●●●● medical equipment the country emergency call center that operates 24 hours per day so that the crew • Increasing the number and type of protective equipment on aircraft can make accurate medical judgments in case there are unexpected Spread is not • Reinforcing the operation of the internal patients in the aircraft and airports. Lastly, in efforts to ensure safety of contained; response team air transportation of patients on board, Korean Air regularly trains our spreading • Increasing the number and type of protective Severe widely to other employees based on the guidebooks that include proper assistance for equipment on aircraft communities and SMS Excellence reward system regions, across • Providing active support to the government various health conditions and diseases. agencies the nation OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 25 STORY COMMITMENT WAY Business The importance of establishing a sound governance structure Environment is becoming more essential for the sustainable growth of a Stakeholder company. Beyond raising concerns, a corporate governance system is required, since it is socially perceived to have Communication potential to enhance corporate value in the long term. As governance structure is emerging as one of the critical matters of a company, the importance of the roles and responsibilities of the BOD, such as independence, transparency, and expertise are gaining more priority. Management With the mission of establishing transparent and sound Approach corporate governance, Korean Air has declared the Korean Discussion with Air Corporate Governance Charter through a resolution of the Board of Directors in 2019 to fulfill our social responsibilities to stakeholders. In addition, various tasks were amended and Sustainability Experts implemented in order to obtain advanced governance structure, and key values, such as independence, transparency, and expertise of the Board of Directors. Korean Air is fully committed to establishing sound corporate governance that is beneficial to our customers, employees, stakeholders, and society. It will continue to strive to achieve sustainable management centered on the Board of Directors. Materiality 2019 Indicator 2017 2018 2019 Performance Assessment Number of BOD Transparent and 9 7 7 meetings Number of approved 46 30 39 resolutions Attendance rate 92% 90% 96% Ethical Management COMMITMENT 02. Commitment ●●●● The 25th Korean Air Travel Photo Contest / Merit Prize / Kyung-Hun Choi / Mongolia and the Milky Way / Baga Gazriin Chuluu, Mongolia OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 26 STORY COMMITMENT WAY Board of Directors BOD performance results Advancement in governance Korean Air’s Board of Directors consists of three internal directors, Korean Air’s Board of Directors held seven regular meetings to discuss Korean Air enacted and announced the Corporate Governance Charter including the CEO, and six independent directors with proficiency in and vote on 39 different agenda items in 2019. The BOD holds regular on November 7, 2019. The Corporate Governance Charter clarifies diverse fields of academia, law, and government. Independent directors meetings at least once every quarter to ensure the informed discussion matters pertinent to shareholders’ rights, the duties and responsibilities are appointed by the general shareholders’ meeting from the candidates and review of major agenda, and convenes extraordinary meetings of the BOD, the management of auditing bodies, and the protection of nominated by the Independent Director Recommendation Committee, whenever necessary. The annual BOD meeting schedule is published stakeholders’ rights. The full charter has been posted on the Korean Air the majority of which are composed of Independent directors. Some in advance to ensure a higher rate of attendance each year. In 2019, website, newsroom, and the Financial Supervisory Service’s Electronic qualifying shareholders can recommend a candidate for an independent the average rate of attendance stood at 96 percent (100 percent of the Disclosure System (DART), so that everyone has access to it. Stakeholder Communication director position provided that he/she follows the procedure. Information independent directors), or the meetings were attended by eight directors on the independent directors and candidates are disclosed on the DART on average. Senior-level executives from each of the business divisions, website in the run-up to the general shareholders’ meeting. including passenger, cargo, finance, and technology, may attend the BOD meetings whenever deemed necessary in order to assist the In March 2019, an independent director, Park Nam-Gyoo, was appointed directors in informed decision-making. Executives in charge of individual as an expert in the air transportation industry at the general shareholders’ business areas also present relevant issues to the board and answer meeting. In the general meeting of shareholders in March 2020, Jeong questions pertaining to the agenda. Discussion with Kap-Young, Cho Myeong-Hyun, and Park Hyon-Joo, independent directors specialized in economics, corporate governance, corporate Sustainability Experts finance, respectively, were newly appointed to further strengthen the board’s expertise, diversity, and independence. In addition, in March Major BOD Activities in 2019 2020, the Chair of the Board and the CEO positions were separated; The independent director Jeong Kap-Young was appointed as the Chairman Attendance of Date Agenda independent of the Board of Directors to further increase the independence and directors transparency of management. Five agenda items including the FY2018 January 29, 2019 5/5 Account Settlement Board of Directors Materiality Three agenda items including the 57th Assessment March 5, 2019 5/5 Name Position Date of appointment Terms Remarks Annual General Shareholders’ Meeting Cho Won-Tae Chairman & CEO March 23, 2018 3 years Three agenda items including composition April 4, 2019 5/5 Executive of the committee within the BOD Woo Kee-Hong President March 27, 2020 3 years directors One agenda item including the first quarter Lee Soo-Keun Executive Vice President of Operation March 27, 2020 3 years May 9, 2019 5/5 of FY2019 Account Settlement Rim Che-Min Advisor (Lee & Ko Law Firm) March 23, 2018 3 years Commitment ●●●● Ten agenda items including the first half July 18, 2019 5/5 Kim Dong-Jae Professor of Graduate School of International Studies, Yonsei University March 23, 2018 3 years of FY2019 Account Settlement Independent Park Nam-Gyoo Professor of School of Business, Seoul National University March 27, 2019 3 years Eight agenda items including the directors November 7, 2019 establishment (proposal) 5/5 Jeong Kap-Young Honorary Professor at Yonsei University March 27, 2020 3 years BOD Chairman of Compensation Committee Cho Myeong-Hyeon Professor of School of Business, Korea University March 27, 2020 3 years Nine agenda items including 2020 December 19, 2019 5/5 Park Hyon-Joo Country Executive for Korea at BNY Mellon March 27, 2020 3 years business plan (proposal) * As of August 2020 OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 27 STORY COMMITMENT WAY Committees within the BOD shareholders’ rights. Through the appointment of new, independent Strengthening the transparency of the Board of Directors In order to ensure efficient operation of the Board of Directors directors, the Board of Directors, which previously consisted of three Korean Air reinforced the business transparency by separating the CEO and to comply with related laws and regulations, Korean Air has executive directors and five independent directors, was reorganized to and the Chairman of the Board of Directors, and also reorganized the established and is operating five committees, namely, the Audit include three executive directors and six independent directors. Lastly, existing Governance Committee into ESG Committee to reflect the nonCommittee, Independent Director Recommendation Committee, ESG filling all seats of the Independent Director Recommendation Committee financial factors such as environment, social responsibility, and corporate (Environment·Social·Governance) Committee, Safety Committee, and with only the independent directors further ensured the objectivity and governance in management activities. The ESG Committee, composed Compensation Committee. Excluding the Safety Committee, four out of transparency in the appointment of independent directors. of all independent directors, reviews the company’s major management the five committees are composed of only the independent directors. issues that significantly affect shareholder value and interests in advance, Stakeholder Communication and reviews and oversees the company’s ESG-related performances. Strengthening the Board’s expertise and diversity Reinforcing the Board’s independence Korean Air focuses on expertise and diversity in the Board so the decision By establishing another committee composed of all independent At the regular general shareholders’ meeting in March 2020, Korean or the resolution of the Board is balanced and reflects a broad perspective. directors, the Compensation Committee, the company has secured even Air amended its Articles of Association to appoint the chairman of the The Independent Director Recommendation Committee composed of all more objectivity and transparency in the directors’ compensation decision Board of Directors from the board members, instead of having the independent directors nominates candidates with high professional and process. The Compensation Committee reviews and ensures the proper CEO as the chairman. Mr. Jeong Kap-Young, the new independent social reputations, and who can contribute to the company’s strategic compensation level of directors for the performance they contributed. Discussion with director, was appointed as the new chairman of the Board of Directors. direction and objectives. In 2020, with the appointment of the first The remuneration limit for directors is determined through a resolution at This appointment of the chairman of the Board of Directors, who is female independent director, the Board of Directors expanded the field the general shareholders’ meeting. The approved amount at the general Sustainability Experts not the CEO, further strengthens the role of the Board of Directors in of expertise to encompass management, finance, as well as corporate shareholders’ meeting in 2019 was 5 billion won, of which 4.07 billion was monitoring the management of the company and enhances the board’s governance. Korean Air will continue to promote diversity and expertise of executed. independence and management transparency so as to protect the the board and strive for board-oriented management. Stakeholder communication channels Committee Information Korean Air is utilizing a range of channels, including annual, semi-annual Committee Composition Names of directors Purposes and responsibilities of the committee and quarterly reports, IR information on the website, general shareholders’ Materiality Jeong Kap-Young (chairman), Nominating independent director candidates according to the governing laws, meetings, IR sessions, and the DART (https://dart.fss.or.kr), to swiftly Independent Director Independent Rim Che-Min, Kim Dong-Jae, including the company’s Articles of Association and the Board of Directors’ Assessment Recommendation Committee director (4) communicate major business issues to shareholders and stakeholders, Park Nam-Gyoo regulations Auditing the account books and business operations while dealing with and to receive their feedback. In particular, as the sustainability report is a Independent Rim Che-min (chairman), Audit Committee matters commissioned by the BOD according to the governing laws, major channel of communication with stakeholders, it is published with the director (3) Kim Dong-Jae, Park Hyon-joo including the Articles of Association and the Board of Directors Regulations approval of the president, vice president and heads of divisions. Review and oversee implementation of ESG related tasks; deliberation/decision Kim Dong-Jae (chairman), Independent on internal transactions prescribed by laws and Fair Trade Act; preliminary ESG Committee Park Nam-Gyoo, director (3) review of major management matters that may have significant effects Cho Myeong-Hyun Commitment ●●●● on shareholder value Executive Lee Soo-Keun (chairman), Monitoring and providing suggestions regarding safety performance and director (2) Safety Committee Woo Kee-Hong, management, and making decisions pertaining to the agenda as commissioned Independent Rim Che-Min by the Board of Directors director (1) Obtaining objectivity and transparency in the directors’ decision-making Independent Park Nam-Gyoo (chairman), Compensation Committee process; determining matters related to directors’ compensation and delegation director (3) Kim Dong-Jae, Park Hyon-Joo of the BOD * As of August 2020 OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 28 STORY COMMITMENT WAY Korean Air’s ethical management activities Strengthening ethical management and compliance Through the Charter of Ethics, Korean Air presents transparent Charter of Ethics Korean Air conducts regular online training programs to help employees management and responsible management as its corporate philosophy acquire and comply with various knowledge and information related and shares its values and goals with stakeholders, including employees, to ethical management and compliance. Every other year, employees customers, and shareholders. Based on the Charter of Ethics, Korean Korean Air regards transparency and responsibility as core management at home and abroad are required to complete the “Our Ethical values. Respecting free market principles and abiding by relevant rules Air operates corporate ethics programs, such as guidelines for Management System” course, which explains the importance of the and regulations in the business practices, Korean Air strives to promote implementing ethical standards, conducting ethical issues, and reporting company’s ethical management activities and corporate philosophy. The Stakeholder prosperity for the company and society as a whole. internal corruption. All employees are obliged to strictly observe and employees are required to pledge their compliance with the company’s Communication comply with the program’s codes. As a result, Korean Air instituted Charter of Ethics as below and vows to ethical management system. observe it at all times: In addition, the Corporate Ethics Office was established in-house, and the head of each division and the executives in charge were appointed • We regard customer satisfaction and safety as our highest priority. Whistleblowing system as internal ethics officers. A management supervisor system is provided • We increase investment value for our investors. Through Korean Air’s website and its in-house portal system’s reporting so that employees can make the right decisions and take appropriate • We respect all employees and their right to an enhanced quality of life. channel (e-mail: jebo@koreanair.com or whistleblower@koreanair. actions based on sound judgment. • We promote shared growth with our suppliers based on mutual trust. com), employees can report misconduct within the company with regard Discussion with • We respect the principles of free competition and maintain front-runner to personal and business favors asked to/by employees, illegal acts, status in the development of the air transport industry. corruption and other irregularities that often arise in deals involving Sustainability Experts • We contribute strongly to the sound development of society and to the suppliers. Reporters are strictly protected according to the internal preservation of the environment. rules and procedures and are kept up to date with the progress of • We acknowledge the corporate principles set forth by the company and uphold all obligations and responsibilities. the investigations. In addition, it is prohibited to place an employee at a disadvantage for reporting internal corruption, and the result of the investigation is being shared with the reporter. Internal Business Ethics Programs Materiality Pertinent internal guidelines/rules Details Charter of Ethics Core management values and guiding Assessment Full text principles in all business activities Ethics Management Training Completion Status (Unit: Persons (Completion rate)) Course title 2017 2018 2019 Guidelines on the implementation Action guide at workplace for implementing of the code of ethics the Charter of Ethics Compliance with Anti-trust Laws 1) 1,216 (88%) 1,032 (77%) 1,198 (88%) Full text Creating a Bright and Pleasant Workplace 18,760 (92%) 18,785 (91%) 18,855 (90%) Guidelines on dealing with Guidelines to help employees make right Commitment ●●●● 2) Ethics Management in Korean Air 516 (3%) 18,699 (91%) 933 (4%) ethics issues decisions and act on the basis of sound Full text judgement Understanding the Abuse of Market Dominance and Unfair Trading Practices 2) 0 (0%) 14,883 (72%) 172 (1%) 3) Whistleblowing system System to minimize the occurrence of Understanding Improper Solicitation and Graft Act 2 (0%) 1 (0%) 16,783 (80%) Full text illegal misconduct within the organization 1) Offered every year for domestic and overseas sales personnel and prevent retaliation against employees 2) Offered every other year for reporting such violations 3) Offered every other year; the 2018 training course was postponed to 2019 OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 29 STORY COMMITMENT WAY Business The advancement of technologies and diversification of Environment experiences have raised the expectations of customers and Stakeholder social demands on companies. Accordingly, improving the customer experience is no longer considered as a marketing Communication strategy, but rather a corporate survival strategy. In order to meet the heightened needs of customers, airlines are developing customized services using new technologies such as big data and artificial intelligence, while striving to improve customer convenience through cooperation with other airlines. Furthermore, Korean Air is re-evaluating services to ensure that all customers receive equal or comparable services and not one customer experiences any benefits or disadvantages. Discussion with Management Korean Air is making various efforts to improve customer Approach experience under the main mission of ‘impressing customers and Sustainability Experts creating value.’ Based on customer feedback received through various communication channels such as Voice of Customer (VOC), it is introducing new technologies and platforms to enhance customer convenience and service quality. In addition, Korean Air is working in a joint venture with Delta Airlines to optimize the flight schedule between the two companies and provide a better experience for customers at all stages of their journey. Korean Air will continue our efforts to achieve customer satisfaction by offering differentiated, high-quality service. Materiality Assessment Differentiated Customer 2019 Indicator 2017 2018 2019 Goals for 2020 Performance Number of customer data 0 0 0 0 breach reports (Cases) Experience Global Ranked Ranked Ranked Ranked Customer first for 13 first for 14 first for 15 first for 16 Satisfaction consecutive consecutive consecutive consecutive Competency Commitment ●●●● years years years years Index (GCSI) No. 1 in global consumer COMMITMENT 03. satisfaction No.1 The 26th Korean Air Travel Photo Contest / Merit Prize / Seong-Min Ahn / The Mirror of the Morning / Dolomites, Belluno, Italy OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 30 STORY COMMITMENT WAY Customer-engaged marketing Cultural marketing SNS communication In commemoration of the 50th anniversary of Korean Air, Korean Air Airplane drawing contest The event is held at the hangar of Korean Korean Air communicates with our customers through various social launched an advertising campaign, “Daehan Story (About Korean Air),” Air for children to support their hopes and dreams in art. The Ministry of media at home and abroad, including YouTube, Instagram, and which narrates stories in relation to the activities of each business sector, Culture, Tourism, and Sports’ Minister’s Prize is awarded to the grand Facebook. It is producing contents to introduce Korean Air destinations such as passengers, cargo, and in-flight meals. The campaign was prize winner along with an opportunity of a tour to international aircraft and transportation services, and creating various customer participation designed to convey the message of continuing to advance with customer manufacturers. In addition, the winning artwork will be depicted on the events to meet with customers. In close collaboration with influencers, support. It received a lot of positive feedback as it created familiar and exterior of a Korean Air aircraft. it is developing trendy and intriguing contents tailored for each SNS relatable stories about various activities of each business sector. Korean Airplane drawing – video clip channel. In addition, Korean Air offers various direct/indirect experiences Stakeholder Communication Air will continue to make every effort to produce advertisements that take to SNS followers, such as cabin crew training center tours, flight crew it one step closer to our customers. Korean Air travel photo contest Korean Air holds an annual Korean training center tours, new aircraft introductory tours, and in-flight meal Air Travel Photo Contest that is open to anyone who likes traveling and facility tours. photography. As the nation’s biggest travel photo contest for amateur photographers, a number of high-quality works that capture the memories of the trip and makes one want to travel are submitted. Discussion with Sustainability Experts Daehan Story (About Korean Air) Materiality Assessment SNS Channel Subscription Status (Unit: Persons) Commitment ●●●● Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube WeChat Weibo Advertising campaign, 535,971 382,116 350,933 134,982 98,842 226,592 “Daehan Story (About Korean Air)” * As of January 2020 OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 31 STORY COMMITMENT WAY Production of a new in-flight safety video Efforts to impress customers In November 2019, Korean Air released a new in-flight safety video in The core management principle of Korean Air is to incorporate the voice Ranked first in the Global Customer Satisfaction Competency Index K-POP music video format. The new safety video drew great attention of the field in customer service. As Such, Korean Air utilizes Voice of (GCSI) Korean Air has been maintaining first place for 15 consecutive domestically and internationally as it featured SuperM, a project group Customer as a means to manage customer contact points and identify years in the air passenger transport services sector of the Global of SM Entertainment, a leading entertainment company in Korea, and a service trends. Customer Satisfaction Competency Index (GCSI) developed by the global artist BoA and recorded more than 13.7 million YouTube views as Global Management Association (GMA), solidifying its position as a of the end of December 2019. Service improvement cases that reflect the VOC customer-oriented company. Also ranking first in the airline category Expansion of on-board AVOD contents In order to provide a wider in the 2019 Korea Service Quality Index (KS-SQI) evaluated by Korea Stakeholder Communication Korean Air broke the stereotype that the airlines’ safety videos are boring range of experience to customers, Korean Air plans to increase the Standards Association, it is recognized externally for its competitiveness and increased the level of engagement from passengers, ultimately number of in-flight entertainment contents, such as movies, short films, as a leading airline in the global aviation industry and for enhancing improving the effectiveness as a safety instruction. As K-POP is one and games, available on in-flight AVOD (Audio & Video on Demand) customer service. of Korea’s representative cultural products, Korean Air intended to throughout 2020. demonstrate a new look of Korean Air in transition, while also conveying all of the essential guidelines required by the Aviation Law and the Increase use of self check-in service (mobile/web check-in and kiosk) Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transportation. Discussion with In order to simplify the check-in process for customers and reduce the waiting time at the counter, self check-in restrictions for the following Korean Air released the song in the video, “Let’s go everywhere,” as a customers needing extra assistance will be eased: infants & children Sustainability Experts digital single album. All revenues from sales of the song will be donated (except for passengers that request infant cradles), group passengers, to the Global Citizen Campaign to help resolve global issues like poverty, and passengers using transit exclusive domestic flights, charter flights, climate change, and human inequality. and wheelchair service. Materiality Assessment In-flight safety video Commitment ●●●● Production of a new in-flight safety video Mobile self check-in service OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 32 STORY COMMITMENT WAY Customer privacy protection Information Security Management System (ISMS) certification Integrated Security Operation Center Korean Air manages major IT Information security training At Korean Air, all domestic and overseas Korean Air takes the lead in protecting customer privacy by acquiring systems in domestic data centers and overseas cloud services to safely employees handling customer information are required to take a training various domestic and international certifications in privacy protection protect them from external malicious attacks. By conducting periodic course on data security and privacy protection twice per year. Some management. Since 2005, it has been certified every year with the mock hacking of major internal and external services and establishing courses are offered throughout the year for all employees, including Information Security Management System (ISMS) by the Korea Internet the Security Operation Center in the Cloud Command Center, Korean the executives. Data security training covers topics including customer & Security Agency (KISA). Furthermore, Korean Air has obtained the Air attempts to prepare for risks like cyber terrorism and personal data, email/mobile/PC security, social engineering, the latest domestic Information Security Management Systems (ISO27001:2013) certification information leakage and to increase the level of societal and policyand international trends, and any revisions to pertinent laws. In January Stakeholder Communication established by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) related demands related to information security and personal information 2016, Korean Air has introduced ‘a monthly security day,’ in which all and the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC), which ensures protection. At the Security Operation Center, which is open 24 hours per employees share any security concerns or issues identified throughout compliance with 114 standard control items across 14 areas, including day, seven days per week, all logs generated in the IT system are stored, the month and remind each other of security inspection rules. As such, information protection policies, physical security, access information analyzed, and used to perform real-time monitoring to continuously Korean Air is working to improve the level of security expertise. control, and business management systems. Korean Air promotes a respond to possible attacks. culture of voluntary privacy protection of all employees and endeavors to strengthen the awareness of privacy protection. Discussion with Sustainability Experts Employee Training Status (Unit: Persons) First half Second half Year Course title Domestic Overseas Domestic Overseas • Information security 2017 • Information security 17,403 2,915 7,817 2,567 Materiality Assessment at Korean Air • Information security 2018 15,979 2,533 17,480 2,619 • Privacy protection • Information security 2019 17,676 2,616 18,499 2,836 • Privacy protection Commitment ●●●● • First half • Second half Number of Customer Privacy Leakage Reports (Unit: Cases) 2017 2018 2019 Reported case(s) of privacy leakage 0 0 0 OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 33 STORY COMMITMENT WAY Business With the recent increase in the stakeholders’ interest and Environment demands related to the environment, the importance of a Stakeholder company’s environmental management strategy has never been emphasized more. Global leading companies, such Communication as Microsoft and Apple, as well as global energy companies including BP are releasing climate change response strategies and investment plans. Additionally, Starbucks and IKEA have declared that they will withdraw plastics from all of their stores worldwide by 2020. The stakeholders of the aviation industry have high awareness of environmental management and recognize the strengthened global environmental regulations as major risks. In response, Discussion with the aviation industry introduced the international airline carbon offset scheme for the first time in the industry, and declared Sustainability Experts carbon-neutral growth from 2020, emphasizing the industrylevel response. Management Understanding the importance of preventing pollution and Approach responding to climate change, Korean Air’s stakeholders advocate the introduction of environmentally friendly aircraft and strategies for climate change. In order to respond to various regulations, companies are required to be transparent about the environmental management information. Accordingly, Korean Air will be reporting environment friendly management Materiality as a material issue, and communicating with stakeholders on Assessment Environment Friendly pertinent matters. 2019 Indicator 2017 2018 2019 2020 Goal Performance Management International fuel efficiency 33.33 31.45 32.13 2) 31.66 (ℓ/100RTK)1) Commitment ●●●● 1) Fuel efficiency = Fuel consumption (volume)/Transportation (100RTK) (smaller value is more efficient) RTK (Revenue Ton Kilometer): transportation of 1 ton of passengers/cargo COMMITMENT 04. 2) for 1 km; a unit that indicates the business volume International fuel efficiency indicators increased due to reduced cargo transport in 2019 The 26th Korean Air Travel Photo Contest / Merit Prize / Jeong-Sam Choi / Water Dabbles in the Forest / Luang Prabang, Laos OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 34 STORY COMMITMENT WAY Responses to climate change Carbon-neutral growth from 2020 The International Air Transport Introduction of eco-friendly aircraft Introduction of eco-friendly, highAssociation (IATA) and the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) efficiency aircraft is the most effective way to reduce greenhouse gases have adopted Carbon-Neutral Growth from 2020 as a joint goal to freeze in the aviation industry. The active utilization of new aircraft enabled the industry’s total carbon emissions at the level in 2020. Greenhouse Korean Air to maintain the lowest fleet age among domestic airlines. Its gases generated from aircraft operation currently comprise only 2~3% efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions were demonstrated in 2019 of global emissions. However, as the aviation industry is expected to by the introduction of high-efficiency aircraft, such as the B777-300ER, continue growing, the industry as a whole will need to come up with a B787-9, and A220-300. The next-generation, Stakeholder eco-friendly aircraft, B787-9 Dreamliner Communication strategy to respond to climate change. Korean Air has voluntarily set a reduction target and is applying various measures to achieve carbonThe B787-9 Dreamliner, introduced by Korean Air for the first time in neutral growth and prepare for climate-change risks. Korea, is a high-efficiency, eco-friendly aircraft that incorporates the next-generation, cutting-edge technologies of the aircraft manufacturer, Boeing. As much as 50% of the aircraft body is made of carbon composite material. Compared to other aircraft models of the same class, the Dreamliner has 20% higher fuel efficiency per seat, 20% lower Discussion with carbon dioxide and nitrogen oxide emissions, and 60% less noise. In addition, the air pressure and humidity in the cabin are increased and the seats are spaced out more at 33-34 inches (coach/economy class) Sustainability Experts to provide a more comfortable environment. Carbon-Neutral Growth from 2020 and Major Means of Achievement Average Fleet Age in Korean Air Korean Air currently operates ten B787-9 Dreamliners on midto long(Unit: MT) (Unit: Years) distance routes and plans to add ten more to provide more comfortable ● Passenger ● Cargo ● Average fleet age and eco-friendly services to customers. Aircraft technology 1,600 Greenhouse Gas Emissions per Flight in 2019 International aviation net CO2 emissions (Unit: tonCO2) 1,400 Materiality 12 Incheon – Osaka 32 1,200 10 9.7 9.9 9.7 10.4 25 Assessment 9.5 22% 9.4 1,000 9.1 9.2 9.4 9.2 8 9.9 Operational improvements Market-based measure (CORSIA) 7.4 800 B777-200 B787-9 7.0 6 Sustainable aviation fuel1) 6.7 5.7 600 Incheon – Istanbul 252 Commitment ●●●● 4 400 Carbon-neutral growth from 2020 188 2 200 0 2010 2015 2020 2025 2030 2035 2040 2045 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 25% B777-200 B787-9 1) * As of 2019 Sustainable aviation fuel: Alternative jet fuel derived from biomass OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 35 STORY COMMITMENT WAY Improving fuel efficiency Carbon emissions from international and domestic flight operations account for about 99% of Korean Air’s total carbon Voluntary reduction agreement In 2010, Korean Air signed a emissions. Korean Air recognizes that fuel-efficiency improvement should be the top priority, and thus strives to continuously reduce fuel consumption voluntary reduction agreement for GHG emissions in the aviation sector and carbon emissions from aircraft operations. with the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport, with a goal of fuel efficiency improvement. The agreement specified the target as an Efficient fuel management Korean Air has established a database of fuel consumption and greenhouse gas emissions and operates a separate fuel improvement of international fuel efficiency by 2% compared to the base management organization for systematic fuel management. Founded in 2004, the in-house fuel management organization has identified more than 180 year. Despite the impact of reduced international cargo shipments, in fuelefficiency improvement tasks related to direct operation of aircraft, including airports, flight operation, maintenance and repair, and flight plans. 2019, Korean Air surpassed the target and improved the fuel efficiency The organization continues to implement these tasks in cooperation with related sectors. In addition, Korean Air shares fuel-saving technologies with by 6.8% more than the average of the base year (2015-2017). Stakeholder Communication the government and the industry, contributing to improving fuel efficiency in the domestic aviation industry. In 2019, Korean Air saved approximately 300 million pounds of fuel. Discussion with Fuel Management Process Fuel Efficiency Improvement of International Flights (Unit: ℓ/100RTK) Sustainability Experts 28.00 FUEL MANAGEMENT 29.00 30.00 Weight management Improving performance Airport Aircraft 31.00 • Loading adequate amounts • Washing inside of the 31.45 maintenance Materiality of potable water engine with water 32.13 32.00 • Reducing payload variance • Removing painting and repainting to reduce Assessment • Replacing flight paper aircraft drag 33.00 documents with tablet PC 33.33 6.8% • Improving engine Target efficiency: Higher performance 34.00 33.77ℓ/100RTK Flight operation Flight plan Average of the base year: 34.46ℓ/100RTK 35.00 34.93 Flight operation Operations management Commitment ●●●● 35.14 35.36 • Refraining from unnecessary • Uplifting proper amount of fuel following 36.00 reverse thrust during take-off and statistical analysis 36.29 landing • Developing the nearest alternate airports 37.00 36.40 36.75 • Expanding use of ground power and shortcut routes supply during parking • Creating new routes and dual airways 38.00 • Simplifying unnecessary approach 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 procedures for landing OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 36 STORY COMMITMENT WAY Carbon compliance As the international air traffic increased, various EU-Emissions Trading Scheme (EU-ETS) In 2005, the European Environmental management system carbon regulations, such as carbon offsetting, emission trading, and Union introduced the European Emissions Trading Scheme (EU-ETS), Since obtaining ISO14001 (Environmental Management System) carbon tax, have been introduced in the aviation industry. Korean Air a large-scale policy that first used allocated emissions as a major certification in 1996, Korean Air has introduced an environmental is committed to fulfilling its responsibilities by complying with carbon means of implementing climate policy. Korean Air has been fulfilling its management system that meets international standards, establishing regulations in all aircraft operations, including international and domestic obligations by complying with EU-ETS in the aviation sector for flights a company-wide Environmental Management System (EMS) and flights as well as domestic ground operations. departing and arriving within the European Union since 2012. After the subsequent EMS departments for headquarters, aircraft maintenance, Swiss-ETS and the EU-ETS link in 2020, Korean Air will be expanding its aircraft manufacturing, and in-flight meal divisions. ICAO Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International responsibilities to flights departing and arriving within Switzerland to and Stakeholder Communication Aviation (CORSIA) The International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), from other European countries. Water and air pollutants Korean Air has established and manages a specialized agency under the United Nations, introduced CORSIA strict standards for water pollutants generated during aircraft cleaning to manage carbon emissions from international aircraft operations Korea Emissions Trading Scheme In accordance with the Framework and maintenance processes, as well as air pollutants, including dust, that are not covered by each country’s regulatory scope. CORSIA sets Act on Low Carbon, Green Growth, the Emissions Trading Scheme THC (total hydrocarbons), and NOx (nitrogen oxides), generated during the emissions in 2019 as a baseline and allows airlines to purchase was introduced in Korea in 2015 and is currently applied to about 600 aircraft take-off and landing and in the discharge facilities. Water and offset credits for excess emissions to maintain the net emissions at the Korean companies. The domestic emissions trading system, like the EUair pollutants are set and thoroughly managed to be less than 50% of baseline. Korean Air has submitted a 2019 emissions monitoring plan for ETS, requires companies to be granted emission allowances (allocated the legal standards. In 2019, water pollutant emissions and air pollutant Discussion with the implementation of CORSIA and has established an in-house CORSIA emission rights) from the government and to trade their shortages or emissions were 2.2% and 7.1%, respectively, of the statutory allowance emissions management system to report, verify, and offset emissions. excesses in the market to fulfill their obligations. In the transportation (100%). Sustainability Experts sector, only the aviation industry is subject to the emissions trading system. As such, Korean Air has been fulfilling the responsibilities for Hazardous chemicals When conducting aircraft maintenance, only domestic flights and domestic ground facility emissions since 2015. the chemical products designated by the aircraft manufacturers must be used. Korean Air is in continuous communication with the manufacturers to address the issues arising from using hazardous products. Under a newly developed chemical management system, the inventory-in/-out of chemicals and their use are managed by worksite, and the use of Carbon Regulations Implemented by Korean Air EU-ETS hazardous chemicals is being strictly controlled. Materiality • Type of regulation: • Taken by: EU Assessment ‘Cap and trade’ system • Scope & target: All flights operated within the EU ICAO CORSIA Within • 2019 emissions: International the EU 34,758 tCO2 • Type of regulation: Flights Domestic Carbon offset system Flights • Taken by: UN ICAO Korea Emissions Trading Scheme • Scope & target: Commitment ●●●● • Type of regulation: All international flights ‘Cap and trade’ system • 2019 emissions: • Taken by: 12,466,651 tCO2 Korean Ministry of Environment • Scope & target: All domestic flights and ground facilities Ground Facilities • 2019 emissions: 594,039 tCO2eq OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 37 STORY COMMITMENT WAY Waste Korean Air emits general household wastes, such as waste Noise In order to reduce aircraft noise, Korean Air has added noise In accordance with the development of aviation technology, Korean Air is paper, waste wood, and waste plastics, in the process of passenger reduction procedures in the company’s operating regulations and flight actively making the transition from the existing ground navigation facility and cargo transportation services, and emits hazardous wastes, such procedures by aircraft model and applies them during takeoff and (VOR)-based method to the regional navigation facility using the GPS as waste oil, waste paint, and waste organic solvents, during aircraft landing. In addition, it complies with the noise reduction procedures (RNAV: aRea NAVigation), and the Required Navigation Performance maintenance and manufacturing processes. Due to the increase in required by airports in each country, as well as the Noise Abatement (RNP) approach procedure. This is a way to ensure that the flight routes passenger traffic, the total amount of waste generated continues to Departure Procedure (NADP) and the Continuous Descent Approach of the aircraft are precisely managed and avoid noise-sensitive areas. increase while waste recycling steadily increases as well. The waste (CDA) of the ICAO. To this end, Korean Air is making efforts to minimize noise damage by recycling rate in 2019 was 38.9%, which is 4.4%p higher than that of installing advanced satellite navigation devices and wireless facilities on Stakeholder Communication the previous year. The in-flight food waste is disinfected and incinerated its aircraft. in accordance with the guidelines of the Animal and Plant Quarantine Agency. Discussion with Sustainability Experts Waste Recycling Rate RNP Approach Procedure to Mitigate Noise (Unit: %) ■ 2018 ■ 2019 VOR Materiality 35.0 39.2 22.2 29.4 34.5 38.9 Assessment 40 Residential areas Arriving airport Residential areas AV Arriving airport 30 VOR RN Commitment ●●●● 20 Recycling rate 4.4 %p Departing airport VOR Departing airport 10 0 The existing VOR-based approach procedure RNP approach procedure General waste Hazardous waste Total waste OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 38 STORY COMMITMENT WAY Korean Air and Single-use plastics make our lives more convenient, but they are a major cause of environmental pollution. “Single-use plastics that take five seconds to produce, you use it for five minutes and it takes 500 years to break down again,” said Single-use Plastics Frans Timmermans, Executive Vice-President of the European Commission. “If we don't do anything about this, 50 years down the road we will have more plastics than fish in the oceans,” he warned. Stakeholder Reducing the use of single-use plastics Increased recycling of waste plastics Communication In 2019, Korean Air made various attempts to reduce the use of singleDespite various efforts to reduce the use of plastic products, plastic use plastics. All of the plastic straws and coffee stirrers provided on waste is unavoidably generated from the services Korean Air provides. board were replaced with FSC (Forest Stewardship Council)-certified Therefore, Korean Air is considering recycling plastic waste instead eco-friendly paper products. This reduced the use of 6,450,000 singleof landfill or incineration. The plastic waste generated in the cabin is use plastic products annually, which is equivalent to three times the used as solid fuel through a sorting process, or as a pellet material for distance between Seoul and Busan. construction. In 2019, around 2,136 tons of domestic in-flight plastic Discussion with waste was recycled. In addition, the plastic cups provided for beverage service in Economy Sustainability Experts Class were replaced with paper cups. Under the revised service manual Korean Air will continue to recycle and reduce the plastic waste to lessen of Korean Air, plastic cups are provided to passengers only when its environmental impact and fulfill our corporate social responsibilities. requested and passengers are allowed to use their personal containers, Korean Air believes that this will enhance our corporate value, guarantee such as tumblers. customers’ sustainable travel, and help conserve the global environment. Materiality Assessment 6,450,000 Reduced the use of 6,450,000 single-use plastic products per year Commitment ●●●● 2,136 Increase plastic recycling by 2,136 tons per year OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 39 STORY COMMITMENT WAY OUR WAY Talent Management | Shared Growth Management | Social Contribution | Risk Management The 25th Korean Air Travel Photo Contest / Merit Prize / Sang-Deuk Hwang / Let’s Fly Together / Reynisfjara, Iceland OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 40 STORY COMMITMENT WAY Talent Management Through unbiased HR policies and systematic HR policy to protect human rights and diversity percentage of female employees, a major indicator of diversity, has Korean Air abides by the Labor Standards Act of Korea, as well as remained at 44% for the past three years. Korean Air makes various HR development programs, Korean Air promotes Talent Management the laws and systems of the countries of its business sites around the efforts to increase employee satisfaction. The average number of years diversity and fostering of global talents and world. It strictly prohibits all forms of forced labor, child labor, and wage of service (based on domestic, permanent employees) is 16.5 years. creates an environment for them to be recognized exploitation, in accordance with the regulations established by the Korean Air offers the highest level of salaries and benefits in the airline International Labor Organization (ILO). In addition, Korean Air is against industry in Korea, and the starting wages of all positions are the same for their abilities and excel in their careers. all forms of discrimination based on gender, age, race, religion, disability, regardless of gender. Korean Air treats all employees the same and Furthermore, Korean Air pays special attention to country of origin, and political opinion in overall personnel management creates an environment of equity and inclusion. such as hiring, appointment, evaluation, and compensation of the mental and physical health of employees, Employing overseas talent employees. Korean Air will continue to do our best to protect human as well as their work-life balance. Shared Growth Management rights in all countries where it operates, and strive to create an ideal Recognizing localization as the most important task in global expansion, working environment for employees. Korean Air actively seeks to secure and nurture overseas talents. By recruiting without discrimination against nationality, race, gender, culture, Employee demographic and religion, and continuously fostering local managers based on As of the end of December 2019, the total number of employees, its ability-oriented talent development policy, Korean Air continues to including overseas local employees, of Korean Air is 20,965. The strengthen the capabilities of overseas employees. * As of December 31, 2019, excluding executive directors Employee Demographic Social Contribution Employment type Management/ (Unit: Person) executive level Permanent Temporary (only for permanent Management/ General employees) Executive 18,797 2,168 (Unit: Person) 5,044 13,753 ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Male: 11,041 Female: 7,756 Male: 718 Female: 1,450 Male: 3,258 Female: 1,786 Male: 7,783 Female: 5,970 Female employees Local employees at manager level Risk Management 2017 2018 2019 Number Ratio Number Ratio Number Ratio (Persons) (%) (Persons) (%) (Persons) (%) Female employees 8,812 43 9,022 44 9,206 44 2,212 89 13 Employees at overseas Percentage of local Percentage of local employees Female 1,454 33 1,607 34 1,786 35 regional offices employees at manager level or above managers/ (Persons) (%) (%) executives OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 41 STORY COMMITMENT WAY Maternity protection system Efforts to promote employee health Korean Air has steadily increased the proportion of female employees Korean Air operates its own aeromedical center and carries out Health Promotion System while promoting an HR policy based on gender equality, and on health promotion activities by analyzing the characteristics and Analyze business/ • Analyze resources, such as manpower elevating the status of women. Female employees are encouraged health conditions of workers in various aviation professions. With the work conditions and budget, for the health promotion to take leave before and after childbirth, and for child or family care ICAO Annex 1 and the notice of Aviation Safety Act amendment, the activities as needed as protected by the law. In addition, all female employees establishment and implementation of plan for health promotion activities • Analyze nature of work and worker conditions/characteristics Talent Management may use a work-hour reduction system during pregnancy, and even for flight crew have become mandatory. According to the “Guidelines take leave for fertility treatment. Female flight attendants are allowed to for Health Promotion of Pilots and Controllers” enacted by the Ministry Analyze health• Analyze health problems such as sick take maternity leave on the day they become aware of their pregnancy. of Land, Infrastructure and Transport October 2019, Korean Air has related factors leave and checkup As a result of promoting work and life balance at the workplace and established a system for employees’ health promotion as follows: • Investigate the need for health promotion encouraging taking parental leave, the percentage of male employees Make health • Select target conditions based on taking parental leave is gradually increasing. promotion plans the analysis result • Establish detailed plan for health promotion activities Shared Growth Management Conduct health • Promote health promotion activities promotion activities according to the plan Maternity Protection System Utilization ■ Male ■ Female • Continuously evaluate and adjust activities Taking leave before/after childbirth & returning to work rate (Unit: Persons/%) Actual persons returned from parental leave (B) (Unit: Persons) ■ Taking leave before/after childbirth ■ Returning to work after childbirth leave 2017 18 622 640 Evaluate health • Performance evaluation promotion activities • Reflect in the future plan 2017 600 100 2018 24 567 591 2018 591 100 2019 43 563 606 • Report performance 2019 517 100 Major Activities by Work of the Korean Air Aeromedical Center in 2019 Maternity leave1) (Unit: Persons) Parental leave return rate (=B/A*100) (Unit: %) 2017 446 2017 100 93 Details Social Contribution 2018 396 2018 96 91 • Physical activity promoting programs such as body 2019 395 2019 96 93 composition test and 1:1 workout counseling, etc. Flight • Sleep apnea management and healthy drinking/drug use Parental leave (Unit: Persons) Persons returned from parental leave in previous year (C) (Unit: Persons) crew education 2017 619 2017 18 623 641 • Cerebral cardiovascular disease risk evaluation and managing 2018 606 2018 18 622 640 lifestyle with non-smoking and nutrition counseling 2019 536 2019 24 567 591 • Promote stretching in daily life to prevent musculoskeletal disorders Percentage of male employees taking parental leave (Unit: %) Persons at work one-year after returning from parental leave for the current year (D) (Unit: Persons) • Physical fitness promoting online trainings and job standard 2017 6 2017 14 555 569 Cabin motion guiding card news for domestic and foreign flight crew Risk Management 2018 9 2018 16 553 569 attendants 2019 12 2019 20 499 519 • Mental health examination and trauma psychological support programs Persons to return from parental leave (A) (Unit: Persons) One-year retention rate after returning to work (=D/C*100) (Unit: %) • Participatory health programs to prevent cerebral cardiovascular 2017 18 672 690 2017 78 89 Office and disease 2018 25 623 648 2018 89 89 maintenance • Provide a comprehensive health examination report by department 2019 45 608 653 2019 83 88 employees • Emotional labor and job stress management programs for 1) Scope of the maternity leave data is limited to cabin/flight attendants transportation staff OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 42 STORY COMMITMENT WAY Efforts to help enhance employees’ emotional and mental health Belief in talent development Excessive stress not only affects work productivity, but also threatens Korean Air develops and operates a variety of programs to foster global Korean Air’s training system Under the education philosophy of workers’ physical and mental health. For a variety of positions within human resources based on its firm management philosophy and the ‘Cultivating global talent based on expertise’, Korean Air operates a Korean Air, including customer service, safety and office work, Korean belief that ‘The fundamentals of business management are people. training system that provides step-by-step, interconnected education Air operates mental health management programs tailored to each type Changes in people start with proper education.’ based on two competency models: management competency, and job of job. competency. Talent Management An annual mental health checkup is offered, and tailored support and advice is provided based on the results at the counseling center, Hyu Clinic. Offline training programs on job stress management are offered to employees on customer services. In addition, a trauma therapy and mental health support system is in place to help crew members relieve Training System post-accident stress. Furthermore, Korean Air regularly publishes the “Mind Rest Letter” for employees to have access to mental health Business management (new/manager) training Professional training by job type Shared Growth Management information. Korean Air Executive Development Program (KEDP) Offline Mental Health Courses Executive Flight, OperaMainNew Executive Orientation Sales and transportation Cabin aeroAttendance (total no. of sessions) tion tenance space Course title Target 2017 2018 2019 Hanjin Team leader Line team manager training Development Program Passenger – management Regular training by model Captain training for new Advanced civil aircraft/ Cargo – management Sales – management Stress Working-level General (HTDP) 274 303 207 Manager Overseas management employees Korean Air manager employees employees employees Airline Line Managerial for mental at airports and Service management candidate (14 sessions) (19 sessions) (12 sessions) aircraft model military aircraft R&D ManageManager training Dispatch of level health in flights ment Developoverseas School ment local Mental health Social Contribution course Deputy (AMS) Program employees Manager-level to the headpromotion 259 251 General (KLDP) MBA employees Manager quarters techniques employees employees at airports and In-house (launched (12 sessions) (12 sessions) instructor Passenger – professional in flight First class and business Professional civil aircraft/ Leadership Regular expert training Service clinic program in 2018) Cargo – professional New captain training training Sales – professional School course Health Job Professional New contract 308 154 189 Manager management: competency class training by model military aircraft R&D level employees employees employees employees develophow to deal Service in practice course at call centers (11 sessions) (9 sessions) (12 sessions) ment Overseas with stress program dispatch (mandatory training online Excellent Assistant course for Harmony overseas Training for each Risk Management Manager Workshop employees employee New cabin crew training position) program Aviation basic course Co-pilot, new aircraft Aircraft maintenance transferred Passenger – basic to the headCargo – basic Sales – basic quarters Worker model training mechanic training level Employee Basic service New employee training and basic course on air transportation course OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 43 STORY COMMITMENT WAY Creative organizational culture Work-life balance Lifelong learning support In 2000, Korean Air founded Jungseok Since July 1, 2019, Korean Air has converted its in-house business To ensure better quality of life for employees, Korean Air offers the College, Korea’s first tech school run by a private company, to support system to G Suite, which is a cloud-based suite of productivity and highest level of salary and benefits in the industry. Employees and their lifelong learning of its employees. All employees attending the university collaboration software tools made available by Google. G Suite includes immediate families can fly on any of the routes operated by Korean Air receive full-tuition scholarships and nationally accredited degrees various services such as Gmail, Calendar, Drive, Docs, Chat, etc. It is a at discounted fares, which is intended to promote traveling while helping upon their graduation and can transfer to other universities or graduate powerful tool that enables creation, collaboration, and mobility of online them gain a global perspective. Other benefit programs include financial Talent Management schools. A total of 1,421 employees earned degrees; 980 employees collaborative documents. Users can create documents and exchange support for housing, children’s educational expenses, and medical bills, received bachelor’s degrees and 441 associate degrees, over the 19 opinions instantly regardless of time and space with enhanced security as well as financial security for retirement and leisure programs. years from its foundation up through 2020. Scholarships are provided standards and encryption in the cloud service environment. As a cloudto support employees continuing studies in the fields of aviation and based system, G Suite provided an equivalent work environment as in Category Details logistics in Korea Aerospace University and the graduate studies in Inha the office and enables seamless performance and working from home • Subscription to the national health insurance scheme University, contributing greatly to their continued self-development and even in times of the COVID-19 pandemic. • Self-insurance support (allowances for the sickness/ motivation to learn. In addition, Korean Air is currently developing a postMedical and accidents/death of employees and/or their spouses) retirement program for employees who are close to retiring. Starting on September 1, 2019, Korean Air has fully removed its previous health support • Subsidies for flu shots Shared Growth Management business attire rule for all domestic employees. The only exception is • Medical bill subsidies for overseas flight attendants and Education support for human rights improvement Korean Air the staff that has to wear uniforms such as flight/cabin crew and service any employees on business trips promises to uphold and protect the basic freedom and rights of staff. The overseas regions are implementing the new dress code • 25 to 35 free flight tickets annually employees as individuals and offers over 50 training courses to appropriate for the culture and climate of each region. Korean Air not • 255 company-owned condominiums across Korea employees to raise awareness of human rights. In its efforts to ensure only increases work efficiency and productivity through this series of Leisure • Discounts for prestigious hotel chains in Korea and human rights protection of employees, Korean Air prohibits all forms of measures, including the introduction of a new in-house work system and overseas discrimination, including that against persons with disabilities, and offers removal of the dress code, but also accelerates the creation of a flexible • Sponsoring 27 in-house club activities regular training on sexual harassment. and creative corporate culture. • Corporate housing (1,181 units) • Housing and ‘jeonse’ loans Social Contribution • Tuition subsidies for employees’ children attending prestigious universities overseas Daily living • Scholarships and language course tuition subsidies for children of expatriates Training Hours per Person Employee Training Status in 2019 (Unit: Hours) • Scholarships for employees attending colleges and/or Category Unit Completed / Total graduate schools to earn a degree in job-related field Training hours Male Hours 112 • Subscription to the national pension plan per person Female Hours 128 • KRW 50,000 subsidies to all employees’ personal pension plans Retirement Risk Management Training budget per person 1,000 KRW 524 • Operation of Korea’s largest-sized corporate credit union 2017 2018 2019 Executive 97(0.5) / 4,335 and subsidization of contribution to the corporate credit union upon retirement 122 Person (ratio)/ 76 89 Manager or above Person(%)/ 11,070(52.5) / 844,545 training hour Hours • Performance-based incentives by position Associate manager Incentive 9,895(47.0) / 1,457,271 • Safety incentives or below OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 44 STORY COMMITMENT WAY Employee satisfaction management Labor union membership Inviting employees’ children on Family Day Korean Air invited 1,600 Organizational culture built on communication and trust With the As of the end of December 2019, a total of 15,962 employees are eligible Talent Management employees and their children to the head office in September 2019 for intention of building a better organizational culture based on flexible to become members of the labor union, among those 84%, or 13,429 of a Family Day event. Employees’ children came to the headquarters of communication and mutual trust, Korean Air has been operating a the employees are members of the labor union. Korean Air hand-in-hand with their parents to see and experience what “communication plaza” in its internal communication network since their parents do every day at work. Then, they went to the maintenance 2015. It is an online bulletin board, where all employees can freely share hangar, which was transformed into a theme park, for a tour of a Boeing constructive ideas, discuss issues in-depth, and solve difficulties. By Labor-management council 787 airplane. At the hangar, activities including craft classes, face guaranteeing complete anonymity, the plaza becomes a free space to In 2019, labor-management council meetings were held on a quarterly painting, mini Olympics, photo booths, and snack booths were also share opinions without limitation on the agenda. Various inquiries and basis to increase mutual understanding and improve these cooperative offered. suggestions of the employees are responded quickly by the departments relationships. At the meetings, participants discussed measures to Shared Growth Management in charge and appropriate measures are implemented accordingly. The promote the welfare of union members while pursuing the sound This event provided an opportunity for the employees’ children to operation of the communication plaza has not only activated the internal development of the company. Agenda items and opinions from relevant understand and experience their parents’ workplace, while also raising communication, but also substantially improved the organizational departments were collected by representatives of each branch and their the sense of belonging and self-esteem for employees. Korean Air plans culture. adoption was reviewed. to make this a regular event for the employees and their families. Social Contribution 2019 Communication Plaza Activities Labor Union Membership Union Non-union Membership Category Total members members rate General Total Korean Air Labor Union 11,445 2,010 13,455 84% 204 KCTU (Korean Confederation of Trade Unions)-affiliated industrial union of publictransportation1) Risk Management Flight operation Pilots’ union 1,129 45% 523 2,507 Pilots’ new union 855 34% 48 13 117 26 Inquiries Compliments Suggestions Others 1)  As the KCTU-affiliated industrial union of public transportation does not disclose its membership status, the figure is not provided in this report OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 45 STORY COMMITMENT WAY Shared Growth Management Korean Air creates social value by discussing Shared growth program Establishing fair trade Korean Air strives to grow with its partners based on a systematic and Since introducing the Fair-Trade Agreement recommended by the Fairshared growth plans with our partners for Talent Management consistent shared growth policy. Korean Air’s aerospace division has Trade Commission in 2013, Korean Air has been entering and renewing sustainable development of the community. manufacturing capabilities in a variety of aviation technologies, including agreements with partners in the field of aircraft parts manufacturing every Recognizing that strengthening the maintenance and modification of military aircraft, production and delivery year based on mutual trust. Korean Air is expanding the culture of fair of civil aircraft structures, and unmanned aerial vehicle development. trade through establishment and compliance to the ‘four major action competitiveness of our partners is To achieve the goal of establishing a win-win virtuous cycle system items for shared growth’. the foundation for sustainable growth, based on stable supply and shared growth with partners, Korean Air is operating the following programs: ‘establishing fair trade,’ ‘strengthening In addition, in order to support stable liquidity of suppliers, Korean Air Korean Air supports various activities the competitiveness of its partners,’ and ‘facilitating communication.’ pays the full amount of the transaction in cash. Under the improved to grow together with our partners. Shared Growth Management system, the payment turnaround is within 10 days and there is no limitation in the number of payment deadlines. Therefore, suppliers are Establishing fair trade able to receive payment as soon as they issue invoice, and in 2019, the • Implement four major action items payments were made within 7.9 days on average. • Introduce Standard Subcontract Four Major Action Items for Shared Growth Agreement • Ensure compliance with subcontract1. Action items pertaining to fair agreement related laws • Setting reasonable unit prices; prohibiting unfair decision-making related to payment 2. Action items pertaining to fair selection (registration) of partners Social Contribution • Ensuring fair and transparent process in the selection of suppliers; Strengthening competitiveness providing equal bidding opportunities • Financial support (funding) 3. Action items pertaining to the establishment and operation of • Provide job training and technology internal deliberation committee for subcontract transactions transfer • Composition and regular operation of internal deliberation committee • Improve productivity and quality 4. Action items pertaining to the issuance and preservation of written documents • Incorporating items related to issuing the written contracts in the company regulations; using the Standard Contracts Facilitating communication Risk Management • Hold roundtable talks/symposiums Average Payment Turnaround (Unit: Days) • Sign mutual cooperation memorandum 11.7 of understanding • Operate production improvement council 7.7 7.9 7.9 6.3 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 46 STORY COMMITMENT WAY Strengthening the competitiveness of partners As of 2019, Korean Air’s aerospace division operates a supply chain Technical support and protection In order to resolve technical Strengthening competency of human resources Various training with 195 partners in 22 countries around the world. Parts that cannot problems that suppliers may face during the production process quickly programs are operated to strengthen the capabilities of business be produced domestically or have complicated production process and smoothly, a technical support system (TSS) has been developed. partners’ employees. Korean Air contributes to the development of their are procured from multiple global partners. Korean Air continuously Suppliers are now able to request technical support at any time. Through human resources by transferring skills and know-how through on-site seeks alternative suppliers to manage supply chain risk, as well as non-disclosure agreement (NDA) with partners and online courses job training by offering essential education and practical training on parts Talent Management localization of overseas parts to strengthen the technological capabilities for employees, Korean Air is promoting awareness of the technical manufacturing for the joint production of parts with its partners. . of domestic partners. protection, protection of supplier technology, prevention of unnecessary technical data requests and technology takeover. Improving partner productivity In efforts to help reduce production Understanding that the competitiveness of suppliers is essential for costs and shorten lead time of suppliers, Korean Air offers the LEAN stable supply of parts, Korean Air operates various support programs for Improving competency in quality control In order to reduce the Workshop at partners’ manufacturing site. Korean Air also analyzes partners. defect rate of parts of suppliers, Korean Air regularly conducts qualitysuppliers’ production capacities and resources to address and resolve improvement activities. For example, the third-party quality inspectors any production obstacles and ultimately achieve target production. Supporting the equipment and working environment improvement are dispatched to the suppliers’ sites to perform parts inspections and Shared Growth Management In order to reduce the cost of equipment investment and financial risk, respond promptly to any defects. Korean Air is lending its own test equipment to its partners and has built an outsourcing management system so that its partners can monitor the progress of production and delivery in real time. Korean Air also provides POU (Point of Use, parts storage for field work) to improve productivity. In addition, Korean Air supports suppliers’ safety risk assessment and improvement activities, provides welfare benefit programs, including outpatient medical treatment and immunization support, workplace and rest facility improvement, fire drills, and fire-prevention training. Social Contribution Risk Management OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 47 STORY COMMITMENT WAY Facilitating communication with business partners Major performance of shared growth Korean Air operates various communication channels to facilitate Localization of aircraft parts through cooperation With proficiency Signing an MOU for shared growth in the drone industry Korean communication with our partners. in civil aircraft structure design and manufacturing, Korean Air’s Air’s aerospace business division is collaborating with SMEs in the aerospace business division is supplying various aircraft parts to drone industry, one of the key areas of the fourth industrial revolution. Round table with partners At the roundtable talks every year, Korean Boeing and Airbus for joint development projects. The main focus in the Hybrid drones equipped with a hybrid engine composed of an internal Air discusses shared growth with its partners and shares its own current aircraft development process is to maintain the existing safety, combustion engine and a battery can fly for more than two hours and Talent Management business performance, future business plans, and roadmaps to help while securing high efficiency through lighter-weight aircraft, mainly can automate navigation in areas beyond visual line of sight. Hence, partners establish their business plans. Twenty-nine partners in the through use of lightweight materials, such as titanium alloy. Since the they are able to perform tasks such as environmental monitoring, facility manufacturing field and 17 partners in the R&D field were invited to the production process of large structure made with titanium alloy material safety diagnosis, and emergency transportation. Korean Air decided 2019 roundtable conference to have meaningful discussions. is complicated and difficult, the supply relied heavily on overseas to support various technologies necessary for commercialization of manufacturers. Korean Air conducted a joint R&D with its domestic products by signing business agreements with related partners before Quality Symposium The Quality Symposium is held annually since partner, NDT Engineering and Aerospace Co., Ltd., through which producing the hybrid drones developed by Korean Air as an OEM. On 2013 to discuss any difficulties of partners and share trends and NDT Engineering was able to acquire large titanium alloy processing this occasion, Korean Air plans to build a production system that enables information related to customers and quality. The symposium serves as technology. cooperation between large and small companies to grow together in the Shared Growth Management a place for learning, where business partners discuss and benchmark emerging drone market. each other’s business improvements. By localizing the core manufacturing process through the joint development, Korean Air has saved on foreign currency during the Shared growth payment for travel agencies To share the burden of Family event In commemoration of the 50th anniversary of the production and delivery of BL zero code and side fitting, which are large the unfavorable business conditions of the tourism industry from reduced company’s founding in March 2019, Korean Air held a family day event structure titanium alloy parts that make up the body of the Boeing 787 travel to and from overseas, Korean Air has shared its revenue from its at the Busan Tech Center, near where major production facilities of aircraft. NDT Engineering also benefited from this joint R&D project as Japanese routes with about 500 partner traveling agencies from January partners are located. The event was organized to express appreciation it has acquired the technology comparable to that of the top overseas 28 to March 31, 2020. Korean Air plans to create various programs to of partners and their employees’ hard work and to instill a sense of competitors and successfully entered the international market for build a more sustainable business environment and continue supporting community amongst themselves. Korean Air plans to hold more events aircraft titanium alloy processing. The performance was recognized as the mutual growth of the company and our partners. Social Contribution in the future to promote a working environment based on harmony and a successful case of localization of parts through win-win cooperation communication. between major company and small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). It was selected as one of the best practices at the ‘2019 Fair Trade Convention Best Practices Presentation’ held by the Fair-Trade Commission. Risk Management 1 Quality Symposium 2 Family event 3 Presentation of Best Practices of Fair Trade 1 2 3 4 4 Signing an MOU for shared growth in the drone industry OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 48 STORY COMMITMENT WAY Social Contribution As a global airline company and a global COVID-19 Wuhan charter assistance and transportation of Global tree planting project disaster relief goods To respond to global warming issues, and in particular to desertification corporate citizen, Korean Air promotes Talent Management Korean Air operated a special charter flight three times for the return of and yellow dust, Korean Air has been conducting global tree planting the value of sharing in all communities Korean residents who were stranded in Wuhan, China, due to COVID-19. projects. Since 2004, the Korean Air Forest project has been underway around the world where it operates. The voluntary services of Korean Air’s pilots, flight attendants, and in Baganuur, Mongolia, with Korean Air employees and local residents transportation staff have deeply touched Korean citizens. Chairman and students planting trees. As of now, a total of 125,000 trees have Korean Air promotes sharing corporate culture Cho Won-Tae, as the chief executive of the airline, highly praised the been planted. In 2019, employees of Delta Air Lines also participated by participating in various social contribution efforts of the employees who performed a difficult task by participating in the planting event in Mongolia to celebrate the 1st anniversary of the in the operation of the charter flights. Chairman Cho remarked on the joint venture of Korean Air and Delta Air Lines. In addition, the ‘Korean Air activities at the company level, as well as by company’s bulletin board, communication plaza, “We should be honored Green Ecological Park’ project has been operating since 2007 in China’s encouraging the participation of employees. Shared Growth Management to have been called to serve the nation at a time of crisis”. He added, Kubuqi Desert, which is known as one of the source of yellow dust in “We responded to the call and completed the mission successfully. We Asia. As such Korean Air is dedicated to making the earth greener and should feel proud of this achievement.” cleaner. In addition, Korean Air provided emergency relief supplies to residents of Wuhan, China, who were severely affected by COVID-19. On February 19, a total of 40,000 KF94 type masks were delivered to the Chinese Red Cross Society in Beijing via flight KE855, and the masks were sent to a designated hospital in Wuhan. Social Contribution 2 Risk Management 1 COVID-19 Wuhan charter assistance and transportation of disaster relief goods 1 2 Global tree planting project OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 49 STORY COMMITMENT WAY ‘Make Your Dream Come True’ field trip Dream Library in China As a part of community activities, Korean Air has been organizing a field As a part of its social contribution program ‘Loving Heart Project’ in trip experience since 2010 for children living in the vicinity of Gimpo China launched in 2008, Korean Air has been carrying out a Dream Airport in collaboration with the Korea Airports Corporation. For the past Library Project for rural areas every year since 2010. Following the nine years, about 310 children have been provided with opportunities libraries established in Xi’an, Huangshan, Kunming, Shenyang, to travel to various places in Korea, including Jeju Island and Yeosu. Changsha, and Guiyang, in 2019, the 10th Dream Library event was held Talent Management Celebrating the 50th anniversary of Korean Air’s foundation in 2019, at the Tonglu Entrepreneurship School in Tongluheon, Hangzhou. Korean children were invited to Osaka, Japan for a field trip. Korean Air plans Air transformed an old and shabby library into a brand-new library and to continue offering these activities for underprivileged children in the donated supplies and books so that children can pursue their dream in community. the learning space. Shared Growth Management Social Contribution 2 Risk Management 1 ‘Make Your Dream Come True’ field trip 1 2 Dream Library in China OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 50 STORY COMMITMENT WAY Social contribution areas Sharing Dream maker Environment protector • Community volunteering • Dream Library project in China • Korean Air Forest in Baganuur, Mongolia Humble monthly donations • Make Your Dream Come True program • Korean Air Green Ecological Park in China’s • Haneul Sarang (Sky Love) English Class Kubuqi Desert Sky Angels’ volunteering activities Talent Management (including bazaars and kimchi-sharing events) • Fascinating Travels with Korean Air program • Arbor Day event of offering free planting kits Habitat for Humanity Sisterhood ties with rural villages In-house volunteering group activities Cultural sponsorship Sport sponsorship • Disaster relief • Sponsorship to Korean language audio guide • Official sponsorship for international sport Transportation of disaster relief goods service at the world’s three most famous games Disaster relief aids museums and other locations • Korean Air Women’s table tennis team Shared Growth Management • Excellence Program • Korean Air Jumbos volleyball team • Global community volunteering • Children’s Airplane Drawing Contest • Korean Air Chairman Cho Won-Tae serving • Korean Air Travel Photo Contest as the commissioner of the Korean Volleyball Federation Activities 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Humble monthly donation from employees Employee Volunteer Hours (Unit: Hours) Social Contribution Afforestation project in Mongolia 2019 Rice donation Sisterhood ties with rural villages 2.2 2017: 1.9 / 2018: 2.2 Sponsorship of Korean language audio guide service at international museums Love & Care Plans Social Contribution Expenses (Unit: KRW million) Medical volunteering by the Korean Air Risk Management Aeromedical Center 2019 9,357 Inviting underprivileged children to a company tour Free flight tickets to Korea for internationally adopted ethnic Koreans 2017: 9,318 / 2018: 9,744 Sisterhood ties with military units OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 51 STORY COMMITMENT WAY Risk Management Korean Air manages risks preemptively and systematically. To do so, Environmental risks Based on rules for environmental risks prevention Oil price risks As oil purchases account for a high percentage of Korean Air has established rules and guidelines that define potential and emergency response to environmental accidents, a wide range operating costs, changes in oil prices impact profit/loss and cashflow. risks to the company, designate the responsible organization, clarify their of efforts are underway including practice drills for oil and chemical Market prices for petroleum products such as jet fuel fluctuate with Talent Management missions, and delineate emergency response measures. These allow the leaks and environmental emergency response training for relevant various factors, including crude oil production volume, demand employees to respond systematically to risks and subsequently minimize department in regards to ground pollution situation. In addition, Korean forecasts, inventory levels, and speculative demand in the commodity economic loss, damage to our corporate image, and disruption within Air is developing short-cut routes and adopting high-efficiency aircraft to market. The annual jet fuel consumption of Korean Air currently reaches the company. minimize negative impacts on the environment. 33 million barrels, and Korean Air is managing oil price risks through the introduction of new fuel-efficient aircraft and derivatives trading. Non-financial risks Financial risks Tax risks Korean Air’s priority in all business activities is to comply Shared Growth Management Strategic and operational risks A council consisting of the heads Exchange rate risks Korean Air conducts transactions in foreign with tax laws and to faithfully report and pay taxes. In order to do of business divisions meets to review economic, environmental, and currencies and is thus exposed to risks arising from exchange rate so, Korean Air is working with the company’s tax organization and social trends from a company-wide perspective as a means to maximize volatility. As for US dollars, expenditures currently surpass income and internal and external experts to conduct pre-assessment and follow-up corporate value. In addition, internal audits are conducted to assess the existing currency accounts for a high percentage of our foreignmanagement of tax risks that may occur in the course of major goods/ potential risks by business division and ensure the efficient use of currency loans. Therefore, exchange fluctuations considerably impact services transactions, contract changes, and new business promotion. resources. profit/loss and cashflow. Korean Air is managing the exchange rate In addition, Korean Air contributes to the creation of tax revenue by fluctuation risks by reducing the percentage of borrowing in US dollars paying various direct and indirect taxes in sales activities, investments, Regulatory risks A regular monitoring system is in place to ensure through currency diversification based on currencies in surplus, and employment. compliance with laws and regulations, and legal department and inand signing the currency derivatives contracts. In addition, the cash house legal experts are allocated to proactively manage regulatory risks. management system allows monitoring of income and expenditures Social Contribution Korean Air also has implemented the Compliance Program as a means and maintenance of proper balances by currency in order to minimize to prevent the risk of unlawful transactions. negative impacts of exchange rate fluctuation. Event risks The Corporate Safety, Security & Compliance Team was Interest rate risks Korean Air borrows funds at fixed and variable set up to ensure integrated and effective management of all safety interest rates. Floating-rate loans linked to a benchmark rate, such as and security matters in preventing aircraft accidents, hijacking, and the LIBOR rate, impact profit/loss and cashflow with changes in the other incidents, while minimizing losses. Regulations, guidelines, and benchmark rate. Korean Air therefore works to maintain an optimal ratio manuals pertaining to accident responses are published, along with the between fixed-rate and floating-rate borrowings and enter into interest Risk Management establishment of emergency response systems, while company-wide rate swaps considering current interest rates and government policies unannounced drills and training are conducted periodically to enhance regarding key currencies. the company’s capability to respond to accident-related risks. OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 52 STORY COMMITMENT WAY APPENDIX Key Sustainability Indicators | Third-party Assurance Statement | GRI Content Index | UN Global Compact | Awards and Memberships The 23rd Korean Air Travel Photo Contest / Merit Prize / Jeonghyeon Park / Cloud Bridge / Averøy, Norway OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 53 STORY COMMITMENT WAY Key Sustainability Indicators Economic Performance (KRW in million) Key Sustainability 2017 2018 2019 Sales Sales 11,802,819 12,646,865 12,291,668 Indicators Cost of sales 9,660,188 10,646,899 10,750,962 Gross profit 2,142,631 1,999,966 1,540,706 Third-party Selling and administrative expenses 1,186,479 1,348,942 1,254,320 Operating profit (loss) 956,151 651,024 286,386 Assurance Statement Non-operating profit (loss) 261,973 (802,665) (975,112) Net profit (loss) before tax 1,218,124 (151,641) (688,726) Tax expense (profit) 310,244 (31,242) (119,993) Net profit (loss) 907,880 (120,399) (568,733) GRI Content Index Assets Current assets 3,219,951 3,559,769 3,303,526 Non-current assets 20,203,116 20,808,700 22,454,850 Total assets 23,423,067 24,368,469 25,758,376 Current liabilities 6,594,634 7,523,581 7,679,641 UN Global Compact Non-current liabilities 13,156,304 13,959,912 15,260,302 Total liabilities 19,750,938 21,483,493 22,939,942 Capital stock 479,777 479,777 479,777 Other paid-in capital 1,855,996 1,673,931 1,825,592 Other capital components 646,211 580,288 582,659 Awards and Memberships Retained earnings 690,144 150,980 (69,595) Total capital 3,672,128 2,884,976 2,818,433 Total liabilities and equity 23,423,067 24,368,469 25,758,376 * Based on separate financial statements OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 54 STORY COMMITMENT WAY Social Performance Key Sustainability Unit 2017 2018 2019 Employees Total employees Person(s) 20,363 20,654 20,965 Indicators Male Person(s) 11,551 11,632 11,759 Gender Female Person(s) 8,812 9,022 9,206 Third-party Below 30 Person(s) 4,050 3,886 3,899 30-39 Person(s) 6,454 6,623 6,565 Assurance Statement Age 40-49 Person(s) 6,197 5,997 5,888 50 and above Person(s) 3,662 4,148 4,613 Domestic Person(s) 18,330 18,665 18,988 Region Overseas Person(s) 2,033 1,989 1,977 GRI Content Index Male Person(s) 10,904 10,973 11,041 Permanent Female Person(s) 7,795 7,952 7,756 Male Person(s) 647 659 718 Temporary Female Person(s) 1,017 1,070 1,450 Male Person(s) 2,933 3,105 3,258 UN Global Compact Administrative (permanent) Female Person(s) 1,422 1,607 1,786 Male Person(s) 7,971 7,868 7,783 General (permanent) Female Person(s) 6,373 6,345 5,970 Female Percentage of female managers % 33 34 35 New employee hires and employee turnover Awards and Memberships Male Person(s) 382 521 534 New employee hires Female Person(s) 270 743 792 OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 55 STORY COMMITMENT WAY Social Performance Key Sustainability Unit 2017 2018 2019 Below 30 Person(s) 459 990 1,028 30-39 Person(s) 172 258 277 Indicators 40-49 Person(s) 18 12 16 New employee hires 50 and above Person(s) 3 4 5 Third-party Domestic Person(s) 488 966 1,064 Overseas Person(s) 164 298 262 Assurance Statement Male Person(s) 455 435 408 Female Person(s) 607 582 448 Below 30 Person(s) 394 388 262 30-39 Person(s) 325 316 277 GRI Content Index Employee turnover 40-49 Person(s) 187 176 126 50 and above Person(s) 156 137 191 Domestic Person(s) 711 671 578 Overseas Person(s) 351 346 278 Local employment UN Global Compact Employees at overseas regional offices Person(s) 2,281 2,228 2,212 Percentage of local employees % 89 89 89 Local employees Percentage of local managers % 14 13 13 Percentage of female employees % 57 57 58 Maternity protection system Awards and Memberships Taking a leave after/before childbirth Person(s) 600 591 517 Taking a leave after/before childbirth Returning-to-work rate % 100 100 100 Maternity leave Person(s) 446 396 395 OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 56 STORY COMMITMENT WAY Social Performance Key Sustainability Unit 2017 2018 2019 Parental leave Person(s) 619 606 536 Percentage of male employees Indicators % 6 9 12 taking parental leave Rate of return to work (Male employees) % 100 96 96 Parental leave Rate of return to work (Female employees) % 93 91 93 Third-party One-year retention rate after returning % 78 89 83 to work (Male employees) Assurance Statement One-year retention rate after returning % 89 89 88 to work (Female employees) Employee training Training hours per employee Hour(s) 76 89 122 Performance Online training programs Program(s) 1,669 2,117 2,033 GRI Content Index Graduate school scholarships for Lifelong learning support Person(s) 120 101 105 employees Social contribution Volunteer hours per employee Hour(s) 1.9 2.2 2.2 Performance Social contribution expenses KRW million 9,318 9,744 9,357 UN Global Compact Data security Domestic Person(s) 25,220 33,459 36,175 Data security training Overseas Person(s) 5,482 5,152 5,452 Customer privacy Number of customer data breach reports Case(s) 0 0 0 Pension funds and contributions Awards and Memberships National Pension System KRW 100 million 391.9 413.2 447.5 Personal pension KRW 100 million 102.3 104.5 104.9 Contribution to the corporate credit union KRW 100 million 120.4 126.8 133.6 Total KRW 100 million 614.6 644.5 686.0 OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 57 STORY COMMITMENT WAY Environmental Performance Key Sustainability Unit 2017 2018 2019 Fuel and energy Aircraft operations (International and Domestic Flights) Jet fuel tons 4,179,211 4,168,144 4,176,907 Indicators Gas/Diesel GJ 108,640 110,434 107,375 By-product fuel No. 1 GJ 13,271 12,638 8,708 Third-party By-product fuel No. 2 GJ 286,852 282,627 275,144 Ground operations: Gasoline GJ 10,609 10,793 11,780 Direct energy use (Domestic) Assurance Statement Jet fuel GJ 14,216 10,351 6,172 LNG GJ 265,778 270,903 271,711 LPG GJ 6,082 7,093 5,146 Electricity GJ 1,357,395 1,348,387 1,317,038 GRI Content Index Ground operations: Indirect energy use (Domestic) Medium-temperature water (steam) GJ 29,043 28,883 31,548 Aircraft operations MJ/RTK 10.94 10.99 11.98 Energy intensity Ground operations GJ/KRW billion 177.23 163.71 160.65 GHG emissions GHG emissions from aircraft operations Scope1 tCO2eq 13,302,627 13,267,107 13,291,765 UN Global Compact Scope1 tCO2eq 45,208 45,942 44,048 GHG emissions from ground operations Scope2 tCO2eq 67,207 66,768 65,331 Aircraft operations kg_CO2eq/100RTK 81.3 81.8 83.6 GHG emissions intensity Ground operations ton_CO2e/KRW 1 billion 9.52 8.91 8.62 GHG emissions reduction Awards and Memberships Lasting effect tCO2 253,827 263,939 267,778 GHG emissions reduction Permanent effect tCO2 10,005 14,178 7,413 Total tCO2 263,831 278,117 275,191 OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 58 STORY COMMITMENT WAY Environmental Performance Key Sustainability Unit 2017 2018 2019 Water resource Quantity of water intake tons 1,400,279 1,512,526 1,469,305 Indicators Surface water tons Water consumption Ground water tons 213,947 240,069 246,852 Third-party Water utility and other supply systems tons 1,186,332 1,272,457 1,222,453 Recycled amount tons 24,979 18,428 25,000 Assurance Statement Water recycling Recycling rate % 1.8 1.2 1.7 BOD tons 29.977 47.665 37.995 COD tons 13.625 18.407 17.524 Water pollutant discharge SS tons 8.856 12.876 12.545 GRI Content Index T-N tons 2.593 2.123 1.748 T-P tons 0.686 0.822 0.812 Air Dust tons 17 14 10 THC tons 32 23 22 UN Global Compact Air pollutant emissions NOx tons 70,409 70,377 70,620 SOx tons 10 6 6 SO2 tons 4,160 4,150 4,162 Awards and Memberships OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 59 STORY COMMITMENT WAY Environmental Performance Key Sustainability Unit 2017 2018 2019 Waste General tons 26,848 27,900 28,013 Indicators Amount of waste generated Hazardous tons 816 988 808 Total tons 27,664 28,888 28,821 Third-party General % 36.9 35.0 39.2 Percentage of recycling Hazardous % 29.4 22.2 29.4 Assurance Statement Total % 36.7 34.5 38.9 Incineration tons 17,074 18,429 17,447 Waste disposal Landfill tons 442 485 167 Recycling tons 10,149 9,974 11,207 GRI Content Index Environmental education Basic training man-hour 1,701 5,377 7,329 Environmental education Job-specific training man-hour 1,258 1,354 1,035 On-the-job training man-hour 2,203 2,166 4,244 UN Global Compact Awards and Memberships OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 60 STORY COMMITMENT WAY Third-party Assurance Statement Dear Korean Air Management and Stakeholders Introduction Inclusivity Key Sustainability Indicators The Korean Standards Association (“KSA”) was commissioned by January 1, 2019, to December 31, 2019, and the assurance focused Has Korean Air engaged its stakeholders in strategically responding to Korean Air to perform a third-party Assurance Engagement of ‘Korean on systems and activities including policies and goals, businesses and sustainability? Air sustainability Report 2020’ (the “Report”). KSA presents independent programs, standards, and achievements of the Company’s sustainability We believe Korean Air is aware of the importance of stakeholder opinions as follows as a result of the feasibility of the data contained management. While the company’s environmental and social data, participation and is making an all-out effort to establish a process that in this Report. Korean Air has sole responsibility for content and as well as financial data, was verified, the scope of review concerning will increase their participation. Korean Air has selected stakeholders Third-party performance contained in this Report. stakeholder engagement was limited to the materiality analysis process. including government and related organizations, employees, corporate customers, individuals, partner companies, local communities and Assurance Statement local government body to receive diverse feedback and opinions. Independence Assurance Methodology As an independent assurance agency, KSA does not have any kinds of We used the following methods to gather information, documents, and Materiality commercial interest in businesses of Korean Air apart from undertaking evidence concerning the assurance scope. Has Korean Air included material information in the Report to help a third-party assurance on the Report. We have no other contract stakeholders make informed decisions? GRI Content Index with Korean Air that may undermine credibility and integrity as an • Research and analyses on the articles related to Korean Air’s We are not aware of any significant omissions or exclusions of data independent assurance agency. sustainability management published by media outlets that is material to stakeholders. We verified that Korean Air conducted • In-person visit and interviews with managers of related issue and materiality analysis with issues identified from analyses of internal sustainability manager and external environments and reported according to the result. Assurance Standards and Level • Review of the management system and process used in improving the This Assurance Engagement followed the AA1000AS (2008 with 2018 performance of sustainability management and preparing the Report Responsiveness addendum) assurance standards to provide Moderate Level assurance. • Review of the consistency between the financial performance data and Has Korean Air appropriately responded to stakeholder requirements UN Global Compact We checked the four principles of inclusivity, materiality, responsiveness, the company’s audit report/publicly disclosed data and interest in this Report? and impact in combination with information credibility of the Report. We • Examination of internal documents and basic materials We verified that Korean Air responded to stakeholders’ needs and also reviewed whether the Report content was created in accordance interests through reflecting stakeholders’ opinions in the Report. with the GRI Standards. We are not aware of any evidence that Korean Air’s response to Assurance Results and Opinions significant issues of stakeholders was reported inappropriately. [On an assurance principle/process level] Awards and Memberships Assurance Type and Scope KSA reviewed the draft version of this Report to present our opinions as Impact This Assurance Engagement followed the AA1000AS (2008) assurance an assurance provider. Modifications were made of the Report content Has Korean Air appropriately monitored its impact on the stakeholders? standards to provide Type 2 assurance, which means that the assurance if deemed necessary. We were not aware of any significant errors or We verified that the Korean Air is monitoring and assessing its impact assessed the accuracy and reliability of the company’s statements and inappropriate descriptions in this Report as a result of our Assurance on the stakeholders by conducting an enhanced verification of its performance data provided in the Report. The assurance scope is from Engagement. As such, we present our opinions of the Korean Air standard business activities. Furthermore, it has been verified that Sustainability Report 2020 as follows. Korean Air appropriately publishes its findings in the Report. OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 61 STORY COMMITMENT WAY GRI Standards Application Opinions and Recommendations [Performance /Issues] We confirmed that this Report was prepared in accordance with GRI We present the following recommendations to help Korean Air establish Social Standards Core Option. Based on data Korean Air provided, we also a company-wide sustainability management strategy and respond to Through the annual sustainability report, Korean Air shares with Key Sustainability confirmed the validity of the contents related to General Standard continuous issues of sustainability. stakeholders its goals, activities, and performance in economic, social, Disclosure and Specific Standard Disclosure. and environmental areas. Korean Air actively promotes stakeholder Indicators Economic engagement in expert meetings and encourages them to discuss Universal Standards As the largest airline company in Korea, Korean Air leads the global the direction of Korean Air’s sustainable development in each field We have verified that the Report complies with the requirements of airline industry, and is working to provide safe and high-quality services of sustainability management. This year, Korean Air has successfully Third-party the Universal Standards of Core Option, and reviewed the following to customers under the slogan of Excellence in Flight. Korean Air is identified potential positive and negative impacts of activities related disclosures: advancing to become a global airline that leads the global aviation to the UN Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) and reported Assurance Statement industry based on its core values of safety and customer-oriented the achievements and performance of those activities. We recommend 102-1 to 102-13(Organizational profile), 102-14(Strategy), 102service. COVID-19 has created a challenging environment for the establishing specific goals for each of the SDGs and continuously 16 to 102-17(Ethics and Integrity), 102-18(Governance), 102-40 aviation industry around the world and significantly reduced sales and sharing the company’s progress and performance through the to 102-44(Stakeholder Engagement), 102-45 to 102-56(Reporting profitability this year. To better respond to the changes in the global sustainability report. In addition, we recommend establishing the Practice), 103(Management Approach) business environment, we ask that Korean Air continues to cooperate KPI that can encompass all the topics for each of the four major GRI Content Index with its customers and business partners and to effectively manage commitments, setting midand long-term goals to achieve the KPI, and Topic-specific Standards financial and non-financial risks. reporting the performance for the development of a more systematic We have checked the material topics identified from a materiality framework for sustainability management. analysis process in which content to be disclosed. We examined Environmental disclosures below: Korean Air has faithfully conducted the required materiality assessment July 2020 • Economy: 201-1, 205-2, 206-1 and released the relevant environmental information, including its Sang-Jin Lee, KSA Chairman & CEO • Environment: 302-1, 302-3, 302-4, 305-1, 305-2, 305-4, 305-5, response to climate change. This is considered as an advanced UN Global Compact 305-7, 306-2 and positive approach, in terms of corporate sustainability and • Social: 401-2, 401-3, 402-1, 403-3, 404-1, 404-2, 413-1, 416-1, communication with stakeholders. In particular, the replacement of 417-1, 417-2, 417-3, 418-1 plastic straws and cups to reduce waste is an exemplary case of environmental conservation. In the face of the current global crisis, air travel is expected to decrease further, which, in turn, will naturally reduce greenhouse gas emissions. It is thus necessary to take a Awards and Memberships macroscopic approach when analyzing risk and opportunity factors The Korean Standards Association (KSA), established as a special corporation in accordance and making decisions related to the core values of the company. If with the Law for Industrial Standardization in 1962, serves as a knowledge service provider that distributes and disseminates such services as industrial standardization, quality Korean Air can find a new approach in accordance with the changes in management, sustainability management, KS certification and ISO certification. The KSA is committed to the sustainable development of Korean society as an ISO 26000 national the global management environment after the pandemic, it will be able secretary, certified GRI training partner, AA1000 assurance provider, KSI (Korea Sustainability to accomplish remarkable organizational performance on major issues. Index) operator, and UN CDM DOE (development operational entity), and as an assurance provider of the Korean government’s greenhouse gas energy target management system. OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 62 STORY COMMITMENT WAY GRI Content Index GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) is an independent international organization that provides sustainability reporting guidelines and recommends businesses to publish the reports. Korean Air Sustainability Report is prepared in accordance with GRI Standards Core Option and is disclosed transparently. Key Sustainability Topic Disclosure Page General Disclusures Indicators 102-1 Name of the organization 7 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 8-10 102-3 Location of headquarters 7 102-4 Location of operations 11 Third-party Assurance Statement 102-5 Ownership and legal form 7 102-6 Markets served 8-11 Organizational Profile 102-7 Scale of the organization 7 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 40, 54 GRI Content Index 102-9 Supply chain 45-47 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain No significant changes 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 36-37 102-12 External initiatives 66-67 102-13 Membership of associations 67 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4 UN Global Compact Strategy 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 21 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 28 Ethics and Integrity 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 28 Governance 102-18 Governance structure 26-27 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 18 Awards and Memberships 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 44 Stakeholder Engagement 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 18 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 18 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 19 OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 63 STORY COMMITMENT WAY Key Sustainability Topic Disclosure Page 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements The 2019 annual report Indicators 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 21 102-47 List of material topics 21 102-48 Restatements of information Not applicable 102-49 Changes in reporting 21 Third-party Assurance Statement 102-50 Reporting period 68 Management Approach 102-51 Date of most recent report Aug. 2019 102-52 Reporting cycle 68 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 68 GRI Content Index 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 68 102-55 GRI content index 62-65 102-56 External assurance 60-61 Topic-specific Standards GRI 200: Economic Performance 103 Management Approach 12-13 UN Global Compact GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 18 103 Management Approach 25 GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 28 103 Management Approach 25 GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior 2016 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices The 2019 annual report Awards and Memberships OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 64 STORY COMMITMENT WAY Key Sustainability Topic Disclosure Page GRI 300: Environmental Performance Indicators 103 Management Approach 33 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 57 GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-3 Energy intensity 57 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 34-35 Third-party Assurance Statement 103 Management Approach 33 GRI 303: Water 2016 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource 58 303-3 Water withdrawal 58 103 Management Approach 33 GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016 GRI Content Index 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity 37 103 Management Approach 33 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 57 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 57 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 57 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 34, 57 UN Global Compact 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other significant air emissions 58 103 Management Approach 33 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 59 103 Management Approach 33 GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations No cases of violation Awards and Memberships OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 65 STORY COMMITMENT WAY Key Sustainability Topic Disclosure Page GRI 400: Social Performance Indicators 103 Management Approach 40-44 GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees 43 401-3 Parental leave 41, 56 103 Management Approach 44 Third-party GRI 402: Labor/Management 2016 50 days for layoff; 30 days for dismissal; and Assurance Statement 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes when changes in business operations occur GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 103 Management Approach 22, 24 2016 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 41-42 103 Management Approach 42-43 GRI Content Index GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 56 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 42-43 103 Management Approach 48-50 GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 48-50 103 Management Approach 22 GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 UN Global Compact 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories 23-24 103 Management Approach 29 GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labeling No cases of violation 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications No cases of violation 103 Management Approach 29 GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 Awards and Memberships 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data 32 OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 66 STORY COMMITMENT WAY UN Global Compact The UN Global Compact is an international agreement initiated by the United Nations that calls on companies to align strategies and operations with ten principles on human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption efforts. Since we joined the program in support of these principles in July 2007, we have been submitting the CoP (Communication on Progress) reports, and will continue to work on their implementation. Key Sustainability Area Principles Reporting pages Indicators 1. We support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. P. 28 Human rights P. 40-44 2. We ensure that we are not complicit in human rights abuses. Third-party 3. We uphold the freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4. We uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Assurance Statement Labor P. 40-44 5. We uphold the effective abolition of child labor. 6. We uphold the elimination of discrimination in employment and occupation. 7. We support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. GRI Content Index Environment 8. We undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. P. 33-38 9. We encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption 10. We work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. P. 28 UN Global Compact Awards and Memberships OUR OUR OUR APPENDIX 2020 Korean Air Sustainability Report 67 STORY COMMITMENT WAY Awards and Memberships Awards Awarded by Date Key Sustainability Best Airline KOREA Travellers’ Choice Major Airline Asia TripAdvisor April 3, 2019 Indicators First place in the air passenger transport services sector Global Management Association June 20, 2019 of the Global Customer Satisfaction Competency Index (GCSI) 2020 Official Airline Ratings™ Five Star Global Airlines Airline Passenger Experience Association (APEX) September 10, 2019 First place in Korea Service Quality Index in the airline sector Korea Standards Association October 29, 2019 Third-party 20 Top Airlines in the World for 2020 AirlineRatings.com November 25, 2019 Assurance Statement Category Associations/Organizations GRI Content Index International Air Transport Association (IATA), Association of Asia Pacific Airlines (AAPA), SkyTeam, Korea Civil Aviation Association, Aviation Management Society of Korea, Federation of Korea Aeronautics, Korea Aeronautical Engineers’ Association, Korean Association of Air and Space Law, Korean Society for Aeronautical & Space Sciences, Korean Society for Composite Materials, Korea Institute of Military Science and Technology, Society for Aviation Aerospace System Engineering, Korean Society of Propulsion Engineers, Korea Association of Defense Industry Studies, Korea Remotely Piloted Aircraft Safety Association, Korea UVS Association, Korea Defense Industry Association, Korea Aerospace Industries Association, Korea Industrial Technology Association, Daedeok Innopolis Defense Industries Committee, Korea Aerospace Technology Research Association, Korean Defense Industry Council on Security, Korea Fire Safety Association Korea Business Council for Sustainable Development, Federation of Korean Industries, Korea Economic Research Institute, Korea Employers Federation, Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Federation of Economic Economy organizations, Korea-U.S. Economic Council, Korea-Japan Economic Association, Korea Listed Companies Association, Korea Exchange, Korea Customs Logistics Association, Korea International Trade Association UN Global Compact Environment Green Companies Council, Gangseo Business Group for Environmental Practices, Voluntary Agreement of the Aviation Industry on GHG Reductions UN Global Compact, Asia Society Korea Center, Korea AEO Association, Korea Management Association, Korean Council on the Protection of Personal Information, Korea-Mongolia Forum, Korea Defense Transportation Society Association, Korea Support Committee for the International Vaccine Institute Awards and Memberships Reporting standards: GRI Standards (Core Option) Reporting period: January – December 2019 Reporting scope: Korean Air’s business premises at home and abroad, including the headquarters in Seoul Reporting cycle: Annual Third-party assurance: Korean Standards Association (KSA) Disclosure principle: The report is available online on Korean Air’s website (koreanair.com) Contact: Corporate Management Team of the Corporate Strategy & Planning Division, Korean Air csr_report@koreanair.com 260 Haneul-gil, Gangseo-gu, Seoul, Korea , Postal Code 07505 Tel +82-2-2656-7114 www.koreanair.com
