2019 Social Responsibility Report China National Machinery Industry Corporation About this Report Reporting Period January 1, 2019-December 31, 2019. The Report also includes additional contents and data that predates the stated reporting period. Reporting Cycle This Report is annually published and it is the tenth social responsibility report released by China National Machinery Industry Corporation (hereinafter referred to as “SINOMACH”). Reporting Scope China National Machinery Industry Corporation headquarters and its subsidiaries (see “About Us” for organizational structure). Reporting Data Sources All data in this Report comes from SINOMACH’s statistical reports, financial reports and other official documents, and has been audited by relevant departments. Compilation Conformance Guidelines to the State-owned Enterprises Directly under the Central Government on Fulfilling Corporate Social Responsibilities by Stateowned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council (the SASAC) GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards by Global Sustainability Standards Board(GRI Standards) ISO 26000 Guidance on Social Responsibility (2010) by International Organization for Standardization (ISO) GB/T 36001 Guidance on Social Responsibility Reporting by Standardization Administration of the People’s Republic of China Guidelines on Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting for Chinese Enterprises (CASS-CSR4.0) by ChiThe “M” element represents the leading role of nese Academy of Social Sciences (CASS) SINOMACH in the machinery industry. The “M” Guidelines on Social Responsibility of Chinese Industrial Enterprises and Industrial Associations by image also indicates the Group’s ambition to reChina Industrial Economic Federation vitalize China’s machinery industry and become a major player in the world. Based on the stable triangle, the logo, with the References block structure as design element, fully shows In this Report, “SINOMACH”, “the Group”, “the Company”, or “We” refer to China National MachinSINOMACH’s feature as a machinery enterprise, ery Industry Corporation. and the sincere, prudential and practical corporate image of SINOMACH. Access to this Report In the logo, the Chinese character“ 人 ” (“human This Report is prepared and released in both Chinese and English versions, and is available in paper being” in English) highlights SINOMACH’s peoand electronic formats. If you need the paper version, please contact us. You may visit our website ple-oriented philosophy. With talented people or scan the QR code below to download the electronic version. gathering together, it contributes to the future development of the machinery industry. The triangular shape symbolizes a majestic China National Machinery Industry Corporation mountain. The “M” element looks like an eagle Address: No.3 Danling Street, Haidian District, Beijing spreading its wings and soaring at the peak, P.C: 100080 which implies that SINOMACH challenges itself unceasingly and seeks for new development. Contact Person: He Yuan Tel.: 86 10 82606741 Fax: 86 10 82688724 E-mail: heyuan@sinomach.com.cn Website: http://www.sinomach.com.cn Scan to download the report Contents 01 02 03 04 Message from the Chairman Value-creating Innovative Green SINOMACH SINOMACH SINOMACH 06 CSR Data 2019 Making Contributions to Driving Reform and Building a 08 About Us the Real Economy Transformation Beautiful China 16 Social Responsibility Management 30 High-quality Development 42 Technological Innovation 52 Environmental Management Management 20 CSR Focus A: 31 Deepening Reforms 43 Technological Innovation 54 Green Operation Implementing the Belt and Road Capabilities 34 Basic Management Technological Innovation Initiative to Deepen International 46 58 Green Life Achievements Communication and Cooperation 36 Business Development 49 Exchanges on Technological 24 24CSR责任聚焦 Focus B:B： Innovation Innovating in Targeted Poverty Alleviation to End Poverty 04 05 Responsible Happy SINOMACH SINOMACH 80 Key Performance Sharing the Fruits of Bringing Our Dream 81 Outlook Development to Fruition 82 Reporting Index 62 Win-win Partnerships 72 Protection of Rights and Interests 83 Comparison Table with the 66 Work Safety Ten Principles of UN Global 74 Employee DevelopCompact ment 68 Contribution to 84 Feedback Form Community Development 76 Employee Care 04 China National Machinery Industry Corporation 2019 Social Responsibility Report 05 Message from the Chairman for corporate development, which guarantees protection, we promote green office and public press, and to supervise. To empower the Group that the Group realizes progress while ensuring welfare practices. In 2019, we invested RMB with talents, we unblock channels for employstability, makes achievements in spite of diffi47.361 million in environmental protection. ees’ career development and help employees culties, and improves production and operation Our comprehensive energy consumption was be more competent. Paying much attention to steadily. In 2019, we generated operating reve568,000 tons of standard coal (tce), the compreemployees’ work and life as well as physical and nue of RMB 297.91 billion and operating profits hensive energy consumption per RMB 10,000 mental health, we strive to create a safe and of RMB 10.26 billion, ranking 250th in the Forof output value was 0.1180 tce and the compresound working environment. In 2019, we investtune Global 500 list. hensive energy consumption per RMB 10,000 of ed RMB 92.015 million in education and training revenue was 0.0034 tce. of employees, and raised RMB 5.947 million We enhance reforms and innovation to gaththrough the “SINOMACH Love Fund”. We held er momentum for development. SINOMACH We uphold win-win strategy to share the the 5th “Harmonious SINOMACH Cup” employpromotes reforms of enterprises and the pilot achievements of development. To achieve ee table tennis and badminton competition, and project for state-owned capital investment friendly and mutually beneficial development, contributed to a “Happy SINOMACH.” companies. By integrating resources of core SINOMACH has integrated social responsibility enterprises or listed companies, we have esinto daily operation and management, optiWe keep forging ahead and shape a bright futablished a core business platform of scientific mized the procurement system, focused on ture in the strong tide of competition. 2020 is research institutes, incorporated SINOMACH high-quality products, improved services, and a year for securing a decisive victory in building Engineering Group, adjusted the business struclaunched strategic partnerships with governa moderately prosperous society in all respects, Zhang Xiaolun tures, and enhanced corporate governance. We ment authorities, enterprises, universities, and a year for the completion of the 13th Five-year Chairman of SINOMACH have deepened brand integration, worked for other stakeholders. In 2019, insisting on putting Plan, and also a critical year for SINOMACH to the “Great SINOMACH” corporate image, and safety first, attaching great importance to the reform and develop. We will coordinate panconstantly enhanced our brand influence. We prevention of accidents, and carrying out comdemic prevention and control economic and sohave steadily progressed the “double-hundred prehensive management, we invested RMB 840 cial development, seek progress while maintainaction” and the mixed-ownership reform, and million in work safety to enhance employees’ ing stability, and press on with untiring efforts. China National Electric Apparatus Research awareness and ability and earnestly promote We will vigorously promote high-quality reforms Institute Co., Ltd. has been listed on the STAR work safety management system and the modand forge ahead to become a world-class enterMarket, which has contributed to constant ernization of governance capabilities. In the prise. We will make greater contributions to the improvements of technological innovation capa2019 poverty alleviation appraisal, carried out Chinese dream of building a moderately prosbilities and achievements, better technological by the State Council Leading Group Office of perous society in all aspects and bringing about management, and sound incentive mechanisms Poverty Alleviation and Development, we were a great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation. for technological personnel. In 2019, SINOMACH rated “Good”. We also actively engaged in pubinvested RMB 7.17 billion in scientific research, lic welfare in line with the poverty alleviation authorized 1,506 patents, hired a new academimodel of “taking root in education, developing cian from the Chinese Academy of Engineering, industry, supporting agricultural machinery, 2019 marked the 70th anniversary of the by the SASAC, and further improve the plan and won a second prize of the National Science and facilitating people’s livelihood”. We investfounding of the People’s Republic of China; it of establishing major national technological and Technology Award. ed RMB 30.497 million in poverty alleviation, was also a year for SINOMACH to break through equipment innovation institutes. By leveraging benefiting 319,000 poor people from 97,000 our scientific research institutes, we promote We promote green development and conand thrive. As domestic and international risks households. All the 4 counties included in the and challenges significantly increased and the the commercialization of core technological tribute to ecological security. SINOMACH partner assistance program were all lifted out of growth of the machinery industry declined, achievements and consolidate the industrial thoroughly implements the concept of “lucid poverty, providing strong support for the fight SINOMACH adhering to the general principle foundation, and enhance the modernization waters and lush mountains are invaluable asagainst poverty. of “pursuing progress while ensuring stability”, of industrial chains, with a focus on industrial sets” and contributes to a beautiful China. We SINOMACH promoted innovative, coordinated, capabilities and technologies. We thoroughly have optimized the green management model We pool the strengths and wisdom of employgreen, open, and shared development, striving implement the Belt and Road Initiative and and toughened investigation of environmental ees to bring out their potential. Adhering to to usher in a new period of high-quality develrisks, which lays a solid foundation for green the concept of “people-oriented development”, expand overseas markets. The Great Stone opment. industrial park has been approved as the first development. Insisting on green operation, we SINOMACH insists on equal employment, imWe remain true to the original aspiration and regional special economic zone in Belarus, and a have built a green industrial system, worked proves the remuneration and benefits system, achieve stable operation. Focusing on national total of 60 enterprises have settled in the indushard on green design, green manufacturing, and enhances employees’ sense of gain. We strategies and our main responsibilities, we trial park. To advance the modernization of the green engineering, etc., realizing the integration make every effort to meet employees’ needs, fulfill all tasks, use advantages, and serve the corporate governance system and governance of environmental protection and corporate depromote democratic management, and protect needs of the country. We actively make breakvelopment. Being an advocate of environmental employees’ rights to know, to participate, to excapabilities, we have laid a solid foundation throughs in key technologies project launched 06 China National Machinery Industry Corporation 2019 Social Responsibility Report 07 CSR Data 2019 Social Responsibility Performance Honors and Awards RMB 7.17 billion 1,506 NO .1 Scientific research investment National patents（Items） 389 5 China’s Top 100 Enterprises in 383.61 Provincial and ministerial-level and Academicians national industrial awards（Items） the Machinery Industry for 11 RMB billion consecutive years 65 Total assets th 47.361 RMB 297.91 billion RMB million China’s Top 500 19 250 Total investment in environmental protection Enterprises th Operating revenue 68.53 ENR Top 250 International RMB Equities attributable to equity holders of the parent company billion 672,000 tce th Contractors Total energy consumption Fortune Global 500 RMB 10.26 Total profits billion 0.1180 tce 1,590.4 tons Comprehensive energy consumption per RMB 10,000 SO2 emission of output value RMB 11.37 Total taxation billion 146,792 100 Number of employees % Labor contract signing rate 23 rd China’s Top 500 Foreign Trade 50 th Enterprises RMB 30.497 100 million % RMB 840 million ERN Top 225 International Design Firms Total investment in targeted Employees’ physical examination Work safety input poverty alleviation 08 China National Machinery Industry Corporation 2019 Social Responsibility Report 09 About Us Company Profile Overseas markets of SINOMACH China National Machinery Industry Corporation (SINOMACH), formerly known as the First Ministry of Machinery Industry established on Aug 7, 1952, is an important state-owned enterprise directly managed by the central government. The Group inherited over 70 research and design institutes, equipment manufacturing and industrial and trade enterNorth prises from the predecessor and realized further developAmerica Europe ment. SINOMACH has over 140,000 employees, over 27 wholly-owned or majority-owned subsidiaries, and 13 listed companies. The Group is a Fortune Global 500 company and has ranked first among the top 100 enterprises in China’s France Poland Asia machinery industry for many consecutive years. SINOMACH is an international, diversified, comprehensive Serbia Luxembourg industrial equipment company committed to providing qualGermany Austria ity services globally. Our primary businesses cover five main United Kingdom Italy areas in equipment manufacturing and modern manufacturing services, namely equipment manufacturing, technologiRussia Netherlands cal R&D, project contracting, trade and services, and finance Belarus Finland and investment. Our service scope covers critical national Romania Macedonia economic fields such as machinery, energy, transportation, automobiles, shipbuilding, metallurgy, construction, elecUkraine Slovenia tronics, environmental engineering, aeronautics and astronautics, and light industry. The Group has a market presence Australia United States Africa in five continents, with more than 300 overseas service Papua New Guinea Mexico agencies in over 100 countries and regions. Canada SINOMACH serves national strategies and people’s liveliCuba hood, takes revitalizing the machinery sector as our own South Costa Rica America responsibility, and aims at building a world-class enterprise. For years, we have accelerated reforms and development, Nicaragua continued with technological innovations, innovated in manOceania Panama agement and business models, promoted further resource optimization, rebuilt core competencies, and accelerated the British Bermuda pace of “going global”. We have developed into a super-large Haiti conglomerate with the most diverse lines of businesses, strongest R&D capabilities, the most international operations, and an excellent supply chain in China’s machinery industry. Adhering to the business philosophy of “work together, win together”, we are devoted to developing the corporate culture of “harmony” and focus on building a value-creating, Hong Kong, China Vietnam Azerbaijan innovative, green, responsible and happy SINOMACH by Sudan Guinea Equatorial Guinea Macao, China Bangladesh Iran high-quality development. We strive to build four platforms South Sudan Nigeria Republic of Congo of strategic resource integration, technological innovation, Japan Pakistan Kuwait industry investment and international development to faEgypt Niger The Democratic Republic of the Congo Mongolia India Oman cilitate the five major businesses and build SINOMACH as Libya Cote d’Ivoire Zambia Myanmar Nepal United Arab Emirates world-class comprehensive equipment industry group with Tunisia Ghana Angola Venezuela Colombia global competitiveness. Cambodia Sri Lanka Saudi Arabia Kenya Benin Zimbabwe Ecuador Bolivia Indonesia Maldives Yemen Ethiopia Togo Mozambique Brazil Uruguay Laos Turkmenistan Georgia Tanzania Mauritania Botswana Chile Peru Malaysia Kazakhstan Iraq Uganda Chad Namibia Argentina Philippines Kyrgyzstan Turkey Senegal Cameroon South Africa Singapore Uzbekistan Qatar Thailand Tajikistan 10 China National Machinery Industry Corporation 2019 Social Responsibility Report 11 Secondary Subsidiaries Listed Companies No. Company Name English Abbreviation 1 China Machinery Engineering Corporation CMEC Hong Kong Shenzhen Stock Exchange Shanghai Stock Exchange Exchanges and 2 China CAMC Engineering Co., Ltd. CAMCE Clearing Limited 3 China HiTech Group Corporation CHTC 4 China Foma (Group) Co., Ltd. CFMC 5 China Ocean Aviation Group Inc. COAG 6 China Geo-Equipment Corporation CGEG CAMCE CEI YTO YTO 7 China Machinery Industry Corporation SINOCONST 002051.SZ 688128.SH 601038.SH 0038.HK 8 China National Machine Tool Sales and Technical Service Corporation CNMTC 9 China CACS Engineering Corporation CACS 10 SINOMACH Finance Co., Ltd. SINOMF 11 SINOMACH Automobile Co., Ltd. SINOMACH AUTO SINOMACH ZYS AUTO LINHAI POWER CMEC 12 China Machinery international Corporation SINOMACHINT 002046.SZ 600335.SH 600099.SH 1829.HK 13 SINOMACH Capital Management Corporation SINOMACH CAPITAL 14 SINOMACH Capital Holding Co., Ltd. SCHC 15 China Academy of Agricultural Mechanization Sciences CAAMS 16 SINOMACH Science and Technology Research Institute Co., Ltd. SINOMACH STRI CHTC JWTM SUMEC Lanke Fong’s 17 SINOMACH Heavy Equipment Group Co., Ltd. SINOMACH HE 000666.SZ 600710.SH 601798.SH 0641.HK 18 YTO Group Corporation YTO 19 SUMEC Group Corporation SUMEC 20 China Perfect Machinery Industry Corp.,Ltd. CPF 21 China United Engineering Corporation CUC Sinomach 22 SIPPR Engineering Group Co., Ltd. SIPPR General KAMA Machinery 600444.SH 900953.SH 23 Hefei General Machinery Research Institute Co., Ltd GMRI 24 Luoyang Bearing Science and Technology Co., Ltd. ZYS 25 China National Electric Apparatus Research Institute Co., Ltd. CEI 26 SINOMACH Intelligence Technology Co.,Ltd. SINOMACH INTELTECH 27 Guilin Electrical Equipment Scientific Research Institute Co., Ltd. GLESI 12 China National Machinery Industry Corporation 2019 Social Responsibility Report 13 Corporate Governance Corporate Strategy SINOMACH is a solely SOE registered in ulations. The SASAC performs duties as the of corporate governance to be responsible accordance with the Company Law of the contributor of SINOMACH according to law for studying and making decisions on major Development Goals People’s Republic of China , the Law of the upon the authorization of the State Council. issues related to the reform and developPeople’s Republic of China on State-owned The Group sets the Board of Directors as the ment. Assets in Enterprises and other laws and regGroup’s decision-making body and the core SINOMACH continues to top the list of China’s Top 100 Enterprises in Machinery Industry, and rank middle among the Fortune Global 500. SINOMACH Overall Orientation To better serve national strategies and undertake missions of industry development with stronger corporate competitiveness, SINOMACH has made trial reforms in accordance with the requirements on state capital investment and management companies. Centering on the two sectors of equipment manufacturing and modern manufacturing services, the Group is devoted to building four platforms of strategic resource integration, technological innovation, industry investment and international development. The five major sectors, namely equipment manufacturing, technological R&D, project contracting, trade and Equipment Manufacturing services, and finance and investment, will also enjoy coordinated development accordingly. All these will contribute to building SINOMACH as a world-class comprehensive equipment industry group with global General Office (Office of the Party Committee, Office of the Board of Directors) Strategic Investment Department Sci-Tech Development Department (Military Industry Management Office) Human Resources Department (Organization Department of the Party Committee) Assets and Finance Department Auditing and Legal Affairs Department (Work Safety Department, Office for Energy Party Committee Department (Publicity Department of the Party Committee, Office of Discipline Inspection Committee Office of Inspection Work Leading Group (Office of Party Conduct and Clean Department competitiveness. Project Contracting Business Orientation Targets two main areas Department Equipment machinery Modern manufacturing service Five major business sectors Equipment manufacturing Technological R&D Project contracting United Front Work Department of the Party Committee, Corporate Culture Trade Services Trade and services Finance and investment Department (including automobile trade and exhibition services) Key Tasks Building up SINOMACH strengths to serve national Saving and Emission Reduction) Governance) Expanding open cooperation to boost strategies international operations Carrying out trial reforms to promote high-quality Optimizing talent pipeline to build a stronger development team Enhancing internal synergies to give play to overall Strengthening brand building to expand Department) Finance and Investment advantages SINOMACH’s influence Department Strengthening the driving force of innovation to enhance technological strengths Safeguards Strengthen Party building Focus on risk management and control Enhance capital operations Do a good job of organizational implementation Promote information construction Wholly-owned and Holding Subsidiaries 14 China National Machinery Industry Corporation 2019 Social Responsibility Report 15 Corporate Culture Roles in Social Organizations Organization Role China-France Business Council Leading Unit of the Chinese Working Group World Economic Forum Associate Partner Boao Forum for Asia Diamond member B20 Member China-Ukraine Bilateral Entrepreneur Council Chairman of the Chinese side China Machinery Industry Federation (CMIF) Vice Chairman Member To guide the development of China Enterprise Confederation (CEC) China Enterprise Directors Association (CEDA) Vice Chairman Member the machinery industry and Work together promote the progress of the China Chamber of International Commerce (CCOIC) Vice Chairman Member Win together human society China International Contractors Association (CICA) Vice Chairman Member sio n Cor Commerce for Import and Export of Machinery and Electronic Products Vice Chairman Member e M is eV at al u China Mechanical Engineering Society (CMES) Deputy Director-General Member or e Co rp Association for Relations Across the Taiwan Straits Council Member Society of Automotive Engineers of China (SAE-China) Deputy Director-General Member China Association of Automotive Manufactures (CAAM) Vice Chairman Member China Machinery Enterprise Management Association (CMMA) Deputy Director-General Member mony ” Culture China Association of International Engineering Consultants (CAIEC) Vice Chairman Member ate Spirits C orp or China National Association of Engineering Consultants (CNAEC) Executive Council Member China Exploration & Design Association (CEDA) Deputy Director-General Member China Association for Engineering Construction Standardization (CECS) Deputy Director-General Member Harmonious co-existence Harmony in diversity Integrity China Association of Plant Engineering Consultants (CAPEC) Deputy Director-General Member Inclusiveness “ H ar Excellence China Association Of Work Safety (CAWS) Executive Council Member China Association of Agricultural Machinery Manufactures (CAAMM) Chairman Member China Education Association of Machinery Industry（CEAMI） Deputy Director-General Member China Auto Talents Society (CATS) Deputy Director-General Member China Association of Machinery Industry Culture(CAMIC) Vice Chairman Member or po C y h rat osop China Machinery Industry Auditing Society (CMIAS) Vice Chairman Member e l Visi on phi China Foundry Association (CFA) Vice Chairman Member CSR China Textile Commerce Association Vice Chairman Member The Foundry Institution of Chinese Mechanical Engineering Society (FICMES) Vice Chairman Member To lead the green innovation in China Association of Machinery Industry Survey and Design Council Member the machinery industry China Petroleum & Petrochemical Equipment Industry Association (CPEIA) Council Member To be a world-leading To dedicate to sustainable integrated enterprise in social development Engineering Intelligent Design Branch of China Exploration and Design Association (CEDAIB) Vice Chairman Member equipment industry To create the future of the Structural Design Branch of China Exploration and Design Association Council Member machinery industry together National Tractor Standardization Technical Committee Director Tractor Branch of Chinese Society for Agricultural Machinery Director-General Member China Water Transportation Construction Association Vice President China Agricultural Machinery Distribution Association (CAMDA) Vice Chairman Member Chinese Society for Agricultural Machinery (CSAM) Vice Chairman Member China Internal Combustion Engine Industry Association (CICEIA) Vice Chairman Member 16 China National Machinery Industry Corporation 2019 Social Responsibility Report 17 Social Responsibility Management Social Responsibility Model Value-creating Social Responsibility Management Promotion SINOMACH Adhering to the business philosophy of “work Government together, win-win together”, SINOMACH continagencies ues to build a value-creating, innovative, green, Strengthening social Conducting research on social Building a social responsibility Expanding social responsibility responsible and happy SINOMACH by focusing responsibility capability building responsibility brand communication on the main business sectors of equipment t uri n g Tec manufacturing, technological R&D, project The u fac h Customers an no SASAC m lo contracting, trade and services, and finance and nt Environmental g Regularly organizing the proFinding our disadvantages in Disseminating social responParticipating in the forums and Happ ica e investment, striving to create comprehensive Responsibility ative ipm motion, communication and social responsibility practices sibility practices of the Group seminars organized by profesSINO y lR Innov CH economic, social and environmental values for Equ &D MAC training on social responsibility timely by benchmarking against through media channels such sional organizations, such as the all stakeholders. H MA SINO to improve employees’ underadvanced enterprises in social as corporate journals, official Chinese Academy of Social Scistanding and awareness of social responsibility management to WeChat account and CSR colences and China Sustainability Work together, responsibility make corresponding improveumn of the official website Tribune d Finance an ments Pr win together Inviting external social responDemonstrating the responsible Carrying out social responsibility oje sibility consulting agencies and Conducting researches on social image of the Company to the communication with peer comct c ontr Partners Environment experts at home and abroad to responsibility to explore new society through mainstream panies t Economic en Responsibility Social acting provide professional support for management approaches and media, application for excellent stm Responsibility Participating in the social reinve the social responsibility work of models social responsibility cases, donasponsibility assessment and the Group tions and so on research projects of the SASAC Trade and services Participating in exchange activiCommunity ties held by UN Global Compact Re Employees and the SIN spon n ee CH OM sib public Gr MA AC le O H SIN SINOMACH Social Responsibility Management Model Social Responsibility Management System Social Responsibility Honors of SINOMACH SINOMACH continues to improve the top-level Members The Evergreen Award of GoldenTop 3 enterprises in the mechanical design of social responsibility work and inteDirector (Chairman of the Board of Personnel in Charge of CSR Work Bee Excellent CSR Report 2019 equipment manufacturing industry Excellent Enterprise Deputy Director (Corporate grate the concept of social responsibility into (Department Heads) corporate development strategies and business Social Responsibility Report 2019 China CSR Development Index Sustainable Brand operations. We endeavor to improve CSR man2018 of China National MachinCommunication agement by optimizing the organizational strucery Industry Corporation ture, functional responsibilities, and operating mechanisms, and promote the fulfillment of Social Responsibility Office Directors) Management) in Subsidiaries social responsibility at all levels. The 2019 Best Practices for EnThe second prize of the story-tellterprise Poverty Alleviation and ing contest of central SOEs held by The 22 typical stories of Prosperity Promotion Award the SASAC central SOEs Secretary-General The case of “conducting targeted poverty SINOMACH’s story, Space Dream, Love for The Championship Belt In My alleviation through educational support the Nation Heart , SINOMACH’s story and creating a poverty alleviation model of SINOMACH” SINOMACH Organizational System for Social Responsibility Management 18 China National Machinery Industry Corporation 2019 Social Responsibility Report 19 Materiality Management Stakeholder Management We pursue shared development with stakeholders. By strengthening stakeholder communication, paying attention to and responding to stakeholders’ exThe procedure for identifying social responsibility material topics of SINOMACH pectations and demands, we enhance stakeholders’ understanding of their own capabilities and strive to build a responsible brand image among stakeholders. Identification of material topics Topics review Continuous improvements Stakeholders Expectations and Demands Communication Approaches Practices Job creation Supporting macro-regulation Based on the principles of “sustainability Reviewing material topics both internally Continuously optimizing and improving Top management meetings Tax payment Employment promotion context” and “stakeholder inclusiveness” and externally: the material topics based on previous Communications and exchanges Social wealth creation Governments Tax payment according to law Information reporting Local infrastructure and taking consideration of national policies, reviews: Local economic development Reviewed by the Board of Directors Conferences participation improvement characteristics of the industry, domestic and promotion Local industries development and the CSR Committee Setting new performance targets international social responsibility standards Lawful and trustworthy and the reality of the Group, we identify soReviewed by business departments Initiating new CSR projects Compliance with laws and operation cial responsibility material topics that are imregulations Featured report Sound development Reviewed by external agencies Communicating with stakeholders Value maintenance and Information reporting portant to the sustainability of SINOMACH. SASAC Enhanced work safety appreciation of assets Conferences participation management Work safety Company announcement Ecological environment Environmental protection protection Improving community Community publicity Participating in community Community, the Public and environment Community communication building NGOs Respecting community culture meeting Social welfare actions Supporting public welfare Community seminar Honoring commitments Honoring contracts Providing premium and quality Business meeting Providing quality products and Customers products Service hotline services Open communication and Business visits Improving service system service channels Providing labor protection Employees’ Representative equipment and facilities Occupational health and safety Congress Smooth employee career protection Petition development channels Employees’ development Risk management and control Transformation and upgrading Shared growth Employees Making company affairs public Education and training Employees’ rights and interests Sound operation Technological innovation Salary and welfare security SINOMACH News Competitive remuneration Law-abiding behaviors Humanistic care Democratic management Industrial development Social responsibility report Employee care Corporate governance Employee localization Employee care Chairman mailbox Enhanced overseas staff management Green environmental Energy conservation and Strengthening information management Value-creating emissions reduction disclosure Green design SINOMACH Environment Economical use of resources Regular reporting information Green product Ecological protection of energy saving and emissions Green project Environmental charity reduction Environmental actions Happy Innovative Supplier conference Suppliers/ Fair competition Equal consultations SINOMACH SINOMACH Bidding information disclosure Integrity and honesty Honoring contracts Material Contractors Information confidentiality Strategic cooperation Responsible sourcing Cooperation agreement topics Integrity and law abiding Regular communication Top management visiting Partners Mutual benefit and win-win Longterm stable relationship Strategic cooperation cooperation Responsible Green Safeguarding healthy industrial Strengthening communication SINOMACH SINOMACH development Customer services Fair competition within the industry Participating in industrial Work safety Green management Peers Promoting industrial Attending industrial forums and standards development Green operations development meetings Product quality Promoting industry exchanges Green office Paying exchange visit Partners and cooperation and cooperation Social welfare Environmental charity Community development Official website Social responsibility report Setting up news spokesman Information disclosure and Media Company announcement system transparency Interview Disclosing information timely Major social responsibility material topics of SINOMACH in 2019 Press conference Note: The above figure shows the 17 sustainable development goals (SDGs) of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development proposed by the United Nations. 20 China National Machinery Industry Corporation 2019 Social Responsibility Report 21 CSR Focus A Building “a city” based on “a blueprint” Implementing the Belt and Road Initiative to Deepen Jointly developed and constructed by SINOMACH and other parties at home and abroad, the Great Stone is by far the International Communication and Cooperation overseas industrial park with the largest floor area, and represents China’s highest level of foreign cooperation. It is an exemplary project for the implementation of the Belt and Road Initiative. As an explorer and leader of international businesses, SINOMACH vigorously pushes ahead with the Belt and Road Initiative. The Group has been expanding markets in the Belt and Road countries, and pushes forward projects in fields of interconnectivity of infrastructure, energy and resource cooperation, industrial investments and overseas industrial park, continuously deepening international cooperation. 2019 60 enterprises had settled in the Great Stone, signing a total investment of USD 1.16 billion in contracts. Among them, there are 33 Chinese projects, with a total investment of USD 710 million, accounting for 65% of the total investment from resident enterprises. 700 2018 The Great Stone became the first regional special economic zone in Belarus. More than projects Along the Belt of Road signed, completed or being implemented by SINOMACH 2015 The leaders of China and Belarus visited the Great Stone, and proposed to build the park as a pearl on the Silk Road Economic Belt and 90 a model for the mutually beneficial cooperation between the two countries. Approximately USD billion Total contract amount reached 2010 Leaders of China and Belarus reached a consensus on building a development zone in Belarus. Overseas Project Construction A model project on the Belt and Road An exemplary project for overseas An exemplary project for sustainable An exemplary project for While implementing the Belt and Road Initiative, SINOMACH actively implements the Group’s international business strategy to make Chinese solutions, construction engineering development implementation of policies on overseas technologies, standards, and manufacturing go global. As of the end of 2019, more than 700 projects along the Belt of Road were signed, completed or economic and trade cooperation zone being implemented with total contract amount reaching approximately USD 90 billion. Built at a Chinese speed and up to the ChiNature reserves, water systems, villages and The Decree of the Belarusian President on SINOMACH steadily promotes the construction of key projects. The Group has established a Belt and Road leading group to boost infrastructure connese quality standard, the office buildings plantations in the park are well preserved, the China-Belarus Industrial Park has estabstruction and attract more investments. The Group has built models of international cooperation by promoting the construction and operation of a and the first 8,000m2 standard factory in the and nearly 50% of the land in the park is covlished a special legal status of this territory, Great Stone were awarded the Belarusian ered in vegetation. giving preferential policies to the park in the number of overseas projects, such as the Argentina Belgrano Freight Railway Reconstruction Project and power plant construction projects in Sri Lanka Outstanding Engineering Award. In addition, form of highest legislation. It includes a tax and Serbia. In 2019, the Great Stone (China-Belarus industrial park) welcomed 21 new resident enterprises. At present, there are 60 resident enterpristhe office buildings also won the China Cones, with a total investment of USD 1.16 billion. exemption for resident enterprises during the struction Engineering Luban Prize (Overseas first ten years since they begin to reap a profProjects). it, and then the tax rate will be halved until to SINOMACH strives to enhance competitiveness in overseas markets. The Group vigorously expands overseas markets, and has signed several major projects in countries such as Bahrain, Kazakhstan, Ukraine and Myanmar. At the same time, we keep expanding the network of overseas institutions, June 5, 2062. and has established 342 overseas subsidiaries and branches in more than 100 countries or regions. Moreover, we attach great importance to engineering quality, and our overseas engineering projects have won the China Construction Engineering Luban Prize, which symbolizes the highest honor of engineering quality. SINOMACH endeavor to enhance our international business operations.We have been improving our overseas regional center network as planned, and continue to support localized management. A number of overseas regional centers, including the Regional Center of Belarus and Surrounding Area, the Central and Eastern European Regional Center, the Southern and Western African Agricultural Regional Center, etc., have been established, which Honors and Best Belt and Road Initiative Project in fDi Global Free Zones of the Year 2019 Award for “Fastest Growing Industrial enable the Group to further enhance overseas management and business collaboration, as well as the overall capacity for international businesses. awards Central, Eastern Europe Park” New Silk Road Finance Award 2019 fDi Magazine, World Free and Special Economic Zones from Asiamoney Magazine a service from the Financial Times Federation (FEMOZA) 22 China National Machinery Industry Corporation 2019 Social Responsibility Report 23 International Communication and Cooperation SINOMACH vigorously responds to the call for a community with a shared future for mankind, and strives to be a pioneer in international exchange and cooperation. The Group advocates mutual benefit, openness and inclusiveness, and actively participates in international exchanges and cooperation. In 2019, SINOMACH attended the World Economic Forum, the Second Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation, the First China-Africa Economic and Trade Expo, the business event held by the China-France Entrepreneurs Council in Paris, the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum, the BRICS Business Forum, etc. The Great Stone in the 2nd China International Import Expo SINOMACH attends the China-France Economic Forum. Ushering in a bright future for China-Belarus economic and trade cooperation with joint efforts In July 2019, the Belt and Road Forum for Regional Cooperation and Development was held in the Great Stone. The forum was co-sponsored by the Ministry of Commerce of China(MOFCOM) and the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Belarus, and co-organized by the Foreign Trade Development Bureau of MOFCOM, the Belarusian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, SINOMACH, and Great Stone, Industrial Park Development Company. It aimed to make greater use of the Great Stone’s advantageous position for carrying out the Belt and Road Initiative, make use of production factors from a number of parties, and promote the coordinated development of regional industries. Around 800 officials, experts, and business personnel from more than 30 countries, including China, Belarus, Germany, Kazakhstan, and Poland, and from a number of international and regional organizations, participated in the forum. SINOMACH attends the US-China CEO Roundtable. SINOMACH attends the Belt and Road Forum for Regional Cooperation and Development. 24 China National Machinery Industry Corporation 2019 Social Responsibility Report 25 CSR Focus B Innovating in Targeted Poverty Alleviation to End Poverty SINOMACH deeply implements the guiding principles of the 19th CPC National Congress and the important instructions from General Secretary Xi Jinping on poverty alleviation. We earnestly undertake due responsibilities and adopt targeted measures to deliver solid outcomes based on the actual conditions of targeted poor counties and districts. Supported by the innovative targeted poverty alleviation model of “taking root in education, developing industry, supporting agricultural machinery, and facilitating people’s livelihood”, we strive to make sure that our poverty alleviation efforts can reach those who truly need it with targeted project arrangement, capital, and Pinglu County, Shanxi Province measures, as well as support of officials (first Party secretaries) in poor villages. In 2019, SINOMACH invested RMB 30.497 million in targeted poverty alleviation, and raised another RMB 650,000 through poverty Huaibin Country, alleviation funds. We purchased RMB 4.317 million of agricultural products from poverty-stricken areas, and helped with the sale of agHenan Province ricultural products worth RMB 7.445 million. In addition, SINOMACH dispatched 4 officials to serve temporary positions and 4 first secretaries to poor villages, and completed training for 7,416 technicians. These efforts have benefited 319,000 poor people from 97,000 households, and enabled the Group to help lift all of the 4 targeted poverty alleviation counties out of poverty. In the evaluation of Chaotian District, Guangyuan poverty alleviation performance in 2019 carried out by the State Council Leading Group Office of Poverty Alleviation and Development, Gushi County, City, Sichuan Province SINOMACH was rated as “good”. Henan Province In 2019, 18 subsidiaries of the Group provided assistance for 2 counties, 2 townships and 21 villages with a total investment of over RMB 7.61 million in 52 poverty alleviation projects. Moreover, 23 poverty alleviation officials were dispatched to help 2,448 registered poor people with their fight against poverty. Targeted poverty alleviation data of SINOMACH RMB 30.497 million Gushi County, Henan Province Total investment in poverty alleviation 8.45 100,000 319,000 RMB million RMB Total investments in poverty Poverty alleviation funds raised alleviation Poor people received support 107 819 from SINOMACH Grassroots officials trained Technicians trained Pinglu County, Shanxi Province Chaotian District, Guangyuan City, SINOMACH was rated as Huaibin Country, Henan Province Sichuan Province “good” RMB 7.292 million RMB 100,000 RMB 6.905 million RMB 350,000 RMB 7.85 million RMB 100,000 in the evaluation of poverty alleviation Total investment in poverty Poverty alleviation funds raised Total investment in poverty Poverty alleviation funds raised Total investment in poverty Poverty alleviation funds raised performance conducted by the State alleviation alleviation alleviation Council in 2019 295 839 760 5,346 503 412 Grassroots officials trained Technicians trained Grassroots officials trained Technicians trained Grassroots officials trained Technicians trained 26 China National Machinery Industry Corporation 2019 Social Responsibility Report 27 Gushi Country, Henan Province Pinglu County, Shanxi Province We improve public service facilities and transform agricultural infrastructure in Gushi County to support In the key stage of poverty alleviation in Pinglu County, SINOMACH firmly adheres to the same policy on the poverty-stricken villages get rid of poverty with targeted measures, and help the locals increase their poverty alleviation, offers undiminished assistance, and maintains the poverty alleviation teams for allincomes. In May 2019, the Henan Provincial Government officially announced that Gushi County was reBuilding a new irrigation canal out efforts. The Group focuses on facilitating the local education infrastructure and projects that improve Promoting the development of moved from the national poverty list. to secure grain production people’s livelihood. By taking advantage of the “e-commerce + industry” model, the Group has broadened e-commerce industry in Pinglu the sales channels for local agricultural products, and built an “expressway” that connects supply and deThe old irrigation canal in Sungang Village, County mand. In April 2019, Pinglu County successfully achieved its poverty alleviation goals. Jiangji Town, Gushi County was built in the 1970s, and has been the only canal in the vilThe Pinglu SINOMACH E-Commerce Public lage. However, it has been worn down over Service Center was established in 2017. In the years without repair. In 2019, SINOMACH order to promote the development of the started investing in the construction of a new local e-commerce industry, the center and trapezoidal canal for the locals. After the proShenying Agricultural Cooperative jointly ject is completed, it will be able to provide established a platform covering all stages water for 173 hectares of cultivated land in of agricultural production, to regulate the Sungang Village. It is estimated that 100,000 management of six major aspects of the kilograms of grain yield could be increased production process, which has ensured annually, and the total incomes of 4,779 local the high quality and stable sales of local residents, including 309 people in poverty, farm produce. As of the end of 2019, with could be increased by RMB 280,000 per year. the support of SINOMACH, the center has established more than 140 village-level service outlets, directly driving more than 8,000 rural households to increase their incomes, and helping more than 1,200 poor households get out of poverty. A delegation from SINOMACH led by chairman Zhang Xiaolun visits an elderly care center project in Gushi County, Henan province. A delegation led by Song Xin, deputy Party secretary of SINOMACH, pays a visit to a poverty alleviation Huaibin Country, Henan Province workshop in Pinglu County, Shanxi Province. Guided by the poverty alleviation concept of supporting housing construction, employment, mass entrepreneurship and elderly care in poverty-stricken areas, the Group focuses on supporting local basic eduPromoting local employment to cation. Specifically, we developed nine education programs through targeted measures to help solve the Chaotian District, Guangyuan City, Sichuan Province difficulties faced by local primary and secondary schools. In addition, we leveraged the existing four povincrease people’s incomes erty alleviation workshops and one garment factory to promote the establishment of an industrial cluster centering on SUMEC’s main factory and the poverty alleviation workshops that facilitate the development SINOMACH has worked closely with the Party Committee and Government of Chaotian District with a SINOMACH believes that “if you give a of surrounding townships. In December 2019, Huaibin County was lifted out of poverty. Supporting industrial focus on implementing a series of assistance programs in education, infrastructure construction, industry hungry man a fish, you feed him for a day, development with local characteristics as well as skill training to help the local area completely eradicate but if you teach him how to fish, you feed development by developing a poverty. In April 2019, with the approval of the Sichuan Provincial Government, Chaotian District was him for a lifetime.” Therefore, the Group collective economy officially removed from the poverty list, and was commended by the Provincial Party Committee and Govis committed to addressing the root ernment for the remarkable progress it had achieved in the fight against poverty. causes of poverty by offering targeted Yulin Village is located in the north of industrial support based on the actual Yudong Township, Chaotian District, condition of Huaibin County. After fully Guangyuan City, Sichuan Province. In the considering people’s willingness, their past, there was no collective economy in vocational skills and the needs of employthe village, and a large number of villagers ers, the Group actively carried out skills had to seek jobs in other places. In order training and offered employment services to help Yulin Village gain development, in agricultural skills, garment processing, SINOMACH has supported the locals in etc., to help the local poor people acconstructing cold-water fish breeding basquire practical skills, and create jobs and es and demonstration walnut plantations, increase income. In 2019, SINOMACH emcultivating pepper vines and cherries, and ployed 68 people from poor households developing the bee breeding industry, in Huaibin County, Henan Province. which has laid a solid foundation for the development of the village’s collective economy. Poverty alleviation workshop in Huaibin County, Henan Province Medical equipment donated by SINOMACH to Chaotian District, Guangyuan City, Sichuan Province 28 China National Machinery Industry Corporation 2019 Social Responsibility Report 29 01Value-creating SINOMACH Making Contributions to the Real Economy RMB 383.61 Total assets billion RMB 68.53 billion Equities attributable to equity holders of the parent company RMB 3.18 Economic value added billion Over 90 % Completion rate of brand integration actions CSR practices Stabilizing operation and development Deepening reforms Enhancing basic management Diversifying businesses Contributions to SDGs The rack of the ship lift at the Three Gorges 30 China National Machinery Industry Corporation 2019 Social Responsibility Report 31 High-quality Development Deepening Reforms “Building up SINOMACH strengths to serve the needs of the country” is our mission. We SINOMACH promotes reforms of enterprises in an orderly manner to adapt to changes in marCorporate Reform adhere to the general principle of pursuing ket competition and internal development. We progress while ensuring stability, promotes inhave steadily progressed the “double-hundred novative, coordinated, green, open, and shared action” and the mixed-ownership reform, conTo comprehensively deepen reform, the Group the past year. Highlighting the “double-hundevelopment, and implements requirement on tinued to strengthen corporate governance, and organized the compilation of Key Points of Comdred action” and the mixed-ownership reform, high-quality development. Focusing on main implemented the brand integration strategy, prehensively Deepening Reform 2019 and Work SINOMACH has further promoted the comprebusinesses, we advance the modernization of effectively enhancing our corporate competiRecord on Comprehensively Deepening Reform hensive reform of subsidiaries. the corporate governance system, enhance tiveness and creating momentum for the sus2019 to guide orderly reform-related work in governance capabilities, and launch stable protainable development of the Group. duction and operation, aiming to strengthen the Group’s status as a world-class comprehensive equipment industry group with global competitiveness. In 2019, our operating revenue reached RMB Advancing the “double-hundred 297.91 billion, total profits reached RMB 10.26 Steady Restructuring action” and the mixed-ownership billion, and net profits was RMB 7.67 billion, reform completing 103.5% of the performance target set by SASAC and ranking 250th in Fortune Global 500 list. Complying with the requirements of the Focusing on strategic structuring in such SASAC, SINOMACH has determined the fields as major technical equipment, On November 5, 2019, China National Electric Apparatus Research Institute Co., Ltd. was listed on the STAR overall plan for the “double-hundred acbasic equipment and R&D, SINOMACH Market, becoming the 13th listed company under SINOMACH. It is also the first among the ten pilot central tion” and the mixed-ownership reform, further optimizes the distribution of inSOEs for employee stock ownership plan to be listed on the capital market. and further deepened the reform of four dustries. subsidiaries. In 2019, China National By deeply integrating resources of core Electric Apparatus Research Institute Co., subsidiaries or listed companies in the Ltd. became the first company among main business sectors and optimizing the the ten pilot central SOEs for the emallocation of business resources, we aim ployee stock ownership plan to be listed to enhance our core competitiveness. on the capital market. The restructuring of CAMCE and IPPR, SINOMACH Auto and AE, as well as LAN297.91 250 PEC and Energy China has been completed. We also incorporated the SINOMACH RMB billion th Engineering Group by integrating the Group’s engineering resources. A core Operating revenue SINOMACH Fortune Global 500 business platform formed by scientific research institutes is established and the restructuring of SINOMACH STRI, SAIS, 96 Addressing longstanding issues more and CIMRI, as well as the restructuring of efficiently HGMRI and Zhongtong Company, have % been completed, thus effectively cutting We have strengthened supervision and inefficient businesses. Proportion of contracted subsidiaries completing the handover of “water supply, inspection of key subsidiaries and key power supply, heat supply and property areas, fully guaranteed stable operation, 10.26 103.5 management” businesses and wrapped up all work related to the separation and handover of “water % supply, power supply, heat supply and RMB billion property management.” In 2019, 96% 86 Completing the performance Total profits of contracted subsidiaries completed target set by SASAC the handover of “water supply, power 7.67 % supply, heat supply and property management” businesses, which meant that RMB billion Proportion of collective-owned the reform of educational and medical subsidiaries completing reforms organized had been basically completed, Net profits and over 86% of collective-owned subsidiaries completed reforms. 32 China National Machinery Industry Corporation 2019 Social Responsibility Report 33 Management and Control by the Group Brand integration Optimizing the corporate governance system 768 SINOMACH effectively regulates corporate govAll members of SINOMACH were under the same actions in 768 subsidiaries at all levels. In variernance with capital as the carrier and property banner. Brand integration is an important strategy ous visual applications, including administrative rights as the basis. Highlighting the positioning After studying and sorting out the Group’s management and control systems, we develop a list of rights of SINOMACH to strengthen the Group’s status of a offices, conferences, media publicity materials, of the headquarters, we accelerate the transand responsibilities of the headquarters of SINOMACH and delegated power to further clarify the world-class enterprise with global competitiveness, environmental signage, exhibitions, project Subsidiaries launched brand integration formation of functions and moderately deleboundary between the headquarters and the subsidiaries. and it is also a significant measure for the Group to sites, etc., we strictly follow requirements on actions gate more powers to subsidiaries, striving to hit improve the pilot project for state-owned capital brand integration. As of the end of 2019, we a balance between governance and delegation, Improving the functions of the investment companies. Brand integration is concompleted 90% of the 60 brand integration projDeepening the decentralization and thus promote the high-quality developheadquarters ducive to consolidating the foundation of brand ects of ten categories. By earnestly carrying out 90 ment of the Group. development, creating synergies among brands, brand integration, we have realized the unificaas well as enhancing our overall competitiveness. tion of internal and external brand images, and over % We strengthen the headquarters’ We strengthen incentive and conIt will strengthen the internal identification of the solved the disorganization of different brands. strategic research, industry analysis, straint mechanisms and improve fault Group and enhance employees’ sense of belonging We have made significant staged achievements Completion rate of brand integration capital operation, investment decitolerance and correction mechanisms; and honor. in brand integration, which lays a solid foundaactions sion-making, and risk management the overall supervision is enhanced tion for the Group to gradually strengthen and According to the requirements of the SINOMACH’s and control capabilities. We also transwith a large supervision system built in improve SINOMACH brands. Implementation Plan for Promoting Brand Infer investment and operation rights line with the principle of equal rights tegration , we have launched brand integration to superior departments, and shift for equal responsibilities and combiproduction and operation functions nation of governance and delegation. to subordinate departments to ensure Besides, we improve the performance that the headquarters have more auappraisal system and strengthen catthorities over assets. egory-specific appraisals and targeted appraisals. Making concerted efforts for a bright future What is the brand integration strategy? The flag indicates the direction and and responsibility of SINOMACH, to its Enhancing the management by the Group provides power. On June 28, 2019, at the subsidiaries. Mr. Zhang also waved the flag To adapt to changes in market competition, SINOMACH continuously strengthens management to iml a u n c h i n g a n d f l a g g i v i n g c e re m o ny o f together with over 800 employees, starting The brand integration strategy targets prove quality and efficiency. In 2019, SINOMACH successfully completed the three-year streamlining t h e B ra n d I nte g rat i o n I m p l e m e ntat i o n t h e j o u r n ey to “ p ro m o te i m p rove m e nt large comprehensive enterprises with task assigned by the SASAC. We reduced the number of subsidiaries by 23.5%, made staged achieveStrategy of SINOMACH, Chairman Zhang o f q u a l i t y, e f f i c i e n c y a n d m o m e n t u m a complex organizational structure ments in clearing up “zombie” companies and enterprises in extreme difficulties, included 90 subsidiarXiaolun awarded flags with the logo of o f S I N O M A C H t h r o u g h b ra n d b u i l d i n g and diverse businesses. The core is to ies in our streamlining plan, among which 87 had completed key tasks. SINOMACH, which symbolizes the image achievements.” integrate scattered brand resources, unify external and internal corporate images, and boost the overall competitiveness of SINOMACH. SINOMACH aims to promote the integrated use of the SINOMACH brand image in subsidiaries at all levels and build a unified brand image by launching the brand integration strategy. At present, SINOMACH is conducting in-depth integration of internal brand resources Management of “zombie” companies and Management of lossClearing up receivables to build the main brand of SINOMACH. enterprises in extreme making enterprises and inventories Externally, the Group works to expand difficulties the visibility and influence of SINOMACH brand image, and internally, it optimizes the organizational structure and brand Overcoming difficulties, Conducting in-depth Thoroughly implementing resources, striving to realize internal such as lack of funds and research on loss-making the SASAC’s requirements synergies. long-lasting problems, apenterprises, providing on cleaning up renewables plying for special subsidy targeted guidance for key and inventories, and comfunds as much as possible loss-making enterprises, piling the 2019 Annual according to related poland adopting various Plan for Appraising the icies, and ensuring that methods to promote Control of Receivables and 23.5 problems are solved once loss-making subsidiaries Inventories to help classify and for all. to reduce losses or turn and eliminate inefficient % losses into gains. and invalid receivables and inventories and propose The launching and flag-giving ceremony of the Brand Integration Implementation Decrease rate in the number of integrated solutions. Strategy of SINOMACH subsidiaries 34 China National Machinery Industry Corporation 2019 Social Responsibility Report 35 Basic Management SINOMACH has continuously pushed forwards the modernization of governance systems and Strategic Planning Risk Management Financial Application of Information capabilities, and enhanced basic management. The Group keeps improving the management Management Technology of strategic planning, risk management, finanThe Group keeps updating the SINOMACH DevelThe Group has realized the synchronized opment Plan 2019-2021, and has carried out analplanning, implementation, inspection and ascial management, information management, yses on key targets and key issues encountered sessment of risk management with business anti-corruption, etc., in an effort to help build a during the 13th Five-year Plan period. According to operation and management in accordance with Focusing on “securing development, consolIn order to improve the top-level design for the In 2019, we took solid action in strengthening stronger and better SINOMACH. the SINOMACH Development Strategy and Planthe working concept of “adhering to the botidating the foundation and controlling risks”, Group’s information technology application, network security. For instance, we carried out ning Management Measures and the SINOMACH tom-line thinking, comprehensively eliminating the first cybersecurity skills training program SINOMACH actively creates financial value by we have drafted the Research Report on the Development Strategy and Planning Evaluation hidden dangers, taking proactive measures, and optimizing capital management and the appliStatus of and Support for SINOMACH’s IT Appliand competition of SINOMACH, and particiRules , we have compiled the development planeffectively handling risks. ” Moreover, we attach cation of information technology in financial cation in Digital Transformation (for Discussion) . pated in cybersecurity competitions organized ning evaluation report, which lays a foundation for great importance to risk investigations and spea comprehensive, scientific revision of the threemanagement. Meanwhile, we have built an online monitoring by the Ministry of Public Security. We also cial risk inspections of high-risk businesses, and year plan. At the same time, we have leveraged platform, and promoted the integrated manageconducted on-site cybersecurity inspections to have supervised and inspected all secondary SINOMACH has conducted a comprehensive the strategies, and integrated new spirits and new subsidiaries. In 2019, there was no systemic risk ment of the SINOMACH brand in cyberspace by enhance security assurance for the celebration requirements into our strategic planning to put analysis of the Group’s financial conditions, reof the 70th anniversary of the founding of the incident within the Group, and all risks were formulating the Standards for the Establishment forward new overall positioning and business clasfined management ideas, and built the overseas People’s Republic of China. Furthermore, we under firm control. of a Uniform Domain Name System. We have sifications as well as new goals and key tasks for capital management platform. Meanwhile, we completed the evaluation of important systems, further developed the integrated information development according to the opportunities and have strengthened inspection and supervision and advanced the standardization and systemmanagement platform, the collaborative office challenges we face. to enhance our capability to prevent capital system and the integrated information display atization of our network security management. Strict control of risk risks, revised the guarantee system, and estabWe have initiated the compilation of SINOMACH platform, in an effort to enhance our capability We tackled 221 cybersecurity emergencies, management failures lished the guarantee business management 14th Five-year Plan, and advanced the formulation of IT application. In addition, we have expanded and was commended by the Ministry of Public of work plans and the establishment of relevant accounts and regular tracking mechanism to Security in its law enforcement inspection on our video conferencing system to enable it to organizations. Seminars on strategic planning, and Effectively implementing the internal prevent and control risks. SINOMACH has innocybersecurity. connect all secondary subsidiaries. In 2019, the training on strategic management are held to have control system and promoting the full vated in financial management methods and Group convened 75 video conferences, saving concentrated discussions and exchanges with coverage of auditing drawn on cutting-edge technologies and pracRMB 4.38 million in costs. subsidiaries. In addition, we have established the tical experiences. By establishing the Group’s Planning Research Office of the Strategic Research Strict control of debt risks extensive information system for financial Institute to provide technical support for its stratemanagement and control, we realize the congic research. Reducing interest-bearing liabilities sistency in the source of financial data, unified standards, information sharing and centralized Strict control of risks in management. In addition, we have integrated international businesses tax management resources to reduce tax costs and prevent risks in tax management. We monEstablishing a long-term mechanism itor the property rights of subsidiaries in real for compliance management in key time, effectively promoting the optimization of overseas operations, and carrying out the Group’s property rights allocation and the overseas risk investigation, auditing rational flow of resources. In 2019, our asset-liand supervision ability ratio was 65.2%. Strict control of major safety and environmental risks Implementing the work safety responsibility system for all employees, strengthening the publicity and training on work safety and environmental protection, and enhancing the self-inspection, mutual inspection as well as supervision and inspection of work safety Strict control of high-risk business operations Facilitating the establishment of the major risk prevention system and the 65.2 major risk monitoring system, identifying key issues in risk management and control, and carrying out special % inspections Asset-liability ratio of SINOMACH 36 China National Machinery Industry Corporation 2019 Social Responsibility Report 37 Business Development SINOMACH aspires to emerge as a world-class company, and regards revitalizing China’s mavices as well as the five main business sectors, including equipment manufacturing, technoEquipment Technological R&D chinery manufacturing as its own mission. The Group vigorously serves national strategies, and logical R&D, project contracting, trade and services, finance and investment. In 2019, the total Manufacturing strives to promote high-quality development amount of the Group’s newly signed contracts SINOMACH adheres to the technical characterwith a focus on the major areas of equipment reached USD 48.98 billion. As a major player of R&D and equipment manistics and positioning of being “professional, manufacturing and modern manufacturing serufacturing in China’s mechanical industry, as sophisticated, special, and excellent,” and has well as a base for the domestic manufacturing developed a number of distinctive technologies of national key equipment, SINOMACH has in the field of agricultural machinery and intellifirmly grasped opportunities brought by the gent manufacturing as well as nearly a thousand new sci-tech revolution and industrial transinnovations in technology and equipment R& formation, and embarked on the compilation D, providing key basic technical support and of the SINOMACH 14th Five-year strategic plan for equipment manufacturing sector, and the services for China’s machinery and aerospace SINOMACH Manufacturing High-quality Develindustry. 61.67 opment Plan . Meanwhile, we have enhanced the internal and external coordination of busiRMB billion ness operations for the equipment manufacturing sector, and continued to lead the industry’s Revenue from equipment manufacturing progress to make high-end equipment manufacturing a new engine that propels China’s development. 19.06 14.50 RMB billion CGEG creates China’s first RMB billion Revenue from sci-tech results pickup truck-mounted drilling Revenue from technological R&D rig for geological engineering exploration Currently, investment in traditional Launching the first state-level R&D staff from the Momentum Wheel Technical Department of ZYS, a subsidiary of SINOMACH, geological explorations continues to tests aerospace bearings in the ultra-clean assembly room. intelligent manufacturing decline, while urban geological engineering and ecological engineering comprehensive standard setting 78.44 explorations keep expanding, and project the proportion of surveys and investRMB billion ments are also on the rise. Against this The intelligent manufacturing combackground, China Geological EquipRevenue from project contracting ment Group Co., Ltd. (CGEG), a wholprehensive standard setting project ly-owned subsidiary of SINOMACH, initiated by SINOMACH INTELTECH and has successfully developed China’s first participated by SIPPR and YTO the pickup truck-mounted geological engiStandard Setting and Test Verification neering exploration drilling rig, which Regarding the Operation and Manageonly requires three to five minutes to ment System for the Platform-Based 139.68 complete preparations, and can enManufacturing of Agricultural Machinter areas without roads. At the same ery Equipment at Intelligent Factories RMB billion time, the drilling rig is equipped with successfully passed the acceptance five multi-purpose drilling systems, enabling its standard penetration to test. The project, which has enabled Revenue from trade and services meet both international and domestic the manufacturing and operation prostandards, and effectively improving cess model as well as the intelligent the utilization of the equipment. The factory platform-based operation and rig also shows innovations in fully aumanagement standards, now plays an tomatic penetration, multi-functional active role in the design, development, powerheads, etc., and has ushered in a application and implementation of the 6.29 “pickup era” to China’s engineering exmanufacturing and operation manageploration which features full hydraulic ment system of the digital workshop of RMB billion transmission, multi-functional survey and rapid mobilization. agricultural machinery and equipment. Revenue from finance and investment The big-sized silicon wafer back-grinding wheel developed by ZYS. 38 China National Machinery Industry Corporation 2019 Social Responsibility Report 39 Project Contracting Trade and services Finance and investment 2 SINOMACH offers engineering and construcSINOMACH continuously strengthens strategic Adhering to the development philosophy tion services to the global market with the research and conducts analyses of industry of “serving the industries, developing formore than million vehicles provision of complete equipment and through development. Based on internal and external ward-looking layout, and pursuing innovative the main models of EPC, BOT, BOO, etc. The economic situations, we have optimized our development”, we take serving the real econImported, sold, and provided services by services cover a complete industrial chain, business model, and formed a business pattern omy as the starting point and goal of financial SINOMACH involving project development, investment of diversified trade products, methods, and and investment businesses, so as to compreand financing, project planning, investigation, markets led by electromechanical equipment. hensively improve service efficiency and quality. 180 design, construction, provision of complete SINOMACH has developed and published the equipment, operation and maintenance, etc. 2019-2021 Development Plan for Financial and Over The Group provides project contracting serInvestment Businesses , putting forward the vices in the fields of power, transportation, Import and export of vehicles strategic positioning of the “main business of energy, and infrastructure construction in and related services Exhibitions independently hosted or financial services.” The plan points out that dozens of countries on five continents. provided agency services by overseas the Group should develop businesses featuring organizations SINOMACH provides multi-port services high-degree industry-finance integration, inin Tianjin, Shanghai and Guangzhou. Our cluding financial leasing, commercial factoring, 500,000 logistics, warehousing and distribution insurance brokerage, and self-insurance, and centers have a total storage area of build a SINOMACH “4+N” system of financial 800,000 square meters and an annual and investment businesses centering on internal throughput capacity of over 200,000 financial services of the Group’s entire lifecycle. vehicles with the support of an indeOpening ceremony of China National Machinery Industry Engineering Group In this way, SINOMACH aims to gradually form a Professional buyers attracted pendently developed comprehensive service information system. In the past comprehensive industrial chain financial service two decades, SINOMACH imported, sold, platform featuring all-around internal control and provided services for more than 2 systems, high-quality assets, distinctive business million vehicles. characteristics, high-degree industry-finance integration, and strong collaboration among San Buenaventura sugar factory project promotes economic enterprises. development in northern Bolivia Trade of electromechanical products and other products The San Buenaventura sugar factory in The completed project has greatly proBolivia built by CAMCE is a large modern moted the development of the local sugar sugar factory. Since the beginning of its industry, and has had a profound impact SINOMACH involves in many sectors, construction, CAMCE has adhered to the on the economic development of northern such as machinery, electronics, shipping, concept of energy conservation and enBolivia. In December, 2019, the project light industry, textiles, etc., keeping vironmental protection, as its technical won the “2018-2019 China Construction an important position in the trade of electromechanical products in China. scope covers sugar and alcohol production, Engineering Luban Prize” (Overseas ProjThe Group exports the most textile agriculture, chemistry, machinery, thermoects). and apparel products among Chinese electricity and environmental protection. enterprises, and ranks second among all exporters to the EU. We also own the leading brand of school uniforms. Exhibition With the support of a professional team 19 of more than sixty years of experience in China International Machine Tool & Tools Exhibition organizing exhibitions, SINOMACH holds th the most large-scale exhibitions every year among all central SOEs engaged in ENR Top 250 International Contractors the convention and exhibition sector, and is the largest organizer of overseas exhibitions. Each year, SINOMACH organizes more than 80 high-quality exhibitions in China with a total exhibition 50 area of more than 3.6 million square meters, and organizes or provides agency th services for over 180 exhibitions of 100 countries or so, which are participated ENR Top 225 International Design Firms by 500,000 professional buyers. The San Buenaventura sugar factory project in Bolivia constructed by CAMCE 40 China National Machinery Industry Corporation 2019 Social Responsibility Report 41 02Innovative SINOMACH Driving Reform and Transformation RMB 7.17 billion Scientific research investment 354 International, national and industry standards compiled and revised by SINOMACH 389 Provincial and ministerial-level and national industrial awards（Items） 1,506 National patents（Items） CSR practices Strengthening technological innovation management Enhancing technological innovation capabilities Promoting the commercialization of scientific and technological innovation achievements Carrying out exchanges on scientific and technological innovation Contributions to SDGs Dongfanghong LF2204 powershifting tractor 42 China National Machinery Industry Corporation 2019 Social Responsibility Report 43 Technological Innovation Management Technological Innovation Capabilities Strictly following President Xi Jin Ping’s important instruction of “giving play to SOEs’ positive Improving the technological innovation SINOMACH has increased investments in scientific and technological innovations, and Increasing investments in technological role in technological innovation,” SINOMACH adheres to innovation-driven development and system advanced the construction of a high-caliber scientific research platform. By improving systems innovation continuously improves technological innovation We have perfected the industry-university-instiand mechanisms related to the development Guided by the targets of the Group’s technology In 2019, the Group’s annual technical input ratio management, thus further facilitating industry tute integrated innovation system that is orientof scientific and technological personnel and development special funds, we have established was 2.4% and got RMB 300 million of funds approgress and serving national strategies. ed toward the market and with the “enterprises building a high-quality team of scientific and a multi-channel and long-term investment proved for state-funded research projects. + institutes” as the core. By making enterprises technological personnel, we strive to build a mechanism for technological innovation and the main body of technological innovation powerful engine for technological innovation increases R&D investments. demands, R&D investments, technological innoand continue to enhance the Group’s technovation activities, and innovation achievements, logical innovation capabilities. we fully stimulate enterprises’ enthusiasm for innovation. State-level scientific research and service platforms of SINOMACH SINOMACH strengthens Enhancing the technology management management of capabilities 1 7 17 30 scientific research National manufacturing National engineering National enterprise innovation center technology research technology centers institutes Top-level design centers Institutions that completed the enterprise-oriented reform with In order to promote the management of losses SINOMACH formulated the Key Tasks the help of SINOMACH of scientific research institutes, SINOMACH has and Measures of Scientific and Technoset up special working groups and formulated logical Innovation Reform and Impletargeted plans for the treatment of losses, and mentation Plan for the Reform of the 24 10 4 solidly promoted the implementation of various Science and Technology Development related measures. Based on in-depth studies of System , aiming to promote the coordithe industrialization of scientific research instination of scientific and technological tutes, we explore new models for their developresources, breakthroughs in key techNational quality inspection Innovation-oriented pilot National engineering ment and propose improvement measures and and testing centers enterprises research centers nologies, cultivation of high-caliber suggestions for the high-quality development of scientific and technological personnel, institutes. In 2019, the Group promoted the reand promotion and application of form of systems and mechanisms of 30 scientific technological results. With such efresearch institutes that have completed the enforts, we strive to bring out the best terprise-oriented reform, and further improved of SINOMACH as a platform, improve services of scientific research institutes. SINOMACH’s competence to service the industry, and enhance quality man7 5 6 agement. Strengthening Improvement of systems 2.4 % National industrial technology innovation International cooperation bases State-level key labs technology Technical input ratio alliances management We have created incentives for excelcapabilities 300 lent standards, patents, and sci-tech journals, and revised management RMB million measures for major scientific and In accordance with the new situations and re27 61 6 technological projects and incentives Funds newly approved for state-funded quirements faced by scientific and technological for sci-tech personnel, thus further research projects innovation, we have deepened the reform of improving our systems, strengthening systems and mechanisms, constantly improved management, and providing strong 27 Postdoctoral National standard State-level management systems, consolidated the mansupport for scientific and technological committees scientific research engineering labs agement foundation, and enhanced technology management. stations management capabilities. Newly established scientific research platforms above the provincial level 44 China National Machinery Industry Corporation 2019 Social Responsibility Report 45 Building a technological innovation center Promoting the building of the technical team In response to national strategies, SINOMACH We have established and improved technical has thoroughly promoted the construction of personnel development systems and mechahigh-level scientific research platforms and nisms, and actively promoted the implementamade significant breakthroughs in the establishtion of equity incentives for listed companies ment of a new batch of national innovation platand dividend incentives for technology enterforms. Undertaking due tasks assigned by the prises. By improving Measures for the Introstate, pooling all resources of society, and fully duction of Talents and Selection of High-level drawing on the mechanisms and experiences Science and Technology Experts , we unblock of excellent platforms at home and abroad in the career development paths for high-caliber operation, collaborative R&D, and application science and technology experts and strive to of technological achievements, we have earbuild a team featuring excellent competences, nestly advanced the establishment of national team spirit, strict compliance with disciplines, institutes of major technical equipment innoand enthusiasm for innovation and learning. In vations. In 2019, the Group newly established 2019, the Group newly hired 1 academician of 27 scientific research platforms at or above the the Chinese Academy of Engineering, 2 high-end provincial level. talents of the state, 1 national-level candidate of the national “Baiqianwan (hundred-thouThe State Key Laboratory of Soil, Plant, and Machine System Technology sand-ten thousand) Talents” program, and 42 experts enjoying special government allowance from the State Council. Experts from SINOMACH were selected as Outstanding Figures in the 60th Anniversary of the Development of China’s Agricultural Mechanization Implementing national strategies and promoting the revitalization of the agricultural machinery and S&T talents at SINOMACH equipment sector 1 4 A g r i c u l t u ra l m e c h a n i za t i o n p ro v i d e s strong support for agricultural and rural Experts from SINOMACH modernization and rural revitalization. selected as Outstanding Figures SINOMACH has actively responded to Academician of Chinese Academicians of Chinese in the 60th Anniversary of Academy of Engineering the Guiding Opinions on Accelerating the Academy of Sciences the Development of China’s Promotion of Agricultural Mechanization and the Transformation and Upgrading of Agricultural Mechanization Agricultural Machinery Equipment Industry issued by the State Council, and established 2 27 1,036 O n A p r i l 2 9 , 2 0 1 9 , t h e Re p o r t o n the National Agricultural Machinery and the Implementation of President Xi Equipment Innovation Center to further J i n p i n g ’s Re m a r k s o n “ V i g o ro u s l y Static wind blowing experiment device at the State Key Laboratory of Compressor Technology integrate innovation resources in the Promoting Mechanized and Intelligent Winners of China Science State-level candidates of Experts receiving the special agricultural machinery and equipment sector. Agriculture” and the 60th Anniversary and Technology Award Talents Project government allowance Focusing on the development of key materials for Youth granted by of Chairman Mao Zedong ’s Proposal and techniques and intelligent agricultural the State Council of the Famous Conclusion that “the machinery and equipment, we have built R&D Fundamental Way for the Development and design platforms as well as platforms for of Agriculture Lies in Mechanization” was popularizing and incubating technological 10 2 54,506 held at Jiangsu University. The report achievements, and promoted the commended Outstanding Figures in the development of the agricultural machinery 60th Anniversary of the Development and equipment industry chain. The National of China’s Agricultural Mechanization, Agricultural Machinery and Equipment National Engineering National Engineering Professional and including Hua Guozhu, Zhu Shenyou, Monitoring & Design technical employees Innovation Center creates a platform for Supervision Experts J i n H o n g z h i , Fa n g X i a n f a , a n d s o Experts innovation-driven development of China’s forth, affirming their contributions to agricultural machinery industry, and provides agricultural mechanization in the past 60 strong support for the implementation of years. the “food crop production strategy” and 11,295 15,604 11,924 stabilizing food security, further deepening SINOMACH’s influence in the agricultural machinery and equipment sector of China. Senior technical Intermediate technical Junior technical employees employees employees National Agricultural Machinery and Equipment Innovation Center 46 China National Machinery Industry Corporation 2019 Social Responsibility Report 47 Technological Innovation Achievements SINOMACH actively undertakes research projects related to breakthrough technologies, Advancing key research projects Enhancing the R&D of core technologies serves national strategies and industrial needs, solidly progresses the implementation of major Focusing on the needs of major national projical special projects of the Group, clarified key SINOMACH earnestly strengthens the research scientific and technological projects, and accelects, we have organized the application for 22 research directions in the two major fields of and development of key common technologies erates the commercialization of scientific and projects, which covers the implementation of agricultural machinery & equipment and basic in the industry, and promotes innovative and technological innovation achievements. Relying “two machines” (aero-engines and gas turbines) technology, strengthened project management, integrated development of the machinery inon our R&D advantages in intelligent manufacspecial projects, high-tech ships, projects for conducted in-depth research on the impledustry. To tackle significant difficulties, such as turing and key basic components, we continue making the foundation of industry development mentation of special projects in previous years, China’s gap in major technologies of technical to strengthen our core competitiveness and more solid, integrated development of manand ensured orderly implementation of project equipment and bottleneck problems, we have contribute to the transformation and upgrading ufacturing and internet, pilot demonstration plans. In 2019, the Group newly launched 46 nathoroughly sorted out 103 strategic needs in the of the industry. projects of Industrial Internet, etc. At the same tional scientific research projects and identified field of major technical equipment in considtime, SINOMACH has solidly promoted the im5 Group-level major scientific and technological eration of actual conditions and development plementation of major scientific and technologprojects. needs of the industry. In 2019, the Group won 389 provincial and ministerial-level and national industrial awards (Items) for various outstanding achievements and 3 State Science and Technology Awards, and realized the commercialization over 95% of the innovation achievements. The 15-ton viscose fiber dryer developed by China HiTech Group Corporation (CHTC), SINOMACH Developing the high-power subsurface pipe drainage equipment for saline soil reclamation to facilitate the sustainable development of the agriculture industry in Xinjiang Xinjiang has the largest area of alkali soil in China, which has become a major constraint and obstacle to agricultural development and sustainable development in the province. Key S&T projects of SINOMACH in 2019 CAAMS participated in the R&D of the highpower subsurface pipe drainage equipment 46 for saline soil reclamation, which was officially put into use in Xinjiang in 2019. The 13 155 9 equipment belongs to the “R&D of farmland quality improvement engineering technology National scientific research projects and equipment”, a key national R&D project in newly launched the 13th Five-year Plan period, and supports Important national science National key research and National natural science and technology projects development programs foundations the dual models (water collection and 389 drainage) of the high-power subsurface pipe drainage equipment for saline soil reclamation to meet the needs of laying underground pipes in most alkali soil types in China. The Provincial and ministerial-level and use of equipment can effectively reduce national industrial awards (Items) soil salinity in Xinjiang, improve agricultural 33 19 1 production conditions, and improve land use efficiency and agricultural production 95 efficiency. Other national technology Technological R&D special Technological innovation over % programs projects of the Group guide project Commercialization rate of innovation High-power subsurface pipe drainage equipment for saline soil reclamation developed by China achievements Academy of Agricultural Mechanization Sciences (CAAMS), SINOMACH 48 China National Machinery Industry Corporation 2019 Social Responsibility Report 49 Promoting production Exchanges on Technological Innovation automation and leading industry transformation and upgrading To give full play to the R&D strengths and characteristics of scientific research institutes, Conducting Leading the Through the introduction of intelligent SINOMACH has deepened cooperation with partners in scientific research, actively particiexchanges and Compilation of equipment, China YTO has further improved production efficiency, enhanced pated in the formulation of industry standards, cooperation on International and organized technical exchanges, aiming to product quality, and comprehensively promote industry progress together with parttechnological Standards upgraded processes for manufacturing ners. China IV standard engines. The entire innovation manufacturing plant has 39 sets of various types of automatic and semi-automatic By continuously strengthening collaborated SINOMACH actively leads the compilation of equipment, and is equipped with 53 scientific and technological innovation, deepinternational, national, and industry standards. electric single-axis tightening machines. ening scientific and technological exchanges Subsidiary companies of SINOMACH, China NaThe plant realizes automatic assembly and cooperation, and giving full play to the tional Electric Apparatus Research Institute Co., and online inspection of key processes, role of research institutes of SINOMACH, we Ltd. and Guilin Electrical Equipment Scientific thus providing a solid guarantee for strive to promote technical cooperation with Research Institute Co., Ltd. (GLESI), respectively achieving consistency in manufacturing internal and external partners and strengthen led the formulation and publication of IEC 60879 processes and promoting the intelligent joint research on key common technologies. We Specification for performance and construction transformation and upgrading of the organized scientific research institutes to carry of electric circulating fans and regulators and industry. out technical cooperation with Aero Engine ISO 21223 Tools for pressing, contributing to the Official release of the wind Corporation of China in key areas related to the development of international standardization. power standard of the energy development of new-type engines, promoted In 2019, the Group formulated, revised and industry the commercialization of scientific and technoissued 354 international, national and industry The plant for manufacturing China IV standard engines in YTO Group Corporation, SINOMACH logical innovation achievements related to large standards, and the formulation of 2 internationIn 2019, the NB/T 10111-2018 Wind thick-walled high-manganese steel track pads al standards was led by SINOMACH subsidiaries. t u r b i n e g e n e ra t o r o p e ra t i o n t e s t and agricultural drones jointly with China Maprocedure compiled by SINOMACH chinery Engineering Corporation (CMEC), and I n t e l l i g e n c e Te c h n o l o g y C o . , Lt d . deepened the cooperation between Luoyang (SINOMACH INTELTECH) was approved Bearing Science and Technology Co., Ltd. (ZYS) by the National Energy Administration and Dongfang Electric Corporation Limited (DEC) in research projects on shaft bearing holders. Undertaking the development and officially released. The standard, with a rational structure, comprehensive of key castings and contributing technical content and high-degree to the construction of major operability, stipulates the technical national projects requirements for sampling and testing of gear oil, hydraulic oil and grease for Wudongde Hydropower Station and wind turbines. It fills the gap of China Baihetan Hydropower Station were in operation and testing standards for constructed during the 13th Fivewind turbine generator lubricant, and is year Plan period, for which Erzhong of great significance to the sustainable (Deyang) Heavy Equipment Co., LTD. development of the wind power industry (EHEC) developed the core component and safe operation and maintenance of – the key casting of the runner. As the equipment. products feature complex structures and difficult manufacturing processes and require high-quality manufacturing, EHEC SINOMACH held the 2019 China (Guangzhou) International Robot & Intelligent Exhibition & South 354 equipment technology, quality, operation, China International Industry Fair (RoboIMEX 2019). production and other departments tackled all bottleneck problems and weaknesses in processing and manufacturing through careful planning International, national and industry and organization, thus realizing stable, standards issued and revised by standardized, and mass production and SINOMACH contributing positively to major projects of the country. Forging piece of the outer cylinder of the landing gear for Boeing 787 Dreamliner developed by CNEG, SINOMACH China National Electric Apparatus Research Institute Co., Ltd. was selected the first Chinese chairman member of OCF (Open Connectivity Foundation) China Forum 50 China National Machinery Industry Corporation 2019 Social Responsibility Report 51 03Green SINOMACH Building a Beautiful China 672,000 Total energy consumption tce 568,000 tce Comprehensive energy consumption 1,590.4 SO2 emission tons 471.6 COD emission tons CSR practices Strengthening environmental management Promoting green operations Promoting green office practices Advocating environmental protection-oriented public welfare Contributions to SDGs Phase-II project of the comprehensive treatment of downstream river channels of Wuxi River 52 China National Machinery Industry Corporation 2019 Social Responsibility Report 53 Environmental Management Earnestly implementing the concept of green development, SINOMACH strictly follows enStrengthening environmental management ergy-saving and low-carbon laws, regulations, policies and standards in various fields, and assigns energy conservation and environmental protection tasks , aiming to promote green management models and lay a solid foundation for green development. In 2019, the Group Improving the Strengthening statistics Implementing supervision established a long-term mechanism for the organizational structure monitoring and evaluation prevention and control of ecological and environmental risks, improved the organizational Subsidiaries of SINOMACH adBy improving the statistics S INOMACH carri ed o u t structure, strengthened the statistics monitorjusted members of the energy m o n i t o r i n g sy s t e m fo r environmental protection ing mechanism, carried out supervision and saving and environmental energy saving and envievaluation of subordinate evaluation, and further strengthened the inprotection leading group and ro n m e n t a l p ro t e c t i o n , enterprises regularly, issued vestigation and management of ecological and office, implemented national SINOMACH enhanced the the Notice of SINOMACH on environmental risks. The Group also organized policies on energy saving and efficiency of information the Announcement of the its subsidiaries to carry out self-inspection and environmental protection, management,launched the Result of 2018 Energy Saving self-examination in energy-saving and emission and worked in line with relat“SINOMACH Energy Saving and Emission Reduction Evalreduction, supervised 23 ecological and envied requirements and targets. and Environmental Protecuation , and further required ronmental issues, and rectified 17 in total. tion Statistics System”, fursubordinate enterprises to ther regulating the statistical save energy and protect the work. environment. SINOMACH’s special training on the energy saving and emission reduction information system Green Green Green production application design and operation and promotion YTO strengthens water resource management YTO follows the Energy Conservation Law of the People’s Republic of China , and has revised a number of rules and regulations, such as the Energy Conservation Management Measures on Work , Energy Statistics Management Measures and Key Energy-consuming Equipment Management Measures , to Engineering Mechanical equipment/ regulate energy consumption management and statistical monitoring system. SINOMACH has upTrade services graded rainwater and sewage pipe networks and added more drainage pipes, piping shafts, and lift contracting R&D and manufacturing pumps, so as to strengthen water resource management and enhance energy utilization efficiency. Assessment, Rewards YTO realized a continuous decrease in water consumption per unit output value Rules and Regulations Organizational Structure and Punishments Unit: m3/RMB 10,000 of output value We carry out systematic and We set up leading groups on The Group has established standardized management of energy saving and emission an assessment and reward energy saving and emission reduction both in the Group system to decompose the 1.69 reduction and have formuand second-tier subsidiaries targets at different levels and 1.66 23 lated a series of rules and to build a leadership and manto ensure the targets are im1.61 regulations and carried out agement system for energy plemented by all subsidiaries. research on the system of saving and emission reduction 1.49 energy-saving standards. from top to bottom. 1.33 Ecological and environmental issues supervised by SINOMACH SINOMACH Green Management System 17 Ecological and environmental 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Three systems of SASAC energy saving issues rectified ISO 14000 and emission reduction 54 China National Machinery Industry Corporation 2019 Social Responsibility Report 55 Green Operation Adhering to green, low-carbon and sustainable development, SINOMACH actively transforms Green Design Green Manufacturing and upgrades for green development, vigorously saves energy and reduces emission, continuously upgrades technology, and accelerates SINOMACH integrates environmental protection In 2019, multiple projects of the Group obtained SINOMACH actively develops green technoloDevelopment of Green Equipment into engineering design, improves engineering the Certificate of Green Building Label and the gies in the equipment manufacturing industry. the green industry system. By conducting busidesign and consulting techniques, and actively International LEED Gold certification, setting Focusing on ecological and environmental proSelf-loading garbage trucks developed and The Linhai wet-dry farm dual-purposed self-pronesses in the fields of green design, green manapplies digital tools, aiming to promote green good examples for promoting green design and tection, the Group has strengthened R&D and manufactured by SINOMACH HEAVY INDUSTRY pelled sprayer, an environmental protection ufacturing, and green engineering, SINOMACH building standards and contribute to modernsustainable development. innovation, continued to eliminate backward adopts advanced, mature, reliable and economproduct developed by Linhai Group affiliated to has expanded the green development model, ized, green and intelligent development of the production capacities, and promoted green ical new technologies, reaches international SINOMACH, adopts the advanced electrostatic realized the integration of corporate developconstruction industry. transformation and upgrading of the industrial advanced level in disposing waste. spray technology, saving 40% to 50% pesticide ment and environmental protection, and made structure. use and leading the environmental protection contributions to global ecological security. The low ambient temperature air source heat equipment in China. pumps developed by HGMRI are aimed at individual and commercial & industrial users in cold and severe cold regions, greatly contributing to smog control and the promotion of renewable energy consumption in northern China. SIPPR supports engineering design of the middle route of the South-to-North Water Diversion Project SIPPR’s unique and novel design won Beijing Petroleum Machinery Factory Relocation and Renovation Project in the Beijing Petroleum Technology the bid for the production, technology Innovation Base (A-45 land parcel) undertaken by SIPPR and education infrastructure project, the The high-efficient energy-saving yellowing machine of CHTC middle route of the South-to-North Water Diversion Project. Based on the shape of the land parcel and the concept of “water conservation and protection”, the architectural plane is composed of three water drop shapes, which respectively represent the three major routes (eastern, middle, and western) of the South-to-North Water Diversion Project. The roof of the architecture introduces the design concept of “sponge city”, and green roofing materials reflect the concept of environmental protection. The facade features curves made of metal materials, resembling the bends and twists of the Yellow River. The azure glass at the entrance implies the clear water of the Yangtze River, magnificent and overwhelming. Changchun New Area Government Affairs Comprehensive Service Center undertaken by IPPR, SINOMACH, obSmoke treatment device improved by YTO tained the Three-star Certificate of Green Building Design Label. 56 China National Machinery Industry Corporation 2019 Social Responsibility Report 57 Green Projects Development of Green Technologies Focusing closely on new energy and renewable mature construction technologies, continuously energy, as well as energy saving and environimproving technical processes and workflows, HGMRI carried out research on internal flows Safeguarding our beautiful mentally friendly projects, SINOMACH develand reducing pollution and other negative enviof centrifugal fans and the vibration and noise ops efficient, energy-saving and low-polluting ronmental impacts from construction projects, homeland and creating model mechanism, which effectively reduced energy industries in line with national and industry we strive to create the greatest economic, social towns consumption and pollutants during the propolicies. By vigorously promoting green and and environmental benefits. duction. It greatly boosted the development of The comprehensive environment imnew environmentally friendly materials and enprovement project of Shouchang Town, green manufacturing technologies for centrifuergy saving equipment, applying advanced and Jiande City, an EPC project undertaken gal fans in China. by China United Engineering Corporation China National Erzhong Group Deyang Wanhang (CUC), SINOMACH, is a key project of Zhejiang Provincial Party Committee and Die Forging Co., Ltd led the implementation of Zhejiang Provincial Government. In addithe Innovation and Application of Green Manution to improving the urban ecology and facturing Processes of Large-scale Complex Avienvironment, CUC responds to the peoation Die Forgings research project, effectively ple’s expectations for a better life. As a solving problems restricting the environmental comprehensive engineering company and friendliness caused by traditional manufacturing with rich experience in engineering proprocesses of large-scale aviation die forgings in jects, CUC has adopted a series of measChina, and creating momentum for the green ures, such as facade renovation, road development of aviation equipment in China. reconstruction and expansion, landscape greening and improvement, and lighting China National Electric Apparatus Research improvement, to comprehensively build a Institute Co., Ltd. has established the Green better environment in small towns, thereManufacturing Technological Innovation Center by making them more livable, distinctive and dynamic. It became the first project to specialize in developing breakthrough techin Zhejiang Province being accepted with nologies in the overall disassembly of waste assessment exemption, and set a model electrical appliances and reuse of resources, for other urban renovation projects. providing professional solutions to the recycling The new-energy bus developed by CHTC of resources. Practicing the spirit of craftsman and setting a model for overseas green projects The SOYO I Combined Cycle Power Station in Angola undertaken by CMEC The Bolivia Uyuni 350KTPA potash plant project undertaken by CAMCE, SINOMACH is located in the southwest of Potosí Province, Bolivia. As the region Making manufacturing proholds Uyuni Salt Flat, the hinterland of cesses more environmentally the “Mirror of the Sky,” owners of local friendly and leading technologiprojects set very high environmental requirements for project construction and cal advances of the industry management. In compliance with the Environmental Protection Law of Bolivia, environmental protection policies of Uyuni, The solid waste recycling and reuse proas well as project owners’ specific reject of Weichai Holding Group Co., Ltd., quirements for environmental protection, SIPPR, SINOMACH adopts advanced solid CAMCE has implemented strict measures waste treatment techniques in automatic in energy conservation and consumption casting processes. It achieves the recyreduction, low carbon, and environmental cling of waste resources by applying lightprotection, and has been honored with “environmentally friendly emissions and weight expanded clay aggregate (LECA) zero pollution”. The company has set a made from waste sand in construction, good example of green engineering and soilless cultivation, and other fields, ecological protection for China’s overseas which guarantees both economic and soEPC projects, and won the “2018-2019 cial benefits and plays an exemplary role China Construction Engineering Luban in the industry. Prize (Overseas Project)”. Solid waste recycling and reuse plant of Weichai Holding Group Co., Ltd., SIPPR The Bolivia Uyuni 350KTPA potash plant project undertaken by CAMCE 58 China National Machinery Industry Corporation 2019 Social Responsibility Report 59 Green Life By integrating green development into production and life, SINOMACH carries out various Green Office Environmental Protection-oriented Public Welfare publicity and promotion activities to strengthen employees’ awareness of green and low-carbon Advocating green office concepts, SINOMACH SINOMACH consciously practices environmenpractices, encourage employees to participate has improved the green office system. We attal protection and organizes various types of in environmental protection and public welfare activities, and guide employees to follow green tach great importance to energy conservation SINOCONST promotes green environmental public welfare activities, such as and environmental protection in office areas, office practices in an all-around voluntary tree planting, garbage collection, etc., working methods and lifestyles, which also faciland have optimized the e-government system, so as to pass on the concept of ecological proitates sustainable lifestyles. way enhanced the management of water, electection and resource conservation to the public, tricity, oil and office consumables, and made promote the building of a green homeland and By promoting green office practices, great efforts in transforming the water-using boost ecological progress. In 2019, the Group including saving electricity, water and equipment, green transportation and paperless launched the SINOMACH Energy Saving Promoenergy, SINOCONST strives to call on office. tion Week and National Low Carbon Day 2019 employees to make greater contributions campaign centering on the themes of “green to a green, energy-saving and low-carbon development, energy saving first” and “low-carsociety. bon actions, safeguard the blue sky”, carried out publicity activities on resource conservation and environmental protection, and continuously Saving electricity enhanced employees’ energy saving awareness and environmental protection capabilities. During the peak power consumption periods in winter and summer, SINOCONST strengthened the management of electricity consumption and eliminated wasting behaviors at the source. The company designated specific members to inspect office areas after work, shut down all electric devices in public places, and avoided the waste of electricity caused by unnecessary use of lights. CAMCE holds a voluntary tree planting activity. Saving water Posters for the SINOMACH 2019 Energy Saving Promotion Week and National Low Carbon Day campaign SINOCONST set up “Save Water” signs in multiple places and required employees Protecting lush mountains and to turn off the tap. The company also lucid waters to build a beautiful strengthened daily management and China maintenance of water-using equipment to prevent water from leaking and running To celebrate the 70th founding anniversaall the time. ry of the PRC, SINOMACH Auto earnestly implemented the Group’s green development concepts. With the theme of “proSaving energy tecting lush mountains and lucid waters to build a beautiful China”, SINOMACH Adhering to strict management of ofAuto held a brisk walk activity in Purple fice cars, SINOCONST implemented the Bamboo Park, Beijing, to call on particsingle-car fuel consumption recording ipants collect garbage during running, system, assigned special members to which effectively contributed to envikeep records of fuel consumption, mainronmental protection, promoted healthy tenance and repairs of each car, and kept lifestyles, and motivated the public to detailed records of office supplies and protect the blue sky and white clouds, as consumables in various departments. well as lush mountains and lucid waters. Guoji Zhijun Automotive CO., Ltd. (Zedriv) contributes to green and low-carbon lives with new-energy vehicles. SUMEC participates in an environmental public welfare activity to advocate environmental protection concepts in environmental protection actions. 60 China National Machinery Industry Corporation 2019 Social Responsibility Report 61 04Responsible SINOMACH Sharing the Fruits of Development 31 Strategic cooperation agreements signed in the past three years RMB 840 Work safety input million 3,621 Work safety training sessions 1,638 Emergency drills CSR practices Providing quality products and services Strengthening supply chain management Promoting strategic cooperation Enhancing work safety management Organizing education and training activities on work safety Engaging in the public welfare programs Contributions to SDGs The KR/HD-340 continuous viscose filament spinning machine 62 China National Machinery Industry Corporation 2019 Social Responsibility Report 63 Win-win Partnerships Bearing in mind that the development of SINOMACH is inseparable from the support of Products and Services Supply Chain Management various stakeholders, the Group strives to establish amicable cooperative ties with stakeholders, The quality of products and services is the consolidating the quality foundation, and innoSINOMACH acts in line with the overarching bidding process more transparent, controllable and it is committed to achieving mutual benefit lifeline of enterprises. Adhering to the concept vating in technologies and quality management, guideline of “control losses, cut costs, reduce and traceable with records of the whole process and common development with all stakeholdof “quality and efficiency first”, the Group has the Group has solidly improved its quality manaccounts receivable & inventory, lower down the available. All these efforts have further standarders. further improved the quality management sysagement, delivering better products, projects asset-liability ratio, and strengthen the centralized SINOMACH’s procurement management. At tem. By strictly guarding against major quality and services, and rendering customers with ized management of funds and procurement”. It the same time, the Group integrates social reaccidents, bringing down quality risks and costs, superior products and services. has implemented the SINOMACH Procurement sponsibility into the entire procurement process, Management Rolling Plan accordingly, and deand continuously updates the list of qualified veloped its procurement management system suppliers in an open manner while giving priority Awards and honors and mechanism to highlight “standardized manto socially responsible suppliers. As of the end agement, openness and transparency, overall of 2019, the Group and its subsidiaries had esplanning, and phased implementation”. The tablished their supplier evaluation management 2018-2019 China Construction 2018-2019 China Construction Group has also put in place a tender managemechanisms, and applied the evaluation results Engineering Luban Prize Engineering Luban Prize ment system featuring “centralized supervision to contracted procurement and strategic cooper(Overseas Project) (Overseas Project) of procurement information and centralized proation with suppliers. curement of key materials”, which has made the San Buenaventura sugar factory The Bolivia Uyuni 350KTPA potash project in Bolivia plant project Building a supplier management system to accelerate the healthy Rigorous supplier management development of the supply chain ensures the quality of supplies 2018-2019 China Construction 2018-2019 China Construction Attaching great significance to supplier management, our subsidiary CMEC has established the Engineering Luban Prize Engineering Luban Prize “application – review qualification survey risk warning – exit” supplier management mechanism to Starting from reducing supply chain promote the integration of environmental and social risks into supplier review and management, thus (Overseas Project) (National Quality Engineering Award) risks and building a coordinated supply guaranteeing the comprehensive, healthy and sustainable development of the industry chain. chain ecology, research institutions of The Belarus Geely Automobile The Phase-II project of Xiaocangfang SINOMACH have undertaken the design production line project sewage treatment plant in Hefei, Anhui of quality standards covering the entire province industrial chain, and keep a tight rein on the list of qualified suppliers to maintain a reasonable number of them Supplier application Supplier review Supplier qualification survey while ensuring normal production and Basic corporate inforProduct quality operation. Responsibilities of the three mation Wo r k s a f e t y a n d Quality Management Measures Production capacity parties concerning quality, procurement Credit rating energy saving and Production experiand technology have been clearly defined Product quality certifiemission reduction ence cation performance in line with the principle of “high quality Integrity manageEnhancing quality risk management capaEnhancing the supervision of the quality Financial audit report Compliance operament and reasonable price”, and the evaluation bilities, improving the quality cost manof key projects and equipment, raising tion of qualified suppliers is a prerequisite agement system, and facilitating the imall employees’ awareness of quality risk, for starting the procurement process. plementation of the SINOMACH Guiding and incorporating construction sites of The Group has also intensified supply Opinions on Strengthening Quality Risk overseas projects into the Group’s quality quality management and performance Management (Trial) and the SINOMACH risk management to prevent major qualievaluation of suppliers. It establishes Guiding Opinions on Strengthening Qualty accidents Supplier exit Supplier risk warning strategic partnerships with large suppliers ity Cost Management (Trial) who can provide quality products. For Supplier complain Quality risks new suppliers, the Group will conduct Review of risk reEnvironmental risks rigorous testing and verification of the sponse ability Social risks key technical indicators of products to Supplier exit / recovCompliance and morensure the stability of quality products ery al risks and reduce quality risks. Building the “SINOMACH Quality Award” Intensively carrying out quality improveselection platform to reward model subment actions, and prioritizing the quality sidiaries and projects as well as to estabimprovement and quality risk managelish the values of pursuing excellence and ment of project contracting and trade upholding quality among all subsidiaries services as the Group’s special tasks in 2019 Supplier management procedure of CMEC 64 China National Machinery Industry Corporation 2019 Social Responsibility Report 65 Strategic Cooperation Based on the needs of business development, SINOMACH strengthens communication and SINOMACH establishes strategic establishes strategic partnerships with the govpartnerships with Jiangsu and ernment, well-known international enterprises, advanced domestic enterprises, universities, Shanghai etc., so as to build strong synergies, enhance In 2019, SINOMACH successively signed the market competitiveness of both sides, and strategic cooperation agreements with jointly promote regional economic developJiangsu, Shanghai and other provinces ment. and municipalities, aiming to strengthen partnerships for the development of the Yangtze River Delta. To serve national st rate g i e s , s u c h a s t h e i nte g rate d development of the Yangtze River At the Group level 31 Delta, we took the initiative to fulfill our missions and created new momentum for the development of SINOMACH. Strategic cooperation J i a n g s u P r o v i n c e : We s t r e n g t h e n agreements signed in the past partnerships in advanced manufacturing, three years new energy sectors, environmental p ro te c t i o n , s m a r t m a n u fa c t u r i n g , exhibition economy and other related fields to achieve mutual benefit and SINOMACH signs a strategic cooperation agreement with Jiangsu Municipal Government. common development. Chairman Zhang Xiaolun visits the headquarters of Schneider Electric SA in Paris, France. Shanghai: We launch cooperation in the eight sectors, including the construction of SINOMACH headquarters in Shanghai, auto industry, exhibition economy and smart manufacturing, and make allA fruitful China International out efforts to build the four brands o f “ S h a n g h a i S e r v i c e ”, “ S h a n g h a i Import Expo for SINOMACH Manufacturing”, “Shanghai Shopping” and “Shanghai Culture” . During the second China International Import Expo, SINOMACH made every e f fo r t t o e n s u r e t h e p ro v i s i o n o f services. Focusing on strengthening communication with domestic and foreign companies, the Group signed 17 import procurement contracts with multiple partners. SINOMACH’s ten subsidiaries, including CAMCE, SINOMACH Auto, SUMEC, etc. made great gains and signed Strengthening synergies within agreements with partners. the industry for common development On April 27, SINOMACH held the meeting on deploying SINOMACH’s strategy of revitalizing agricultural machinery and equipment in Luoyang. At the meeting, SINOMACH signed strategic agreements SINOMACH is responsible for the promotion work of the advanced equipment booths at the China SINOMACH holds the meeting on deploying SINOMACH’s strategy of revitalizing agricultural with YTO, CMEC, CAAMS, SUMEC, and International Import Expo. machinery and equipment. CUC to jointly promote the development of the agricultural machinery industry chain, new products, and the “going global” of agricultural machinery. 66 China National Machinery Industry Corporation 2019 Social Responsibility Report 67 Work Safety Following the principle of putting safety and prevention first and carrying out comprehensive Work Safety Management Safety Education and Training management, we firmly hold the bottom line of development without compromising human To ensure that both CPC committees and sive safety management. Focusing on the safety In order to raise employees’ awareness of the lives. Thus, we emphasize the prevention of governments are held accountable and that of hazardous chemicals, we pay attention to supreme importance of work safety and guide safety risks, strengthen law-based governance, officials take responsibility for workplace safethe management and control of major hazards employees to firmly uphold safe development, and continuously increase input into work safety in performing their duties, and to intensify in key areas, links, operations, and areas, and SINOMACH disseminates safety culture, poputy, so as to ensure that the Group achieves sciefforts to see that those who fail to uphold establish a tiered risk management and control, larizes safety knowledge, strengthens employentific and harmonious development under the safety standards are held accountable, we have and investigation system. The system guaranees’ work safety capacity and awareness by premise of safety. In 2019, SINOMACH invested formulated a work safety responsibility system tees effective prevention and earlier detection organizing internal and external work safety RMB 840 million in work safety, an increase of that specifies responsibilities of each individual. of risks, and risk governance from the source. training, emergency drills for accidents, the RMB 230 million from the year before, and no In addition, we have established a three-tier At the same time, we improve risk management “Work Safety Month” campaign, and a series major or more serious work safety accident ocoverseas safety risk prevention management measures and safety management elements in of special safety inspections and rectification curred, and general accidents showed a downsystem covering SINOMACH headquarters, subthe investigation and management of hazards, activities. In 2019, the Group held 3,621 work ward trend. ordinate enterprises, overseas enterprises or striving to build a long-term safety management safety training sessions which involved 108,868 project departments to strengthen comprehenmechanism. participants. Moreover, the work safety training programs run by external organizations attracted 18,106 participants from SINOMACH. Major work safety actions Printed and distributed 29 red-headed Organized investigation and rectification documents and 60 letters to subsidiaries, of work safety risks and highlighted the implemented relevant national work special inspection and supervision of key Employees of SIPPR participate in the Work Safety Publicity and Consulting Day campaign. safety regulations, and organized enterequipment and facilities and key posiprises to carry out work safety-related tions work Organizing publicity and education activities on safety risks to create a work safety environment Made comprehensive arrangements for Strengthened emergency management, risk prevention and safety guarantee required each subsidiary to further imOur subsidiaries, under the organization of implementation of risk prevention and control 3,621 work during the celebration on the Naprove their contingency plans and onthe Group, launched a series of novel and responsibilities, rectify problems in key tional Day and worked to create a safe site disposal plans, built up emergency diversified activities around the theme of industries and fields, and prevent and resolve and stable environment that effectively material reserves and emergency teams, “preventing risks, eliminating hazards, and major safety risks. We strived to promote the prevented and reduced accidents and carried out emergency drills, etc. curbing accidents.” These activities aimed to concept of life and safety first and effectively Work safety training sessions strengthen employees’ work safety awareness, enhance employees awareness to ensure work 167 promote safety management at grassroots safety. departments and enterprises, deepen the Subsidiaries passed OHSAS 18000 occupational health and safety management 108,868 Total trainees system certification 193 1,638 Subsidiaries passed the work safety Emergency drills standardization certification 11,349 52,740 Total participants CAMCE organizes employees of the Pokhara Regional International Airport, Nepal to take Work safety inspections carried out SUMEC carries out an emergency evacuation drill. a safety oath. 68 China National Machinery Industry Corporation 2019 Social Responsibility Report 69 Contribution to Community Development Focusing on localized management, SINOMACH actively fulfills responsibilities to local commuCommunity Building Public Welfare Undertakings nities, contributes to local people’s living standards, and promotes community development. In the process of production and operation, improve local infrastructure, and create job By organizing public welfare donations, rescue Through public welfare activities, we show SINOMACH takes the initiative to participate opportunities for local people, thus promoting and relief work as well as other public welfare sincere care for vulnerable social groups to proin the development of the local community, local economic and social development. activities, the Group leverages its professional Upholding the Lei Feng spirit – Creating a Better Life Hand in Hand mote the harmonious development of society. advantages to help vulnerable groups and improve education and medical standards in poor On the occasion of the 56th Lei Feng Memorial quality identification of silk products, car areas. Day, SINOMACH organized the public consulting selection and maintenance, home decoration Successful handover of the Official commencement of the activity themed with Upholding the Lei and design, etc., based on their professional Mongolian Disabled Children corn flour mill EPC project in Feng spirit – Creating a Better Life Hand in knowledge, showing the positive energy of Development Center Zambia Hand. Youth volunteers from the Group and young employees of SINOMACH. subsidiaries provided consulting services on T h e M o n g o l i a n D i s a b l e d C h i l d re n On April 17, the launching ceremony of Development Center was held at the the corn flour mill EPC project in Zambia project site in Ulaanbaatar, capital of undertaken by SINOCONST was held in Mongolia. The center, with a total of Chongwe District, Lusaka, Zambia. The 250 beds, a site area of 20,000 square project marks the latest progress of meters, and a construction area of about the Chinese and Zambian governments 15,000 square meters, is the largest, most during the implementation of decisions Beijing Agricultural Machinery modern and fully functional rehabilitation of the 2018 Beijing Summit of the Forum Test Station officially approved and medical project of Mongolia on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC). as the education base of the supported by the Chinese government After put into production, the 30,000-m2 China National Committee for in recent years. People-oriented, IPPR project will be able to produce 150,000 a d o pte d i nte r n at i o n a l l y a d va n c e d tons of corn flour and by-products. the Wellbeing of the Youth standards in project design to build a With quality management as the focus, modern rehabilitation and medical center SINOCONST ensured safe, responsible for Mongolian children with disabilities. and environmentally friendly construction Since 2016, Beijing Agricultural Machinery and carried out construction work in strict Test Station, CAAMS, by making full use accordance with related requirements. of resources in scientific research and At the same time, it cooperated with education, has developed the agricultural Zambian companies to create as many education courses for elementary and jobs as possible for local people. middle schools, and created a curriculum featuring “labor-education integration, tradition-modernity integration, agriculture-life integration, learningThe public consulting activity entertainment integration” and covering the five major agricultural sectors of farming, forestry, animal husbandry, side-line production and fishery. The curriculum helps students understand and experience the agriculture industry in an all-around way, cultivates students’ interest in physical work and strengthens their will through labor education. All courses will make students more virtuous, wiser, and stronger, cultivate students’ sense of beauty, and boost students’ innovation capabilities. On November 5, 2019, the education base of the China National Committee for the Wellbeing of the Youth was established at the Beijing Agricultural Machinery Test Station, CAAMS. The 2X25MW coal-fired power plant project in Gorontalo, Indonesia is SUMEC’s first coal-fired power plant project in Indonesia. After put into operation, the project will effectively solve the problem of insufficient SINOMACH organizes the “Fulfill Your Wishes” public welfare activity to give cups as presents to power supply of the local area, thus creating drives for regional economic and social development. Liuwei Primary School in Henan Province. 70 China National Machinery Industry Corporation 2019 Social Responsibility Report 71 05Happy SINOMACH Bringing Our Dream to Fruition 146,792 Number of employees RMB Fund 5.947 million Donations raised through the Love 100 examinations % Coverage of health RMB 92.015 Investment in staff education and training million CSR practices Protecting the rights and interests of employees Improving compensation and benefits Paying attention to employee health Supporting employee development Caring for employee life Contributions to SDGs The 5th “Harmonious SINOMACH Cup” employee table tennis competition 72 China National Machinery Industry Corporation 2019 Social Responsibility Report 73 Protection of Rights and Interests Always putting people first, SINOMACH is committed to establishing equal and harmonious Employment management Occupational health and safety labor relations with employees, protecting SINOMACH adheres to law-based and equal criminate candidates due to their gender, age, Deeply concerned about the health of employemployees’ legitimate rights and interests, and employment, and respects employees’ right to ethnic identity, nationality and other characterees, we earnestly implement relevant requiremeeting employees’ reasonable demands. The work. The Group signs labor contracts with fullistics, and oppose child labor and forced labor. ments of the Law of the People’s Republic of Major measures for occupational disease prevention Group continuously creates an equal, respectful time employees according to law. We never disChina on the Prevention and Control of Occuand safe working environment for employees, pational Diseases . By strengthening the impleand better enhance employees’ sense of happimentation of occupational disease prevention ness and gain. Compensation and benefits responsibilities in enterprises and improving the long-term prevention and control mechanism, We pay salaries in full and on time, and provide shareholding enterprises, equity and dividend we have comprehensively strengthened the endowment insurance, medical insurance, incentives of state-owned technological enterprevention of occupational health risks and enunemployment insurance, employment injury prises, and employee stock-ownership plans of hanced our guarantee ability. insurance, maternity insurance, and housing state-controlled mixed ownership enterprises, provident fund for employees. By enhancing we strive to motivate employees’ passion for Adapting to the trends in industry developStrengthening the prevention and control middleand long-term incentives, applying works. Besides, we provide more reasonable ment and changes in occupational health of occupational disease risks, and tightcomprehensive incentive instruments, such income distribution and share the achievements Conducting publicity on protection needs, further improving occuening the occupational disease reporting as equity incentives of listed state-owned of corporate development with employees. pational health protection standards, and system to ensure early identification, reoccupational health improving the occupational safety level at porting and disposal the workplace With the theme of “Building a Healthy Gender Structure of Employees China, Guaranteeing Occupational Health,” SINOMACH organized rich occupational health publicity activities focusing on key industries, diseases, and 75.8% 24.2% links, which helped prevent and control occupational disease risks and enhance employees’ related awareness, thus ensuring the health of employees. During Male Female this period, we organized 627 themed briefings, held 845 warning education activities, handed out 21,063 publicity Strengthening occupational health examEarnestly carrying out publicity and edumaterials, deployed 2,742 publicity staff, inations and implementing policies on cation on occupational health, improving and reached to 79,912 audiences. work-related injuries, medical insurance, the employment system, and enhancing Employee Education Background and assistance employees’ self-protection awareness 146,792 Junior College or lower Bachelor’s degree Master’s degree or higher Number of employees 54.0% 35.5% 10.5% Dialogue and Communication 100 % Age Distribution Adhering to democratic management, we improve the workers’ congress system and the Labor contract signing rate labor union system, actively disclose corporate affairs, and diversify channels for employees to participate in company management while 100 respecting employees’ legitimate right to know, to participate, to express, and to supervise. % 35 years old and below 36 50 years old 50 years old and above Payment rate of social insurance and housing fund 40.8% 45.1% 14.1% Employee representatives participate in the opinion poll at the workers’ congress. 74 China National Machinery Industry Corporation 2019 Social Responsibility Report 75 Employee Development To thoroughly implement the strategy of empowering SINOMACH with talents, we further Employee Training Career Development optimize the allocation of human resources, deepen the reform of the talent development To improve the employee training and develRMB 92.015 million in employee education and To unblock career development channels for Five categories of talents of system and mechanism, and improve the talent opment system, we provide targeted training training. Our headquarters launched 29 internaemployees, we have improved the talent selecSINOMACH training mechanism. Moreover, we optimize the talent evaluation mechanism, provide more according to the needs of employee developzl online courses, organized 10 offline training tion, evaluation, training and incentive mechatargeted trainings to lift the professional skills of ment, thus continuously strengthening employprograms, 1 SINOMACH Lecture , and 11 Dannisms oriented towards innovation, quality and employees, and help employees grow. ees’ professional skills and passion for work, ling Classrooms, effectively meeting employees’ contribution. By accelerating the building of and laying a solid foundation for the Group’s needs in career development. talent teams, cultivating, attracting and using high-quality development. In 2019, we invested excellent talents, we strive to fully stimulate talents’ passion for work and provide talent guarantees for building SINOMACH into a worldRepresentatives Leading manageComprehensive Technological Skilled class enterprise with global competitiveness. of strategic invesment talents Party-mass relations innovation experts tors talents talents Enhancing employee training to SINOMACH INTELTECH tap the potential of talents launches the 2019 Zhiyuan To build a team of high-quality and Training Camp professional officials that meet the Based on the “1-2-1” mode (one week requirements of the development of before the camp, two weeks during the the times, SINOMACH organized three camp, and one year after the camp), Creating a highland of talents and youth talent training programs in May, Talent training system SINOMACH INTELTECH held the 2019 boosting corporate development July, and August, 2019 for youth officials, Zhiyuan Training Camp on July 8 18, youth talents with high potential, and 2019. Integrating online learning, military Talent is the foundation for starting new excellent youth officials from subsidiaries. “Eagle Program” education and training, face-to-face businesses, strengthening competition, and The training programs highlighted the Talent Training System Version lecturing, panel discussion, and on-theboosting better development in SINOMACH. We theme of “remaining true to the original 1.0 job training, the camp helped 41 newly have upgraded the talent training system from aspiration, keeping the mission firmly recruited fresh graduates adapt to their the “Eagle Program” to the “Four Societies.” in mind”, demand surveys, problempositions smoothly. By integrating category-based and hierarchical and practice-oriented principle, and training with regular education and customized self-management and were committed training, we aim to gradually build a structured “Four Societies” to improving the comprehensive official capability building path. Talent Training System competences of outstanding young Version 2.0 officials. Society of enterprising talents Society of integrity (Training class for high(Training class for high-potential potential talents) talents) Focusing on the improvement of profesFocusing on the improvement of managesional literacy and cultural drives ment awareness and basic skills RMB 92.015 million 26 Employees who won the title of National Investment in staff education and training Technical Experts Society of cooperation Society of excellence 1 In the headquarters (Intermediate training class) (Intermediate and senior training class) 29 courses Subsidiaries honored National Outstanding Unit for Skilled-talent Focusing on the improvement of management skills and collaboration Focusing on strategic thinking and leadership enhancement New internal online courses Training SINOMACH skill competition for bench workers developed 76 China National Machinery Industry Corporation 2019 Social Responsibility Report 77 Employee Care Caring for the life of employees, SINOMACH works to create a harmonious and positive Caring for employees corporate culture, help employees tackle difficulties and challenges in work and life, and increase their recognition of the Group. At the Attaching great significance to employees’ build a happy family of SINOMACH with love. In same time, we advocate work-life balance, and needs and daily life, we strive to show the 2019, we raised RMB 5.947 million of donations organize rich cultural and sports activities to most care for female and retired employees. through the Love Fund, assisted 295 employees make employees work and live happily. Through the revised Measures for Application in need, provided support for 88 students of for and Distribution of the Love Fund , we aim employees with difficulties and 33 members to help more employees in need in more effecwith critical diseases. tive ways, enhance employees’ happiness, and SINOMACH Love Fund RMB 5.947 million Donations from employees 295 Employees with financial difficulty aided by the Group 88 1. Zhang Xiaolun, Chairman of SINOMACH, visits Dr. Huang Xiqiu, the spirit model of SINOMACH. Employees’ children sponsored by 2. CAMCE holds a cultural exchange activity. the Group 3 3. SINOMACH organizes a dumpling making activity for 33 employees. 1 4. SINOMACH HEAVY INDUSTRY organizes the “March 8” Women’s Day activity. 4 5 2 5. SIPPR sends heat-relieving supplies to employees. Employees with severe illness aided by the Group 78 China National Machinery Industry Corporation 2019 Social Responsibility Report 79 Employee Activities 3 1. The 5th “Harmonious SINOMACH Cup” employee 1 table tennis competition Taking employees as the Group’s most valuable 5 2. A parent-child bonding outward bound event of asset, we organize visits, exchanges, sports SUMEC meeting, and table tennis and badminton com2 4 3. The 5th “Harmonious SINOMACH Cup” employee petitions to enrich employees’ lives and continbadminton competition uously improve employees’ team spirit. 4. SINOMACH “I Love China – Mysterious Military Equipment” parent-child bonding activity 5. “Responsibility Cup” tug of war of SINOMACH INTELTECH The 5th “Harmonious SINOMACH Cup” employee table tennis and badminton competition To enrich the staff’s sports and cultural lives, and to inherit and carry forward the spirit of unity and hard work of the machinery industry, SINOMACH held the 5th “Harmonious SINOMACH Cup” employee table tennis and badminton competition at the China Administration of Sports for Persons with Disabilities on September 6. A total of nearly 600 athletes in 28 teams from SINOMACH headquarters and subsidiaries gathered at the grand event. 80 China National Machinery Industry Corporation 2019 Social Responsibility Report 81 Key Performance Outlook Economic Performance CSR Field CSR Commitments CSR Actions Indicator 2017 2018 2019 Total assets (RMB Billion) 381.56 394.44 383.61 Maintaining stable operExploring emerging markets, innovating in business models, and increasing the depth and the ations width of the “going global” strategy Operating revenue (RMB Billion) 288.17 300.47 297.91 Deepening corporate Paying close attention to the management of loss-making enterprises and completing the target Asset-liability ratio (%) 67.9 67.5 65.2 Value-creating reforms of reducing the losses of loss-making enterprises by 50% Equities attributable to equity holders of the parent company SINOMACH 68.33 67.45 68.53 Improving basic manStrengthening the centralized management and control of assets, improving the efficiency of capi(RMB Billion) agement tal use, and ensuring the safety of the capital chain National patents (Items) 1,542 1,858 1,506 Promoting business deHighlighting the development of the main business sectors of mechanical equipment, technical Academicians 4 4 5 velopment research and development, project contracting, trade and services, and finance and investment Scientific research investment (RMB Billion) 6.20 6.66 7.17 Provincial and ministerial-level and national 360 370 389 industrial awards (Items) Enhancing innovation Improving the technological innovation management system and enhancing technological innovamanagement tion capabilities Environmental Performance Innovative SINOMACH Building innovation capabilities Increasing investments in R&D, especially in bottleneck problems and cutting-edge technologies Accelerating the establishment of national major technical equipment innovation research instiIndicator 2017 2018 2019 Promoting innovation tutes and R&D Total energy consumption (10,000 TCE) 105.6 88.6 67.2 Overall energy consumption per RMB 10,000 of operating 0.0032 0.0030 0.0034 revenue Comprehensive energy consumption per RMB 10,000 of 0.1908 0.1357 0.1180 Enhancing environmenoutput value (in TCE) Strengthening environmental management to lay a solid foundation for green development tal management Energy saved (in TCE) 197,000 208,000 261,000 Green Adhering to green operation to reduce the negative impacts of production and operation on the Conducting green operaSINOMACH environment SO2 emissions (Ton) 4,235.4 3,951.8 1,590.4 tion Adhering to green office and raising employees’ awareness of environmental protection COD emissions (Ton) 4,082.5 3,893.2 471.6 Advocating green life Social Performance Growing together with Strengthening communication with partners, providing customers with quality products and serIndicator 2017 2018 2019 partners vices, and creating a responsible value chain Total taxation (RMB Billion) 13.06 12.17 11.37 Responsible Guaranteeing work safeBuilding a long-term safety management mechanism to ensure safe development level of the SINOMACH ty Group Labor contract signing rate (%) 100 100 100 Contributing to social Implementing corporate citizenship and seeking common development and progress with the Work safety input (RMB Million) 510 610 840 harmony community Major safety accidents (Cases) 0 0 0 Number of employees seriously injured in accidents 1 0 0 Number of dead employees 0 0 2 Safeguarding employees’ Respecting the basic rights of employees in seeking health and development, and enhancing emEmployees’ physical examination rate (%) 100 100 100 rights and interests ployees’ sense of belonging and identification Happy Major complaints from partners (Cases) 0 0 0 Supporting employees’ Deepening the reform of the talent development system and mechanism, and earnestly discoverSINOMACH growth ing and training outstanding young cadres Number of employees 150,980 147,099 146,792 Caring for employees Caring for employees and creating a happy family of SINOMACH 82 China National Machinery Industry Corporation 2019 Social Responsibility Report 83 Reporting Index Comparison Table with the Ten Principles of UN Table of Contents CASS-CSR 4.0 indicators GRI Standards Page Global Compact 102-46\102-50\ About this Report P1.1~1.3\M1.6 Title page 102-52~53 Message from the Chairman P2.1~2.2\P3.1~3.2 102-14 P4~P5 UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles Progress in 2019 201-1\302-1~2\ CSR Data 2019 M1.7\M2.5\S1.3~1.4\S2.11\E1.8\E2.5 P6~P7 305-7 Principle 1: Respecting the basic human rights of individual survival and developCompany Profile P4.1~4.4\M1.1 101-1~101-7 P8~P11 ment, creating a safe and healthy work environment, and providing Corporate Governance P4.2 102-18\102-20 P12 Businesses should support and respect the protection of employees with opportunities and platforms for growth and develinternationally proclaimed human rights opment About Us Corporate Strategy P4.1 102-15 P13 Corporate Culture P4.1\G1.1~1.2 102-16 P14 Human Principle 2: Roles in Social Organizations M3.6 102-13 P15 Rights Incorporating suppliers’ CSR performance into the supplier selection Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights criteria and giving preference to responsible suppliers Social Responsibility Model G1.1~1.2\G2.3~2.4 102-2\102-16 P16 abuses Social Responsibility G3.1~3.3\G2.3 102-26 P16 Social ResponManagement System Principle 3: sibility ManageSocial Responsibility G2.4\G4.3\G5.1\G6.2~6.3 102-12 P17 Establishing and improving the labor union mechanism, creating ment Management Promotion Businesses should uphold the freedom of association innovative channels for employees to express opinions, respecting Materiality Management G2.1\G6.1~6.3 102-44\102-47 P18 and the effective recognition of the right to collective employees’ appeals, and protecting employees’ rights and interests Stakeholder Management G6.1~6.2 103-40\102-40~42 P19 bargaining A: Implementing the Belt and Road Initiative to Deepen International Communication and CooperaP4.2\M3.6 203-2 P20~P23 Principle 4: CSR Focus tion The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory B: Innovating in Targeted Poverty S1.5\S4.5\S4.8\S4.12~4.14 201-1\413-1 P24~P27 labor Strictly observing laws and regulations, standardizing employment Alleviation to End Poverty management, and resolutely eliminating child labor and forced labor High-quality development M1.7\P4.5 201-1 P30 Labor Principle 5: Value-creating Deepening Reforms S1.4 417-1 P31~P33 SINOMACH The effective abolition of child labor Basic Management M1.1\M1.3\M1.8\M3.4 102-30\205-1~2 P34~P35 Business Development M2.1\M2.4 102-10 P36~39 Principle 6: Adhering to equal employment and never using personal details Technological Innovation Management M2.4 P42 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employirrelevant to the targeted posts as the criteria and standards for reInnovative Technological innovation capabilities M2.5~2.6 P43~P45 ment and occupation cruitment SINOMACH Technological innovation achievements M2.7 P46~P48 Exchanges on Technological Innovation M3.5~3.6 206-1 P49 Principle 7: Integrating green development into the whole process of production 103-2\302-1\ Businesses should support a precautionary approach to and operation, reducing negative impacts on the environment, and Environmental Management E1.1\E1.8\E2.5\E2.12\E2.23~2.25 P52~P53 305-6~7 enhancing employees’ awareness of environmental protection Green environmental challenges SINOMACH Green Operation E1.3\E1.7\E2.1~2.3\E2.11\E2.13\E2.15\E2.17 302-4~5 P54~P57 Green Life E1.5\E2.8\E3.1\E3.4\E3.6 304-3 P58~P59 Principle 8: Win-win Partnerships M3.1\M3.3~3.4\M3.6\M3.10 414-1~2\416-1 P62~P65 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Responsible Work Safety S3.1~3.7 402-2 P66~P67 Environresponsibility Strengthening innovation in environmental protection technologies, SINOMACH 203-1~2\413-1\ ment and working to build a resource saving and environmentally friendly Contribution to Community Development S4.1\S4.5 P68~P69 415-1 Principle 9: production and operation mode Protection of Rights and Interests S2.1~2.4\S2.7~2.8\S2.10~2.12 401-2\405-1 P72~P73 Encourage the development and diffusion of environHappy SINOMACH Employee Development S2.14~2.16 404-2 P74~P75 mentally friendly technologies Employee Care S2.17~2.18 401-2 P76~P79 M2.5~2.6\S1.3\S2.3\S3.5~3.7\E2.3~2.5\ 201-1\302-4\ Key Performance P80 E2.12\E2.25 305-6~7\403-2 Principle 10: Intensifying discipline inspection and supervision, enhancing political Outlook A1 P81 inspection, and focusing more on institutional building so that all Businesses should work against corruption in all its dare not be corrupt, cannot be corrupt and even do not want to be Reporting Index A5 102-55 P82 Anti-Corrupforms, including extortion and bribery corrupt Comparison Table with the Ten Principles of UN Global Compact G6.3 P83 tion Feedback Form A6 P84 84 China National Machinery Industry Corporation Feedback Form Distinguished readers, Thank you for reading this report. We expect you to share your opinions and suggestions over this report to help us improve our report compilation and our social responsibility performance. You are welcomed to fill in the following questionnaire and send it to us through the contact at the bottom of this page. We are grateful for your support of SINOMACH’s social responsibility work! SINOMACH June 2020 01 Which of the following stakeholder are you? Shareholder Employee Customer Supplier/Contractor Government Peer Community/the Public Industrial association/NGO Media Others (Please specify) 02 Generally, How do you think of this report? Very Good Good Fairly Good Poor Very Poor 03 Please evaluate the report： Dimension Very Good Good Fairly Good Poor Very Poor Information Disclosure Formant Design Readability 04 Which chapter meets your demand most? (You may choose more than one answer) Message from the Chairman CSR Data 2019 About Us Social Responsibility Management CSR Focus Value-Creating SINOMACH Innovative SINOMACH Green SINOMACH Responsible SINOMACH Happy SINOMACH Outlook Others (Please specify) 05 Which topics do you concern most? (You may choose more than one answer) Employment promotion Tax payment according to law Compliance management Environmental protection Community development Public welfare Occupational health and safety Compensation and benefits Career development Employee care Local hiring Energy saving and emission reduction Resource saving Ecological protection Environmental protection-oriented public welfare Fair competition Integrity and honesty Information confidentiality Communication with the industry Work safety 06 What other opinions or suggestions do you have on the report or our CSR performance? Address: No.3 Danling Street, Haidian District, Beijing, P.R.China P.C:100080 Contact person: He Yuan Tel.:86-1082606741 Fax: 86-1082688724 E-mail: heyuan@sinomach.com.cn Work Together, Win Together Address: No.3 Danling Street, Haidian District, Beijing P.C: 100080 Tel.: 86 10 82688888 Fax: 86 10 82688811 Website: http://www.sinomach.com.cn SINOMACH WeChat The report is designed by Aibo. The report is printed on recycled paper. The report is printed with soy ink.
