Sustainability Report 2019 日本語版 01 Corporate Philosophy CONTENTS Corporate Philosophy 01 Corporate Philosophy 03 Top Message Corporate Creed 05 Foster Group CSR Management “Sincerity” has been the Foster Group’s corporate creed since its establishment. 13 Environment By the term “sincerity,” we mean the act of treating all 19 Social concerned parties of the Company with a sincere approach. The concept of CSR, which shares the same basic philosophy 33 Governance as the corporate creed of “sincerity,” has always governed the Company’s corporate management and business operations 43 Corporate Profile and Financial Information since its foundation. To continue to grow in the coming age, we believe it is important 45 Corporate History for each member of the Foster Group to act in accordance with the CSR philosophy, or the corporate creed of “sincerity,” 47 External Recognition which we have adhered to since our establishment. 49 Data Table Corporate Creed Vision Mission Sincerity Through acoustic products or To make contributions its solutions, a total commitment to for future society help create a comfortable life and pleasure of communication through acoustics around the world. A truly global enterprise our future society counts on. The Foster Group is celebrating its 70th anniversary in 2019. Corporate Philosophy 02 Foster Rhythm “Foster Rhythm” is our guide to ensure we all move in the same direction to achieve our goals and dreams so we always move closer to our inspiring “Vision.” Our “Mission” motivates us to help people achieve new happiness via acoustic technology and our “Values” are guides to filter our choices so that our actions support all stakeholders. Our “Principles” conduct us to create perfect harmony and achieve the best results together. Our “Management System” of processes and tools helps us to practice, learn and grow as members of the Foster family, evolving new habits for future success. Our Principles and Values I II III THE LEADING ALWAYS EVER MORE Sound to Life IMPROVING GLOBAL AND SOLUTION INCLUSIVE COMPANY Strive to be number one in the Create a more efficient, Embrace diversity and global acoustic fields. effective, profitable and better pursue more global synergy Innovate to support ever place to work. Always seek at all management levels. wider market needs. new market categories and opportunities. 1. Trusted: Earn the trust of users and 4. Fast and Flexible: Be fast moving 8. Open Mind: Be open–minded partners. and flexible and inclusive 2. Expert: Take pride in our expertise 5. Reliable Quality: Deliver totally 9. Responsible: Fulfill our duty in acoustic technology reliable quality via ever more to protect people and the 3. Inspiring: Add unique value, efficient systems environment. motivate partners and excite 6. Proactive: Embrace learning and 10. Team: Respect others as part customers. proactive leadership of a team with shared goals. 7. Steadfast: Show steadfast dedication in going beyond our promised goals Sound to Life The slogan where Foster Rhythm strives to achieve. In pursuit of our vision “To make contributions for future society through acoustics”, it means “To deliver sounds to life”, “To enrich life through Foster acoustics”, “Sounds to reach lives and sustain healthy lifestyle”. 03 Top Message Top Message Hiromi Yoshizawa President Top Message 04 Corporate Social Responsibility and Management As we fulfill our corporate social responsibilities, Foster Group sincerely wishes to be a corporate citizen that is relied on and loved by our various stakeholders. We seek to do this by maintaining the consistent spirit of doing business for society and people based on our corporate creed of “sincerity.” Omi Shonin (merchants from present-day Shiga Prefecture), used to say that in business you should have “three goods”— good for the seller, good for the buyer and good for society. I believe that many corporate entities that have been operating for more than 100 years secure these “three goods” by making reasonable profits and returning them for the good of society. Securing these “three goods,” we also aim to be a centennial company that has a shining presence in the coming new society. Society is currently experiencing major changes. With the industrial revolution being brought about by the IoT (Internet of Things), advent of the automated driving era, development and expanded use of AI and many other advances, we feel that the innovations that fundamentally change our way of life are progressing at a pace that far exceeds anything that we anticipated. New players are also appearing one after another to respond to those changes and competition is becoming increasingly intense. To realize our corporate vision “to make contributions for future society through acoustics” and to respond to the drastic change of technologies, we must continue to uphold the basic philosophy of “sincerity” that Foster has adhered to since its founding, while making major changes as we move forward. The key players who have a central role in achieving this are people, the tens of thousands of Foster Group employees around the world. We will continue to actively promote human resource employment worldwide and diversity to cultivate truly global and sophisticated human resources. In addition, by further promoting “work-style reform,” we would like to offer an environment where more employees can work flexibly and freely to achieve the goal of “Be Happy 80%*.” * “Be Happy 80%”: The ideal environment that we would like to achieve company-wide, which was presented by a team of young employees during internal leadership training. It refers to a working environment and corporate body where 80% of our employees can feel 80% happiness. I agree with such idea. Recognized for such efforts, following the “New Diversity Management Selection 100 (2017)” by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, we were awarded ”Top 100 Telework Pioneers” (Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications) and “Certification of Excellent Company in Health: Gold” (Tokyo Federation of the National Federation of Health Insurance Societies). Since this year, we have been selected for one of the “Excellent Health and Productivity Management: White 500” (Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry) companies. We will continue those efforts in the future. Foster Group has signed the “United Nations Global Compact” since 2017, and will continue to maintain compliance and promote environmental activities as part of our CSR activities, to ensure thorough quality control and risk management, and conduct our business operations based on the values of discipline, responsibility and social contribution. We have also defined “Foster Rhythm” and introduced it across the group companies to clearly describe “Principles & Values,” instill the concept of our corporate philosophy in our employees, and strengthen the foundation of the corporation for future generations. We are celebrating our 70th anniversary this year. We will continue to strive to offer satisfaction to our various stakeholders, and to become an enterprise that is loved by society. 05 Foster Group CSR Management CSR Management Since its founding in 1949, the Foster Group has aimed to become indispensable to society, and has continued to grow and develop under its corporate philosophy of “Sincerity.” Celebrating 70th anniversary this year, and further “aiming to be a centennial company,” the Group will continue to adhere to management based on “Sincerity,” that is, “always convey the truth and offer humanand environmentally friendly products and services to all stakeholders with cordiality.” In 2016, the Group established the “Foster Rhythm”, which was formed to make its corporate philosophies easier-to-understand, and distributed it internally. Aiming for tens of thousands of our global employees to sympathize and embody its corporate philosophies, this was established and promoted by the employees themselves. Atsushi Narikawa Officer in Charge of CSR, Senior Managing Director It contains not only the corporate philosophies but also the strong “desire” and “wish” its employees truly want to achieve, such as, “a workplace full of team spirit where employees can work freely,” and “pride as a professional, which people always desire.” The Foster Group and all of its directors, officers and employees hereby declare that we will engage in “corporate activities with sincerity” in accordance with the CSR Charter below. We will also continue to enhance corporate value by appropriately addressing the expectations and needs of our stakeholders. Foster Group CSR Charter Foster Group bases its activities on the corporate creed of “Sincerity”, the vision “To make contributions for future society through acoustics”, and the mission “Through acoustic products or its solutions, a total commitment to help create a comfortable life and pleasure of communication around the world. A truly global enterprise our future society counts on.” A subject of “Corporate Social Responsibility” itself is a universal proposition in the deployment of corporate management at Foster Groups. As shown in the corporate creed, a CSR way of thinking has been behind this company from the time of its foundation. CSR or CSR Management that suit Foster Groups, who extends business activities globally, are “to concentrate on its core business based on the corporate creed for the purpose of sustainable development of a company as a global corporation, and to fulfill its social responsibility by enhancing the corporate value while raising the stakeholder satisfaction not only in financial aspect, but also in the harmony of environment and society aspects”. The CSR management means that the corporation fulfills its social responsibilities through such activities. Foster Group CSR Management 06 In achieving this objective from global perspectives, the Foster Group and all of directors and employees will initiate CSR activities based on followings. 1. We stand and act on our corporate creed, vision and mission. 2. We act in accordance with the “Foster Group Corporate Action Guideline” *1that a company should comply, and the “Foster Group Code of Conduct for Staffs” *2 that all directors and employees of the group should abide by. 3. We regard a variety of stakeholders including customers, employees, suppliers, shareholders and investors, and local communities as the subject of our CSR activities, and respect a diverse sense of “value,” “culture” and “economic, environmental or social” circumstances that vary by country or region. 4. We act in accordance with laws, regulations of home and abroad, and international rules by responding to various requirements. Those requirements are compliance to corporate ethics, security of product quality and safety, environmental protection, improvement of work environment, maintenance of employment, development of human resources, respect to human rights, fair competition, contribution to society and community, and proper tax payment. 5. We perform proper risk control, disclose information timely and adequately with the accountability to support the reliability of CSR, and place value on having dialogs with stakeholders. 6. We identify company representatives responsible for ensuring implementation of the management systems and associated programs in order to comply with this CSR Charter. Status review, with personnel designated by managements, is held on a regular basis. By conforming to this CSR Charter, we hereby declare to engage in the “corporate activity with sincerity.” *1 ■ Foster Group Corporate Action Guideline https://www.foster-electric.com/csr/governance/pdf/corporate_action_guideline.pdf *2 ■ Foster Group Code of Conduct for Staff https://www.foster-electric.com/csr/governance/pdf/coc_for_staffs.pdf Foster Group CSR Promotion Foster Group CSR Systems As shown in the following “CSR System,” Foster Group has established the CSR Committee with representatives of related sections as core members at its headquarters. CSR Committee Meetings are held monthly with the attendance of officers in charge of CSR from the headquarters as well as staff at overseas bases via video conferencing to ensure the monitoring and collaborative promotion of CSR activities on a group-wide basis, including overseas business locations, each of which has an appointed person responsible for the promotion of CSR activities. General Meeting of Shareholders Board of Statutory Auditors Board of Directors Accounting Auditor President Internal Audit Department Officer in Charge of CSR CSR Promotion Department Relevant committees Compliance Committee CSR Committee Risk and Crisis Management Committee Environment Committee, etc. CSR Representative Corporate and Business Divisions Group companies at the headquarters 07 Foster Group CSR Management Conceptual Drawing of CSR Management The underlying concept of the CSR management is a triple bottom line, which evaluates the corporation from the three aspects: economy, environment and society. CSR management provides improved corporate value and new value to stakeholders not only in the financial (economic) aspects, but also in the sustainable development of non-financial (environment and social) aspects. Stakeholders Sustainable development Customers Provision of new value / End users Improvement of corporate value Engagement Shareholders Investors Sustainable development domains Directors/Officers Ideal company with a centennial history Employees Back casting CSR reflecting The Ten Principles of the UN Global our corporate value Respond to social demands Compact Suppliers EICC Code of Conduct Communities Social value domains Future generations Environment Human rights Government agencies Risk management Anti-corruption Industrial safety and health Compliance with laws Basic CSR Corporate governance Quality and product safety and regulations Information disclosure Information security, etc. Industry Business domains Triple bottom line Economy Environment Society Sustainability Core of CSR Activities The Foster Group issued the first version of its CSR Charter in 2006, and updated it to pursue global versatility and universality in 2010, by incorporating the EICC* Code of Conduct, the CSR standards established by the U.S. Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition, as our basic policy. Items originally set out by the Company have also been added to the Code for reinforcement of the Group’s CSR management. In addition to these efforts, we also implement our CSR activities in compliance with the United Nations Global Compact and the ISO 26000 standards. * Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (renamed Responsible Business Alliance in 2017) Materiality (priority issues) When developing materiality items, we listed them by referencing the international guidelines and standards, etc., added the priority issues extracted from the Foster Group Business Policy, and reflected the expectations of stakeholders, including customers and investigatory bodies. As a result, we have set the Materiality (priority issues) that should be addressed first as②follows: マテリアリティ：重要度 Crucial GHG Emissions Governance Quality (Product Significance for Stakeholders Reduction Enhancement Safety and Reliability) Environmentally Sustainable Friendly Products Supply Chain Diversity The significance of the materiality issues presented in this materiality assessment is Decent Work significant or crucial for the stakeholders and Foster Group. Crucial Penetration of Corporate Philosophy Significant Significant Significance for Foster’s Business Crucial Small Significant Crucial ©Foster Electric Company, Limited. 2018. All rights reserved. 1 Foster Group CSR Management 08 Our Approach to Materiality (Priority Issues) Refer Applicable Materiality Target Achievements up to 2018 to SDGs · Reduce CO2 emissions Reduce 1% of CO2 CO2 emissions in fiscal 2018 decreased by 19% GHG (greenhouse gas) (Scope 1&2) emissions per sales unit year on year due to energy-saving activities Page 14 Reduction (Target for 2020: 7.73% or and the reduced production volume. However, more reduction from 2012) emissions per sales unit increased by 6%. The weight of car speakers was reduced by Reduce the weight of approximately 50%. 140 g was achieved for speakers speakers with a diameter of 17 cm. The ratio of car speakers using adhesives that do Environnot contain harmful solvents increased from 3% ment to 4.4% (per sales ratio). (E) Development of Reduce the use of VOC Pages Environmentally Friendly environmentally The ratio of new mobile audio products using 17 and 18 Products responsible products adhesives that do not contain toluene for at least some parts was 75%. The ratio of speakers with reduced use of solder Reduce the use of solder increased from 1.6% to 3.5% (per sales ratio). The analog amplifiers for FOSTEX active speakers Reduce power were changed to digital amplifiers, which consumption achieved a reduction in power consumption. Improve the employee 80% · Held workshops satisfaction rate · Implemented interviews with management Page Penetration of Corporate · Issued a collection of Foster Rhythm practices 2 to 4 Philosophy ·W  e plan to proceed with an employee satisfaction survey in the future · Female manager ratio 30% by 2021 9.7% (As of March 2019) (headquarters) · Foreign employee ratio 30% by 2020 10.5% (As of March 2019) (headquarters) · Employment rate of More than 2.2% of the legal 2.3% (As of March 2019) persons with disabilities employment rate Pages Diversity (headquarters) 20 and 21 · Displaced worker for 0% by 2021 0% (fiscal 2018 result) nursing care (headquarters) · Held career development seminars for women · Introduced the Global-eye Program, an Social overseas training program (S) · Rate of paid holidays Fiscal 2018: 77% Fiscal 2018 result: 78.9% taken (headquarters) · Total working hours Monthly average of 156 · Monthly average: 162.6 hours (headquarters) hours and returning · Returned overtime money to the sections that overtime money have reduced their overtime hours (fiscal 2018) Pages Decent Work · Rate of periodic health 100% · Fiscal 2018 result: 100% 21 and 22 examinations taken (at headquarters) · Rate of specific health 80% ·F  iscal 2017 result: 69.1% (The result from two years guidance taken ago because the result of health examinations will (headquarters) be obtained in the following year.) The number of failures that would have a serious Quality (Product Safety Pages social impact (human life, Maintain 0 failures 0 failures and Reliance) 27 and 28 property, environment and so on) · Implemented a compliance test (response rate: 95.3%) and a compliance questionnaire (response rate: 78.8%) · Held compliance training for executives and Enhance and improve management compliance structure · Monitored CSR activity statuses in major business locations at the monthly CSR committee meetings in which executives Governance Enrich corporate participate Pages Enhancement governance · Implemented Foster Group risk identification 35 and 36 and assessment and provided the results of the risk assessment as input data for developing the Business Policy Governance Enhance risk and crisis · As significant risk items, we monitored the review (G) management structure of the business continuity plan (BCP), desktop training, the bribery prevention structure and the review of the information security management system, etc. · Response rate collected Existing suppliers: 91% or Existing suppliers: 91% for SAQ higher In future, we plan to continue to remind suppliers New suppliers: 100% from which we have not collected responses yet, perform analysis and risk assessment of collected Sustainable Supply data, and take corrective actions. Pages Chain 40 to 42 · Response rate collected Existing suppliers: 99% or Existing suppliers: 99% for the conflict mineral higher In addition to maintaining and managing the survey from business New suppliers: 100% response rate, we also plan to promote procurement associates from certified refineries. 09 Foster Group CSR Management Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Foster Group will continue to promote the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which are proposed by the United Nations, and conduct CSR activities through the UNGC framework. What Are Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)? In 2015, “United Nations Sustainable Development Summit” was held at the United Nations Headquarters. With more than 150 leaders from member countries participating, “Transforming Our World: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development” was adopted as its resolution. The Agenda made declarations and set goals as an action plan for people, the planet and prosperity. They are known as “Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs),” which consist of 17 goals and 169 targets. Source: United Nations Information Centre website ■ United Nations Information Centre: Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) https://www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/ Foster’s Actions We are promoting the following 13 items among the 17 goals through our business activities and will continue to take action to help achieve a sustainable society. Business Social SDGs Actions In-house Refer to Activities Contribution Donation activities for low-income households, ● Pages 31 and 32 assistance with food, and others Participation in poverty reduction activities ● Pages 31 and 32 Participation in blood drives ● Pages 31 and 32 Implementation of the “Health Point System” and ● Page 22 “Smoking Cessation Support Program” Acceptance of student interns ● Page 20 Education on environment, human resource ● Pages 13, 23, 25 development, health and safety etc. Foster Group CSR Management 10 Business Social SDGs Actions In-house Refer to Activities Contribution Held career development seminar for women ● Page 20 Measures against water risks ● Page 14 Well drilling for regional community ● Page 31 CO2 reduction ● Page 14 Management of environmentally hazardous substances ● Page 14 Work style reform project ● Page 21 Returning overtime money ● Page 22 Setting up days to encourage employees to take paid ● Page 22 holidays Personnel system with multiple courses ● Page 23 Technical meister system ● Page 23 Establishment of Diversity Management Section ● Page 20 Management of chemical substances ● Page 14 Zero emission ● Page 15 Environmentally friendly products ● Pages 17 and 18 CO2 reduction ● Page 14 Promotion of clean energy use ● Page 14 Environmentally friendly products ● Pages 17 and 18 Support for global environmental preservation activities ● Pages 13, 29 CSR procurement ● Pages 40 to 42 Basic policy on conflict minerals ● Page 42 Corporate governance structure ● Pages 33 and 34 CSR assessments and audits ● Page 12 Responsible procurement ● Pages 40 to 42 Continued responds to surveys from external ● Page 12 organizations 11 Foster Group CSR Management United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) About United Nations Global Compact The Foster Group signed and joined the “United Nations Global Compact (UNGC),” the world’s largest corporate sustainability initiative promoted by the United Nations, on January 19th, 2017. As a company that operates globally, we support the 10 principles of the UNGC of “Human Rights,” “Labour,” “Environment” and “Anti-Corruption” and conduct activities for compliance, decent work, care for the environment, and CSR procurement, etc. Activities as a member of the Global Compact Network Japan (GCNJ) We are participating in the “Human-rights Education Subcommittee,” “Environmental Management Subcommittee,” “WEPs Subcommittee,” “Supply Chain Subcommittee,” “DRR (Disaster Risk Reduction) Subcommittee,” and “ESG Subcommittee”, “SDGs Subcommittee”, “Reporting Study Subcommittee” of the GCNJ, which are composed of the member companies of the UNGC (as of June 2019). The subcommittees not only share the CSR-related latest trends and study cases of each company through lecture meetings by influential individuals but also are working to produce various kinds of outputs that support CSR activities of various companies based on the member companies’ experiences in a wide range of industries. Our Involvement in Output  Supply Chain Subcommittee CSR Procurement Self-assessment Tool Set (Japanese) http://www.ungcjn.org/activities/topics/detail.php?id=217 In addition, the knowledge obtained through the subcommittees is reflected in our CSR activities. Foster Group CSR Management 12 CSR Assessments and Audits CSR Internal Audits In order to penetrate CSR at the manufacturing sites, the Foster Group is implementing CSR internal audits. We implemented 21 total internal audits at the facilities in the last fiscal year. We implemented the audits by basically using the local laws as the standards and guidelines and also by referencing various social requests, such as the RBA Code of Conduct, RBA VAP (Validated Assessment Program), ISO14001, SA8000 and customer standards to confirm compliance with the activities and check for any measures beyond the laws. Customer Audits and Assessments To meet the various requests of customers, we accept audits from customers at manufacturing sites. Our production facilities in China and Vietnam received 10 on-site audits from 2 corporate customers during the period from April 2018 to March 2019. Over the course of the year, we also received 23 requests (from 19 different customers) to complete and return the Self-Assessment Questionnaire, and we responded accordingly. We will continue to focus attention on CSR in our manufacturing practices and address requests from customers with sincerity. Customer audit at our factory in Vietnam Surveys from External Organizations The Foster Group also responds sincerely to the CSR surveys received from external investigatory bodies. Last year, we received and responded to 8 surveys regarding CSR, environmental management, ESG, SRI and others. Among them was the “CSR company ranking survey,” which was conducted by Toyo Keizai Inc., we ranked 228th (out of total 1,501 companies). We will continue to address the survey requests from external investigatory bodies with sincerity. 13 Environment Environment Environmental Philosophy and Policy Environmental Philosophy In pursuit of eco-friendly technologies and manufacturing, the Foster Group, respecting nature, contributes to the realization of an affluent society and an environment where people around the world can fully demonstrate their humanity. Medium-Term Environmental Policy [Issued following the approval by senior management in March, 2016] 1.We conserve the global environment by promoting resource and energy saving in product development and design. Ryoji Otowa • To set targets with customers and promote reduction of product’s Senior Executive Officer, Head of Quality Assurance electricity consumption and weight saving. Division, and Officer in Charge of Quality and Environment 2. We prevent contamination and reduce CO2 emissions in all the In addition to the performance of duties regarding QMS phases of business activities including manufacturing and disposal. (Quality Management System) / EMS (Environment • Each site to set waste reduction target and execute as action plan Management System) and product quality assurance for our customers, we have overall control of the these • Reduction target (Annual average): to reduce 1% of CO2 emissions functions over overseas sites as well. per sales unit (Target for 2020: 7.73% or more reduction from 2012) • To create an energy saving plan at manufacturing process in order to reduce CO2 emissions. • To grasp clean energy usage rate at each site and promote clean energy utilization. 3. We strive for the continual improvement of environmental performance in compliance with environmental laws and regulations and other requirements. • To reduce utilization of Volatile Organic Compounds by setting the reduction target in order to satisfy increasing customer requirement. 4. We raise the awareness of environmental protection and biodiversity and thereby develop human resources who contribute to society. • To implement biodiversity protection education to employees and build a base for biodiversity protection activity rooted in the area of each site. • Understanding water risks on a world-wide level, each site to grasp and control their water consumption and drainage. 5. We maintain and improve environmental management system and promote external communication. • To maintain and improve environmental management system and environmental performance by achieving smooth shift to ISO14001:2015 at each site. [Issued following the approval by senior management in March, 2016] Environment Management System and ISO14001 Certification We have obtained ISO14001 certification at the headquarters and all overseas manufacturing sites and embody the Foster Group’s environment philosophies and mid-term environmental policies. At the headquarters, we monitor the activities conducted at each site and check their results. Starting fiscal 2019, we have added waste generation and water use targets and implement the activities globally. The headquarters also defined the Head Office of Foster Electric (1-1-109, Tsutsujigaoka, Akishima City, Tokyo, Japan) as a registered organization and promote activities while maintaining the environment management system and holding environment committee meetings every month. In addition, we present the ISO14001 certification at the request of stakeholders. Environment 14 Environmental Activities CO2 Reduction (Scope 1 and 2) The CO2 emissions of the entire Foster Group in fiscal 2018 were reduced by 19% year on year due to energy-saving activities and the reduced production volume. However, the emissions per sales unit increased by 6%, against the target of a 1% year-on-year reduction. For Scope 3 CO2 emissions, please refer to the data table at the end of this report. CO2 Emissions (t-CO2) (t-CO2 / 100M¥) 120,000 100 100,000 93,948 90,999 90,877 90,209 89,430 88,823 80 80,000 62.3 72,868 56.6 56.5 60 60,000 48.1 51.9 46.5 48.8 40 40,000 20 20,000 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total Emissions Unit of Net Sales Environmentally Friendly Headquarters Building Our headquarters employs technologies such as “Lighting control using daytime sunlight”, “Air conditioning using outside air”, “Ice thermal storage air conditioning system”,* “Double-skin facade . In addition, we control electricity use through the Cool and Warm Biz campaigns, and the initiative to turn off all the lights in the building. Based on the mid-term environmental plan, by procuring clean energy prior to the other sites in the Group, the headquarters strongly promotes active participation in climate control measures. * “Ice thermal storage air conditioning system: A system to use the air conditioner during the daytime that cold air is made from the ice produced during the nighttime. Management of Chemical Substances The Group has set forth its autonomous management standard, in which applicable laws, regulations and customers’ requests are reflected, for handling environmentally hazardous substances contained in its products to minimize their impact on the environment. We eliminate any controlled substances from our products via eco-friendly procurement and management of necessary parts and/or materials purchased. Based on the aforementioned scheme, we have established an optimum management system for the efficient search and collection of information about chemical substances that are contained in parts and materials and precise communication of information necessary in the supply chain. We have taken all possible measures to ensure that we do not miss to cope with annually added chemical substances that need to be monitored in accordance with the EU’s RoHS2.0 Directive and the REACH regulations implemented in 2013. In addition, to ensure communications of related information, we provide our suppliers with briefing meetings every year primarily at our overseas sites. We monitor 40 substances as controlled substances and banned heavy metals such as lead, cadmium, mercury and hexavalent chromium together with other highly harmful substances from use so that our products are completely free of these substances. In compliance with the trend of legal regulations and/or customer requests, our products are manufactured without certain chemical substances, such as certain phthalate esters which are used as plasticizing agents (referred to as certain phthalate ester-free manufacture). Measures against Water Risks Each site manages water withdrawal and discharge by setting their standards based on local laws and regulations. The headquarters uses “AQUEDUCT,” a water risk assessment tool of the World Resources Institute (WRI), to understand the local water risks at each site. 15 Environment Communications with External Companies This year, as a company that works on SBT*, we began participating in the Decarbonization Management Promotion Network of the Program for Improving Corporate Value by Decarbonization Management hosted by the Ministry of the Environment and exchanging information with the member companies. * SBT: Science Based Targets Zero Emissions At headquarters we are engaged in the recycling of waste, etc., (waste that contains recyclable elements) through the sorting and separation of regular waste, plastics and industrial waste, together with comprehensive awareness raising activities. Assembled products and parts are being recycled into raw materials through professional recycling (13 tons / year), as part of our continuing activities aiming to achieve zero waste emissions from our business activities. Recycled materials being carried out Activities during the Environment Month (headquarters) Environment Lecture Presentation We invited external lecturers and asked them to give lectures on global issues of ESG and trends of ESG investment, which are required for the sustainable development of companies. Approximately 100 employees, including members of the management team, participated in it and had an opportunity to consider the issues of future environmental management. Training on ESG issues for sustainable development (headquarters) Activities Related to Biodiversity With the cooperation of the NPO, Shizen Academy, we implemented environmental education at headquarters to raise interest in and awareness of biodiversity. We dealt with the environment of Akishima City, Tokyo, where our headquarters is located, as an opportunity to understand nature around us. Biodiversity education (1) Biodiversity education (2) Akishima City Cleanup Movement (Mini-Clean Activities) As part of our CSR activities, we conduct monthly mini-clean activities, clearing the footpaths and sidewalks around our headquarters based on our annual plan. We also actively participate in the Akishima Cleanup movement, and are working towards the beautification of our local area, in which all departments including the members of the Environment Committee can participate. 123 employees participated (participation rate: 22%) last year, and the total waste weighed 33 kgs. Mini clean activities (1) Mini clean activities (2) Mini clean activities (3) Environment 16 Environmental Activities at Overseas Sites China We carried out cleanup activities around each plant. In addition, we purchased a dishwasher for the cafeteria and changed disposable containers to reusable ones to reduce waste. In the manufacturing process, we have introduced equipment that reuses water that has been used in the papermaking process. Cleanup activities in the city Using reusable containers Water reuse for operation process Vietnam We carried out cleanup activities around the plant. In addition, we planted trees on the premises and took care of the plants. We also held training for waste supervisors and carried out environmental outreach activities. Notification on Environment Month Education for waste supervisors Planting on the premises Cleanup activities in the city Indonesia We planted avocado, mango, and orange trees in Tebing Tinggi village, Batam Island. Planting activity Planting activity Planting activity Myanmar We carried out cleanup activities around the plant. In addition, we posted a notice to make the environmental impact known. Cleanup activities in the city Notice on the environmental impact 17 Environment Environmentally Friendly Products Our Views on Environmentally Friendly Products The Foster Group designs and develops products by taking into account all aspects of product life-cycles; from the procurement of raw materials to the manufacturing, use, disposal and recycling of its products. We strive to develop and provide products with the least possible environmental burden, such as through the manufacture of environmentally friendly products that minimize the use of harmful chemical substances, and the development of lightweight products engineered to reduce CO2 emissions. We understand the requirements of laws, regulations, and customers before starting development and ascertain whether those requirements have been fulfilled at the end of the product development via the Product Assessment. Lightweight Car Speakers, Environmentally Friendly Speakers ● We developed a lightweight speaker, optimum for next-generation environmentally friendly vehicles such as electric vehicles (EVs). We reduced the weight of the conventional speaker by 50% to 140 grams with a diameter of 17 centimeters and enabled its mass production. Its advanced design has taken into account the need to reduce overall CO2 emissions from vehicles. ● We have employed adhesives that do not contain harmful solvents and put them to practical use in order to reduce the volume of VOC remaining inside the passenger Lightweight car speaker cabin of vehicles. We have taken steps to eliminate harmful solvents, and the ratio of new model products not containing such solvents increased from 3% in 2017, to 4.4% in 2018 (per sales ratio). ● The diaphragms and the center caps are made out of recyclable paper with the waterproofing feature required for invehicle use. ● As one of our environmental activities, we have developed speakers with reduced solder applications. We have expanded this to Group companies, and the ratio of products applying reduced solder increased from 1.6% in 2017, to 3.5% in 2018 (per sales ratio). Headphones and Headsets For headphones and headsets, we have been active in incorporating environmental considerations in our product and/ or process design. For reducing the substances in our products that burdens the environment, we address the most upto-date information regarding country-specific legal requirements and the RoHS2 to promote proposals to our customers and dissemination to all the Group companies. We also have been keen on measures to minimize the volume of waste materials, reuse raw materials by introducing new equipment and developing products using natural materials For microspeakers used for headphones or headsets, we are working towards environmentally friendly product manufacturing by introducing adhesives that do not contain toluene for new microspeakers in order to reduce VOC (replacing the parts that use solvent adhesives). · Development target and result for products that do not use toluene Target for 2020: The ratio of products using adhesives that do not contain toluene for at least some parts to be 100%. Target for 2025: The ratio of products that do not contain toluene to be 100%. Fiscal 2018 Result: Of new product lines, the ratio of products using adhesives that do not contain toluene for at least some parts was 75%. Example of environmentally friendly microspeaker (Microspeaker with a 35 mm diameter for headphones) Environment 18 Active Speaker The environmentally friendly NF04R, has an amplifier digitalized from the previous model's (NF01R) built-in analog amplifier. It has reduced its power consumption from 50 W to 30 W, with consideration for energy saving and CO2 reduction. Active speaker NF04R 19 Social Social Human Rights Protection Policies In 2003, we established the “Foster Group Corporate Action Guideline” and the “Foster Group Code of Conduct for Staff”, which define our respect for human rights in compliance with all laws and regulations, international rules and their spirits and concepts. We have also requested our business partners in the value chain to show a similar respect for human rights. An outline is provided below. Respect for Employees’ Humanity Under our labor-management mutual trust and responsibility, we seek to create safe and work-friendly worksites, aiming to help our employees enjoy comfortable and affluent lives. We also respect our employees’ human rights, personalities, individuality, and abilities. In addition, we do Iwaki Tsugane Deputy Head of Global Corporate Support Division not support any form of forced labor and child labor. Respect for Human Rights and Anti-discrimination The Global Corporate Support Division works with We do not engage in irrational discrimination based on birthplace, members from each site to promote not only regional activities, but also global CSR activities, human nationality, race, origin, creed, religion, gender, age, disability of various resource development and utilization, creation of kinds, hobby, academic background, skin color, sexual preference, work-friendly worksites, as well as health and safety activities, mainly in the fields of CSR promotion, gender identity disorder, pregnancy, political belief, participation to human resources, and general affairs. associations, marital status, hometown etc. We do not conduct any actions that might lead to human rights violations such as violence, ridicule, defamation, slander, forcible working by threat, bondage (including by liabilities), human trafficking, or bullying. Sexual Harassment We do not engage in any act of sexual harassment or any act that could be misconstrued by others as sexual harassment. We do not engage in any sexual speech or acts that are offensive to another person and prevent other persons from engaging in such acts. Protection of Personal Information and Privacy With respect to personal information and privacy, we only use the personal information for the work and control it strictly. We control it strictly in compliance with related laws and regulations, so that it will not be divulged outside the Company. Worksite Health and Safety We give priority to the provision of safety and health, endeavor to maintain a safe and healthy workplace environment, understand the laws and orders concerning work-related safety and health and comply with them. If any work-related disaster arises under any circumstance, Foster Group Directors and Staff strive to carry out the prescribed procedures such as the creation of an immediate report in order to minimize and prevent the recurrence of such accident in a reliable manner. Compliance with Labor-related Laws We comply with the labor-related laws and endeavor to maintain a comfortable and healthy workplace environment. In order to ensure that the working conditions stay within the limit set forth in the “Labor Standards Act,” we strictly control working days and working hours. We do not force labor that compels excessive work or over-time work and so on. Managers take into consideration the condition of the physical and mental health of subordinates at all times. Social 20 Activity Promotion Structure We have established the CSR Committee and Compliance Committee to promote all relevant Foster Group initiatives. In addition, we have established the Compliance Hotline and the Harassment Helpline as contacts for consultation and reporting and provide advice to various stakeholders. Diversity Policies The Foster Group seeks to create systems and environments in which a diverse workforce of different genders, ages, nationalities and backgrounds as well as employees who work while raising children or providing nursing care can work actively according to their respective lives. Through those activities, we aim to build a “Win-Win relationship between the company and its employees” and create synergies with the realization of enjoyable personal lives for each employee, the creation of new value, and improvement in the company’s creativity and competitiveness. Activity Promotion Structure We have established the Diversity Management Section as a special organization in the Human Resources Department and are involved in multifarious activities. Main Activities (Headquarters) <Supporting Employees Raising Children and Providing Nursing Care> To promote a working environment where employees who are raising young children and providing nursing care can work at ease, we have improved our system to support the balance between work and child/nursing care. Since April 2018, we have extended the childcare leave period to three years maximum and the nursing care leave period to 183 days maximum. In addition, we have signed a joint use agreement with company-led childcare centers, which offers preferred benefits such as the right to the early nursery applications. <Promoting Women’s Active Participation> By providing female employees with planned cultivation and supporting their career development, we are aiming to have female managers represent 30% of all management by the end of March 2021. In fiscal 2018, we held the Career Development Seminar for Women” for female employees, aiming to increase their motivations and to be able to set clear targets through self-understanding and self-analysis. <Educational Activities on Diversity> In fiscal 2018, we held training and lecture presentations for management to deepen their understanding of the promotion of diversity. By obtaining knowledge and information regarding diversity, we learned that the participation of diversified human resources will lead to new value creation within the company and the need to consciously eliminate unconscious bias. We also held a career development seminar for female employees. <Our Activities for LGBT (Sexual Minority)> Currently, the Human Resources and CSR departments are carrying out activities to deepen understanding of LGBT and increase the number of allies (those who show understanding and support for LGBT people). In the future, we will increase allies company-wide through activities designed to foster understanding. <Promoting Student Internships> We have accepted student interns since 2012. In addition to the work programs for learning acoustic technologies and sales activities, we provide a program for learning CSR, a program for experiencing acoustic quality evaluation, a program for overseas students, and various other courses. We have received positive feedback from the participants, who said that they were able to experience the sound development of Foster. In fiscal 2018, a total of 77 interns participated in them. 21 Social <Global Human Resource Employment> The Foster Group employs a variety of human resources regardless of their nationalities, and is actively promoting international communications in the Group to cultivate human resources and enhance the functionalities. * With our activities recognized as a company that leads diversity promotion to its management, we were selected as the “New Diversity Management Selections 100 (2017)” by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. We will continue to create a working environment that makes the most of the employees’ diversity with various backgrounds. ■ Website of the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry: New Diversity Management Selections New Diversity Management Selections 100 (2017) Companies (Japanese) http://www.meti.go.jp/policy/economy/jinzai/diversity/kigyo100sen/practice/pdf/H29_diversity_ichiran.pdf Best Practices in Fiscal 2017 (Japanese) http://www.meti.go.jp/policy/economy/jinzai/diversity/kigyo100sen/practice/pdf/H29_diversity_bestpractice.pdf Future Plan · Female manager ratio (at headquarters): To increase the ratio to 30% of all the management by 2021. · Foreign employee ratio (at headquarters): To increase the ratio to 30% of all employees by 2020. · Employment rate of persons with disabilities (at headquarters): To keep the rate above the mandatory rate required by law. · Displaced worker for nursing care (at headquarters): Aim to be zero by 2021. Labor (Labor Practices and Decent Work) Policies We put a high value on creating an environment in which each employee can grow through work and display their capabilities in a rewarding work. To realize this, we believe it is important to create a “work-friendly” environment where employees with various backgrounds support each other spontaneously through daily communications and give ideas to each other. Under labor-management trust and mutual cooperation, we seek to create an organizational culture and develop various institutions, aiming to create an environment where employees with various lifestyles and aspirations can work in the style that suits their situation. Activity Promotion Structure In addition to the promotion activities led by the Diversity Management Section, we have established the innovative working style project, which is involved in a wide range of activities with cooperation between labor and management. Main Activities (Headquarters) <Work-Style Reforms> Since September 2016, we have established the systems and culture that satisfy a variety of work-style to promote diversity and realize a work-life balance. In fiscal 2017, we applied the flex time system to all employees and introduced the work-athome program. As for the work-at-home program, we introduced it at full scale without limiting the targets, and have been selected as one of the “Top 100 Telework Pioneers” by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications for its telework initiatives. We have engaged in creating a work environment where employees can work flexibly to suit their lifestyles regardless of “time” or “place” by utilizing ICT. We will continue work-style reform to become a company that can offer a more desirable work environment and fulfilling career. Social 22 <Returning Overtime Money> In order to advance not only the efforts of individual employees but also the organizational efforts to improve operational efficiency, we return overtime money twice a year to the sections that have reduced their overtime work hours by 10% or more. This promotes the improvement of operational efficiency according to the actual situation of each section and awarenessraising to achieve further overtime reduction. <Enhancement of the Leave System and the Leave of Absence System> Since April 2018, we have introduced the volunteer leave system, so employees can grow through volunteer activities. We have also introduced the system that grants the leave of absence for up to two years to the employees who desire to pursue further education to deepen and expand their own expertise and the system that grants the leave of absence for up to five years to the employees who desire to accompany their spouses on overseas assignment. During the period from December 2018 to March 2019, we implemented a trial hour-based paid holiday system that utilizes expired paid holidays. The system was well received by the employees who participated in the trial, with the comment that they can take paid holidays according to a range of situations. In future, we will develop the system for its full-scale introduction. In addition, to enhance work-life balance by establishing a working environment that encourages employees to take paid holidays and leads to better operation performance, we set two days to encourage employees to take paid holidays in fiscal 2018. 75% of employees took the holidays on these days. As a result of these activities, the rate of paid holidays taken was 78.9% in fiscal 2018. (Target rate of paid holidays taken in fiscal 2018: 77%) <Health Enhancement> Mental and physical health is essential for employees to feel job satisfaction and have a fulfilling career. We position employees’ health as an important management issue and are taking various initiatives. For example, to raise the awareness of employees’ health, we implement the “Health Point System,” in which we give points and provide health incentives to employees.., and a “Smoking Cessation Support Program,” which subsidizes the expenses paid to medical institutes to the employees who wish to quit smoking. Such initiatives were evaluated and we received the “Certification of Excellent Company in Health: Gold” from the Tokyo Federation of the National Federation of Health Insurance Societies in December 2018. Subsequently we were certified as the “Excellent Health and Productivity Management: White 500” by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry in February 2019. Future Plan Target for fiscal 2019: · Rate of paid holidays taken (at headquarters): 80% · Total working hours (at headquarters): Average 156 hours per month · Rate of periodic health examinations taken (at headquarters): 100% · Rate of specific health guidance taken (at headquarters): 80% 23 Social Human Resource Development Policies Our human resource development is based on “continuous performance by linking various personnel systems with individual development goals determined by mid/long term business strategy and individual personality (strength/ weakness).” The ideal for human resource development is as follows: · Personnel who embody our corporate philosophies and corporate creed through their duties and who have a “strong will” and “activity” to work toward their realization. · Personnel who do not remain complacent about the current situation but utilize every opportunity to improve their own abilities and grow with ingenious attempts and efforts. · Professional personnel who use their expertise to play a key part in strategy formulation and implementation and who can create value continuously. · Self-directing personnel who are conscious about their expected and assigned roles and missions and who can take responsibility for their own actions and results. Activity Promotion Structure Those human resource development measures are driven mainly by the Human Resources Department. In addition, through the “Foster Rhythm Project,” which introduces our corporate philosophy penetration activities globally, we are striving to develop human resources who can embody those corporate philosophies and create a lively organizational environment. Main Activities, Measures, and Development · To promote philosophy-focused management (Way Management), enhance the power of human resources and organization, and transform the organization, the Foster Group developed the action guidelines by redefining “the ideal company.” We summarized those into the “Foster Rhythm Guidebook” and “Foster Rhythm Card” and distributed them to our employees across the world. We are also continually providing workshops and various kinds of education programs. · We are working to promote diversity and foster and enhance the global mind of our employees by regularly conducting “Inter-Cultural Communication Training” at various levels. We have also introduced the Global-eye Program, a new overseas training program for young employees, to promote the planned and continuous development of the nextgeneration of global leaders. · Since April 2018, we have introduced a new personnel system (personnel system with multiple courses) aiming to make the transition to a more flexible personnel system with a wider range of selections according to each employee’s career plan, life stage, and work-life balance. At the same time, we are also working to promote the development of engineers by providing life-career design training and introducing the “Technical Meister System.” · To promote localization of overseas site management, we are also actively working on the development of the local managing staff at each site. Specifically, we ran the Global Leader’s Training and facilitated human resources exchange by the Overseas Trainee Program and the international employee reassignment within Group companies, etc. to develop human resources globally. Future Plan · Further instilling our corporate philosophies (understand → empathize → implement) · Stabilization of the operation of the new personnel system (multi-stream personnel system by course) · Promotion of the human resource rotation linked with the midand long-term human resource development program · Establishment of global human resource utilization base and development of global leaders Social 24 Health and Safety Policies Foster Electric has established a rule to prioritize health and safety, and endeavors to create a safe and healthy working environment. Based on this rule, we are advancing redressing activities, which are carried out mainly by the Health and Safety Committee, which governs health and safety, and the health and safety management organizations at respective sites. Abstract from the “Code of Conduct” (1) Understand laws and orders concerning work-related safety and health and comply with them. And minimize and prevent a recurrence of an accident in a reliable manner. (2) Employee exposure to potential safety hazards is to be controlled through the proper design, engineering and administrative controls, preventative maintenance and safe work procedures. (3) Procedures and systems are to be in place to prevent, manage, track and report occupational injury and illness. (4) Employee exposure to chemical, biological and physical agents is to be identified, evaluated, and controlled. (5) Employee exposure to the hazards of physically demanding tasks is to be identified, evaluated and controlled. (6) Production and other machinery is to be evaluated for safety hazards. (7) Employees are to be provided with ready access to clean toilet facilities, canteen with suitable drinking and eating environment. Activity Promotion Structure The health and safety activities carried out by Foster Electric are operated by the Health and Safety Committee at headquarters in cooperation with industrial doctors, under the supervision of its upper-level organization, the Risk and Crisis Management Committee. By sharing information among the health and safety management organizations at each site, the Group is working as one to create an appropriate working environment. President Risk and Crisis Management Committee Health and Safety Committee Industrial doctor Fire control and disaster Health and safety Outsourced contractor prevention administrator Health supervisor Organic solvent manager management organization (self-defense fire-fighting force) at each Group company Building health Hazardous material Chief press machine Specially controlled Safe driving administrator administrator safety supervisor operator industrial waste manager 25 Social Main Activities Every year, we implement health and safety education, which is the basis of occupational activities. Based on this, we are taking steps to address group-wide issues, led by the Risk and Crisis Management Committee. As part of the activities based on the health and safety management regulations, the health and safety management organization, which consists of representative workers and management, discusses site-specific issues, legal inspection, risk assessment, and so on at each site to prevent accidents and eliminate risks. With regard to the group-wide issues, we are carrying out initiatives to resolve occupational health and safety issues for all employees based on the Foster Group Corporate Action Guidelines and the Foster Group Code of Conduct for Staff. This year, we will launch full-scale initiatives to address issues common to the Group using the essence of occupational health and safety management system, ISO 45001. The headquarters has developed and executed the plan based on the policy of the Health and Safety Committee, “Globally reduce risks and make provisions against the occurrence of crises,” as an initiative to address individual issues. In particular, to introduce the occupational health and safety management system, we strived to develop a standard based on JIS Q 45001, which is the Japanese equivalent to ISO 45001, reduce highly harmful chemical materials in the production processes at plants, and enhance the health of employees. Based on these activities, we have developed the Procedures for Occupational Health and Safety Management Program, which describes our system. In addition, as a risk of causing a failure that will lead to serious consequences for the group, we replaced extremely harmful chemicals with less harmful ones to prevent the occurrence of severe failures and implemented health enhancement initiatives for all employees. These initiatives were evaluated and we received “Certification of Excellent Company in Health: Gold” from the Tokyo Federation of the National Federation of Health Insurance Societies in February 2018. Bicycle Safety Some employees working at headquarters use bicycles for their work or commute, and their safe use of bicycles and our traffic accident prevention activities were evaluated by the Japan Traffic Management Technology Association. We were certified as a “model company for bicycle safety” in February 2017, with our activities being seen as a role model. Award ceremony for the “model company for bicycle safety” Initiatives at Overseas Sites We have commenced preparations for obtaining ISO 45001 certification for occupational health and safety management system standards at some of our overseas manufacturing sites. We will strive to improve the issues related to occupational safety and health via the management system. Prior to the ISO 45001 certification, Nanning Plant in China obtained OHSAS 18001 certification on July 3, 2018. Future Plan We will build a global structure based on the essence of ISO 45001-Occupational Health and Safety Management System and promote information sharing by Health and Safety Committee. Social 26 Customer Satisfaction Foster Group Sales Department Policies The Foster Group Sales Department mainly sells speakers and headphones for cars and audio devices. To realize our vision “To make contributions for future society through acoustics,” we are working every day to create good sounds that can impress people across the world through our products and parts. One thing we must do to achieve this mission is to “create customers,” as a wise person once said. Needless to say, customers can be created by continuously satisfying someone’s needs. We consider it as the origin and made our primary responsibility “customer satisfaction,” which we believe is the principle of all our activities. Structure We have sales offices in Japan (headquarters), the U.S., Europe, and other Asian countries/regions beside Japan. This tetrapolar structure is the base of the framework that enables our flexible responses not only based on the local time, languages, but also a deep understanding of business customs and cultures. In addition, through personnel interchanges among regions, we have established a structure to develop global human resources as true cosmopolitans, regardless of where they were born, and deliver our quality sounds to people all over the world. Activities The current economies and corporate activities are connected around the world and do not stop. Through our tetrapolar structure described above, we have realized a 24-hour response system globally and are conducting activities to quickly respond to every customer. Future Plan · We provide our products in the fields of cars, entertainment, and communications and deliver happiness to people around the world through our sound. · With new markets for cars, entertainment, and communications growing at an accelerated pace, with surrounding areas becoming involved, the markets are being integrated into a comprehensive lifestyle field. Under these circumstances, we strive to provide new products that meet changing needs and deliver greater satisfaction to customers around the world. Fostex Company Policies The Fostex Company provides high quality products at appropriate prices to deliver an enriched and comfortable life to customers who purchase those products. In addition, the Company seeks to develop products that lead to the peace of mind and satisfaction of the customers who select and own them. In its after-sales services, the Company also pursues customer satisfaction by always promptly providing services from the customers’ perspective. Structure We always listen to our customers’ comments and seek what they need so that we offer products that our customers can use with satisfaction and peace of mind. As such, we have established a project promotion structure across our sales and technical units. In addition to the domestic market, we also understand global needs and strive to develop products specific to each region. 27 Social Activities We share information with the dealers who are constantly in contact with our customers and also make efforts to listen to as many customers’ voices as possible at exhibitions and trial listening events. As part of our educational activities for audio equipment, we offer lectures on working principles of speakers at universities and vocational schools. Future Plan We will continue to supply our trusted original brand, FOSTEX brand products, to introduce our high technical competences and the high competitiveness of our products. In particular, in 2019 we will continue to develop products that can deliver greater listening pleasure to our customers through sound, focusing on the development of a full-range speaker, a strength of Fostex, and Bluetooth earphones, which is a market trend. Quality and Safety Assurance The Foster Group is undertaking quality assurance activities based on the FOSTER TQM (Total Quality Management). Our Quality Assurance Policies and Actions Under our customer-focused philosophy, the Foster Group considers the delivery of safe, eco-friendly products of reliable quality by fulfilling customers’ expectations and social requirements as the basics of our quality assurance. In addition, under the Basic Quality Policy, we globally promote comprehensive quality assurance activities to ensure that our products are of high quality. Safety, reliability, and management of environmentally hazardous substances are taken into account on our products and components at all times during the processes (product/process design, purchase, and manufacturing) supported by our high-level technologies. Increasing the satisfaction, trust and reliance of customers, contributing to  Our Quality Assurance Activity System (Main Process) and Mechanism the community and society and preserving/protecting the environment Quality Assurance Activities based on APQP (Advanced Product Quality Planning) Process FOSTER TQM Market needs, customer expectations and requirements (Total Quality Management) Contract check Quality and Environmental Policy TQM Regulations/Quality Management Product feasibility review (DR-0) System Manual Quality system rules and/or regulations Creation Continuous Improvement Design, prototype production Product creation Design/prototype validation and review (DV, DR1/2) Quality creation Quality to be accomplished Mass-production of prototype, validation, and evaluation by the across-the-board Human Technology efforts of Resource Quality certification Creation the employees Development Mass-production, product inspection, shipment Product development technology Human resource development in Environment and safety related quality management technologies Customers, markets Production technology Note) DR-0: Product feasibility review, DV: Product design validation, DR1/2: Product design review Basic Quality Policy TQM and QMS*at FOSTER Our QMS is based on the development of quality assurance and management activities under We develop QMS by seeking “Zero Defect” its customer-focused philosophy since the Company’s foundation. ▲ In 1975, we formulated the Total Quality Control (TQC) Regulations, which was upgraded to Zero Defect Total Quality Management (TQM) Regulations in May 2006. ▲ Since 1998, all the Group companies have successfully acquired the QS9000 certification (including ISO9001: 1994). ▲ In 2004, all the Group companies successfully acquired the ISO/TS 16949 certification, ▲ In 2017, we switched to ISO 9001: 2015 and IATF 16949: 2016 standards company-wide and have continued to comply with them. * QMS: Quality Management System Social 28 Global Quality Assurance Structure The Group guarantees product quality in all of the products it supplies worldwide through its Global Quality Assurance Structure The Group has developed global quality assurance systems, connecting the headquarters, overseas factories and sales companies to improve the quality of our products to be supplied worldwide. Enhancing Quality Awareness Our headquarters has made November the “Quality Month” and holds a variety of events to improve quality awareness. Main Events Held Last Fiscal Year ■ Lecture on Quality A lecture on quality was held by inviting outside lecturers. Approximately 170 employees attended this event. Quality lecture (headquarters) ■ Quality Improvement Exhibition We hold exhibitions at headquarters and overseas sites to share detailed information on the improvements. Exhibition at the headquarters Exhibition at Guangzhou Plant in China Exhibition at Thilawa Plant in Myanmar ■ Seeking Ideas for a Quality Slogan We seek ideas for a quality slogan from each division every year. Compiled in a booklet, all of our employees carry at all times. ＊＊＊＊本部 【＊＊＊＊＊＊】 ＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊ ＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊ 【＊＊＊＊＊＊】 ＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊ ＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊ 【＊＊＊＊＊＊】 ＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊ ＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊ 【＊＊＊＊＊＊】 ＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊ ＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊＊ ■ Global QC Circle Convention Through the QC Circle activities, opinions from overseas production sites are valued and used to improve product quality. Each year, more than 100 QC circle teams are conducting activities at overseas factories. Among them, 7 teams that won the QC Circle Convention at each factory gave presentations of their results at headquarters. Future Plan We will continue to enrich its contents and promote its global extension, aiming to mature our quality-focused corporate culture. 29 Social Social Contribution Policies With our mission “Through acoustic products or its solutions, a total commitment to help create a comfortable life and pleasure of communication around the world. A truly global enterprise our future society counts on.”, the Foster Group will seek to earn greater trust from the community through business activities in which we evolve together with local residents. Code of Conduct We actively participate in social contribution activities as a good corporate citizen to contribute to the development of society. We continuously perform social contribution activities such as support for culture and the arts, cooperation with local communities, participation in volunteer activities and contributions to international communities to play the role of a corporate citizen. Activity Promotion Structure Foster Electric’s social contribution activities involve all departments, including General Affairs, Manufacturing, Engineering and Sales. Main Activities <Communicating with the Community> We continued the naming rights contract with Akishima City regarding Akishima Community Hall, which is known locally as KOTORI Hall by the citizens of Akishima City. We will continue to pursue activities to win the affection of the local community. KOTORI Hall KOTORI product exhibition corner In 2018, as a lead member of Akishima City’s Environmentally Friendly Business Operator Network, we have continued to take part in the Akishima Industrial Festival, the Environment Green Festival, and other environment events. We pursue our environmental preservation activities in cooperation with neighboring companies and the staffs of Akishima City Environment Section. Also, valuable feedback from citizens through the events was highly beneficial for our activities. We will continue to grow together with all citizens in the future. Akishima industrial festival (1) Akishima industrial festival (2) Social 30 In December 2018, we held “Craft Class” and “Winter Vacation Parent & Child Crafts Class”, a winter holiday event for parent-child interaction as part of the Akishima community courses, which was well received. Winter vacation parent & child crafts class (1) Winter vacation parent & child crafts class (2) In addition, Foster is promoting activities to enable people to encounter local traditional cultures through Akishima Showa No Mori Organization and Akishima Tourism & City Planning Association, in which we participate. Foster is also deepening communications with the local community through efforts such as cooperation with the Akishima Location Service to engage in activities for revitalizing the local area and donations to the Social Welfare Council to contribute to welfare in the local community. In addition, we have continued the in-house sales of specialty goods from the town of Iwaizumi, Iwate Prefecture, which concluded a friendship city agreement with Akishima City, as a disaster reconstruction support activity and contributed to the area’s recovery through economic activity. <Crime Prevention and Disaster Readiness Initiatives> To support the 2020 Tokyo Olympic and Paralympic Games, Foster is cooperating with the Tokyo Metropolitan Police Department, concluding disaster prevention agreements with neighboring companies, and otherwise bolstering its crime prevention and disaster readiness initiatives in the local community. In addition, every year, we raise funds to support people who have been affected by crime. This initiative has been recognized, and we received a letter of gratitude from the Victim Support Center of Tokyo on March 28, 2019. <Investing in Human Resources for the Future> Following last year, we held two speaker-making classes in July and August 2018, an event sponsored for children by our consumer brand FOSTEX company, at “Anfelit” showroom where FOSTEX products were exhibited. About 80 children, from late elementary to junior high school students and their guardians not only learned the mechanism of sound, but also enjoyed listening to music through the speaker. Making speakers Listening to sounds from the speakers that the children made <Participation in the Akishima City Community Development Company Summit> In December 2018, the Akishima City Community Development Company Summit was held, and we participated with companies based in Akishima City, the Akishima Society of Commerce and Industry, and Asia Crime Prevention Foundation, Co., Ltd. (ACPF). Under the leadership of the mayor of Akishima City, who wants to revitalize Akishima City, individual companies reported their activities and exchanged opinions with each other, including strong thoughts about and expectations of Akishima City. We gave a presentation about the importance of overseas human resources, etc. 31 Social Community Contribution Activities at Overseas Sites Foster Group’s overseas sites provide active support for regional volunteering and donation activities, activities to support victims and those who are economically disadvantaged, and other initiatives each year. Vietnam December 2018: We offered gifts to elementary school children and employees who are economically disadvantaged. January 2019: We gave New Year’s donations to the poor in Cam Le District and Hoa Vang District in the suburbs of Da Nang. February, May 2018: We offered gifts to citizens and employees who are fighting serious illness. Indonesia June 2018: Because the power generator, which is the only power source in Tanjung Kelingking fishing village of Batam Island, was old and experienced an operation failure, we donated a new generator. October 2018: Tebing Tinggi fishing village in Batam is dependent on a rainwater collection pond as a water source. Because the pond had dried up and was polluted, we supported the construction of a well. Social 32 Malaysia January 2019: We offered donations to Penang Shan Children's Home Association, a non-profit organization catering to the needs of orphans, neglected children, dysfunctional families and single parents. Myanmar Our Myanmar site performed the following activities. March 2019: Over 200 employees particApril 2019: We donated female clothing to April 2019: We participated in the donation ipated and donated blood to the National Thabarwa Center where more than 3,000 event for elderly people, held near Thilawa Blood Center Myanmar. elderly women live in. Special Economic Zone. China February 2019: We took part in the poverty reduction activities conducted by the local government by providing employment guidance to those who are economically disadvantaged. Korea ESTec Corporation, a Group company in South Korea, performed the following contribution activities. February, September 2018: Conducted July 2018: We sponsored the 16th Eom December 2018: All our employees pickled by our officers and employees, funds for Jeong Haeng National Musical Contest. 200 boxes of kimchi (approximately 1,500 neighbors were donated via the inhabitant We have sponsored this contest since kg) together and sent them to those who are life support office to people in need of 2004. economically disadvantaged (elderly living support in the Yangsan area alone, people with serious disabilities, and households with a child acting as the head of household), via the Yangsan Volunteer Center. This Kimchi sharing with love” event has been carried out every year since 2010. 33 Governance Governance Corporate Governance Policies To maximize our corporate and shareholder values, we recognize the importance of establishing a fair and sound corporate management system and a managerial structure that enables quick and accurate decision making to accommodate an ever-changing business environment, and the execution of legitimate and appropriate business operations. To that end, we are currently working to improve and enhance our approach to corporate governance. Corporate Governance Structure Board of Directors The Board of Directors meetings are held regularly on a monthly basis Tatsuhito Tanaka and whenever necessary to discuss and decide important agenda Senior Executive Officer and Head of Corporate Management Division items and the execution of important business concerning the Group’s management policies and strategies. It supervises the management The Corporate Management Division carries out its from an independent and objective standpoint. operations regarding finance, accounting, IR (Investor Relations), legal affairs and intellectual property. It has Board of Managing Directors a function that governs not only the headquarters in The Board of Managing Directors mainly consists of representative Japan but also the subsidiaries around the world. directors, managing directors, executive directors, senior executive officers and statutory auditor. They hold discussions at the meetings before making decisions on the execution of business operations. Management Meeting, etc. Mainly comprising the president and the head of the Company’s business divisions (including those who serve concurrently as director or executive officer), the Management Meetings and the Division Head Meetings are held to report and discuss matters concerning the execution of businesses at the business divisions, in order to expedite decision making processes and ensure that unified decisions are reached. On a Group-wide level, twice a year, in order to facilitate consolidated management within the Group, the Domestic Group Company Meeting is held by the top executives responsible for the management of the domestic Group companies; the Global Budget Meeting is held by the top executives of the overseas Group companies to discuss their budgets; and the Global Strategy Meeting is held to discuss global strategies with regard to sales, technology, quality control and manufacturing. Through these meetings, we share and reaffirm the direction in which the entire Foster Group is heading, and reinforce collaborative efforts within the Group. Nominating Committee and Remuneration Committee The Company has established Nominating and Remuneration Committees as advisory organizations offering voluntary advice to the Board of Directors. These committees are designed to enhance fairness and transparency in selecting and appointing people to managerial positions, and in determining the details of their remuneration, etc. Each committee consists of representative directors, managing directors, directors, standing statutory auditors, and statutory auditors (currently a total of six members for Nominating Committee, and five members for Remuneration Committee). Chairperson and vice chairperson are selected from independent officers for both of these committees. Governance 34 General Meeting of Shareholders Board of Directors Statutory Auditors / Board of Statutory Auditors Accounting Auditor Management Monitoring (Internal Control) President Board of Management Meeting Managing Directors Division Head Meeting Internal Audit Department Corporate Staff Business Divisions Departments Domestic Group Company CSR Committee Meeting Compliance Committee Hotline Global Budget Meeting, etc. Risk and Crisis Management Committee Environment Committee Personal Information Management Committee, etc. Corporate Governance Guidelines The Foster Group has established Corporate Governance Guidelines that express our basic way of thinking and framework with regard to corporate governance. https://www.foster.co.jp/csr/foster_group/pdf/20160401_corporate_governance_guideline.pdf (in Japanese) Corporate Governance Report The Foster Group publishes a report that describes the concept and structure of our corporate governance in accordance with the regulations of the Japanese stock exchange. Foster Group Corporate Action Guideline The Foster Group has established Corporate Action Guideline that express our actions with public decency in compliance with laws and regulations inside and outside of Japan, international rules, and their spirit and intent as well as corporate ethics. ■ Foster Group Corporate Action Guidelines: https://www.foster-electric.com/csr/governance/pdf/corporate_action_guideline.pdf 35 Governance Compliance Policies The Group emphasizes compliance (with laws, regulations and corporate ethics) as a core element of its CSR philosophy and promotes a compliance program—setting internal rules and building a structure for management—to all Group companies. Compliance Structure The Foster Group places emphasis on the internal whistleblowing system to promote compliance. Such system is under operation through the Compliance Hotline that connects whistleblowers to corporate lawyers or the highly independent Internal Audit Office to early detect violations of compliance. The whistleblowing hotline is extensively available to employees and officers of the entire Group as well as to their families and the employees of business associates. For the protection of whistle-blowers, internal regulations are established and disseminated to ensure that they are treated fairly or not involved in any trouble as a result of the their actions. Another specific effort is to reinforce the development and operation of internal control systems, with a focus on meeting the internal control requirements of the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act, the J-SOX requirements, for the reliability of financial reports. Currently, the business operational processes at the Group’s headquarters and 11 major business locations are under supervision for compliance with the J-SOX requirements. ■ Organization of the Compliance Committee (The same applies to the Risk and Crisis management Committee) Chief Executive (President) Chairperson (Senior Managing Director) Vice Chairperson (Executive Officer) Consultation Contacts / Hotline Secretariat Committee members from the headquarters / Committee members from Group companies Compliance Committee Foster Group’s compliance programs are led by the Compliance Committee with the president as a chief executive officer, In fiscal 2018, a compliance survey was conducted in addition to the test. Also, an outside expert was invited to hold a compliance training to officers and managerial posts in an effort to raise compliance awareness. Future Plan The Foster Group will continue to promote activities such as the enrichment of internal trainings and provision of information on related laws and regulations, which are led by the Compliance Committee, established based on the Foster Group Code of Conduct for Staff, to enhance and improve the compliance structure. Governance 36 Risk Management Policies The risk management activities of the Foster Group are focused on predicting risks and taking preventive measures so that such risks will not materialize. They also focus on minimizing damage to the Company should a risk develop and materialize, resulting in the occurrence of danger. Specifically, we have established a structure for prompt response in the event of a crisis and a response structure for any serious risk or incident when it is predicted. Meanwhile, we are strengthening the risk management structure for usual conditions under our basic operation policy of enhancement and global expansion of risk management ability and crisis responsibility. Risk Management Structure As the foundations for the Foster Group’s risk management structure, we have established the Rules on Risk and Crisis Management and the Risk and Crisis Management Committee with the president as the chairman to identify risks using a checklist, analyze such risks and promote preventive measures on a Group-wide basis. In the event of any incidents or accidents, we will set up a task force, mainly consisting of the Risk and Crisis Management Committee members, and take prompt measures to minimize damage, ensuring restoration of the original state as early as possible and preventing any recurrences. Risk and Crisis Management Committee Risk and Crisis Management Committee identifies and evaluates risks based on the result of risk reexamination conducted by respective department each year. The Committee determines important risk items that require controls, and such items are being monitored the Committee held on a regular basis. The risk evaluation result is also referenced during the business policy planning. In fiscal 2018, our important risk items reviewed were the business continuity plan (BCP), bribery prevention structure building, and information security management system. Future Plan We will continue to improve the structure for prompt responses to an accident or incident in the event of its occurrence and conduct periodic monitoring of important items at the Risk and Crisis Management Committee to further enhance the risk and crisis management structure. Our Stance on Tax Matters Basic Stance The Foster Group works to maintain and improve tax compliance and perform proper filing and payment of taxes in accordance with the local tax-related laws and international rules. Dealings Between Affiliated Companies The Foster Group determines prices for dealings between its affiliated companies based on the principles of pricing between independent companies. Relationship with Tax Authorities The Foster Group works to reduce tax uncertainty by responding in good faith to prior consultations and related information disclosure to tax authorities. In addition, it uses the Advance Pricing Agreement (APA) to obtain prior agreement with tax authorities. 37 Governance Transparency The Foster Group prepares and discloses its financial statements in compliance with the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act and related laws. It also discloses tax information in the financial statements based on the related laws and regulations. The Foster Group also understands that the BEPS (Base Erosion and Profit Shifting) project by OECD is essential to prevent international tax avoidance and abusive tax planning and to secure the transparency of taxes through the disclosure of tax information. As such, it gives proper responses. Business Continuity Plan (BCP) Policies The Foster Group is taking steps to prevent and avoid various business risks and crises as risk/crisis control and to minimize the damage to the Company and avoid inconvenience to customers should a risk occur or be embodied, with the highest priority given to preventing the recurrence of risks/crises. Activity Promotion Structure The Foster Group promotes business continuity through the function recovery activities undertaken by each function department of headquarters and through collaboration with the task forces at each site in accordance with the decisions made by the Risk and Crisis Management Committee consisting of its senior management. Chairperson of the Risk / Crisis Management Committee President Executive Chairperson Vice Executive Chairperson Secretariat Committee members Committee members Committee members Committee members Committee members Committee members Committee members from the New Business from the Global Corporate from the Corporate from Quality Assurance from the Internal from the Corporate from Group companies Development Division Support Division Management Division Division Audit Department Planning Department Committee members Committee members Committee members from Committee members from Committee members Committee members from the Foster Micro from the Corporate Information the MA Business Division the SP Business Division from the Production Division from the Fostex Company Acoustic Company Strategy Department Main Activities and Measures Operation of the Emergency-Contact Network (Safety Confirmation System) To keep the headquarters functional, Foster Group has introduced a safety confirmation system using mobile phones that allow headquarters to issue an emergency notice to confirm the safety of its employees and their families when an earthquake, disaster, or other emergency occurs. Disaster-Prevention Activities The headquarters is certified as an Excellent Fire Prevention Property. Our daily disaster prevention activities and regional disaster prevention activities were recognized, and we received a letter of gratitude from the Akishima Fire Department. In future, we will continue to work to be a company that is needed in the community. A letter of gratitude for our fire prevention and A letter of gratitude for regional safety and life safety measures disaster prevention Governance 38 Disaster Drills at Headquarters and Domestic Offices Once a year, the Foster Group conducts disaster drills involving all employees at the headquarters and domestic offices. A drill was conducted in March 2018 at the headquarters, which included evacuation guidance training for employees who use wheelchairs. In addition, the headquarters and Foster Transportations Ltd. conducted desktop training, assuming that a disaster had occurred in the area of the headquarters. Foster Micro Acoustic Company visited the Shizuoka Prefecture Earthquake Disaster Prevention Center to implement the disaster prevention experience program, etc. and undergo more expert learning with the aim of enhancing disaster prevention measures. Fire drill (headquarters in Japan) BCP practice (Japan, Foster Transportations Ltd.) Disaster Drills at Overseas Sites The Foster Group appoints a person in charge of BCP for each overseas site and implements disaster drills on a regular basis to improve our employees' awareness of disaster prevention. Fire drill (China) Emergency aid drill (China) Fire drill (Vietnam) Future Plan The Foster Group has been reviewing the BCP by learning from many of the recent natural disasters that have occurred in Japan. We are working to re-establish the BCP structure so that even when faced with an unexpected situation, we can react flexibly, aiming to be a more reliable company for stakeholders. 39 Governance Information Security and Personal Information Protection Policies Foster Electric Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries (hereinafter referred to as the Group) recognize the importance of securing the trust of customers, suppliers, shareholders, employees and other stakeholders based on its corporate creed of “Sincerity.” Appropriate management of information assets is an important part of the management agenda. To appropriately protect and handle the information assets possessed by the Group, we define the information security policies as follows: · Information security management system · Development of internal regulations regarding information security · Implementation of information security measures · Provision of information security education · Implementation of continuous improvement activities ■ Information Security Policies: https://www.foster-electric.com/security/index.html Activity Promotion Structure For protection and appropriate management of all information assets possessed by the Foster Group, it has established the Information Security Committee, which mainly consists of management, to maintain the system for understanding the management status of information security and prompt implementation of required security measures according to the risk analysis results. Information Security Committee Information security auditor Chief Executive Vice Chairperson Chairperson Secretariat Committee Committee Committee Committee member member member member Chief of Secretariat Secretariat at Secretariat at Task force the headquarters each site Main Activities and Measures The Foster Group takes appropriate measures as organizational, human, physical and technical safety management initiatives against security threats, which change daily, to prevent unauthorized access, damage, leakage, falsification and other accidents involving information assets. Future Plan · Penetration of the infrastructure for information protection and management on a global basis. · Implementation of risk analyses and plan for concrete preventive measures based on the Business Continuity Plans (BCPs). · Assurance of the awareness of the information security policies and respective standards Governance 40 Responsible Procurement The Foster Group makes efforts to trade with suppliers that are not only superior in terms of quality, technologies, and delivery time, but also makes efforts to trade with suppliers that carry out social responsibilities such as CSR (green procurement, human rights, labor, safety, and compliance). We will continue to build sound relationships with our suppliers through agreement with our CSR procurement policies, deepening of mutual understanding, and sharing of our goals. Outline of Supply Chain We trade with approximately 500 suppliers, 67% of which are in China. The machined parts industry accounts for 82% of all business sectors. Companies in the Foster Group promote CSR procurement in cooperation with the suppliers. Trade status (by region) Trade status (by business sector) Electronics 2% Others 10% Raw materials 16% ASEAN 23% China 67% Processed items 82% China ASEAN ASEAN Others Processed Raw Processed Raw items materialsElectronics materials Electronics Management System The Foster Group recognizes that the CSR procurement throughout its entire supply chain management is essential for performing material procurement activities that contribute to corporate value improvement. To this end, we have established the Foster Group Supplier CSR Code of Conduct. Based on this standard, we distribute CSR-related questionnaires and CSR SAQ to our suppliers and ask them to confirm their implementation status for CSR initiatives. Since fiscal 2016, we have been participating in the supply chain subcommittee of the Global Compact Network Japan (GCNJ) and have discussed practical issues in the CSR procurement activities at each company. To solve those issues, we are implementing development and revision of the Self-Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ) and other product creation activities. In fiscal 2017, we conducted a survey using the SAQ developed by the subcommittee for all our relevant suppliers. We received replies from 91% of them, and the average number of points for the entire company was 86 points (out of 100 points). Also, it was discovered that many of our suppliers considered CSR to be a social trend and actively worked on it. As a feedback of response results, we not only sent a comprehensive evaluation, but also a corrective action plan to suppliers who need them for each field item, which described the analysis results and the items that required improvement, to encourage them to implement the activities in the future. The rate of the suppliers that needed correction in fiscal 2018 was 6.1% of the entire company. 41 Governance Basic Principles of Procurement In its global expansion, the Foster Group has developed the “Basic Principles of Procurement” for the supply chain, including the Group and its suppliers, based on which it builds fair and healthy relationships. Basic Policy on Purchasing: “We will deal with all of our suppliers in good faith.” 1. Compliance with Laws and Ordinances We will comply with the laws, ordinances and regulations in the countries and regions where we conduct business activities, and will conduct purchasing duties in accordance with social ethics. We will not accept gifts, entertainment, etc. in accordance with our Norms on Employee Conduct. 2.Fairness and Impartiality We will keep our doors open and provide equal opportunities to all businesses, and will evaluate and select suppliers with impartiality based on reasonable criteria. 3.CSR Procurement We will promote CSR procurement in accordance with our Norms on CSR Conduct for Foster Suppliers. 4. Partnerships We will endeavor to deepen mutual understanding with our suppliers and build bonds of trust with them. 5. Confidentiality We will strictly manage confidential information that comes into our knowledge in doing business. Supplier Selection and Evaluation The Foster Group sets the implementation of CSR activities as a business condition when selecting suppliers. We ask the suppliers to agree to the Foster Group Supplier CSR Code of Conduct and reply to the SAQ (Self Assessment Questionnaire). We conclude a basic transaction agreement containing CSR requirements with the suppliers before starting trade with them. We also conduct SAQs for the existing suppliers, check the implementation status of corrective and improvement actions and provide educational activities for them. Sustainability The Foster Group is implementing procurement activities while taking the perspective of sustainability into consideration to respond to the global progress of our procurement activities and risks in value chain expansion. Green Procurement The Group has established the Green Procurement Standard, which governs the chemical substances contained in procured parts and raw materials, and is making efforts to ensure the procurement of materials that comply with national and regional laws as well as customer requirements. Reduction in Energy Consumption To reduce energy consumption in supply chains, we are working to procure energy from nearer production sites by reviewing the purchase route from each site to use an appropriate route, and we are asking each supplier to cooperate, such as through the transfer of manufacturing plants. This has resulted in reduced energy consumption (CO2 reduction) and increased purchases from local suppliers (local production for local consumption). In addition, to reduce unexpected disaster risks, we are promoting Business Continuity Plan (BCP) activities via the distribution of suppliers. The CO2 reduction in fiscal 2018 was approximately 20,000 kg-CO2 (Scope 3 converted value). Representatives and Structures The Procurement Department belongs to the Production Division and performs activities under the head of the division (executive officer) as the representative. Each manufacturing site and business division has a procurement department. We are enhancing CSR activities in cooperation with each manufacturing site and business division. We check the PDCA cycle, share future issues and take appropriate actions at CSR Committee Meeting (held monthly), Global Procurement Meeting held by the representatives of the Procurement Department from all sites (held annually) and the Supplier Procurement Conference, in which our president and other directors participate (held once every two years). Governance 42 Conflict Minerals Investigations According to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act in the U.S., which was established in July 2010, illegal mining and smuggling of minerals by armed forces/groups in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and its surrounding countries not only provide a source of funding for these groups, thereby deepening the conflict, but also lead to forced labor, human-rights violations and other issues. It is being demanded that companies that use mineral resources should take responsibility for the problem. The Foster Group has established a Basic Policy on Conflict Minerals and conducts investigations into the related Global supply meeting production areas and distribution processes to ensure that the relevant minerals will not become their source of funding. In fiscal 2018, we achieved a 99% response rate for investigations into conflict minerals carried out on all the applicable suppliers. We also started some investigations on cobalt and mica in 2018, and established the investigation structure. With respect to existing relevant materials, the Group will continue to conduct detailed investigations as the refinery certification status changes (addition or deletion) and work to eliminate any procurement of minerals if it is clarified that those are related to armed forces. Details can be viewed on our website: Supply chain subcommittee of the GCNJ https://www.foster-electric.com/procurement/csr.html 43 Corporate Profile and Financial Information The Group operates 44 bases in 15 countries and regions worldwide as bases for development, manufacturing and sales bases. Group Companies We have established a sophisticated production system integrating processes from components manufacturing to finished goods manufacturing. Sales/Development Bases Sales Bases Manufacturing Bases Others EUROPE 3 bases JAPAN 9 bases AMERICAS 8 bases ASIA (excluding Japan) The Group operates 44 bases in 15 countries and regions worldwide as bases for development, manufacturing and sales bases. Group Companies 24 We have established a sophisticated production system integrating processes from components manufacturing to finished goods manufacturing. bases Sales/Development Bases Sales Bases Manufacturing Bases Others JAPAN EUROPE ASIA (excluding Japan) AMERICAS Company Name Foster Electric Company, Limited Total number of shares authorized Distribution of Shareholders by Shareholder Type 3 to be issued by the(VIETNAM) Company: CO., LTD. FOSTER ELECTRIC CO., LTD. FOSTER ELECTRIC CO., (HONG KONG) LTD. FOSTER ELECTRIC FOSTER ELECTRIC (U.S.A.), INC. Financial Individuals and (HEADQUARTERS)June 20, 1949 bases Founded Foreign entities, etc. institutions others GUANGZHOU PANYU JIU SHUI KENG 80,000,000 shares FOSTER ELECTRIC (DA JAPAN NANG) CO., LTD. DETROIT OFFICE KANSAI SALES OFFICE ¥6,770,360,135 FOSTER ELECTRIC FACTORY * Outsourcee 37.7 % 37.1 % 17.7% Common Stock FOSTER ELECTRIC (QUANG NGAI) CO., LTD. EL PASO OPERATIONS 9 Listed on the First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange Total number of shares issued: IGA WAREHOUSE FOSTER ELECTRIC CO., (GUANGZHOU) LTD. 1-1-109, Tsutsujigaoka, Akishima City, Tokyo, 26,000,000 FOSTER ELECTRIC (BAC bases NINH) CO., LTD. shares LOS ANGELES OFFICE FOSTEX COMPANY NANJING BRANCH Headquarters 196-8550, Japan FSK (THAILAND) CO., LTD. Number of shareholders: SAN JOSE OFFICE Securities companies 1.7% Phone:+81-42-546-2311 (switchboard) CO., (NANNING) LTD. FOSTER MICRO ACOUSTIC COMPANY FOSTER ELECTRIC ESTec CORPORATION BOSTON OFFICE 6,690 Domestic corporations, etc. 5.8% FOSTER Number 25,601; LTD. of TRANSPORTATIONS FOSTER ELECTRIC CO., (HEYUAN) LTD. ESTec ELECTRONICS (JIAXING) CO., LTD. Thomas KL Indústria *Excluding Falantes de Altotreasury S.A. stock employees Number FOSTER ELECTRONICS LTD. includes our outsourcee in Panyu, FOSTER TRADING China. CO., (HONG KONG) LTD. ESTec VINA CO., LTD. AMERICAS ESTec AMERICA CORPORATION URLFOSTER KIGYOU https://www.foster-electric.com/ Major Shareholders 8 KABUSHIKI KAISHA FOSTER ELECTRIC CO., (TAIWAN) LTD. ESTec PHU THO CO., LTD. ESTec JAPAN CORPORATION FOSTER ELECTRIC (SINGAPORE) PTE. LTD. Number of bases Ratio of ESTec ELECTRONICSShareholder’s (M) SDN. BHD. Name EUROPE Shares Held Shares Held Directors and Corporate Auditors PENANG(As of June 20, 2019)ASIA OFFICE ESTec CORPORATION (CAMBODIA) LTD. (Thousands) (EUROPE) GmbH (%) FOSTER ELECTRIC (excluding Japan) Hiromi Yoshizawa President and Representative Director PT FOSTER Senior Executive Terushige OfficerELECTRIC Nagasawa INDONESIA The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (trustMUNICH account) OFFICE 1,660 7.3 Senior Managing Director Atsushi Narikawa FOSTEROfficer Senior Executive ELECTRIC FOSTEROfficer Senior Executive ELECTRIC Takuro 24 YamaguchiLTD.bases IPO (THAILAND) Masatoshi Kohama (THILAWA) CO., LTD. OFFICE 1,284 account) Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (trust SWEDEN 5.6 Senior Managing Director Lu San Tie Mizuho Bank, Ltd. 1,016 4.4 Senior Executive Officer Tatsuhito Tanaka Managing Director Kazuhiro Kishi Senior Executive Officer Ryoji Otowa MUFG Bank, Ltd. 945 4.1 Company Director Information Hidetoshi Shirakawa Executive Officer Yasuhide Takahara Stock Information Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (trust account 9) 753 3.3 Company Minoru Director*1 ProfileMatsumoto 31, 2019)Officer Naoki Kanai (As of March Executive Status of Shares GOVERNMENT (As of March 31, 2019) OF NORWAY 695 3.0 Director*1 Chieko Matsuda Executive Officer Yuji Harada Company Name Foster Electric Company, Limited Total number of shares authorized Distribution of Shareholders by Shareholder Type Standing Corporate Auditor Tsutomu Inokuma DFA INTL SMALL CAP VALUE PORTFOLIO 502 2.2 Executive Officer Hiroki Miura to be issued by the Company: Financial Individuals and Founded June 20, 1949 Japan Trustee Services Foreign entities, etc. institutions others Corporate Auditor*2 Takuma Ino Executive Officer Yuji Sakuta 80,000,000 sharesBank, Ltd. (trust account 5) 458 2.0 ¥6,770,360,135 37.7% 37.1% 17.7% Common StockTakashi Suzuki *2 Corporate Auditor J.P.Total Morgan Executive Officer Roy Ching-Sheng Chen Listed on the First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange number ofBank sharesLuxembourg issued: S.A. 1300000 453 1.9 Corporate Auditor*2 Yasuhiro Goto Executive Officer Oh In-Yong 1-1-109, Tsutsujigaoka, Akishima City, Tokyo, 26,000,000 Showa shares Co., Ltd. Aircraft Industry 446 1.9 *1 Minoru Matsumoto and Chieko Matsuda are Independent Directors. Headquarters 196-8550, Japan Treasury stock (3,281,977 shares) is excluded for the calculation of the “Ratio of Shares Held.” Number of shareholders: Securities companies 1.7% *2 Takuma Ino, Takashi Suzuki and Yasuhiro Goto are Independent Corporate Auditors. Phone:+81-42-546-2311 (switchboard) 6,690 Domestic corporations, etc. 5.8% Information Number of for Shareholders 25,601; *Excluding treasury stock employees Fiscal Year Number includes our outsourcee in Panyu, China. From April 1 to March 31 of each year Inquiries for Handling of Stocks URL General Ordinary https://www.foster-electric.com/ Major Shareholders June of each year Shareholders who have an The securities company with which you have Meeting of Shareholders account at a securities company a business connection Number of Ratio of Shareholder’s NameTransfer Agency Department,Shares MizuhoHeld Trust &Shares Held Directors andOrdinary Record date General Meeting Corporate Auditors Year-end dividends: March 31 (As of JuneMarch of Shareholders: 31 20, 2019) Shareholders who have a special account *Shareholders are not allowed to make any Stock Banking Co., Ltd. (Thousands) (%) Interim dividends: September 30 stock transactions other than the purchase of 2-8-4, Izumi, Suginami-ku, Tokyo, 168-8507, Japan President and Representative Director Hiromi Yoshizawa Senior Executive Officer Terushige Nagasawa The shares lessMaster than one unitTrust Bank of Japan, (“tangen”). Tel: 0120-288-324 account) Ltd. (trust(toll-free telephone1,660 7.3 service in Japan) Number of Unit (“tangen”) Shares 100 Senior Managing Director Atsushi Narikawa Senior Executive Officer Takuro Yamaguchi Japanof Trustee Payment Services Bank, unpaid dividends Head office and branches nationwide of Mizuho Ltd. (trust account) 1,284 5.6 Transfer Agent Stock Transfer Agency Department, Head Office of Trust & Banking Co., Ltd., and Mizuho Bank, Ltd. Senior Managing AgentDirectorBranchLu San SeniorCo., Tie Trust & Banking Mizuho Ltd.Officer Masatoshi Kohama Executive Transfer 1-2-1, Yaesu, Chuo-ku, Mizuho Bank, Ltd. 1,016 4.4 SeniorTokyo Executive Officer Tatsuhito Tanaka Managing Director Kazuhiro Kishi Media for Public Notice Nihon Keizai ShimbunSenior (daily newspaper) issued in the Executive Officer Ryoji Otowa MUFG Bank, Ltd. 945 4.1 Director Metropolis Hidetoshi of Tokyo Shirakawa Yasuhide Takahara Executive Officer Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (trust account 9) 753 3.3 Director*1 Minoru Matsumoto Information on Individual Number Executive Officer Kanai NaokiSystem relating to stocks GOVERNMENT OF NORWAY 695 3.0 Director *1 Chieko Matsuda Your Individual Number notified Executive by Officer your localYuji Harada government is required forDFAtax INTL procedures relating to stocks. For this reason, shareholders Notice Tsutomu SMALL CAP VALUE PORTFOLIO 502 2.2 Standing Corporate Auditor must notify Inokuma their stockbrokers of their Executive Individual Officer Numbers. Hiroki Miura Takuma Ino Number Notifications Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (trust account 5) 458 2.0 *2 Corporate Auditor Contact Information for Inquiries about Executive Yuji Sakuta OfficerIndividual Corporate Auditor*2 If Takashiyour shares Suzuki are in an account Executive managed Officer Royby a securities Ching-Sheng stockbroker: Chen company orJ.P. Please Morgan Bank contact your Luxembourg broker. S.A. 1300000 453 1.9 If your shares are not managed through a securities company or stockbroker: Corporate Auditor*2 Yasuhiro Goto Executive Officer Oh In-Yong Stock Transfer Agency Department, Mizuho ShowaTrust Aircraft Industry & Banking Co., Co., Ltd. Tel: 0120-84-0178 Ltd. 446 1.9 *1 Minoru Matsumoto and Chieko Matsuda are Independent Directors. Treasury stock (3,281,977 shares) is excluded for the calculation of the “Ratio of Shares Held.” *2 Takuma Ino, Takashi Suzuki and Yasuhiro Goto are Independent Corporate Auditors. Information for Shareholders Fiscal Year From April 1 to March 31 of each year Inquiries for Handling of Stocks Ordinary General June of each year Shareholders who have an The securities company with which you have Meeting of Shareholders account at a securities company a business connection Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders: March 31 Shareholders who have a special account Stock Transfer Agency Department, Mizuho Trust & Record date Year-end dividends: March 31 *Shareholders are not allowed to make any Banking Co., Ltd. Corporate T h i Profile d u c t iFinancial s r e p r o and on to be m Information odel released 44 in commemoration of the 70th anniversary of Foster Electric uses an alnico magnet with the magnetic circuit structure replicated in a modern arrangement. Financial Highlights While it retains the original’s classical styling, this special unit uses our proprietary 2-layer ES cone Consolidated Performance for the Fiscal Year ended March 31, 2019 paper and low-distortion magnetic circuit. https://www.fostex.jp/ Net sales Operating income Ordinary income Net loss attributable to owners of the parent ¥140,303 million ¥3,937 million ¥4,318 million ¥(2,026) million (down 24.1 % y-o-y) (down 57.7 % y-o-y) (down 52.3 % y-o-y) (Net income of ¥4,265 million in previous FY) Wireless Speaker System Net assets Total assets Net loss per share Net assets per share Equity ratio KOTORI 501 The new speaker grill lineup offers 12 designs, using carefully selected ¥59,294 million ¥91,271 million ¥(83.21) ¥2,404.10 fabrics that do not damage sound quality. The speaker grills easily swapped with the use of magnets. 59.5 % can be (¥66,792 million at the end of previous FY) (¥100,870 million at the end of previous FY) (Net income of ¥165.78 in previous FY) (¥2,412.06 at the end of previous FY) (61.5% at the end of previous FY) They feature patterned prints that can create stylish atmospheres tailored to users’ lifestyles. http://kotori.fostex.jp/ Overview3 by Segment (Consolidated) 010_0727302981906.indd 2019/06/19 13:54:53 Speaker Segment Mobile Audio Segment Other Segment Net ¥70,403 million 50.1% Net ¥63,851 million 45.5% Net ¥6,224 million 4.4% sales sales sales (down 6.8% y-o-y) (down 38.3% y-o-y) (up 5.7% y-o-y) For car speakers and speaker systems, the sales The sales volume and prices of headsets for a major Net sales in this segment, including micro acoustic volume of premium brand products for some customer declined. components and “FOSTEX” brand products, slightly customers declined. Shipments of audio/visual increased. speakers and speaker systems were generally in line with our plan. *The above includes inter-segment sales. 010_0727302981906.indd 4 2019/06/19 13:55:09 45 Corporate History Corporate History 46 47 External Recognition External Recognition [Japan] New Diversity Management Selection 100 (fiscal 2017) March 2018: Recognized for our activities to promote diversity and achieve work-life balance, we were selected as one of the winners of the New Diversity Management Selection 100 (fiscal 2017) by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. Top 100 Telework Pioneers (fiscal 2018) November 2018: To realize a flexible workstyle using ICT that fits individuals’ lifestyles and is free from restrictions such as time and place, we have introduced the work-at-home program and implemented initiatives to establish the environment. Evaluated for such activities, we were selected as one of the winners of the Top 100 Telework Pioneers (2019) by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications. Certification of Excellent Company in Health: Gold December 2018: Highly evaluated for our active initiatives to realize healthy management, we received the Certification of Excellent Company in Health: Gold from the Tokyo Promotion Council for Healthy Company Declaration. As of December 2018, more than 1,400 companies have participated, and 13 companies including the Group received the certification in the Gold category. 2019 Health and Productivity Management Outstanding Organizations (White 500) March 2019: Recognized for our excellent initiatives that consider employee’s health from the management perspective and practice it strategically, we were certified as one of the winners of the 2019 Health and Productivity Management Outstanding Organizations (White 500) by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and the Nippon Kenko Kaigi. Selected as one of the S&P/JPX Carbon Efficient Indices by the Government Pension Investment Fund (GPIF) September 2018: We were selected as one of the ESG indices; S&P/JPX Carbon Efficient Index (evaluated based on the disclosure status and results of CO2 emissions data), whose operation was started by the GPIF in 2018. Added to SNAM Sustainability Index (fiscal 2018) February 2019: We have been added to the SNAM Sustainability Index (Selected by placing weight on the ESG evaluation by rating firms), whose operation was started by Sompo Japan Nipponkoa Asset Management (SNAM) in August 2012, for the third consecutive year. External Recognition 48 [Overseas] Global Ecovadis Silver Ranking February 2019: We received a Silver ranking (top 30%) from Ecovadis, France for the CSR assessment to evaluate suppliers. Vietnam FOSTER ELECTRIC (VIETNAM) CO., LTD. Awarded by the Prime Minister of Vietnam as a company that contributed to Vietnamese economy November 2018: At the “Conference on 30 Years of FDI Attraction”, held by the government of Vietnam in commemoration of the 30th anniversary of foreign investment attraction, we were awarded by the Prime Minister of Vietnam as a company that contributed to their promotion of foreign investment. FOSTER ELECTRIC (DANANG) CO., LTD. Certified as one of the Top 50 Energy Saving Companies 2018 by the Department of Industry and Trade of Da Nang City and the Da Nang Power Company, Ltd. November 2018: We achieved the electric energy saving target of 5% in power consumption (compared to 2017) in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 and were certified as one of the Top 50 Energy Saving Companies 2018 by the Department of Industry and Trade of Da Nang City and the Da Nang Power Company, Ltd. Awarded for our contribution to the promotion of Vietnamese business community development March 2019: Evaluated for our excellent achievements in our manufacturing and business activities in 2018, and our contribution to the Vietnamese business community, we were awarded by the Chairman of Vietnam Chamber of Commerce – Da Nang. FOSTER ELECTRIC (QUANG NGAI) CO., LTD. Awarded for our excellent social and family friendly businesses by the Labor Union of Quang Ngai Province in Vietnam December 2018: Evaluated for our excellent social and family friendly businesses, we were awarded by the Executive Committee of the Labor Union of Quang Ngai Province. Awarded for our excellent social security program and health insurance policy by Viet Nam Social Security December 2018: Evaluated for our excellent achievements in the social security program and health insurance plan, we were awarded by the general director of Viet Nam Social Security. China GUANGZHOU PANYU JIU SHUI KENG FOSTER ELECTRIC FACTORY Commended for our establishment of a compliance structure February 2018: Evaluated for our corporate management based on the Compliance Structure Regulations, we were commended as a model company by six organizations, including the Guangdong Legal Promotion Office and the Guangdong Ministry of Legal Affairs. 49 Data Table Economic Data 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change Costs for measures taken to manage risks and opportunities Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by category Environmental preservation cost (classified by business operations) Location Investment Cost Category Key activity and the outcome (Unit: one (Unit: one thousand yen) thousand yen) (1) Business area cost 0 26,384 (1)-1 Pollution prevention costs Air and water control-related prevention countermeasures 0 752 Breakdown (1)-2 Global environmental conservation costs Prevention of global warming, as well as energy-saving measures 0 631 (1)-3 Resource circulation costs Waste disposal and recycling 0 25,000 FOSTER ELECTRIC (2) Upstream/downstream cost Green purchasing expenses 0 0 Japan CO., LTD. (Headquarters) Environmental education, (3) Administration costs 0 7,174 EMS construction expenses etc. (4) R&D costs Research and development etc. 0 1,579,501 (5) Social activity costs Tree planting etc. 0 646 (6) Environmental damage handling costs 0 0 Total 0 1,613,704 * “ Investment” refers to equipment investments for the purpose of environmental conservation. “Cost” refers to personnel and miscellaneous expenses/costs incurred for environmental conservation activities. 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage Ratio (%) Location*1 The same ratio for male and female Domestic Companies: FOSTER ELECTRIC CO., LTD. (Headquarters), Japan 155 FOSTER TRANSPORTATIONS LTD., FOSTER ELECTRONICS LTD. FOSTER ELECTRIC CO., (HONG KONG) LTD. and group companies 158 Asia FOSTER ELECTRIC (SINGAPORE) PTE. LTD. and group companies 100 FOSTER ELECTRIC (VIETNAM) CO., LTD. and group companies 100 North America FOSTER ELECTRIC (U.S.A.), INC. and group companies 152 Europe FOSTER ELECTRIC (EUROPE) GmbH and group companies 100 *1 Significant locations of operations: The headquarters and 11 main sites that are checked based on J-SOX internal control framework. 202-2 Proportion of senior management*1 hired from the local community*2 Location*3 Ratio (%) Domestic Companies: FOSTER ELECTRIC CO., LTD. (Headquarters), Japan 100 FOSTER TRANSPORTATIONS LTD., FOSTER ELECTRONICS LTD. Overseas 11 Significant locations of operations 90 *1 Senior management: Department managers or higher, excluding directors. *2 Local community: The country and region to which each site above belong. *3 Significant locations of operations: The headquarters and 11 main sites whose operation processes are to be checked based on the J-SOX. 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Location*1 Content Ratio*2 (%) All procurement sites in China Local procurement rate of materials in China 82 All procurement sites in ASEAN Local procurement rate of materials in Vietnam, Indonesia, and Myanmar 54 *1 Local / Significant locations of operation: The above-mentioned areas where Foster’s manufacturing sites reside. *2 An index that indicates the trade amount with corporate bodies in the targeted site, out of the material procurement trades. 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Location Total number of operations Ratio (%) Domestic and overseas Domestic and overseas locations of operations 13 68 companies There were no significant risks related to corruption identified by the risk assessment. Data Table 50 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures Total number and ratio of notifications on anti-corruption related organizations policies and procedures. Location Governance body members Total Ratio (%) Domestic Companies: FOSTER ELECTRIC CO., LTD. (Headquarters), Japan 32 100 FOSTER TRANSPORTATIONS LTD., FOSTER ELECTRONICS LTD. Overseas All overseas companies 78 82 Environmental data 301-2 Recycled input materials used Location Ratio (%) Overseas All procurement sites (China/Vietnam/Myanmar) 16 * Recycled material ratio of all resin materials purchased. 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Purchased Total Fuel Gasoline Diesel Fuel LPG Natural Gas City Gas Location Electricity Consumption in the (liter) (liter) (liter) (liter) (m3) (MWh) Organization (MWh) Japan FOSTER ELECTRIC CO., LTD. (Headquarters) 2,117 9,346 0 0 0 13,604 2,376 GUANGZHOU PANYU JIU SHUI KENG FOSTER ELECTRIC 39,534 71,589 12,074 0 29,851 0 40,709 FACTORY (*outsourcee) FOSTER ELECTRIC CO., (NANNING) LTD. 10,995 35,200 9,400 0 0 0 11,432 FOSTER ELECTRIC CO., (HEYUAN) LTD. 17,450 53,584 20,330 0 79,122 0 19,134 FOSTER ELECTRIC (VIETNAM) CO., LTD. 16,834 29,337 7,722 59,328 0 0 18,034 Asia FOSTER ELECTRIC (DA NANG) CO., LTD. 5,775 11,078 4,245 26,201 0 0 6,295 FOSTER ELECTRIC (QUANG NGAI) CO., LTD. 3,131 3,627 275 20,258 0 0 3,455 FOSTER ELECTRIC (BAC NINH) CO., LTD. 19,225 34,168 2,095 51,867 0 0 20,307 PT FOSTER ELECTRIC INDONESIA 3,400 5,953 5,112 5,628 0 0 3,590 FOSTER ELECTRIC (THILAWA) CO., LTD. 7,978 10,629 15,460 0 0 0 8,242 North FOSTER ELECTRIC (U.S.A.), INC. (EL PASO OPERATIONS) 437 1,003 0 97 0 74,157 1,371 America Total 126,874 265,514 76,713 163,378 108,973 87,761 134,944 * Calorific Value (Fuel): Japan/Overseas: Factor based on the “Greenhouse gas emissions calculation and report manual” released by the Ministry of Environment, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. 302-3 Energy intensity / 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption / 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions / 305-4 GHG emissions intensity / 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Category 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Scope1 (Unit: t-CO2) 2,198 2,403 2,431 2,155 2,549 2,381 1,745 (Direct greenhouse gas emission from business activities) Scope2 (Indirect greenhouse gas emission due to energy usage from (Unit: t-CO2) 87,232 91,545 88,568 86,668 88,328 87,828 71,122 business activities) Scope1+2 total (Unit: t-CO2) 89,430 93,948 90,999 88,823 90,877 90,209 72,868 Per sales unit (Unit: t-CO2/100 Million yen） 62.3 56.6 48.1 46.5 56.4 48.8 51.9 Scope: FOSTER ELECTRIC CO., LTD. (Headquarters) and 10 overseas manufacturing sites CO2 Conversion Factor (Electric) Japan: Ministry of Environment, 2012 factor based on CO2 conversion factor of electric power supplier (2013) Overseas: IEA, 2012 factor based on CO2 emissions from fuel combustion (2014) CO2 Conversion Factor (Fuel) Japan/overseas: Factor based on the “Greenhouse gas emissions calculation and report manual” released by the Ministry of Environment, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. Global Warming Potential Incorporated 100 year value of IPCC Fifth Assessment Report (AR5) Based on the “Low Carbon Implementation Plan” by the electrical and electronics industries in Japan, we have set the medium-term target for 2020 of a 1% reduction in emissions per year per sales unit, using the fiscal 2012 value as a standard). 51 Data Table 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Category Emissions (t-CO2) 1. Purchased goods and services 272,758 2. Capital goods 575 3. Fueland energy-related activities (not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2) 4,777 Upstream 4. Upstream transportation and distribution 25,014 categories 5. Waste generated in operations 3,104 6. Business travel 612 7. Employee commuting 180 9. Downstream transportation and distribution 3,225 Downstream 11. Use of sold products 74,357 categories 12. End-of-life treatment of sold products 5,147 Total 389,748 Coverage: Foster Electric Co., Ltd. (headquarters), 2 domestic sites and 13 overseas sites 303-3 Water withdrawal / 303-4 Water discharge / 303-5 Water consumption / 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Total water Water withdrawal Water discharge Location consumption (Unit: m3) (Unit: m3) (Unit: m3) Japan FOSTER ELECTRIC CO., LTD. (Headquarters) 10,394 9,874 520 GUANGZHOU PANYU JIU SHUI KENG FOSTER ELECTRIC 540,157 486,141 54,016 FACTORY (*outsourcee) FOSTER ELECTRIC CO., (NANNING) LTD. 71,562 57,250 14,312 FOSTER ELECTRIC CO., (HEYUAN) LTD. 278,213 222,570 55,643 FOSTER ELECTRIC (VIETNAM) CO., LTD. 184,830 147,864 36,966 Asia FOSTER ELECTRIC (DA NANG) CO., LTD. 51,489 41,191 10,298 FOSTER ELECTRIC (QUANG NGAI) CO., LTD. 18,239 14,591 3,648 FOSTER ELECTRIC (BAC NINH) CO., LTD. 81,734 66,827 14,907 PT FOSTER ELECTRIC INDONESIA 8,540 6,832 1,708 FOSTER ELECTRIC (THILAWA) CO., LTD. 120,331 96,265 24,066 North FOSTER ELECTRIC (U.S.A.), INC. (EL PASO OPERATIONS) 2,348 1,878 470 America Total 1,367,837 1,151,283 216,554 Total water Water withdrawal Water discharge Category consumption (Unit: m3) (Unit: m3) (Unit: m3) Surface water Groundwater Seawater Produced water Third-party water 1,367,837 1,151,283 216,554 Total 1,367,837 1,151,283 216,554 Data Table 52 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Hazardous waste (Unit: ton) Non-hazardous waste (Unit: ton) Location Total waste Recycling Landfill Total waste Recycling Landfill Japan FOSTER ELECTRIC CO., LTD. (Headquarters) 0.20 0.00 0.20 207.40 91.06 116.34 GUANGZHOU PANYU JIU SHUI KENG FOSTER ELECTRIC 62.00 0.00 62.00 968.00 944.63 23.37 FACTORY (*outsourcee) FOSTER ELECTRIC CO., (NANNING) LTD. 35.20 0.00 35.20 146.00 0.00 146.00 FOSTER ELECTRIC CO., (HEYUAN) LTD. 54.00 0.00 54.00 330.57 278.00 52.57 FOSTER ELECTRIC (VIETNAM) CO., LTD. 105.04 14.49 90.55 807.74 657.45 150.29 Asia FOSTER ELECTRIC (DA NANG) CO., LTD. 92.72 6.74 85.98 331.14 240.00 91.14 FOSTER ELECTRIC (QUANG NGAI) CO., LTD. 23.21 1.91 21.30 154.91 82.34 72.57 FOSTER ELECTRIC (BAC NINH) CO., LTD. 69.50 52.70 16.80 969.30 610.80 358.50 PT FOSTER ELECTRIC INDONESIA 74.07 0.00 74.07 86.90 0.00 86.90 FOSTER ELECTRIC (THILAWA) CO., LTD. 5.14 0.00 5.14 49.40 3.10 46.30 North FOSTER ELECTRIC (U.S.A.), INC. (EL PASO OPERATIONS) 0.04 0.00 0.04 385.40 259.40 126.00 America Total 521.12 75.84 445.28 4,436.76 3,166.78 1,269.98 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria Percentage of new suppliers that were screened based on the environmental criteria. Location Ratio (%) Domestic and overseas companies All procurement sites 100 * We distribute our environmental regulations to all the suppliers, update them and obtain environment-related materials. Social data 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover New employee hires (person) Location By gender By age group Male Female Total Age under 30 Age 30 50 Age over 50 Total Domestic Companies: FOSTER ELECTRIC CO., LTD. Japan (Headquarters), FOSTER TRANSPORTATIONS LTD., 34 21 55 17 29 9 55 FOSTER ELECTRONICS LTD. Overseas All overseas sites 1,840 4,925 6,765 5,171 1,591 3 6,765 Employee turnover (person) Location By gender By age group Male Female Total Age under 30 Age 30 50 Age over 50 Total Domestic Companies: FOSTER ELECTRIC CO., LTD. Japan (Headquarters), FOSTER TRANSPORTATIONS LTD., 51 9 60 10 24 26 60 FOSTER ELECTRONICS LTD. Overseas All overseas sites 3,457 22,880 26,337 15,447 10,811 79 26,337 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees Location*1 Benefits Japan FOSTER ELECTRIC CO., LTD. (Headquarters) Retirement provision Overseas 11 Significant locations of operations Life insurance, health care, disability and invalidity coverage, parental leave, requirement provision etc. *1 Significant locations of operations: The headquarters and 11 main sites that are checked based on J-SOX internal control framework. 53 Data Table 401-3 Parental leave Total number of employees that were entitled to / took parental leave Total number of employees that were entitled to Total number of employees that took parental leave*2 Location parental leave*1 Male Female Total Male Female Total Domestic Companies: FOSTER ELECTRIC CO., LTD. Japan (Headquarters), FOSTER TRANSPORTATIONS LTD., 17 5 22 5 5 10 FOSTER ELECTRONICS LTD. Overseas All overseas sites 259 3,565 3,824 255 2,963 3,218 Return to work rate / Retention rate Total number of employees due to and did return to Return to work rate for employees due to return to Location work after parental leave work after taking parental leave (%) Male Female Total Male Female Total Domestic Companies: FOSTER ELECTRIC CO., LTD. Japan (Headquarters), FOSTER TRANSPORTATIONS LTD., 4 N/A*3 4 100 N/A*3 100 FOSTER ELECTRONICS LTD. Overseas All overseas sites 207 1,798 2,005 96 97 97 Total number of employees that returned to work 12 months retention rate of employees returning from after parental leave ended that were still employed 12 Location parental leave in the prior reporting period (%) months after their return to work Male Female Total Male Female Total Domestic Companies: FOSTER ELECTRIC CO., LTD. Japan (Headquarters), FOSTER TRANSPORTATIONS LTD., 1 4 5 100 100 100 FOSTER ELECTRONICS LTD. Overseas All overseas sites 147 1,421 1,568 53 49 50 *1 Total number of employees that were entitled to parental leave during the reporting period *2 Total number of employees that were entitled to and took parental leave during the reporting period *3 During the report period, due to the ongoing parental leave, there was no employees who planned to return to work among those who were on the parental leave. 403-9 Work-related injuries a. For all employees i. The number and rate of ii. The number and rate of iii. The number and rate of fatalities as a result of workhigh-consequence work-related recordable work-related injuries v. The number of Location related injury injuries (excluding fatalities) hours worked Fatalities Rate*1 Injuries Rate *2 Injuries Rate *3 Domestic Companies: FOSTER ELECTRIC CO., LTD. Japan (Headquarters), FOSTER TRANSPORTATIONS LTD., 0 0.00 0 0.00 2 1.61 1,244,382 FOSTER ELECTRONICS LTD. Overseas All overseas sites 0 0.00 0 0.00 84 1.58 53,053,768 iv. The main types of work-related injury Back pain / Wound / Sprain / Blow / Fracture * There were no fatalities or injuries for “b. workers who are not employees but whose work and/or workplace is controlled by the organization.” Number of fatalities as a result of work-related injury x 1,000,000 *1 Rate of fatalities as a result of work-related injury = Number of hours worked Number of high-consequence work-related injuries (excluding fatalities) x 1,000,000 *2 Rate of high-consequence work-related injuries (excluding fatalities) = Number of hours worked Number of recordable work-related injuries x 1,000,000 *3 Rate of recordable work-related injuries = Number of hours worked 403-10 Work-related ill health b. For all workers who are not employees a. For all employees but whose work and/or workplace is controlled by the organization ii. The number of cases of ii. The number of cases of i. The number of fatalities as a i. The number of fatalities as a Location recordable work-related recordable work-related result of work-related ill health result of work-related ill health ill health ill health Domestic Companies: FOSTER ELECTRIC CO., LTD. Japan (Headquarters), FOSTER TRANSPORTATIONS LTD., 0 0 0 0 FOSTER ELECTRONICS LTD. Overseas All overseas sites 0 0 0 0 iii. The work-related hazards that pose a risk of ill health N/A 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Average hours of training (hours) Location Male Female Management General Domestic Companies: FOSTER ELECTRIC CO., LTD. Japan (Headquarters), FOSTER TRANSPORTATIONS LTD., 13.19 15.02 10.59 14.47 FOSTER ELECTRONICS LTD. Overseas All overseas sites 9.51 10.23 7.34 10.24 Data Table 54 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews Ratio (%) Location Male Female Management General Domestic Companies: FOSTER ELECTRIC CO., LTD. Japan (Headquarters), FOSTER TRANSPORTATIONS LTD., 96 94 93 98 FOSTER ELECTRONICS LTD. Overseas All overseas sites 56 25 66 29 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Diversity of governance bodies Ratio (%) Location Age under 30 Age 30 50 Age over 50 Domestic Companies: FOSTER ELECTRIC CO., LTD. Japan (Headquarters), FOSTER TRANSPORTATIONS LTD., 0 3 97 FOSTER ELECTRONICS LTD. Overseas All overseas sites 0 32 68 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Ratio of the basic salary and remuneration of women to men for each employee category, by significant locations of operation. Ratio (%) Location Management General Japan FOSTER ELECTRIC CO., LTD. (Headquarters) 100 100 Overseas 11 Significant locations of operations 100 100 * Significant locations of operations: The headquarters and 11 main sites that are checked based on J-SOX internal control framework. 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures Security personnel Location Total personnel Trained personnel Ratio (%) Domestic Companies: FOSTER ELECTRIC CO., LTD. Japan (Headquarters), FOSTER TRANSPORTATIONS LTD., 5 5 100 FOSTER ELECTRONICS LTD. Overseas All overseas sites 226 209 92 * The above includes employees from third party organizations. 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures Employee training Location Total hours (hours) Employee ratio (%) Domestic Companies: FOSTER ELECTRIC CO., LTD. Japan (Headquarters), FOSTER TRANSPORTATIONS LTD., 472 42 FOSTER ELECTRONICS LTD. Overseas All overseas sites 89,089 23 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Percentage of new suppliers that agreed to Foster’s CSR procurement criteria Location Ratio (%) Domestic and overseas companies All procurement sites 100 Percentage of replies received from new suppliers that agreed to CSR procurement based on the Foster’s Code of Conduct 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Total number of substantiated complaints received concerning breaches of customer privacy Total number of identified Location Complaints received from leaks, thefts, or losses of outside parties and Complaints from customer data substantiated by the regulatory bodies organization All the domestic and Domestic and overseas companies 0 0 0 overseas companies 55 Data Table GRI Standards Content Index GRI General Disclosures Standard Disclosure Page Number / URL No. ORGANIZATIONAL P43-44 Corporate Profile and Financial PROFILE 102-1 Name of the organization Information  Securities Report (in Japanese) P43-44 Corporate Profile and Financial 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Information  Securities Report (in Japanese) P43-44 Corporate Profile and Financial 102-3 Location of headquarters Information  Securities Report (in Japanese) P43-44 Corporate Profile and Financial 102-4 Location of operations Information  Securities Report (in Japanese) P43-44 Corporate Profile and Financial 102-5 Ownership and legal form Information  Securities Report (in Japanese) P43-44 Corporate Profile and Financial 102-6 Markets served Information  Securities Report (in Japanese) P43-44 Corporate Profile and Financial 102-7 Scale of the organization Information  Securities Report (in Japanese) P43-44 Corporate Profile and Financial 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Information  Securities Report (in Japanese) 102-9 Supply Chain  Securities Report (in Japanese) 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain  Securities Report (in Japanese) P13-18 Environment P19-32 Social 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach P33-42 Governance  Securities Report (in Japanese) P5-12 Foster Group CSR Management 102-12 External initiatives P11 United Nations Global Compact 102-13 Membership of associations P11 United Nations Global Compact Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker P3-4 Top Message P3-4 Top Message 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities  Securities Report (in Japanese) Ethics and integrity P1-2 Corporate Creed 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior  Corporate Action Guidelines  Code of Conduct for Staff 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics P33-42 Governance Governance  Corporate Governance 102-18 Governance structure Guidelines (in Japanese) P33-42 Governance 102-19 Delegating authority  Corporate Governance Guidelines (in Japanese) Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, 102-20 P5-12 Foster Group CSR Management and social topics Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and 102-21 P5-12 Foster Group CSR Management social topics  Securities Report (in Japanese) Composition of the highest governance body and its 102-22  Corporate Governance committees Guidelines (in Japanese) Data Table 56 GRI General Disclosures Standard Disclosure Page Number / URL No. Governance 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body  Securities Report (in Japanese) 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body  Securities Report (in Japanese)  Corporate Governance 102-25 Conflicts of interest Guidelines (in Japanese) Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, 102-26 P5-12 Foster Group CSR Management and strategy 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body P5-12 Foster Group CSR Management P13-18 Environment P19-32 Social 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance P33-42 Governance  Securities Report (in Japanese) Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and 102-29 P5-12 Foster Group CSR Management social impacts 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes P5-12 Foster Group CSR Management 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics P5-12 Foster Group CSR Management 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting P5-12 Foster Group CSR Management 102-33 Communicating critical concerns P33-42 Governance 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns Not applicable 102-35 Remuneration policies  Securities Report (in Japanese) 102-36 Process for determining remuneration  Securities Report (in Japanese) 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration  Securities Report (in Japanese) 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio  Securities Report (in Japanese) 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio  Securities Report (in Japanese) Stakeholder engagement Conceptual Drawing of CSR 102-40 List of stakeholder groups P7 Management 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements  Securities Report (in Japanese) P5-12 Foster Group CSR Management 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders P33-42 Governance P5-12 Foster Group CSR Management 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement P33-42 Governance 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised P5-12 Foster Group CSR Management Reporting practice P43-44 Corporate Profile and Financial 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Information  Securities Report (in Japanese) 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries P5-12 Foster Group CSR Management 102-47 List of material topics P5-12 Foster Group CSR Management 57 Data Table GRI General Disclosures Standard Disclosure Page Number / URL No. Reporting practice 102-48 Restatements of information No Restatement of information No significant changes in 102-49 Changes in reporting reporting P61 Provision of Information 102-50 Reporting period Regarding Sustainability P61 Provision of Information 102-51 Date of most recent report Regarding Sustainability P61 Provision of Information 102-52 Reporting cycle Regarding Sustainability P61 Provision of Information 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Regarding Sustainability P61 Provision of Information 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Regarding Sustainability 102-55 GRI content index P55-60 GRI content index 102-56 External assurance Not Applicable GRI General Disclosures Standard Disclosure Page Number / URL No. GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary P5-12 Foster Group CSR Management Management Approach P5-12 Foster Group CSR Management P13-18 Environment 103-2 The management approach and its components P19-32 Social P33-42 Governance P5-12 Foster Group CSR Management P13-18 Environment 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach P19-32 Social P33-42 Governance GRI General Disclosures Standard Disclosure Page Number / URL No. GRI 201: 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed  Securities Report (in Japanese) Economic Performance Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due 201-2 P49-54 Data table to climate change 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans  Securities Report (in Japanese) 201-4 Financial assistance received from government Not Applicable GRI 202: Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to 202-1 P49-54 Data table Market Presence local minimum wage Proportion of senior management hired from the local 202-2 P49-54 Data table community GRI 203: P29-32 “Social Contribution”, Indirect Economic 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported “Community Contribution Impacts Activities at Overseas Sites” 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts  Securities Report (in Japanese) GRI 204: 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers P49-54 Data table Procurement Practices Data Table 58 GRI General Disclosures Standard Disclosure Page Number / URL No. GRI 205: 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption P49-54 Data table Anti-corruption Communication and training about anti-corruption policies 205-2 P49-54 Data table and procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Not applicable GRI 206: Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and 206-1 Not applicable Anti-competitive Behavior monopoly practices GRI General Disclosures Standard Disclosure Page Number / URL No. GRI 301: 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Information unavailable Materials 301-2 Recycled input materials used P49-54 Data table 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials Information unavailable GRI 302: 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization P49-54 Data table Energy 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization Information unavailable 302-3 Energy intensity P49-54 Data table 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption P49-54 Data table P17-18 “Environmentally Friendly 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services Products” GRI 303: 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource P14 “Environmental Activities” Water and Effluents 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts P14 “Environmental Activities” 303-3 Water withdrawal P49-54 Data table 303-4 Water discharge P49-54 Data table 303-5 Water consumption P49-54 Data table GRI 304: Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent Biodiversity 304-1 to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value Not applicable outside protected areas Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on 304-2 Information unavailable biodiversity 304-3 Habitats protected or restored Not applicable IUCN Red List species and national conservation list 304-4 Information unavailable species with habitats in areas affected by operations GRI 305: 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions P49-54 Data table Emissions 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions P49-54 Data table 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions P49-54 Data table 305-4 GHG emissions intensity P49-54 Data table 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions P49-54 Data table 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Not applicable Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other 305-7 Not applicable significant air emissions 59 Data Table GRI General Disclosures Standard Disclosure Page Number / URL No. GRI 306: 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination P49-54 Data table Effluents and Waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method P49-54 Data table 306-3 Significant spills Not applicable 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste Not applicable 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff Information unavailable GRI 307: Environmental 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Not applicable Compliance GRI 308: New suppliers that were screened using environmental 308-1 P49-54 Data table Supplier Environmental criteria Assessment Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and 308-2 Information unavailable actions taken GRI General Disclosures Standard Disclosure Page Number / URL No. GRI 401: 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover P49-54 Data table Management approach Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not disclosures 401-2 P49-54 Data table provided to temporary or part-time employees 401-3 Parental leave P49-54 Data table GRI 402: The minimum notices are given Labor/Management 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes according to the law of the Relations countries / regions. GRI 403: 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system P24-25 “Health and Safety” Occupational Health and Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident Safety 403-2 P24-25 “Health and Safety” investigation 403-3 Occupational health services P24-25 “Health and Safety” Worker participation, consultation, and communication on 403-4 P24-25 “Health and Safety” occupational health and safety 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety P24-25 “Health and Safety” 403-6 Promotion of worker health P24-25 “Health and Safety” Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety 403-7 P24-25 “Health and Safety” impacts directly linked by business relationships Workers covered by an occupational health and safety 403-8 P24-25 “Health and Safety” management system P24-25 “Health and Safety” 403-9 Work-related injuries P49-54 Data table P24-25 “Health and Safety” 403-10 Work-related ill health P49-54 Data table GRI 404: 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee P49-54 Data table Training and Education Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition P23 “Human Resource 404-2 assistance programs Development” Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and 404-3 P49-54 Data table career development reviews GRI 405: 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees P49-54 Data table Diversity and Equal Opportunity 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men P49-54 Data table GRI 406: 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Not applicable Non-discrimination Data Table 60 GRI General Disclosures Standard Disclosure Page Number / URL No. GRI 407: Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of Freedom of Association 407-1 Information unavailable association and collective bargaining may be at risk and Collective Bargaining GRI 408: Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of 408-1 Information unavailable Child Labor child labor GRI 409: Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of Forced or Compulsory 409-1 Information unavailable forced or compulsory labor Labor GRI 410: Security personnel trained in human rights policies or 410-1 P49-54 Data table Security Practices procedures GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples Not applicable Peoples GRI 412: Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews 412-1 Information unavailable Human Rights or impact assessments Assessment 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures P49-54 Data table Significant investment agreements and contracts that 412-3 include human rights clauses or that underwent human Confidentiality constraints rights screening GRI 413: “Social Contribution”, Operations with local community engagement, impact Local Communities 413-1 P29-32 “Community Contribution assessments, and development programs Activities at Overseas Sites” Operations with significant actual and potential negative 413-2 Not applicable impacts on local communities GRI 414: 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria P49-54 Data table Supplier Social Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions Assessment 414-2 Information unavailable taken GRI 415: 415-1 Political contributions Not applicable Public Policy GRI 416: Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product 416-1 Information unavailable Customer Health and and service categories Safety Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and 416-2 Information unavailable safety impacts of products and services GRI 417: Requirements for product and service information and 417-1 Information unavailable Marketing and Labeling labeling Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and 417-2 Information unavailable service information and labeling Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing 417-3 Not applicable communications GRI 418: Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer 418-1 P49-54 Data table Customer Privacy privacy and losses of customer data GRI 419: Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and Socioeconomic 419-1 Not applicable economic area Compliance 61 Provision of Information Regarding Sustainability Our View on Disclosure Information on the Foster Group’s sustainability is provided with a view to increasing the transparency of the Foster Group and conveying the activities for Foster Group’s sustainability and their results to our stakeholders. This information is provided in accordance with the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) and other international reporting standards and guidelines. We disclose the information on the Foster Group’s activities and achievements that meet the needs of society such as the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact and RBA (Responsible Business Alliance), together with the system for appropriate disclosure of the decision-making processes and the soundness of PDCA and its operation. The information is disclosed via our sustainability report and corporate website for communications. Contents Reported in Sustainability Report 2019 • About this report The “Sustainability Report 2019” (the Report 2019) was prepared to comprehensively report the Foster Group’s corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities throughout the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 (fiscal 2018), for our stakeholders. With regard to our CSR activities, your valued opinion would be greatly appreciated to help us fulfill our corporate social responsibilities in the years to come. We hope this report will help you better understand the CSR activities of the Foster Group. • Reporting scope Unless specifically indicated, the reporting scope includes the CSR activities of the Foster Group, which consists of Foster Electric Company, Limited, and its consolidated subsidiaries in Japan and overseas. • The reporting period The reporting period of the Report 2019 is from April 1, 2018, to March 31, 2019 (fiscal 2018). The Report also includes statements concerning activities outside the reporting period, including those in fiscal 2019. • Referenced standards and guidelines This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Comprehensive option. The Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2012 by the Ministry of the Environment were also referred to when preparing the Report 2019. • Month of issue June 2019 • Next issue of the Sustainability Report (planned): June 2020 • Reporting to the United Nations Global Compact As a company that has signed the United Nations Global Compact, we have announced this report as the “Communication on Progress (COP)” for the four fields and ten principles to our stakeholders. • Provision of the sustainability information on our corporate website https://www.foster-electric.com/csr/index.html • Contact: Foster Electric Company, Limited Phone: +81-(0)42-546-2311 Fax: +81-(0)42-546-2317 MEMO # Foster Electric Company, Limited The illustration on the cover of this report 1-1-109 Tsutsujigaoka, Akishima City, represents our automotive business. Our Tokyo, 196-8550, Japan FOSTEX speakers, headsets and vibration actuators, as well as the letters that spell Phone: +81-(0)42-546-2311 Foster are scattered around the car. Fax: +81-(0)42-546-2317 URL https://www.foster-electric.com/ June 2019 Edited in Japan
