MERCON COFFEE GROUP BUILDING A BETTER COFFEE WORLD CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018/2019 BUILDING A BETTER COFFEE WORLD DOING WELL BY DOING GOOD: LETTER FROM OUR CHAIRMAN It is a privilege, as Chairman of the Mercon Coffee Group, to introduce you to our 2018/2019 corporate responsibility and sustainability report. Over the past years, Mercon Coffee has had an incredible journey of growth and development with passion for the coffee business and full dedication to our clients, roasters and producers. Our dedication has also gone to our beloved coffee communities and particularly to the children in these communities; they are the future of our World. Our Foundation Seeds for Progress is doing an amazing work in these communities supporting education from nursery up to secondary school, preparing better adults of tomorrow. The same passion and dedication have been the drivers to defining our purpose as a business: building a better coffee world. I am very proud of our achievement and the fabric of our people. Our Mercon family shares the same values of integrity, excellence, entrepreneurship and teamwork that are my family values. My grandfather entered in the coffee business in Nicaragua to earn a living and sustain his family because he did not want to charge his friends and all the poor people for his services as a doctor in the town of Diriamba. I learnt from the family values that it is possible and imperative to do well by doing good. Nowadays, we continue to be focused on the material issues that our stakeholders have identified, and we are working hard to add value to them. We all thank you for a wonderful year and wish you all a good reading. José Antonio Baltodano A YEAR OF TRANSFORMATION: LETTER FROM OUR CEO This year we have achieved record sales performance as a Group with excellence in our customer experience indicators. We are structurally growing our sustainable supply chains with our strategic clients that particularly support smallholder famers in the 18/19 coffee crises for washed arabica producing countries. Our sustainable supply chain LIFT program continues to show higher scores in the productivity, environmental and social performance indicators which are measured by the LIFT index. We are providing farmers with access to micro-credit, technical assistance, coffee plants, farm business management and risk management for a more robust and resilient coffee supply chains. Our team is engaged and proactively innovating building on our strategic purpose of building a better coffee world. This year we continued to grow our Robusta project in Nueva Guinea which is transforming an entire Province of Nicaragua. We have created an extraordinary new team in Seattle to 2 lead our new Specialty Coffee Division, Novus Coffee Imports. We have been able to secure, for the first time in the coffee sector, a credit facility which is entirely connected to sustainability indicators. We have made important progress in improving efficiency in our operations, which are leading to reducing our energy consumption and the production of waste. We have established important sector collaborations such as the ICO London Declaration on price levels, price volatility and the long-term sustainability of the coffee sector. We have a bright future ahead of us and that makes me feel good because it is not only for Mercon Group, it is for all the thousands of farmers and their families. I wish you a good reading and thank you for another great year. Oscar Sevilla 3 TABLE OF CONTENTS Mercon Coffee Group Our History Group Companies Purpose and values into our business strategy Stakeholders and material issues mapping Financial results Governance Laws and regulations Ethics and Transparency Respect for human rights in our supply chains Sustainability risk management Privacy protection Sustainable Growth Customer satisfaction Programs and services with coffee suppliers Support for the entrepreneurial fabric of coffee farmers Integrated supply chain Sustainable financing Supply chain management Talent Talents recruitment, development and retention Company culture Occupational health and safety of workers Stakeholders Relations Stakeholders communication Partnerships and programs with strategic stakeholders in the value chain Education for sustainability Efficiency 4 Water consumption Energy consumption Materials and waste management Fight against climate change GRI content Index Contacts Disclaimer 5 MERCON COFFEE GROUP OUR HISTORY Mercon Coffee Group is a global, green coffee supplier with the purpose of building a better coffee world. Our history began 150 years ago, when Enrique Baltodano became one of the most prominent coffee growers in Nicaragua’s Pacific region. In 1952, continuing with the family tradition, Duilio Baltodano Pallais, Enrique’s grandson, founded CISA Exportadora, a coffee export company, which eventually became the first company of the Mercon Group. In 1982, Jose Antonio Baltodano, our executive chairman, launched the Mercon brand when he founded Mercon Coffee Corporation. The name “Mercon” is a combination of the two words merchant and consultant. Today, we are proud to be vertically integrated in the coffee industry with businesses all over the world which allows us to service and provide the best client experience. Our group has a presence throughout the coffee supply chain—from sourcing and sales and exporting to farming and nursery businesses. At Mercon, we aim to develop strong relationships with our partners and generate long-term value for everyone in the supply chain—which means that sustainability is at the core of our business. As a group, we are committed to understand our impacts to consequently define our actions. GROUP COMPANIES As one of the leading coffee companies in the world, we have broad experience from farming and production to trading, logistics, and risk management. Over the years, we’ve created solutions from the producer to the roaster that rely on the innovation and technology of our entire organization. With global access to the coffee supply chain, we strive for continuous improvement to deliver the best customer experience. This means sourcing coffee (Arabica and Robusta) from farmers, cooperatives, local exporters and international traders, to milling and selling green coffee to roasters, brokers and importers. We also provide a vast range of services such as financing, market information, and sustainability to generate value for the upstream and downstream actors of our supply chain. GROUP HOLDING Company Mercon B.V. is our Group Holding Company headquartered in The Netherlands. Mercon B.V. hosts different corporate functions with Global responsibility such as Treasury, Financial Risk & Credit, and, Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability. Export Companies We are committed to finding the most passionate, committed, and outstanding producers in regions that are known for exceptional coffee. Our export operations are in Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, Brazil, and Vietnam. 6 Export companies are dedicated to source coffee from local farmers, process and export green coffee to clients abroad, Mercon’s import companies or to clients in local markets. We are devoted to continuously reducing the environmental impact of our operations—which is why we’ve worked hand in hand with our producers for over sixty-five years to guarantee that we consistently source the right quality coffee that generates long-term value and benefits for everyone in the supply chain. That means that from the planting stage to the final delivery, our product is not only the right quality—but also considers the best social, environmental and agricultural impacts. We truly believe in developing lasting, mutually-beneficial relationships with our producers—which is why we offer the tools they need to grow hand in hand with us. These include: 1. Long and short-term financing 2. Sustainable plantation solutions through the LIFT program 3. Value-fixed transactions 4. Market information 5. Dry and wet milling services Sales and Import Companies Along with coffee from all over the world, we provide a customer service experience that goes beyond the bean. Sales and sourcing companies are dedicated to import green coffee into the final destinations required by the final buyers. Our customers are our highest priority, and building strong, long-term relationships with them is what our company was built on from the beginning. Through proactiveness, tailored solutions, timeliness, consistency, and strong relationships, we’re committed to providing the best client experience possible. We have sourcing and sales offices in Spain (Mercon Europe) and the United States of America (Mercon Coffee Corporation and Novus Coffee imports) as well as a traffic hub in Panama. Our Specialty Business Novus is a specialty green coffee supplier dedicated to source the finest quality coffee through sustainable practices across the entire supply chain—from growing to roasting. Novus specializes in sourcing micro-lot, estate-grown, and premium coffees from thousands of small producers. Being well connected allows us to directly impact the livelihood of coffee producers and their communities alike—which means we’re able to offer more innovative solutions and better service to our partners and our customers. Agro-services Companies Farming We are pioneers in the production of Robusta coffee in Nicaragua—creating a whole new industry in the country. It was over a decade ago that we started the journey of developing our own Robusta coffee plantations and introducing this new product to farmers. By expanding our plantations and providing technical assistance and financing to other producers, we’ve created thousands of jobs in Nicaragua. This alone has boosted the local economy as a whole and 7 allowed us to focus on improving education and the environmental care of the industry, generating long term value for all while leaving a positive impact for generations to come. Nursery From cloning and grafting to biodegradable packaging, Transplanta nursery specializes in the production of high-quality coffee and forestry nurseries through the use of sustainable and innovative techniques. Our office and nurseries are in Nicaragua. Farmers financing Mercapital specializes in providing financial solutions that contribute to the growth of the coffee industry in Nicaragua. With a trajectory of over twenty years, Mercapital offers the best conditions to our producers possible. Services include coffee and consumer loans, mortgages, commercial and microcredits. Mercapital continuously work to develop long lasting relationships with our producers and provide them with the necessary tools and services to grow hand in hand with us. It also has a currency exchange service that allows our producers to access a competitive rate in the exchange market of Nicaragua. Mercon Group at a glance: Permanent employees 670 Direct coffee farmers More than 10,000 Number of Countries with presence 10 Wet and dry mills 12 (4 owned & 8 rented) Warehouses used globally 110 Cupping laboratories 10 Countries of sales More than 40 Clients More than 200 around the world PURPOSE AND VALUES into our BUSINESS STRATEGY We believe in working every day to build a better coffee world. For us this means growing a profitable and sustainable coffee supply chain, while honoring our commitment to transform lives in coffee growing communities and create a circle of prosperity for generations to come. We thrive on a diverse and collaborative company culture that fosters growth in all aspects. We’re a values-based team spread across ten countries and are proud to offer equal opportunity to all. 1. In line with our purpose and values, we have integrated sustainability in our global business strategy. The two strategic areas in which we focus to achieve our goal of becoming our clients’ preferred coffee supplier are: Growth of the sustainable supply chains 2. Growth of sustainable business with strategic clients 8 In this strategy, we have also incorporated our belief of “doing good business by doing good”. Therefore, our corporate responsibility takes into account what matters the most to our stakeholders and their communities through an open and direct communication. STAKEHOLDERS AND MATERIAL ISSUES MAPPING In adherence to the Global Compact, since 2017 we have been working on identifying our stakeholders and assessing our materiality issues. Through different methods we have established our top ten stakeholders’ groups: • CLIENTS • COFFEE SUPPLIERS • EMPLOYEES • SHAREHOLDERS • FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS • CRITICAL SUPPLIERS OF GOODS AND SERVICES • COMMUNITY • GOVERNMENT • INDUSTRY ASSOCIATIONS • MEDIA In order to select our key materiality issues for our Group, we have conducted a deep sector benchmark analysis with our stakeholders, both internal and external. This has allowed us to determine Mercon’s material issues clustered into 5 categories: 1. Governance 2. Stakeholders relations 3. Talent 4. Efficiency 5. Sustainable growth This is a global report which includes our operations. Through the document, we will also highlight certain materiality issues in our Origins operations based on their impacts. This Report is structured following Global Reporting Initiative (GRI guideline) for the period 1st October 2018 to 30th September 2019. FINANCIAL RESULTS The year 2018/2019 has been a challenging one for the entire coffee industry due to the low prices coffee prices. In this context, we have continued working hand in hand with coffee farmers and strategic clients all over the world to generate value for all the supply chain. This has allowed us to be a profitable business while making long-term investments to grow our infrastructural assets. We concluded the crop year 2018/2019 with historical sales record, consolidating a marked growth trend. We also invested in strategic initiatives to boost our long-term growth such as establishing a new US coffee specialty division and expanding the Robusta industry in Nicaragua. 9 Total Sales Volume (60kg bags) 5,000,000 4,500,000 4,000,000 3,500,000 3,000,000 2,500,000 2,000,000 1,500,000 1,000,000 500,000 1617 1718 1819 Fiscal year (1st October to 30th September) 16/17 17/18 18/19 Revenues (MM USD) 731.21 668.96 637.06 GOVERNANCE We use a governance model that determines a prudent approach to risk management. We have governance systems, including committees, policies and procedures in place to manage both traditional and non-traditional risks. We define traditional risks as the financial risks, while non-traditional risks as the social and environmental risks. Traditional risks We have a deep experience in effectively identifying, monitoring and managing the traditional market and financial risks. Thanks to modern systems and technologies, a wide global network and an active presence in the New York and London stock exchanges, we can access and use the most reliable market information. At the same time our Risk management Policy defines the processes to manage our traditional corporate financial risks, such as market, liquidity and credit. These traditional risks are managed by a Standing and Risk Committee. Non-traditional risks The non-traditional risks are managed by a Board of Directors sub-Committee on Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability. This Committee steers the execution of the Group strategy including defining action plans and resources necessary for its execution. Our Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Policy as well as the set of its underlying policies define the framework for managing nontraditional risks. 10 We have also established several working groups supporting the execution of the Group strategy on Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability. In 2019 we have adopted a new Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Policy which sets the framework for our group strategic direction. Under this Policy we have also developed complementary Group Policies covering specific areas of the business: • Occupational Health and Safety Policy • Environmental Policy • Stakeholders Engagement Policy The Policies are available for all employees on the Intranet and will also be communicated to suppliers and employees through specific training sessions. We have also established for all our Central American operations a manual for managing risks and crisis. The purpose is to safeguard the integrity of our employees and contractors in case of natural disasters (such as hurricanes, flooding and earthquakes), severe breaks of resources (water, electricity, communication), political emergencies (war, terrorism, military takeover, invasion, civil riots) and criminal acts (kidnapping, killing, assaults, bombing, attacks to the property and our employees). We have also established a risks pyramid to determine the risk levels for each operation. Laws and regulations The Mercon Coffee Group operates worldwide respecting all local legislations. We guarantee that each operation complies with social, labor, environmental and fiscal regulations. Our financial status is transparently audited every year by Grant Thornton. Ethics and Transparency 11 Operating with the highest levels of ethics and transparency is at the core of our business. Our Human Resources Department shares and trains all our employees on our Code of Ethics guiding our behaviors to the highest levels of honesty and integrity according to the following principles: Relationships with suppliers and contractors Use of company goods Conflict of interest and business integrity Confidential information Ethical behavior Ethical personnel recruitment Human rights Report of any breach of the Code of Ethics All employees undergo an onboarding period which includes reading, understanding and acknowledging the Code of Ethics. Respect for human rights in our supply chains We work constantly with coffee producers to promote the respect of human rights in their farms. Coffee producers participating in LIFT by Mercon, our Sustainable production program commit to zero tolerance to child labor, no discrimination and respect of the minimum wage. These three conditions are mandatory to continue to benefit from the services offered by LIFT. In addition, our technical assistance team also provides our coffee producers with the proper guidance to meet the criteria of voluntary sustainability standards, which includes human rights. We are currently supporting around 7,000 farmers from our Origins and other supply chains through exporting partners to achieve certifications compliance. Furthermore, we recognize that some of the systemic issues that affect the respect of human rights cannot be tackled in isolation. Through our support to Seeds for Progress Foundation we contribute to the integral education development of the coffee communities in Nicaragua and Guatemala to provide them with better alternatives, more dignity and a better future for generations to come. Sustainability risk management As part of our responsible procurement strategy, at Mercon we strive to increase sourcing from local suppliers whenever and as much as possible. We have increased the percentage of spending on suppliers located in the same Country of each owned operation from 53% to 64% in the last three years. 12 Proportion of spending on local suppliers (%) 70% 65% 60% 55% 50% 1617 1718 1819 Coffee is the most important product we source. Hence, we have defined four tiers coffee suppliers: • Tier LIFT: the highest level. These are coffee suppliers who are fully part of LIFT by Mercon, our Sustainability Production Program. We constantly monitor, evaluate sustainability performances and support with direct improvement plans. • Tier Pre-financed: these are coffee suppliers who benefit from our financing services and are not part of the LIFT program. We provide them with assistance, financial training and assess their performances with an annual monitoring. In addition to that, we are in the process of developing a Suppliers Code of Conduct to frame our commitment towards the shared respect of sustainability principles. • Tier Certified: these are coffee suppliers who are third party audited for compliance with sustainability criteria. These farmers are already adhering with sustainability criteria defined by the market. • Tier Conventional: these are coffee suppliers who are engaged in a commercial relationship with our group but are not audited nor monitored. We are currently in the process to design and implement a global sustainability risk mapping that includes an action plan to cover the risks associated with these farmers. Our target is to continue increasing the number of farmers involved in our LIFT program and to partner with our stakeholders to achieve this goal. The number of coffee producers globally in LIFT has been 2,349 in 2018/19. This has represented about 25% of our entire direct from farmers sourcing. 13 Total number of LIFT farmers 2,500 2,000 1,500 1,000 500 0 1617 1718 1819 In addition to the LIFT program, we also guarantee sustainable production in our supply chains through the adoption of most of the major Voluntary Sustainability Standards (VSS), such as Rainforest Alliance, UTZ, 4C, Nespresso AAA and CAFE Practices. We have steadily maintained the volume of certified coffees sales into our supply chains. Percentage of certified coffees sales 45 40 35 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 1617 1718 1819 Privacy protection We deeply care about the privacy and safety of our own business data as well as of our business partners. Our Information and Technology department is constantly working to prevent and block malicious breaches into our systems. During the crop year 2018/2019, the IT department has conducted several campaigns to raise awareness about safety in our network and infrastructure among all Mercon’s employees and has conducted specific training sessions with systems users on how to protect our business data. Backups systems have also been developed to prevent losses and to recover business data to guarantee business continuity and prevent cyber-attacks. 14 SUSTAINABLE GROWTH Our purpose of building a better coffee world is deeply linked to this material issues dimension. We want to grow an admirable, profitable and sustainable coffee supply chains by adding and sharing value to all. We strive to engage in long-term win-win partnerships by taking care of the most important issues for our stakeholders. As a responsible group we have the obligation to directly support many vulnerable coffee communities in Central America, Brazil and Vietnam and connect them to the international market while helping our strategic clients to generate value to final consumers. Customer satisfaction Clients are among the most important stakeholders of our group and we work hard to deliver the best customer experience during the entire process. Understanding how the qualify us is essential. Since 2016 we have been able to improve customer experience performance measured by the NPS (Net Performance Score). NPS (%) 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 1617 1718 1819 Programs and services with coffee suppliers To deliver critical services to coffee producers, primarily smallholder farmers, in 2015 we have created a set of interlinked services under LIFT. We have developed a 3-year program, with a specific methodology which includes the following services: 1) Technical assistance and training on good agricultural practices to increase efficiency, quality and productivity, and to improve social and environmental performance. 2) Attainment of voluntary sustainability standards. 3) Access to credit. 4) Farm business and price risk management such as forward pricing and price fixation. 5) Access to better planting material. 15 The LIFT program was first launched in Nicaragua in 2016 and then extended to all our Origins. The most important components of the LIFT program are the training and technical assistance provided to the producers. The training program is based on a curriculum and covers productivity, quality, environmental and social practices. To facilitate the training each cluster of farmers is also split in small groups to guarantee the most adequate learning environment. On the technical assistance side, each producer also receives on site visits to perform farm assessment, develop and follow up a farm management plan (FMP), estimate the production and finally provide ad hoc support to meet the requirements of sustainability standards. The progress of the LIFT farmers is monitored with several KPIs, one of the most important is the LIFT Index, which measures the producers progress in adopting best practices. The LIFT Index combines 3 sub-indexes: productivity, environment and social. Support for the entrepreneurial fabric of coffee farmers Another key element of the LIFT program is the access to capital for producers at very competitive rates. Our interest rates range between 9% and 12%, below the average interest rate provided by local lenders 16 which is above 12-15% .The loans provided are both short-term to help them to harvest the coffee and long-term to invest in infrastructure such as wastewater treatments, wet mills, and new varieties. In 2018/2019 crop we have provided financing in the amount of 20 million USD to more than 3,000 smallholder farmers in Nicaragua. Despite a difficult social and political situation in Nicaragua, we remain strongly committed to farmers and will continue to support them while mitigating our credit risk exposure with best lending practices. Credit to coffee farmers 20.00 18.00 16.00 14.00 12.00 10.00 8.00 6.00 4.00 2.00 1617 1718 1819 Short term credit to farmers (M USD) Long term credit to farmers (M USD) The production of Robusta coffee in Nicaragua is transforming the region of Nueva Guinuea. This region is one of the poorest areas of Central America with a rural economy mainly based on cattle, basic grains and pineapple for the internal market. It was over a decade ago that we started the journey of developing our own Robusta coffee plantations and introducing this new product to farmers creating a new industry in the country. In 2018-2019 we worked with 365 producers to produce Robusta coffee. Our target is to double the number of farmers in the next three years. With the support of our partners FMO (Dutch Development Bank) and the Wageningen University we will conduct a very comprehensive study to assess the social, economic and environmental impacts of the Robusta Project. 17 Note: Data based on November 2018 prices Integrated supply chain In order to integrate our LIFT farmers with our partners roasters, we have developed several IT tools to provide visibility of the LIFT clusters. Through our LIFT app, we can report insights on data collected online and offline on tablets by our agronomists. This also allows us to monitor and evaluate the performance of each coffee producer, understand their progress and guide them on their farm management plans. The LIFT app provides the farms geo-localization and the client can access all the farm’s information, including the LIFT Index. 18 Sustainable financing We are the first in commodity supplier in the U.S. and the first coffee-only company that has been able to close a US$ 450 million Sustainability Linked Senior Secured Revolving Credit Facility. The pricing on this facility is linked to key sustainability initiatives measured by performance indicators. Based on the progress on the sustainability performance indicators, a discount or premium may apply to the pricing on the facility. Any discount will be disbursed to a sustainability initiative or program selected by Mercon including the LIFT program or Seeds for Progress Foundation. Also, any premium will be disbursed to similar programs sponsored by Rabobank as the Sustainability Structuring Agent, ING Capital LLC and BNP Paribas as Sustainability Coordinators. We believe that education is the key to success—which is why we support the Seeds for Progress Foundation through annual investments that guarantee the continuity of their mission in coffee growing communities. The Foundation works to improve quality of education in rural coffee communities in Nicaragua and Guatemala. Seeds for Progress is supporting 28 schools, nearly 6,000 children and 350 teachers. Seeds for Progress Foundation has 3 main programs from preschool to high school: 1) Montessori program for the preschool years, 2) Digital Seeds program for the primary school years and 3) School and Coffee program for the high school years. This last program is being developed with the Federacion Nacional de Cafeteros de Colombia (FNC) based on the experience in the Department of Cauca. The Seeds for Progress’ School and Coffee program recently received grants of USD 350,000 from the FMO (Entrepreneurial Development Bank) and other organizations to support the design and pilot phase of the program in 5 schools in Nicaragua. 19 Mercon investment into Seeds for Progress (USD) 340,000 320,000 300,000 280,000 260,000 240,000 220,000 200,000 1617 1718 1819 Supply chain management We have two main systems to manage sustainability risks connected to our coffee supply chains: LIFT Program and Voluntary Sustainability Standards: UTZ, Rainforest Alliance, 4C, CAFE Practices, Nespresso AAA. Additionally, we are in the process of reviewing and approving a Suppliers Code of Conduct based on our material issues and developing a global coffee supply chain management system to map and address the sustainability risks connected to all our coffee supply chains, including the conventional ones. LIFT supply chains growth 450,000 35,000 400,000 30,000 350,000 25,000 300,000 250,000 20,000 200,000 15,000 150,000 10,000 100,000 50,000 5,000 0 0 1617 1718 1819 LIFT TOTAL volume produced by farmers (60kg bags) Total area covered by LIFT (in hectares) 20 TALENT Our Group Human Resources set of policies are based on the respect of all individuals, encouraging diversity, gender equality and foremost compliance with all local labor legislations of each country where we operate. Our philosophy is simple: we work as One Group, One Team. We thrive on a diverse and collaborative company culture that fosters growth in all aspects—which means that our team is made up of some of the most experienced, multicultural, and unique people there are. We’re a values-based team spread across nine countries and are proud to offer equal opportunity to all. We are a global business with employees of more than 21 different nationalities from 4 continents sharing and living the same culture and values We have consistently grown the workforce to support our growth and in 2018/2019 crop year, we have had 670 permanent employees, of which 353 (52.7%) men and 212 women (47.3%). Mercon Coffee Group employees 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 1617 1718 1819 Total Men Women At Mercon we also strive to have a fair gender balance, particularly with respect to senior management and director positions. We have constantly maintained above 24% of our female workforce in senior positions globally. We are a young a dynamic group with nearly 60% of our team aged 18-35 years old. Talents recruitment, development and retention Recruitment and retention are key to our long business success. We have developed through the years a robust recruitment framework which includes clear and transparent policies and procedures to guarantee that we hire the correct person with the right set of experience, knowledge and competencies, ensuring as well along the process a cultural fit with our organization. We are competitive to attract the best talents. We have structured a benefit package to employees such as health insurance and life insurances. 21 Also, we have established important working tools to guarantee that our employees can perform his/her tasks with no business disruption such as, car allowance, fuel, uniforms, mobile among others. We hire employees mostly from communities local to our operations and offices. In 2018/2019, out of 670 employees, only 8.7% were recruited abroad. As we welcome newcomers into the organization, we provide to each one of them a tailored plan according to each position. We have developed onboarding webinars to cover the corporate onboarding. Moreover, we emphasized the right time and resources for the general and specific plans, all of this with one main objective, which is to provide to the newcomers the right knowledge and information to be able to adapt easily. In order to determine strengths and opportunities in our employees, we have established an evaluation process that is aligned with the business strategy of our organization. The assessment is separated into two big areas: 1. Goal settings phase and 2. Competency assessment One of our HR key pillar is training. Every year we determined a Training Assessment Needs (TAN) in order to identify, the necessities of our employees. This process is conducted involving all the managers across the whole group. In the last three year, one of the group’s priorities has been the LIFT program. Being LIFT a strategic project, resources have been allocated to increase the knowledge of our agronomist by reinforcing among other topics, best agricultural practices. However, the plan includes other types of trainings such as: Health and Safety, languages, computer literacy, marketing among others. During the crop 2016/17 we began with the LIFT training program. Our agronomists were intensively trained to be able to deliver the best training possible to our LIFT producers. Therefore, the allocation of budget was higher than the following years as you may see in the following chart. Total Hours of training 80000 70000 60000 50000 40000 30000 20000 10000 0 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 22 During the crop 18/19 we have provided an average of 14.67 hours of training per employee, on average 16.28 hours for male employees and 11.61 hours for female employees. We are committed to continue investing in training, in fact in the last three years the investment amount has been around 500,000 USD. Company culture At Mercon we aspire for all of our employees to be engaged. Our HR department works on several initiatives to maintain the company culture, including the “Because you matter” to share what we can offer in terms of relations, culture, development and health. We have a monthly Mercon TV, which presents to every office the top events and achievements of the month. We also have every month a Recognition program to allow all our members to recognize one or more colleagues for its support. In 2019, we have also announced the launch of a new campaign, called “Made in Mercon”, which will support us in strengthening our company culture. Finally, among the many social events, including volunteering days, we have an annual event called “End of Harvest” to celebrate altogether the achievements of the year and to get to know members of the Group located in other Countries, therefore strengthening the relationships and consequently working better together in multinationals teams. Occupational health and safety of workers All our operations in Nicaragua, Honduras and Vietnam have developed a Health & Safety risk assessment with a set of norms, technical recommendations and procedures to maximize the safety of our employees. Our largest operation is in Nicaragua, where our export company has framed a policy based on 3 main pillars: 1) prevention, 2) commitment and 3) zero tolerance. To continue reinforcing these three pillars, we have established three Health & Safety committees to monitor and guide our programs. We also have developed a matrix to guarantee personal protective equipment (PPE) per each position. 23 All our operations have appointed a Health & Safety manager. One of our main goals is to foster a health and safety culture. In Nicaragua we have promoted different campaigns and programs to create awareness. In 2017/2018, since the adoption of a more systematic approach to H&S, we have been able to dramatically reduce the work-related accident rate, which is below 1.8. STAKEHOLDERS RELATIONS We believe in maintaining an open and direct communication with all our stakeholders to develop winwin relationships. In order to understand the needs of our partners, our organization is committed to maintaining a continuous dialogue in each of the communities where we operate. Through the years, we have developed different internal and external communication channels to connect directly with our employees, producers, roasters, suppliers, and the members of our communities. This communication responds to Mercon’s strategy defined and approved by our r Human Resources Committee and the Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Committee. Stakeholders communication Sharing our impact with our stakeholders is one of the top priorities of our communication strategy. Through our annual Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Report we make available to our stakeholders’ information about our performance, targets and progress made on each of Mercon’s material issues. Working hand in hand with all members of our supply change has allowed us to consistently source the right quality coffee and generate long-term value for all. Some of our efforts to guarantee a fluid communication with them include: • 230 events with coffee producers (some in partnership with roaster) with a focus on sustainable supply chains including topics such as living income, sustainable farming and price risk management. • 95 events with clients on responsible sourcing and production. • 80 events for employees ranging from strategic meetings to volunteering brigades, sports activities, culture initiatives and celebrations such as International Coffee Day, Women’s Day, and Birthdays, among others. • 4 major events for the financial institutions to present our progress. • In addition, our Origin operations maintain a constant dialogue and engagement with the local communities including support to local schools in Nicaragua and Guatemala, orphanages in Vietnam and environmental programs in Brazil and Nicaragua. In addition to these efforts, we are in the process to improve our Grievance mechanism by introducing a new anonymous system that will allow us to keep a better track of the input from all our stakeholders, particularly employees and communities. We will have this ready during the crop 2020/2021. Partnerships and programs with strategic stakeholders in the value chain As a global leader in the coffee value chain we have several partnerships in place: 24 • UN Global Compact. We are member of this initiative and participating in the Dutch network. • London Declaration of the International Coffee Organization. We are among the 10 signatories of this organization and we are committed to a sector dialogue on how to address more equity in the coffee supply chain, particularly to protect the more vulnerable smallholder farmers. • European Coffee Federation. We are members of the European coffee Federation and co-chair with the German roaster Tchibo its Sustainability Committee. • National Coffee Association (NCA). We are also sitting on the Board of the NCA, which represents the American coffee industry. • Specialty Coffee Association. We are members of the SCA. • Sustainable Coffee Challenge. We are partners of this initiative created by Conservation International to channel the industry commitment towards sustainability and we are the only coffee supplier with declared commitments. • World Coffee Research. We are Board members of World Coffee Research, the most important private initiative on research on coffee, and are also partners on field trials to test the performance of different Arabica coffee varieties in Nicaragua and Honduras. • Research. We have a partnership with The Wageningen University and are working together on several areas, including climate smart coffee and socio-environmental impact assessment for our Robusta Project in Nueva Guinea (Nicaragua). • Others. During the 2018/2019 we have also engaged with the Living Income Task Force created and led by IDH – Sustainable Trade Initiative and have shared our knowledge on calculating costs of production, which has resulted in a report on how to improve living income in the coffee sector. We are in partnership with Rainforest Alliance and have conducted a benchmark analysis to improve the effectiveness of our implementing work of their standard among coffee farmers. We are certified according to the UTZ, Rainforest Alliance, 4C, CAFE Practices standards. Education for sustainability We continuously engage and educate our stakeholders on the importance of implementing sustainable business practices across the entire supply chain. We promote best practices thanks to our LIFT Program both with our producers and our clients. We are also in the process of developing a communication plan for employees and to reinforce our work with farmers and roasters. Through our LIFT program we are also supporting the development of the content for the Coffee School Program currently pilot in 5 rural schools in Nicaragua through Seeds for Progress Foundation. EFFICIENCY This is the dimension related to our environmental performance in our operations where the most impacts occur. We have an Environmental matrix for our Nicaraguan operations and have established an Environmental Policy based on the environmental material issues. We continue to be committed to reduce our environmental impacts and in the coming years we are working on strengthening our environmental management by defining clear KPIs and target action plans. Water consumption Most of water consumption happens in our operations in Nicaragua. Indeed, in our dry mills we make use of groundwater for cleaning the sacks and in our wet mill we make use of water for pulping and 25 washing. In our nursery we make use of ground water for plantlets growth and in our Robusta farms in Nicaragua we make use of surface water (rainfalls) for plant growth. We do not make any use of seawater in any of our operations. In our dry mills in Nicaragua water consumption in liters per kg of parchment coffee has decreased over the past 3 years because of several process improvements. Some of these improvements have been the reuse of water for cleaning the second-hand sacks containing the wet parchment and the installation of hose nozzles in all our operations. In our wet mill in Nicaragua the main impact is quality of wastewater. In 2017, we have conducted a project in partnership with the NGO UTZ to install biodigester to improve the quality of the wastewater before the treatment as well as to produce biogas. Our wastewater meets all standards required by sustainability standards beyond the legal compliance. In our nursery company in Nicaragua, Transplanta, we have installed a system to recover fertigation water therefore reducing ground and surface water consumption as well as fertilizers use. In 2018/2019 we have used 32,760 m³ of ground water. Water consumption in Mercon Nicaragua (liters per kg of parchment coffee) 0.27000 0.25000 0.23000 0.21000 0.19000 0.17000 0.15000 1617 1718 1819 In 2018/2019 we have used 10,051 m³ of groundwater in our mills in Nicaragua. Our mill in Vietnam has used 150 m³ of groundwater. Energy consumption Our largest energy consumption happens in our Nicaraguan operations. During the crop 2018/2019 we have used a total of 4.48 million Kw/h, up 10% from the previous year. Most of energy consumption is connected to use of petrol and diesel. We have had a slight decrease in efficiency, compared with the previous years, primarily due to problems with some coffee re-processing, therefore increasing the amount of energy per kg of wet parchment. In our operations in Vietnam, which is the second largest operation in the Group we consume about 33 Kw/h per MT, which is a lower energy consumption than in Nicaragua. One of the measures we have in place to increase energy efficiency in our operations in Nicaragua is the installation of solar panels in our largest mill, Beneficio San Carlos. We are in the process of designing the new infrastructure and will report about it in the next Report. 26 Energy consumption in Kw/h per kg of wet parchment in Nicaragua 16.0 15.0 14.0 13.0 12.0 11.0 10.0 9.0 8.0 1617 1718 1819 In our nursery operation our energy consumption is stable around 0.018 Kw/h per coffee plantlet, which is an efficient level for the sector. Materials and waste management Materials management is an important component of our efficiency dimension. In line with the other environmental impacts, our most material use is happening in Nicaragua, because of the size of our operations. Among the renewable materials, our highest consumption is in husk used for running our dryers, while among the non-renewable material the most used are jute, polypropylene and plastic sacks as well polypropylene big bags. Our consumption on renewable materials has increased over the past three years. Renewable materials used (kg) per kg of wet parchment in Nicaragua 0.12000 0.10000 0.08000 0.06000 0.04000 0.02000 0.00000 1617 1718 1819 At the same time, we have been able to reduce the consumption of non-renewable materials, by better managing the availability of plastic sacks and by reusing these in a better way. 27 Renewable and Non-renewable materials used (MT) in the Nicaraguan operations 6,000.00 5,000.00 4,000.00 3,000.00 2,000.00 1,000.00 1617 1718 1819 Renewable Non-renewable In 2018/2019 in our Nicaraguan operations we have used a total of 5,953 MT of renewable materials and 43.13 MT of non-renewable materials, with a 350% reduction from the previous year 2017/2018. Another important component is the waste management, which we conduct following all legislations in the Country we operate. The only recycled material is the coffee pulp. In our wet mill we work hand in hand with our supplying farmers to recycle 100% of the coffee pulp and benefit the organic composition of their lands. Fight against climate change Climate change is a serious concern for the entire global coffee sector. The variability of inter-annual climatic conditions, particularly rains and temperatures, have caused variability of coffee production and consequently have impacted the future price, therefore causing a side impact on profitability. The climatic risks have not been impactful during the 2018/2019, but this material issue is not related to an annual reporting but rather to a long-term commitment to adaptation and mitigation. Climate change is also a very broad issue that requires public and private institutions not only to act individually but to promote a joint and collaborative approach. As Mercon Group, our main activities in 2018/2019 continue to be to support farmers in Nicaragua with early alert systems provided by our meteorological stations in all coffee producing areas. In our LIFT program we continue to include the protection of the water resources and biodiversity as well as the management of agro-forestry systems at farm level. We have also conducted a research, sponsored by the Dutch Government, in partnership with the Wageningen University to identify the climate risks associated with coffee production in Ethiopia. We are identifying the best practices for climate smart coffee farming in Central America and are visiting several projects in Honduras, Nicaragua, Guatemala and Mexico to strengthen the climate curricula of our LIFT Program. 28 On the mitigation side we are engaging on an independent analysis of our scope 1 and scope 2 carbon footprint including recommendations for lowering our footprint and will report about this activity in the next report. We are also planning as a second step to analyze the scope 3 emissions and connect this activity to our supply chain partnerships. 29 GRI Content Index GRI Core standard List Pages 102-1 Name of the organization 6 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 6 102-3 Location of headquarters 7 102-4 Location of operations 6-8 102-5 Ownership and legal form 7 102-6 Market served 8 102-7 Scale of the organization 8 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 8, 21-22 102-9 Supply Chain 7 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 9 102-11 Precautionary principle and approach 10 102-12 External initiatives 24-25 102-13 Membership of associations 25 102-14 Statement for senior decision-maker 2-3 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour 8, 11 102-18 Governance structure 10-11 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 9 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 21 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 9 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 9 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 9 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 9 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 9 102-47 List of material topics 9 102-49 Changes in reporting 9 102-50 Reporting period 9 102-51 Date of most recent report 9 102-52 Reporting cycle 9 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 32 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 32 102-55 GRI content index 30-31 102-56 External assurance 32 103-1 Explanation of the material topics and its boundaries 10-29 103-2 The management approach and its components 10-29 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 10-29 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 10 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change 28-29 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community 22 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 13 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 27-28 30 301-2 Recycled input materials used 28 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 27 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 26 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts 25-26 303-3 Water withdrawal 25-26 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 29 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 29 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 25-26 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 11 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 13 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees 21-22 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 23-24 403-3 Occupational health services 22-23 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on OHS 23 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 22 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 22 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 22 development reviews 412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights 12 clauses or that underwent human rights screening 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and 12 development programs 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 12 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of 14 customer data 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area 11 31 For any query related to the content of this Report, please contact: Giacomo Celi Global Sustainability Director Mercon B.V. gceli@merconcoffee.com DISCLAIMER: this Report is aligned with the Core standard of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and it has not been submitted to assurance process. 32
