2019INTEGRATED REPORT CONTENTS 3 ABOUT THE REPORT 29 ECONOMIC SCENARIO AND SECTOR 58 SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL 59 Clients 7 31 61 Clients FINANCIAL 64 Innovation Community HIGHLIGHTS CAPITAL 65 Suppliers 33 Operating and Financial Government 8 MESSAGE FROM Performance THE BOARD 66 Entities in Technology Sector 36 Strategy and OF DIRECTORS 67 Investors Investments 68 Social Networks 10 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO 40 HUMAN CAPITAL 42 Internal Stakeholders 69 NATURAL CAPITAL 12 54 73 REMISSIVE INDEX MANUFACTURED INTELLECTUAL GRI, SDGs AND CAPITAL CAPITAL GLOBAL COMPACT 13 TOTVS 18 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 20 Governance Structure 23 Risk Management ABOUT THE REPORT TOTVS has been publishing its Integrated Report since The ESG WG had more than 50 representatives from over 35 governments, communities, suppliers and startups. Each of 2016. This edition traces the evolution of the company's areas and different hierarchical levels of the company who, in a these stakeholder groups has dedicated areas and specialized business, commitments and key results between January 1, participatory and collaborative manner, discussed, streamlined teams that manage the relationship and integration with and December 31, 2019, covering all TOTVS operations in and defined the key elements of sustainability for TOTVS in other areas and stakeholders of the company. It is designed to Brazil and abroad (find out in detail the economic group of the the coming years. The group’s membership was defined at communicate in a transparent, concise and integrated manner organization, accessing item 15 of the Reference Form). In its each meeting, with members drawn from diverse disciplines the commitments and results obtained in recent years and fourth edition, the report was prepared voluntarily according according to the meeting agenda to enable productive how the company is structured to sustain its next growth cycle. to the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) discussions and the drafting of action plans. The next page GRI 102-40 and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines in the Core shows the process of defining the Sustainability Agenda and option. TOTVS became a signatory to the UN Global Compact its relation with the contents of this report. GRI 102-40; 102-43, The TOTVS 2019 Integrated Report represents the involvement in 2014 and, as such, also includes in this report its strategy 102-44, 102-46 of numerous professionals who dedicated themselves to and results in line with the 10 Principles of the UN Global obtaining the necessary information and analyzing the Compact and Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). GRI 102-1, In 2019, the company decided against publishing the company in an integrated manner considering its economic, 102-46, 102-50, 102-54 Integrated Report as part of its process of maturation and environmental and social aspects. It also showcases the internal improvements to the materiality and sustainability innovation and technology initiatives aimed at the sustainable This report was prepared based on the priority issued management processes. However, during this period it development of the company and the country. identified in the materiality process conducted in 2017, published its Communication on Progress (COP) to show its which included interviews with the company's leadership and stakeholders the advances made in the Global Compact, which The GRI, Global Compact and SDG indicators are distributed market specialists, as well as online surveys among TOTVERS, is available on its Investor Relations website and on the UN throughout the report, which follows the framework of clients and vendors, and which was complemented by the portal. To enhance its capacity to incorporate the demands the 6 Capitals of the IIRC (Financial, Human, Intellectual, TOTVS Environmental, Social and Governance Working Group of its stakeholders and establish the development journeys, Manufactured, Natural and Social and Relationship) and the (ESG WG) in 2019. During the year, the ESG WG held seven the company understood that it was important to reflect on Remissive Index is available on page 73. meetings in which action plans were established that make up the processes and governance of the issue based on surveys the company’s Sustainability Agenda. To build, prioritize and conducted among its stakeholders in previous cycles, especially For more information or clarifications about the contents of validate the Agenda, TOTVS considered the UN Sustainable its employees, and the perception of representatives from all the report, please send an email to ri@totvs.com.br. GRI 102-46, Development Goals (SDGs) and the results of materiality areas of the company to plan the key sustainability actions for 102-53,102-55 concluded by it in 2018. Based on these benchmarks, priority the coming years. GRI 102-51, 102-48 action plans were defined, which address the challenges, opportunities and feasibility of each action. GRI 102-40; 102-42, As such, this report aims to strengthen TOTVS’ relations with all 102-43,102-44, 102-46 its stakeholders employees, shareholders, clients, franchises, ¹ International Integrated Reporting Council. 2 Global Reporting Initiative. TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 3 ABOUT THE REPORT FIGURE 1: Process of defining priority issues MATERIALITY (2018) AND CORRELATION WITH THE SDGS and the Sustainability Agenda GRI 102-42, 102-44, 102-46 Materiality reflects TOTVS’ alignment with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) within the scope of its operations and their positive impacts on society. As a technology company, TOTVS has prioritized the following SDGs: Previous Materiality Environmental, Documents Process Social and and Process Governance 4 QUALITY EDUCATION Working Group Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all Analysis of Consulting the Creation of WG previous multistakeholders and definition reports in 2018 of the agenda (2015, 2016 and actions 5 GENDER EQUALITY and 2017) priority, in 2019 Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls SUSTAINABILITY AGENDA Prepared in 2019, TOTVS’ Sustainability Agenda reflects the company’s commitments to 8 DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH sustainable development as well as its vision of how its business can positively influence Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all society, both as an employer and as a social agent. The priority themes also reflect how technology can be a key element in widening access to knowledge and innovation. GRI 102-44 9 INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation 12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns 17 PARTNERSHIP FOR THE GOALS Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 4 ABOUT THE REPORT FIGURE 2: Materiality (2018) and relationship with the SDGs GRI 102-43, 102-44, 102-46, 102-47, 103-1 TOPIC IMPORTANCE FOR TOTVS STAKEHOLDERS RELATED RELATIONSHIP IMPACTED ASPECTS AND WITH SDG GRI 103-1 INDICATORS Solutions based on science The market leader in Brazil and one of the three 3 leading players in Latin America, the only Brazilian Clients GRI 102-2, SDG 9. and information technology; company with its own ERP language and the first technology company to be included in the Ibovespa Investors 201-1, 203-1 Industry, creation and development index. Through investments in research and development and new technologies deployed in 12 strategic Startups innovation and of Brazilian technologies segments of the economy, TOTVS generates income and royalties that remain within the country TOTVERS infrastructure and drive the domestic economy. It is also engaged in the development of technologies and solutions Universities related to the most modern trends such as Big Data, Mobile, Social Media, Cloud, Artificial Intelligence, Computer Vision, Virtual Reality and Augmented Reality, among others, and in training highly qualified professionals, thereby contributing to the progress of innovation in the country. Relationship with clients With an installed base of approximately 40,000 clients and presence in more than 40 countries, Clients GRI 102-6, SDG 9. one of the key characteristics of the company is the broad reach of its distribution model, which Franchises 102-43, 418-1 Industry, translates into strong presence, proximity, loyalty and partnership with its clients. The business TOTVERS innovation and model is customer-centric, which understands the unique characteristics and needs of each business infrastructure directly (B2B Business to Business) and also the needs of its end consumers (B2C Business to Consumer), in order to increase the efficiency and profitability of its clients through technology and innovation that generate results and value for their business. Economic performance Brazil’s largest technology company TOTVS’ economic performance is directly linked to the Suppliers GRI 201-1, SDG 8. results and impact of changes in the sector or global economy that are related to the company Franchises 202-1, 203-1, Decent work or its clients, and hence any growth or decline in the operations of the companies and sectors Investors 204-1 and economic served by it directly reflects on its results. Its business is characterized by a highly fragmented TOTVERS growth client base, diversification of business sectors and geographical regions in Brazil, and the diversification of revenue sources. As a publicly-held company with a fragmented capital structure, its results are divided among thousands of investors, stimulating the capital markets and building the savings of Brazilians. Digital transformation The evolution to a new business model was successfully carried out by building the software Suppliers GRI 102-7, SDG 4. and new business subscription model of TOTVS which, combined with its maintenance model, represents a solid base Franchises 102-8, 404-1, Quality education models of recurring revenues and high client renewal rates. New products and services, as well as integrated Investors 404-3,405-1, SDG 5. Gender models (licensing and subscription), contribute to greater predictability, profitability and sustainability TOTVERS 418-1 equality of the business, given the constant changes in the technological, market, legal and behavioral aspects SDG 8. Decent of how software is developed and used, including aspects such as the adoption of an agile development work and model and the strengthening of open innovation in conjunction with the company's ecosystem. economic growth TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 5 ABOUT THE REPORT TOPIC IMPORTANCE FOR TOTVS STAKEHOLDERS RELATED RELATIONSHIP IMPACTED ASPECTS AND WITH SDG GRI 103-1 INDICATORS Quality of Maintaining and improving the quality of services in a growing and highly competitive market. Clients GRI 102-2, 404-1, SDG 4. Quality products Actions, processes and projects related to maintaining and improving the quality of products Franchises 404-3, 405-1, education and services and services developed and offered, and monitoring the perception of clients and the market TOTVERS 418-1 SDG 5. Gender equality on the subject. SDG 12. Responsible consumption and production Security, customer Confidential management of our clients’ information is a matter of constant concern for the Clients GRI 102-9, SDG 12. Responsible privacy and information company. Brazilian and international regulations on this issue have evolved significantly in Community 102-11,102-15, consumption and management recent years, reflecting the need for continuously streamlining processes and formulating Government 102-29,102-30, production policies, control mechanisms and tools for data management and processing in accordance TOTVERS 102-31, with applicable laws. 418-1,419-1 Relations with the Constant communication and engagement with government authorities to improve the development Government GRI 201-1, 201-4, SDG 12. Responsible government environment for the software segment and the country in general, besides monitoring trends and TOTVERS 418-1, 419-1 consumption and risks related to future regulations and the impacts of new technologies. production Business restructuring Cultural change to adapt to the new model of the digital journey, social and cultural trends, and market Clients GRI 102-2,102-10, SDG 8. Decent work demands. It also reflects the impact of processes related to acquisitions and integrations, extraordinary Franchises 404-1, 404-3, and economic growth businesses with review of portfolio and operations, and founder succession. Investors 405-1, 418-1 SDG 12. Responsible TOTVERS consumption and production Transparency, Transparent relations and communication with stakeholders and the value chain of TOTVS, Clients GRI 102-40, SDG 17. Partnerships relationship and especially in the innovation environment and with clients, drive the company's business and Suppliers 102-42,102-43, and means of engagement / loyalty leverage its internal processes. Investors 102-44, 205-1, implementation in the ecosystem Startups 205-2, 205-3, TOTVERS 419-1 Universities TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 6 HIGHLIGHTS 2019 GRI 102-7 Recurring Revenue: R$1.067 billion raised New campaign “TOTVS R$1.7 billion in 2019 through follow-on offering to believes in a Brazil that (+11.8% vs. 2018) pursue new growth avenues gets things done” Acquisitions Net Revenue: R$2.2 of Supplier Successful CEO billion in 2019 and Consinco succession (+8.1% vs. 2018) Organic creation 1st software company of Techfin division in the Ibovespa index Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin: R$469.7 Responsibility for Human million and 20.6% in 2019 Alliances with Rede, Relations migrates from (+35.4% and 410 bps vs. 2018) Moddo, VTEX, BV Executive Officer and Creditas to Vice President Adjusted Net Income: Multidisciplinary R$252.1 million in 2019 Market share growth “Environmental, Social and (+83.9%) from 49.6% to 50.2% Governance” Working Group (ESG WG) set up TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 7 MESSAGE FROM THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS GRI 102-10; 102-14 As Brazil’s biggest technology company and one of the leading global software developers, our history has always stridden side by side with entrepreneurs from all over Brazil with companies of all sizes and in diverse economic segments helping them to perpetuate their businesses by driving innovation, growth and competitiveness in Brazil. 2019 was another memorable year in this trajectory of entrepreneurship, pioneering spirit and determination in which we, justifiably, celebrated numerous achievements, significant transformations in our business and the successful CEO succession process. However, at this moment of deep consternation and respect at the start of 2020, our sincere thoughts are, first of all, with all those who lost their lives and their loved ones. We also wish to thank all those who worked on diverse fronts health, research, planning and care to face this difficult moment caused by the pandemic. In our initial message for this report, we highlight the implementation of new guidelines and strategic pillars of TOTVS in the period. One of these was our portfolio adjustment with the divestment of hardware operations while maintaining the focus and energy of our teams and resources on the software operation, the creation of the Techfin business division and the rollout of initiatives on the Business Performance front. TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 8 MESSAGE FROM THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS To open up new growth avenues, we reviewed our M&A In January 2020, TOTVS joined the Ibovespa Throughout our history, we went through other turbulent strategy and, in May 2019, held the follow-on offering which index, becoming the first technology company moments in the global and domestic economies. We always raised R$1.067 billion. The successful operation capitalized the to be included in the most important stock index remained by the side and will remain together to recover company for the new cycle of acquisitions. More than 60% of the in Brazil. This achievement is the result of the economic growth and apply technology as a key component proceeds went towards the acquisitions of Supplier, Consinco operational and financial performance during in the daily lives of people, companies and societies. We will and Wealth Systems in order to expand to new markets and the period, the high liquidity of the company's emerge greater as a society and we, as a company, are ready strengthen our core business. securities, the strategy implemented and to make our contribution, as we always have done. the commitment to the highest standards of We also continued to advance in our Governance structure, corporate governance. Laércio Cosentino notably through the following initiatives: improvement of the Founder and Chairman of the Board of Directors Integration Program, Continuing Education and Evaluation These achievements fill us with pride and a huge sense of Process of the Board; creation of Integrity Program, further responsibility and TOTVS, as an important player in the underlining our commitment to a more ethical and fair market; Brazilian technology sector, and in light of this challenging and the review of corporate policies on issues such as Risk scenario in 2020 in a crisis unprecedented in the history Management and Internal Controls, Information Security, of the plant and which, in a little more than six months has Securities Trading, Treasury Management and Credit and already affected almost all the countries, reiterates that it Collections. We also set up the ESG (Environmental, Social and will strive incessantly to mitigate the potential impacts of the Governance) Working Group to further strengthen the business current crisis caused by COVID-19 on the company's business. sustainability agenda and, as part of a strategic movement, repositioned the role of human relations by escalating the Business resumption will require correct planning and responsibility for the function from the Executive Officer execution by companies and individuals in a market that to the Vice President of Human Relations. These initiatives will also bring more changes. The technology sector will, strengthen our values and their dissemination across the therefore, have an even more important role to play. And company's production chain. TOTVS is all prepared to offer the tools and solutions to help its clients in this process. We believe that technology will be fundamental to assist companies in overcoming this crisis we are going through and, in this regard, we reinforce our commitment to remain an important business partner for our thousands of clients. This is the force that drives us, the force of Brazil that gets things done. TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 9 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO GRI 102-14 Our message could not begin differently: we are all together in the fight against COVID-19 and, as we have always done, we will continue to firmly support companies and people for the development of Brazil. In these initial months of 2020, the world was severely affected by the economic, social and humanitarian crisis caused by the new coronavirus. During this period, we took a series of preventive and mitigating Until the publication of this report, the scenario measures in line with the guidelines established by health in Brazil and around the world pointed to a strong authorities to ensure the safety of our employees (TOTVERS) and economic downturn. We know that the impacts the continuity of our operations. We kept our employees working of COVID-19 will take some time to be absorbed from their homes, while maintaining customer service and completely. However, we are guided by the ability assistance, we limited domestic travel to absolutely necessary we always had to keep up with the changes and cases and suspended international travel. The health of our challenges that are part of Brazil's growth. Our employees, clients and partners has been and is our foremost business is part of the business of Brazil. commitment. We are a company that entered 2020 with many good things We set up a Crisis Committee that met on a daily basis to discuss to say. This report narrates the performance in 2019, when the situations related to our operations and decided on the TOTVS reported several achievements and successfully necessary measures at all spheres. The healthcare operator that developed an integrated business model that enabled it to add serves TOTVS employees provided an exclusive telephone service new areas and resume solid growth. After the first year of a for us. A specif page, was created to enable all stakeholders of the successful transition at the helm of TOTVS, during which the company to follow the developments of the pandemic and the founder’s legacy was maintained, efforts continued to focus actions taken on products and services so that our clients can on supporting the daily operations of thousands of businesses adapt themselves to the scenario, such as changes in tax and labor of all sizes and sectors. obligations. We also provided clients and other stakeholders with free access to online training on TOTVS products and services. Our Board of Directors remained on alert, holding weekly and, subsequently, fortnightly meetings to monitor the crisis. TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 10 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO In 2019, TOTVS recorded double-digit growth in Recurring The launch of the “TOTVS BELIEVES IN A BRAZIL THAT GETS THINGS All these achievements and the consolidation of a successful Revenue in all quarters, totaling R$1.7 billion in the year, which DONE” sums up what for us is a mission: to support the growth model, which makes TOTVS the largest technology company in corresponds to more than 75% of Total Net Revenue and organic of thousands of businesses and entrepreneurs throughout Brazil, were only possible thanks to the commitment and capacity growth of 11.8% from 2018. Total Net Revenue was R$2.3 billion, Brazil. Through our model of franchises and segmentation, of our teams. They are highly professional people committed to an increase of 8.1% from the previous year. The Renewal Rates we ensure proximity and identification with the realities and transforming technology into a tool for the country's development. for customer contracts, which stood at around 99% per quarter, characteristics of each sector and region of the country. The For 89% of them, it is a source of pride to work at TOTVS and 92% are another driver of our solid results. The management process expansion of services and products contributes to efficiency at believe in the company's potential for success, which shows that at TOTVS also includes consistently disciplined management of all stages of our clients’ operations. Innovation, which has always we are on the right path. costs and expenses, which, combined with the scalability of the guided our trajectory, is today consolidated in a wide gamut of software business, contributed to the 35% growth of EBITDA, integrated solutions, with digital platforms, cloud services and a Technology played a pivotal role during the equivalent to an increase of 420 basis points in Adjusted EBITDA customer service model that ranges from the best sale option to COVID-19 crisis. Thanks to technology, families Margin, which ended 2019 at 20.6%. the implementation, maintenance and upgrades of software and and friends could be present during special and support services. unique moments, logistics operations around the The company also continued its strategy of growth through world could ensure supplies, or scientists from all acquisitions, a characteristic that has always guided great strides We also resumed Universo TOTVS, which featured around over the world could collaborate in the search for at TOTVS. The goal is to continue advancing in the construction 4,500 participants a day, 60 exhibitors, 200 hours of events, solutions. of an ecosystem of solutions that covers three dimensions: 250 activities and important names in the technology sector. (i) Management with a portfolio of open, connected and In the same vein, to strengthen the technology environment in We have always been focused on the country’s development and we customizable ERP, HR and Vertical solutions and platforms; (ii) Brazil, we participated in numerous activities that range from will jointly overcome this moment. We want to show our strength Techfin simplifying, expanding and making access to credit and sector events to initiatives and support to strategies designed and genuine commitment to democratizing access to cutting-edge other financial services cheaper; and (iii) Business Performance to increase the presence of youth and women in technology. technology to companies of all sizes and segments, thereby helping building a portfolio that helps clients to sell more and better. Through the Institute of Social Opportunity (IOS), established in them to be successful, overcome their obstacles and boost the 1998, we offer training for youth from public schools and people sustainable development of our country. This is the force that moves For this, in May 2019, it successfully carried out a follow-on with disabilities to prepare them for the labor market in the us: Believing in a Brazil that GETS THINGS DONE, that innovates, offering raising R$1.067 billion. The investments focused both technology sector. In 2019, we trained a total of 2,250 students that produces. on the core business of management systems and on new growth and helped 1,400 youth get their first job. Through iDEXO, avenues. The acquisition of Supplier and the partnership with we connect startups, entrepreneurs and developers to create Dennis Herszkowicz VTEX are part of the organic creation of our Techfin team. With new business solutions. IDEXO ended 2019 with more than 35 Chief Executive Officer the acquisition of Consinco, we strengthened our position in startups operating in 12 segments related to the operations of the Retail segment, especially the Supermarkets vertical, and TOTVS and its clients. advanced in the new Business Performance area. TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 11 MANUFACTURED CAPITAL Physical, manufactured objects and assets available to an organization for use in producing goods or providing services, including: buildings, equipment, infrastructure, technologies, structure and the way it is organized to serve its clients M A N U FA C T U R E D C A P I TA L T O T V S TOTVS GRI 102-1, 102-2 Brazil's largest technology company Approximately 40,000 clients in 41 countries 15 branches and 52 franchised territories in Brazil and 5 branches abroad Business solutions for companies of all sizes Management software, productivity, collaboration and innovation platforms, and consulting services for companies in 12 strategic sectors of the economy Absolute leader in the small and medium business (SMB) market in the country 50.2% share of ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning) market in Brazil and among the TOP 3 in Latin America with 30.1% share TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 13 M A N U FA C T U R E D C A P I TA L T O T V S GRI 102-4, 102-6, 102-7 /// Portugal 1 Unit Throughout its history, TOTVS has carved its niche as company that develops technology to drive productivity and competitiveness in Brazil. Over these decades, it could follow the emergence, /// US consolidation and, in many cases, profound changes in Brazilian companies and sectors. This success 1 Unit 1 Tech Lab story is only possible thanks to the company's (North Carolina) capacity to work closely with its clients to meet their needs and, backed by a strong tradition of entrepreneurship, pioneering spirit, innovation and tremendous determination, to offer the best business solutions for thousands of companies across Brazil. TOTVS is headquartered in São Paulo and its /// BRAZIL branches and franchises are distributed all over 15 Branches Brazil, especially in leading business centers, to /// LATAM (5 own units) explore the economic potential and opportunities 52 Franchised Units at Argentina, offered by diverse regions of the country. In Brazil, REC Territories Colombia and 10 Development the company has 15 branch offices, 52 franchised Mexico Centers BH territories and 10 development centers. Abroad, 1 Development Center in Mexico RJ it has five units (Argentina, Colombia, U.S., Mexico SP JOI and Portugal) and two development centers (U.S. and Mexico). GRI 102-3,102-10 TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 14 M A N U FA C T U R E D C A P I TA L T O T V S LEADERSHIP POSITION AND BRAND Brazilian multinational leader in ERP in Brazil with 50.2% SPECIALIZED AND DEVELOPED market share and among the 3 main players in Latin America SOLUTIONS TO THE CHALLENGES with 30.1% market share, according to the study of the OF 12 STRATEGIC SEGMENTS “Software Market Share Enterprise Application 2020” issued OF THE ECONOMY by Gartner. In the same period, the 2nd player in Brazil held a 22.9% stake. It occupies the 25th most valuable brand in Brazil in the Interbrand ranking for 2019, and ours is the only technology brand in that ranking, which it believes is a valuable asset that contributes to attracting new clients, as TECHNOLOGY AS A DRIVER OF Agribusiness Logistics Manufacturing Distribution well as the best and most innovative tech professionals in the ECONOMIC AND COUNTRY DEVELOPMENT software industry. Technology is an extremely high value-added industry and has the potential to decisively contribute to sustaining new development cycles in Brazil, having a broad-ranging ERP MAKET BRAZIL positive effect — on all supply chains. An increasingly digital, prosperous, productive, inclusive and sustainable Brazil: these are the guidelines that guide the development of Retail Services Educational Hospitality business solutions. 51.5% 49.6% 50.7% 49.3% 50.2% TOTVS decided to focus its operations on 12 strategic 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 segments of the economy, aiming to increase the efficiency and profitability of its customers through technology. This strategy has enabled the company to incorporate the best Construction Healthcare Legal Financial Services The leadership position allows broad access to the various market competencies into our portfolio, make our products more segments in which it serves and enables the offer several products specialized and increasingly integrate our clients’ end-toin a verticalized manner for both new and existing clients of end value chains. The company structures its teams with all sizes, including cross-selling opportunities. The company specialized professionals for each of the segments, covering also believes that its solid reputation has the ability to bring the needs of both its direct customers (B2B) and its final outstanding professionals, partners and clients to their open consumers (B2C) and estimates that the aggregate annual ecosystem, keeping pace with and integrating evolving demands revenue of its customers represented at the end of 2018 while anticipating future trends. approximately R$ 1.6 trillion, about 25% of all Gross Domestic Product (GDP) generated in the country. TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 15 M A N U FA C T U R E D C A P I TA L T O T V S A BROAD, DIVERSE AND FLEXIBLE PORTFOLIO GRI 102-2 The portfolio of products and services covers a complete horizontal offering with Management solutions, including ERP, HR, Segments and Innovation Platforms; Techfin; and Business Performance, including CRM and Analytics. TOTVS believes that our solutions are broad, diverse and flexible, handling and meeting the needs of all our clients in the most varied of segments. With solutions available in the cloud or on-premises, your solutions are scalable and modular and can be easily configured to enable specific functionalities for different business segments and sizes with consistent integration, democratizing access and use of technology for all its customers. The business fronts are divided into Management, Techfin and Business Performance solutions. MANAGEMENT TECHFIN BUSINESS ERP Credit PERFORMANCE HR Payments Marketing Segments Services Sales Platforms It comprises (i) back-office management solutions that are the The Techfin portfolio includes technology and innovation to expand, The Business Performance portfolio includes solutions to support basis of all business operations, integrating and facilitating simplify, and make cheaper companies' access to financial services. different business areas to leverage their results and performance. communication between different departments, such as sales, Provides smart and custom-made financial services, according to It includes (i) E-commerce, with a unified commerce platform, finance, inventory and human resources, and enabling greater the profile of each business and the needs of the clients' financial (ii) CRM, a solution for pipeline management and commercial control and management of an organization's processes; (ii) HR journey, expanding the options to purchase inputs and better intelligence, (iii) Omnichannel, offering a solution for retail order solution for managing and developing human capital in a simple and conditions to pay expenses. On the other side of the cycle, companies management and (iv) Analytics, with data platform and structured agile way in all processes and with support for legal requirements can sell in a simpler and more integrated way, while receiving more business analysis. and payroll processing, (iii) software solutions specialized for the quickly and efficiently. The solutions are structured in order to needs of 12 economic segments, (v) innovation platforms, which maximize the advantage of technology, which transforms complex Find out more details about the solutions offered by the company, includes the Carol Data and Artificial Intelligence Platform and and bureaucratic processes into simple actions, enabling easy access accessing item 7 of the Reference Form. Fluig Productivity and Collaboration Platform and (v) solutions to financial services. They are divided into 2 categories: (i) Credit, targeted at micro and small businesses. offering affordable and custom-made solutions that make access to credit for companies easier, and (ii) Payments, with integrated solutions of POS, TEF (Electronic Funds Transfer) and acquiring that make everything simpler and generate efficiency to make payment transactions easier. TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 16 M A N U FA C T U R E D C A P I TA L T O T V S CAPILLARITY AND PERSONALIZED SERVICE FOR COMPANIES OF ALL SIZES TOTVS is a global company present throughout the Brazilian territory and has customers in 41 countries, ts structured in a robust distribution model with high capillarity, which has a local presence via branches, exclusive franchises and multichannel and a digital environment through the TOTVS Store, which allows the establishment of a digital channel of interaction with its customers, enabling the hiring and direct acquisition of one or more products, integrated or not, in a fast and simplified way, especially for cloud applications. Franchises are exclusive distribution channels and significantly contribute to the company's sales, especially in the small and mid-sized business market. Geographical areas for operating are defined for each franchise, in which exclusive rights are given for each sector of economic activity of the client (segment). In their regions of operation, franchisees are dedicated to originating new clients and sales, conducting demos of solutions (pre-sale, sale and post-sale), and implementing solutions directly for our customers. PRESENCE AND PARTNERSHIP IN ALL STAGES OF THE CUSTOMER JOURNEY CYCLE GRI 102-2, 102-6 The clients' experience begins with the relationship with sales team through its own channels, through franchises or digital service channels which seeks to understand their profile and the environment in which their business is inserted. These teams are responsible for appropriately mapping and learning the clients' needs, which can be related to different aspects such as the automation of critical business processes such as accounting or human resources. They may also be bound to the challenges of the clients' and customers' core business such as student retention at a university, control of grain production in agribusiness, point of sale (POS) in a retail department store, automation of manufacturing processes in a factory. The initial customer service process aims to develop the architecture and specification of the most appropriate solution. TOTVS provides dedicated teams that are qualified to do this job, yielding end clients lower costs. Upon implementation of the solution, it offers full maintenance and support through experienced and centralized teams at TOTVS. Lastly, it also has an post-sales, with locally distributed teams focused on the client’s ongoing needs. This sales force specializes in and is encouraged to provide the best cross-sell and upsell solutions to existing clients. TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 17 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E In 2006, when it launched its IPO, TOTVS became FIRST TECHNOLOGY COMPANY TO BE INCLUDED IN IBOVESPA the first technology company in Latin America to join the Novo Mercado segment of B3. In 2019, the On January 2, 2020, TOTVS was included in the Ibovespa index. Its pioneering spirit continues as it now becomes the first company’s stock appreciated 125%, from R$28.65 software company to be included in the most important stock index in Brazil. At the launch of the 2020 Ibovespa list, the in January to R$64.55 on December 30, 2019. company was ranked 57th in a portfolio consisting of 73 assets held by 70 companies. This achievement reflects the recognition of TOTVS’ healthy results and value generated in 2019, as well as its leadership position resulting from its strategy, operational Recognized for its solid corporate governance practices, performance and high level of corporate governance. TOTVS has as a reference the “Code of Best Corporate Governance Practices” published by the Brazilian Institute of Corporate Governance (IBGC). Its practices include de Code OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE GRI 102-7, 102-45 of Ethics and Conduct, which binds 100% of its employees and the Board of Directors. It also has specific policies on On December 31, 2019, the capital stock of the company was composed of 192,637,727 common shares. Disclosure and Trading; Internal Controls; Risks; Related Party Transactions; and the Preparation and Publication of Shareholder Shares % Standards. Click here for the complete list of TOTVS' Bylaws, LC EH, Laércio Cosentino, Senta Pua e Ernesto Haberkorn3 28,910,710 15.01% Policies and Charters. GRI 102-25 GIC Privated Limited 9,728,352 5.05% The company has a Board of Directors (with 85.7% Itaú Unibanco S.A 9,713,045 5.04% independent members) and has four advisory committees, Others 142,333,501 73.89% three of which are statutory: Audit, Strategy, Personnel and Outstanding shares 190,685,608 98.99% Compensation, and Governance and Nomination. It also has a Department of Internal Controls, Risks and Compliance, Treasury shares 1,952,119 1.01% and an Internal Audit area. Read the Charter of the Board of Total 192,637,727 100.00% Directors and its Advisory Committees to learn more about 1 Ownership structure on December 31, 2019. Does not reflect the stock split of all the shares issued by the company at the ratio of one common share to three shares of the their functioning. same type (1:3), approved at the Extraordinary Shareholders Meeting held on April 27, 2020. As a result, the number of common shares making up the capital stock of the company increased from 192,637,727 to 577,913,181. 2 To access the current ownership structure, click here. 3 Positions of LC EH Participações e Empreendimentos S/A, Laércio José de Lucena Cosentino, HG Senta Pua Fia and Ernesto Mário Haberkorn. TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 19 C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E G O V E R N A N C E S T R U C T U R E GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE GRI 102-18 Board of Directors Governance Personnel and Strategy Dennis Audit Internal and Nomination Compensation Committee Herszkowicz Committee Audit Committee Committee Chief Executive Officer Alexandre Gilsomar Maia Gustavo Bastos Juliano Tubino Marcelo Izabel Branco Apendino Financial Platforms Strategy and Cosentino Human Relations Services and Officer Officer New Business Segments Officer Relationship Officer Officer Officer TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 20 C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E G O V E R N A N C E S T R U C T U R E BOARD OF DIRECTORS GRI 102-26 It is the highest governance and collective decision-making body at TOTVS, responsible for formulating and monitoring the implementation of general business guidelines, including the long-term strategy. It also guides the company's business on strategic issues and monitors the execution of the strategic plan and the functioning of the Board of Executive Officers. In accordance with the Bylaws of TOTVS, the Board of Directors must have at least 5 and not more than 9 members. The directors are elected at Shareholders Meetings, with unified term of office of two years. COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS GRI 102-10, 102-22, 102-23 COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS¹ GRI 102-22, 405-1 By gender 2018 2019 Men 78% 67% Women 22% 33% By age group 2018 2019 Between 30 and 50 22% 22% Above 50 78% 78% ¹ Composition of the Board of Directors on December 31, 2019. 2 The Annual Shareholders Meeting held on April 27, 2020, approved the reduction in the number of directors from 9 to 7, who were elected for a new two-year term of office. 1 Considers the composition of the Board of Directors on December 31, 2019 3 To check the new composition of the Board of Directors, click here. and December 31, 2018. TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 21 C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E G O V E R N A N C E S T R U C T U R E AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee is the advisory body of the Board of GOVERNANCE AND NOMINATION COMMITTEE COMPOSITION OF BOARD Directors in exercising the audit supervision and inspection The Committee is composed of at least 3 (three) members, OF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS GRI 102-26, 405-1 functions concerning the quality and integrity of financial with at least 2 (two) independent directors. Its duties By gender 2018 2019 statements, compliance with legal, statutory and regulatory include recommending and monitoring the adoption of good Men 100% 86% standards, and the effectiveness of internal controls and internal governance practices and the effectiveness of their processes, Women 0% 14% and independent audit systems. It must have at least three (3) proposing updates and improvements when necessary, and By age group 2018 2019 members, the majority being directors, all of them independent, establishing the channels and processes for interaction and at least one (1) of whom must have recognized experience in between company’s long-term shareholders and the Board, Between 30 and 50 86% 100% corporate accounting matters. especially regarding strategy, governance, compensation, Above 50 14% 0% succession and composition of the Board. 1 Considers the composition of the Board of Directors on December 31, 2019 STRATEGY COMMITTEE and December 31, 2018. The Strategy Committee is composed of up to four (4) members, BOARD OF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS three (3) being directors, the majority independent, and TOTVS' Executive Officers are professionals of excellence in their areas, the company’s Chief Executive Officer will participate as a elected by the Board of Directors for a unified term of office of two For more information about the Board of Directors, its advisory permanent guest in the meeting and without the right to vote. years. As the legal representatives of TOTVS’ the Executive Officers committees and the Board of Executive Officers, their career Its responsibilities are analyzing and discussing topics that are responsible for managing the company’s daily operations and for and professional experience, key contributions to the company, enable the building of TOTVS’ Vision of the Future and its submitting the mediumand long-term plan proposals to the Board evaluation process and compensation practices, see items 12 and Strategic Planning. of Directors. The Executive Board will be composed of a minimum 13 of the Reference Form. of 5 (five) and a maximum of 20 (twenty) members. PERSONNEL AND COMPENSATION COMMITTEE GRI 102-35, 102-36, 102-37 The Personnel and Compensation Committee consists of at least three (3) members, all directors, and at least two (2) of whom must be independent. Its responsibilities include examining candidates for the Board of Executive Officers, submitting its recommendation to the Board of Directors for the respective election. The Committee must also submit a proposal for the distribution of fixed and variable annual compensation among executive officers and directors and devise the strategies to attract, retain and develop TOTVS’ internal talent. TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 22 C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E R I S K M A N A G E M E N T RISK MANAGEMENT GRI 102-29,102-30,102-31 On June 11, 2019, the Board of Directors of TOTVS approved the new Risk Management and Internal Controls Policy. The policy establishes the principles, guidelines and responsibilities to be complied with when managing the company’s corporate risks and internal controls to ensure the appropriate identification, analysis, evaluation, treatment, monitoring and communication of corporate risks. The latest version reflects the new Risk Management methodology, which includes the stages for establishing the scenario, identification, analysis, as well as risk evaluation, treatment, monitoring and reporting. It also establishes the Control Self-Assessment methodology to improve the management of internal controls. THE MAIN RISKS CATEGORIES TO WHICH THE COMPANY IS EXPOSED ARE: STRATEGIC OPERATING FINANCIAL REGULATORY/ INFORMATION RISKS RISKS RISKS COMPLIANCE RISKS TECHNOLOGY RISKS Risks that affect the Risks related to the Risks associated with Risks related to risks related to strategic objectives, company's operations the exposure of the compliance with rules the information considering the (processes, personnel company's financial/ and laws related to technology environment internal and external and technology) that accounting operations its sector, as well as (infrastructure, environment. affect the operating and the reliability environmental, labor, access management, efficiency and effective of its balance sheet. civil and tax/fiscal laws information security). and effective of Brazil and use of resources. international laws. TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 23 C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E R I S K M A N A G E M E N T RISK MAP GRI 102-15 READY FOR LGPD GRI 418-1, 103-2, 103-3 As part of the corporate compliance process, internal processes TOTVS’ risk map was updated in 2019 in accordance with Imposing regulations on data safety and the privacy of people and were mapped in 2019, which resulted in a Corporate Compliance the strategic guidelines of the business and changes in the companies is part of a global movement, whose first milestone Plan with more than 130 different activities. The initiatives, external environment. The new risk map was built based on a was the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which came which are in the execution phase in the first half of 2020 with comprehensive process of interviews with risk owners and the into effect in the European Union (EU) in 2016. the participation of several areas, include training of multipliers Board of Executive Officers, which resulted in a matrix of priority and a communication plan to disseminate the issue and raise risks classified according to their impact and probability. The In Brazil, after eight years of debates, the Brazilian General Data awareness among employees. Other initiatives include mobilizing risk map was also evaluated by the Audit Committee, which is Protection Law (LGPD) was sanctioned in 2018, and currently the an Organizational Change Management team to provide support responsible for disseminating the company's risk management Congress is discussing when the law will come into effect, which in the adaptation phase and creating an e-learning course, process and submitting the issue for approval by the Board of will transform the personal data protection system in Brazil. The mandatory for all employees, to provide guidance on the law and Directors. purpose of LGPD is to regulate the activities regarding the use its impacts on the daily activities and practices at TOTVS. and preservation of personal and sensitive data, which may be Reflecting the company's mature internal controls environment, collected only with the user's authorization, resulting greater Regarding product adaptation, TOTVS reinforces its role as a Control Self-Assessment was implemented, which requires safety and privacy for consumers. partner of its clients in their processes for compliance with LGPD periodic self-assessment of internal processes and controls by in their businesses. During the period, the company organized those responsible for the business areas. Based on this work, For TOTVS, the Law represents two integrated fronts. One of events and training sessions and prepared content on LGPD for TOTVS’ Internal Audit defines the strategy and effectiveness them refers to its own operations as a company and compliance its clients on the TOTVS Blog, as well as webinars on the topic tests to evaluate the correct application and operational with the new law in relation to its clients. The other is its position with experts from the company and the market. A specific page on efficiency of the controls in preventing or detecting material as a provider of technology solutions that enables its clients to LGPD was also created on the TOTVS website. distortions. The entire process of mapping and reviewing comply with LGPD in their businesses. controls and their respective results is reported to the TOTVS already has a model for responsibility and confidentiality company’s Audit Committee. of information of its consumers and has been making the necessary adaptations to comply with the new law. Moreover, it For further details of the risk factors of the business, adopts in its CRM methodology the “privacy by design” concepts, management process and associated internal controls, refer to that is, tools and processes already developed under the items 4 and 5 of the Reference Form. perspective of respect to privacy. It also adopts the “Security by Design” principles, which establish the development of solutions and mechanisms to mitigate risks regarding security and access to personal information. Until August 26, 2020, the entry into force of the LGPD is scheduled for May 2021 by Provisional Measure (PM) 959/2020. After this date if Congress does not approve the PM, the LGPD will enter effective in August 2020. TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 24 C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E R I S K M A N A G E M E N T BYLAWS, POLICIES In addition, the company’s entire supplier base was AND CHARTERS GRI 102-16, 102-17, 102-26 submitted to a background check, which included the TOTVS’ governance is supported by bylaw, policies and reputational evaluation and verification of existing charters, which ensure excellence in company management, sanctions in order to understand the risks associated with as well as transparent and efficient decision-making. All the relationship. Based on this analysis, as per the level Corporate Policies are evaluated and recommended by the of risk determined, the measures taken include: blocking Advisory Committees to the Board of Directors, and are suppliers for new contracts, amendments to contracts and disclosed to internal and external stakeholders through the continuous monitoring. company’s Investor Relations website. Access the links for a complete description of these documents. Our franchisees also sign a Statement of Commitment to Integrity and Statement of Responsibility, Compliance and INTEGRITY PROGRAM GRI 102-17, 205-1 Social and Legal Commitment, in which the units undertake In order to continuously improve anticorruption practices, to comply with Federal Law 12,846/2013 – the Brazilian in 2019 the company’s Board of Directors approved the Anti-Corruption Law, and the Code of Ethics and Conduct restructuring of the Integrity Program based on applicable of TOTVS, as well as the main Global Compact principles. anticorruption laws and best market practices, considering TOTVS’ risk profile. The company's Integrity Program The Integrity Program is periodically audited and the consists of mechanisms to prevent, detect and remedy action plans are reported to the Audit Committee which, wrongful and unethical conduct, either in private or public in turn, submits its opinion to the Board of Directors. The environment, in line with the Organizational Culture. It final product is translated into a roadmap to monitor the is based on five pillars: (i) culture of integrity; (ii) risk implementation of the actions defined, resulting in a cycle assessment; (iii) Code of Ethics and Conduct, Policies of evolution and maturation of the Integrity Program and and Procedures; (iv) Communication and Training; and (v) providing a safer environment in terms of anticorruption Detection and Remediation. mechanisms. Regarding relations with third parties, the Integrity Program establishes procedures for identifying and assessing compliance risks in supplier relations to ensure that TOTVS does not do business with suppliers involved in any kind of illegal or wrongful practices under the anticorruption laws in force and the ethical principles adopted by the company. TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 25 C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E R I S K M A N A G E M E N T CODEC GRI 102-16, 102-17, 102-33, 103-2, 103-3 ETHICAL AND IMPARTIAL The Code of Ethics and Conduct (CODEC) provides a general CONDUCT IN RELATIONS understanding of the ethical conduct and principles that guide WITH PUBLIC ENTITIES GRI 102-17 TOTVS’ commitment to the integrity of its business and to its TOTVS values ethical and responsible conduct in its relations internal and external relationships. It applies to all directors, with government authorities, prohibiting any illicit actions, managers, shareholders in the control block of the company, in accordance with Anticorruption Law 12,846/13 and other TOTVERS, service providers, suppliers and partners. applicable anticorruption laws, as well as the guidelines and rules determined in our Policy on Commercial and TOTVS has a whistleblowing channel (TOTVS Ethics Hotline) Institutional Relations with Public Entities and the Code of for internal and external stakeholders to report cases of Ethics and Conduct. In 2020, an e-learning training program misconduct. In 2019, 248 reports were received, duly analyzed will be launched on the Policy on Commercial and Institutional and addressed, compared to 200 cases reported in the Relations with Public Entities, mandatory for all employees previous year. The company also has a Commission of Ethics who may potentially interact with government agents or and Conduct, whose members are nominated by the Chief public entities. Executive Officer of the company and validated by the Board of Directors. The commission promotes integrity and compliance To ensure transparency in its relations with government with values and standards of behavior set forth in the code. authorities, the company also has specific internal tool to The Commission is responsible for receiving reports and electronically register all interactions with government conducting a formal process to verify if violations of the Code agents, in which the meeting agenda and venue, as well as the of Ethics and Conduct occurred and, if confirmed, to determine participants representing TOTVS and the public entity, must the applicable disciplinary measures. be recorded. The Ethics and Conduct Channel can be contacted by phone 0800 721 5966 in Brazil 55 11 3232 0766 from other locations Monday to Friday, from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. www.canalconfidencial.com.br/totvs Click here to access the Code. TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 26 C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E R I S K M A N A G E M E N T TRAINING ON THE CODE OF ETHICS AND CONDUCT AND ANTICORRUPTION PRACTICES GRI 205-2 The Board of Directors, all employees in Brazil and abroad, and the business partners of the company were informed of the company's Code of Ethics and Conduct and Anti-Corruption. The company also developed an e-learning program on the Code of Ethics and Conduct in a gamified format (launched in December 2018), which enabled it to train more employees than in previous years. The training program was attended by 6,202 employees from all over Brazil, resulting in more than 90% of TOTVERS trained. The training module was offered to units in Argentina, Colombia and Mexico, and more than 100 employees in these units were trained. EMPLOYEES TRAINED ON ANTICORRUPTION PROCEDURES BY REGION GRI 205-2 Percentage of employees trained ¹ (%) South Southeast Midwest Northeast North Total % Executive Officers and Executive Managers 86 74 50 N/A N/A 70 Managers 100 83 100 100 N/A 95,7 Coordinators 95 87 92 100 100 94,8 Specialists 97 87 100 67 100 90,2 Analysts 94 87 94 92 100 93,4 Technicians and Assistants 90 83 90 100 100 92,6 Total by region 94 86 94 91 100 93 1 Training made available to all TOTVS units in Brazil. 2 N / A represents not applicable, because in the regions there are no people in these positions. COMMITMENTS GRI 102-12,102-13, 102-29 Signatory to the United Nations (UN) Global Compact in 2014, TOTVS submitted in 2018 its Communication on Progress (COP) Report, which shows how the company guides its strategy to comply with and align its businesses with the 10 Principles of Global Compact and the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). Since 2016, it has been publishing its Integrated Report, which follows the International Integrated Reporting (IIRC) and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines. The Sustainability Policy, which will guide TOTVS’ actions in this area and reaffirm its commitment to the sustainable development agenda, is in the preparation stage. TOTVS is also a signatory to the Business Pact for Integrity and Against Corruption and a member of the Integrity Work Group of Ethos Institute, a forum for exchanging experiences among companies to discuss Integrity involving corporate practices and the implementation of policies to promote integrity and combat corruption. TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 27 C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E T H E 1 0 P R I N C I P L E S O F G L O B A L C O M P A C T THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE 1: PRINCIPLE 2: PRINCIPLE 3: PRINCIPLE 4: PRINCIPLE 5: Businesses should make sure that Businesses should the elimination the effective support and respect they are not uphold the freedom of all forms abolition the protection of complicit of association and the of forced and of child labour; internationally in human rights effective recognition compulsory and proclaimed human abuses. of the right to labour; rights; and collective bargaining; PRINCIPLE 6: PRINCIPLE 7: PRINCIPLE 8: PRINCIPLE 9: PRINCIPLE 10: the elimination Businesses undertake encourage the Businesses of discrimination should support initiatives to development should work in respect of a precautionary promote greater and diffusion of against corruption employment approach to environmental environmentally in all its forms, and occupation. environmental responsibility; friendly including extortion challenges; and technologies. and bribery. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti-Corruption TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 28 ECONOMIC SCENARIO AND SECTOR ECONOMIC SCENARIO AND SECTOR GRI 103-2,103-3 projects should become a priority for 34% of the companies surveyed in their investments for 2020. As of 2017, Brazil has been recovering economic growth, Gross Global Market Domestic Product (GDP) registering slight growth. In 2017 and Total ICT Spending in 2019: USD 3.82 tri 2018, the GDP increase was 1.3%, in 2019, with a slight retraction, However, these and other scenarios indicated in several the index was 1.1%. The drop in unemployment rate from 12.3% studies may change due to the crisis caused by the COVID-19 in the previous year to 11.9% in 2019 also indicated a 2020 with #1 US pandemic around the world. Local and global economies will USD 1.231 tri margin for economic recovery. With regard to inflation, the have to absorb the impacts of this grave health crisis and IGP-M index registered strong monthly variation during the year its effects on the daily routine of companies and people. to close 7.5% higher, while the IPC-A index stood at 3.8%, up 0.8 However, since the technology sector is integrated into the percentage points from 3.0% in 2017. The monetary policy was Brazil value chain of numerous sectors and at different proportions, conducted by Brazil’s Monetary Policy Committee (COPOM) USD 86 bi ICT = 2.3% of the world it will also be one of the first sectors to follow and boost the based on maintaining the Selic interest rate below the structural 8th position resumption of businesses. The technology sector will also interest rate, closing the year at 6.5%. Latam 36% of Latam help propose new models of interaction between the links USD 242 bi ICT = 6.3% of the world in these chains, as well as identify new solutions for the new According to the study “IDC Predictions Brazil 2020, Main challenges that will arise during the rebuilding of the postprojections for the Brazilian ITC market” by IDC, released on February 27 this year, the global market spent US$3.82 trillion pandemic ‘normality’. TOTVS believes that technology will dollars in 2019. be fundamental to assist companies in overcoming this crisis that we are going through and, in this regard, reiterates its commitment to remain an important business partner for its For 2020, the study pointed out some opportunities for the Another avenue of opportunities for the sector according to thousands of clients. sector in Brazil, with the implementation of the Brazilian the study is Analytics e Artificial Intelligence (AI) products General Data Protection Law (LGPD), which will boost and services, which are increasingly intertwined, in order to companies’ investments in security, leveraged by consulting simplify the consumption of a growing volume of information and specialized services, which are expected to grow and generate more insights for businesses. Together, these 9.6% in 2020, to US$456 million. Upgrades/adaptation of solutions should grow 11.5% to US$548 million in 2020. applications alone may generate a positive impact on the Similarly, the demand for cloud-based products should grow customized development market by US$968 million in 2020, in both the public sector (36.5% growth to US$3.5 billion) in a sharper recovery starting 2021 in connection with the and the private sector, which is expected to reach US$1.3 modernization of applications and cloud services. billion in the year. The migration of services from traditional to cloud environments would result in a total of R$1.2 billion, a 40% growth in relation to 2019. According to the “Survey on Investment Trends in IT” by IT4CIO, CRM solutions and TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 30 FINANCIAL CAPITAL Set of resources available for an organization to be used in production of goods or services, which is obtained through financing, such as debts, stock or subventions, or generated by investments. F I N A N C I A L C A P I TA L C O N T E X T : A N E W C H A P T E R I N O U R J O U R N E Y CONTEXT: A NEW CHAPTER IN OUR JOURNEY GRI 103-2, 103-3 We a re livin g in a n ew digi tal area m oved by the em ergence of disru pt i ve t e chnol og i e s a nd prof ound c h a n ges in the beh avio rs of individuals, who now consum e product s a nd s erv i ces i n a d i f f erent m a n ner, an d of organ izati ons, which are challenged to revalidate t hei r ow n b us i ne s s m od el s . A t t he h e a r t of all these chan ges are individuals. People's decisions to co nne ct a nd s ha re i nf orm a t i on a re t o d ay a decisive facto r for the digital evolution of businesses and how w e d e a l w i t h t he w orl d i n w h i c h we live as a society. TOTVS concluded its journey of transition to the software The result is the construction of one of the most consistent subscription model. In terms of Offering and Portfolio, the model, business models in the market, based on predictability, which also combines cloud-based solutions, is implemented, and, profitability and sustainability. together with the model of maintenance contracts, represents a solid base of recurring revenues, which ended 2019 representing Now, the company is entering a new cycle where the challenge over 75% of total business revenue. On the Process and Customer is to continue building an ecosystem of solutions encompassing Service front, the company redirected its efforts to focus on its three dimensions: (i) Management with a portfolio of open, core business of software (leaner structure), on changes in its connected and customizable ERP, HR and Vertical solutions and commercial structure, such as improvements in relations with its platforms; (ii) Techfin simplifying, expanding and making access franchisees and adjustments to incentives for sales of recurring and to credit and other financial services cheaper; and (iii) Business non-recurring solutions, and on satisfying its clients, all of which Performance building a portfolio that helps clients to sell more are reflected in the adoption of an agile model in all its business and better. Artificial Intelligence, machine learning and cloud verticals with continuous updates and delivery of releases with are the tools to drive this strategy of opening new markets and new features in solutions in short cycles (every three months) in advancing further in the value chain of our clients. addition to making the process of contracting and implementation faster. As a result, client renewal rates remained above 98% in all the quarters of the period. The Culture and Environment pillar also deserved special mention, with the strengthening of culture and the commitment to cost management and organizational efficiency. TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 32 F I N A N C I A L C A P I TA L O P E R A T I N G A N D F I N A N C I A L P E R F O R M A N C E OPERATING AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE The period was marked by one more year of revenue growth, with the acceleration of initiatives that have been evolving throughout 2018, leveraged by the implementation of new strategic fronts and guidelines. FINANCIAL AND OPERATING HIGHLIGHTS GRI 201-1 Net Revenue: R$2,282.1 million in 2019 (+8.1% vs. 2018) Recurring Revenue: R$1,729.2 million in 2019 (+11.8% vs. 2018) ARR¹: R$1.920 billion (+10.8% vs. 2018) Client Renewal Rate: Above 98% in all quarters Adjusted EBITDA 2: R$469.7 million in 2019 (+35.4% vs. 2018) Adjusted EBITDA Margin 3: 20.6% in 2019 (+420 bps vs. 2018) Adjusted Net Income: R$252.1 million in 2019 (+83.9% vs. 2018) Net Operating Cash Flow: R$385.5 million in 2019 (+10.2% vs. 2018) Follow-on: R$1.067 billion raised Focus on Software: disinvestment of hardware operations M&A³: renewed focus and redefined strategy ¹ Annual Recurring Revenue ² Excluding the effect of IFRS 16, Adjusted EBITDA is R$425.7 million (+22.7% vs. 2018) 3 Excluding the effect of IFRS 16, Adjusted EBITDA Margin is 18.7% (+230 bps vs. 2018) TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 33 F I N A N C I A L C A P I TA L O P E R A T I N G A N D F I N A N C I A L P E R F O R M A N C E NET REVENUE NON-RECURRING REVENUE: Total Net Revenue at the end of the year was approximately License Revenue grew 20.4% in relation to 2018, due to R$2.3 billion, maintaining its growth trend, up 8.1% from the higher sales volume since the start of the year. Despite the previous year. This result mainly reflects the doublethis increase in License Revenue, Non-Recurring Revenues growth in Recurring Revenues in all quarters of 2019, declined in relation to 2018, due to lower Revenue from ADJUSTED EBITDA accounting for 75.8% of Net Revenue in the year. This Non-recurring Services during the entire year. This reduction Revenue growth, combined with the scalability of the software increase was softened by the 2.0% decline in Non-recurring in non-recurring services in the year, especially those for business and the disciplined management of costs and expenses, Revenues in 2019. software implementation and customization, is mainly due to contributed to the 35% growth of EBITDA, equivalent to the franchisees’ higher share of sales and the increase in sales an increase of 420 basis points in Adjusted EBITDA Margin, RECURRING REVENUE of solutions with lower demand for services, especially those which ended 2019 at 20.6%. This performance underlined The quicker pace of sales in both the client base and among new sold in the subscription and cloud-based model. The company the positive growth trend of revenue and the consolidation of clients, combined with inflation adjustments and the client renewal understands that these reductions also reflect an effort to EBITDA Margin. rate remaining above 98% in 2019, resulted in the double-digit make TOTVS’ solutions lighter and more accessible to clients. growth in Recurring Revenue in all quarters of 2019, resulting in an 11.8% increase from 2018. Annual Recurring Revenue (ARR), a . R$ thousand 2019 2018 ∆ widely used metric in the SaaS model, ensures comparability among Adjusted EBITDA* (1) 469,742 347,014 35.4% the periods by annualizing all current subscriptions regardless of Adjusted EBITDA Margin (2) 20,6% 16,4% 420 pb the month in which they were contracted, which shows this growth, 26% 24% with net addition of R$187 million, from R$1.733 billion to R$1.920 * Earnings before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (1) Excluding the effect of IFRS16, Adjusted EBITDA is R$425.7 million (+22.7% vs. 2018) billion in 2019. 76% (2) Excluding the effect of IFRS16, Adjusted EBITDA Margin is 18.7% (+230 bps vs. 2018) 74% 98.3% 1Q19 2Q19 98.7% NET INCOME 1,920.3 98.9% 23% The increase in Adjusted Net Income from 4Q18 is mainly +59.7 24% 98.1% 1,860.6 due to EBITDA growth, combined with the positive financial 1,816.0 +44.6 result. Compared to the previous year, the EBITDA growth 1,766.2 1,860.6 77% +49.8 76% combined with lower financial expense and lower Effective +33.0 1,816.0 Income Tax Rate, despite being negatively affected by 3Q19 4Q19 Depreciation and Amortization expenses, resulted in an 1,766.2 1,733.3 increase of 83.9% in Adjusted Net Income. Recurring NonRecurring 1Q19 2Q19 3Q19 4Q19 ARR Net Addition Renewal Rate TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 34 F I N A N C I A L C A P I TA L O P E R A T I N G A N D F I N A N C I A L P E R F O R M A N C E CASH FLOW ASSIGNMENT OF RATING* In 2019, TOTVS’ free cash flow was positive at R$385.5 In April 2019, risk rating agency Fitch Ratings million, up 10.2% from 2018. This is due to: (i) the 75.5% increase in EBT¹; (ii) the increase in working capital assigned TOTVS the National Long-Term requirements, due to higher use of tax credits in 2018; (iii) higher interest payments, especially for the payment of Initial Rating “AA (bra)” with a stable outlook. non-convertible premium on debentures issued in 2008; According to Fitch, the rating reflects TOTVS’ and (iv) proceeds from the sale of certain operations that resulted in cash inflows. leadership of the competitive enterprise ¹ Earnings before Tax management software segment backed by DEBT its knowledge of the local market, a broad Gross Debt totaled R$466.7 million in 4Q19, compared to R$503.5 million in the same period the previous year. distribution network and a diversified Cash and Cash Equivalents at the end of 4Q19 totaled portfolio of products and clients, as well as R$1,538.2 million, corresponding to over 3.2 times the Gross Debt, which shows the company’s borrowing and strong liquidity. investment capacity for new growth cycles. * In May 2020, Fitch revised the risk classification and maintained TOTVS’ rating. TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 35 F I N A N C I A L C A P I TA L S T R A T E G Y A N D I N V E S T M E N T S STRATEGY AND INVESTMENTS GRI 102-10,103-2,103-3 As part of its strategy to expand, strengthen and create FOLLOW-ON OFFERING: value for its clients and leverage the growth of its results, PAVING NEW TOTVS started to implement new strategic guidelines In 2019, TOTVS renewed its focus and redefined its GROWTH AVENUES and pillars in 2019. The pillars include: (i) divestment of M&A strategy, based on four key pillars, aimed at hardware operations to return the focus on software; (ii) the growth and value creation for the company and its W i t h t h e r e v i s i o n o f t h e M & A s t r a t e g y, organic creation of the Techfin team (technology for financial shareholders. services), which aims to simplify, expand and cheapen access in May the company held a follow-on of our clients to credit and other financial services; (iii) the UNIQUE PLAYBOOK BASED ON OUR KEY PILLARS offering with restricted efforts of 27 identification of opportunities to develop performance million new shares at the price of R$39.50 solutions to be included in the value chain of clients, per share, raising R$1.067 billion. These optimizing their sales results and profitability; and (iv) a 1st PILLAR 2nd PILLAR 3rd PILLAR 4th PILLAR revision of the M&A strategy, which includes reinforcing and Reinforcing/ Deepening Cross-Sell New new shares increased the number of Defending into Solutions Markets redesigning the area. the Core Segments shares in the base by 35%, showing the m a r ke t ’ s demand for the company’s Expand Increase Add new Expand offering. The success of the operation horizontally our expertise products to our TAM to new our portfolio in each our portfolio markets enabled the start of a new investment vertical TechFin, Widening our Business cycle, focusing the strengthening of the TOTVS DAY 2020 Video product offering Performance core system and management business TOTVS is a technology company with vast experience in M&A in Strengthen a n d t h e ex p a n s i o n t o n e w m a r ke t s . O f Brazil, with the capacity and more than 20 years of experience in current product the identification, negotiation and integration of acquisitions. Since capabilities and resources allocated for investments technology 2006, it has acquired over 25 companies, which helped reinforce in two to three years, more than 60% its core business and penetration in new operating segments, w a s a l r e a d y u s e d t o a c q u i r e S u p p l i e r, generating significant value and synergies that strengthened cross *TAM: Total Addressable Market C o n s i n c o a n d W e a l t h S y s t e m s *. selling¹, increased lock-in, expanded the services and solutions * Operation made in the current fiscal year. offered, cut costs, improved governance and expanded sales under the TOTVS brand. ¹ Cross selling is the practice of selling an additional product or service to an existing client. TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 36 F I N A N C I A L C A P I TA L S T R A T E G Y A N D I N V E S T M E N T S TRANSFORMATION TO TECHFIN EXPANSION OF FOOTPRINT IN RETAIL STRENGTHENING OF BUSINESS MODEL IN PROGRESS AND CONSOLIDATION OF LEADERSHIP PERFORMANCE STRATEGY On October 28, 2019, the acquisition of Supplier was IN SUPERMARKETS VERTICAL On April 8, 2020, a contract was signed for the acquisition announced, for the amount of R$ 455.2 million. This move On December 27, 2019, the company announced the of 100% of the share capital of Wealth Systems Informática accelerates TOTVS' Techfin strategy, which aims to acquisition of 100% of Consinco shares for the amount Ltda. for R$27.0 million. Wealth Systems was already simplify, increase and cheapen the access of our clients R$197 million, paid at the closing of the transaction a TOTVS partner with its CRM (Customer Relationship to credit and other financial services. TOTVS aims to carried out on January 30, 2020. Management) and SFA (Sales Force Automation) solutions, migrate SUPPLIER to the Techfin model, moving forward especially for the agribusiness, manufacturing and across the supply chains of its clients, enabling B2B credit Consinco is the leading provider of management software distribution chains. With this move, TOTVS takes yet another on recurring relations between clients and suppliers, and for supermarket market and cash and carry in the Brazilian step in executing its strategy to develop an ecosystem providing a frictionless journey for all those involved market. With this move, TOTVS increases its presence in represented by three dimensions: (i) Management – ERP, by integrating the management systems in SUPPLIER’s the Retail segment and consolidates its leading position HR and vertical solutions; (ii) Techfin – B2B credit, services platform and using artificial intelligence and big data to in the vertical of supermarkets, the tip of a long supply and payments; and (iii) Business Performance – sales lead continuously improve its credit algorithms. This operation chain, which will enable the generation of synergies and marketing, providing solutions designed to generate was completed on April 30, 2020. between operations and the offer of solutions for financial opportunities and convert sales of clients in order to add services, such as B2B credit, from the Techfin division. This further value to the chains already served by solutions operation was completed on January 30, 2020. from the Management and Techfin divisions. TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 37 F I N A N C I A L C A P I TA L S T R A T E G Y A N D I N V E S T M E N T S For more details on these acquisitions and all corporate operations during the period, read our Reference Form. TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 38 F I N A N C I A L C A P I TA L S T R A T E G Y A N D I N V E S T M E N T S VALUE GENERATION TOTVS generated financial value of R$1.684 billion in 2019, which was shared among employees, government, financial institutions and shareholders. DISTRIBUTION OF VALUE ADDED GRI 201-1 Value added (R$ thousand) Stakeholder 2019 2018 Variation % Salaries, benefits and charges TOTVERS 992,180 927,346 6.5 Taxes, duties and contributions Government 409,421 360,788 11.9 Interest on debt Financial Institutions and Creditors 72,455 121,339 -67.5 Remuneration on Equity Shareholders 210,648 60,643 71.2 TAX INCENTIVES 103-2, 103-3, 201-4 Form of financial help received (R$ thousand)¹ 2019 2018 Tax incentives /credits(1) 12,420 12,839 (1) Brazilian tax law has a mechanism to foster the country’s technological development (Federal Law 11,196/05), which grants tax incentives to companies engaged in research and development (R&D) activities for technological innovation. TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 39 HUMAN CAPITAL The abilities, skills and experience of people and their motivation to innovate, including: their alignment with and support to the governance personnel, risk management approach and ethical values; capacity to understand, develop and implement the strategy of an organization; loyalty and motivation to improve processes, goods and services, including the ability to lead, manage and collaborate. H U M A N C A P I TA L TOTVS’ successful history is the result of the TOTVS CULTURE excellence of our team, consisting of professionals who are passionate about technology and innovation. Creative and restless, our employees Technology + Knowledge are encouraged to provoke changes and propose are our DNA improvements to products and services, relations We have built a legacy in an ever-changing world. and the workplace. We think how technology and knowledge can They are strongly backed by the TOTVS Culture, jointly drive innovation today and always. We are which reflects the attributes that define the creative and are not afraid of making mistakes. company: People, Client and Technology. People Management focuses on diversity, ethics, as well as professional and human development of its The success of our clients teams. is our success We anticipate our clients’ needs. We deliver high-quality solutions that are essential, simpler and more agile for their business. We are present and close to them. We value good professionals who are good people Curious, collaborative, digital and fanatic about results. We’ve got attitude, our own style and we are restless. We are TOTVERS. #WEARETOTVERS TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 41 H U M A N C A P I TA L # W E A R E T O T V E R S #WEARETOTVERS GRI 102-8 TOTVS is a technology company. As such, its greatest capital and At the end of 2019, TOTVS had almost 7,000 employees. The core asset are people. The success of its business depends on the variation in the number of TOTVERS reflects, among other capacity to develop products and services and offer exclusive and factors, the sale of 100% interest held in Bematech Hardware's specialized customer service. For this, the company develops a operations as part of the company's move to focus its teams’ series of strategies and programs for its internal stakeholders, efforts and resources on the software operation. ranging from talent attraction, career development, recognition and promotion of a stimulating working environment to actions that ensure quality of life for its employees. To support the growth cycle of the company in the coming WHO WE ARE GRI 102-8 years, TOTVS relies on initiatives to ensure that people have the necessary tools for their personal development in a Employees by type of agreement and gender¹² 3 2018 2019 serene, respectful and inclusive environment to collaborate Total Men Women Total Men Women in this process. Indeterminate 7,805 66.5% 33.5% 6,971 66.3% 33.7% INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS ¹Including employees of subsidiaries and associated companies of the company and excluding franchises. ²Excluding statutory employees, interns and apprentices. Total employees¹² GRI 102-7, 102-8 3 There are no fixed-term agreements. All employees are classified in the indeterminate agreement category. Countries 2018 2019 Employees by type of employment and gender¹² 2018 2019 Total Men Women Total Men Women Brazil 7,529 6,716 Other Latin American countries 221 242 Full-time 7,771 66.4% 33.6% 6,959 66.3% 33.7% Part-time 34 76.5% 23.5% 12 75% 25% United States of America 44 9 Total by gender 7,805 66.5% 33.5% 6,971 66.3% 33.7% Europe 3 4 ¹Including employees of subsidiaries and associated companies of the company and excluding franchises. Asia 8 0 ²Excluding statutory employees, interns and apprentices. Total 7,805 6,971 ¹Including employees of subsidiaries and associated companies of the company and excluding franchises. ²Excluding statutory employees, interns and apprentices. TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 42 H U M A N C A P I TA L # W E A R E T O T V E R S TOTVERS ENGAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT SURVEY ATTRACTING TALENT 2019 was a special year for TOTVS. WITH TOTVERS Attracting talent is a challenge faced by the entire sector. 92% There is growing demand for technology professionals, The company’s exponential growth and I believe in the potential combined with the lack of qualified professionals to development of new business areas and future of TOTVS meet the market needs in Brazil. The company strives and the prospects for the coming years to attract highly motivated professionals who have the directly reflected in the satisfaction of those who make the company. 88% I am proud to work here characteristics of the #SOMOSTOTVERS culture and who bring with the desire to be part of a company that develops and delivers technology, contributing to the 82% Our satisfaction survey showed My leader gives me transformation of business from north to south of Brazil. that TOTVERS, which is how TOTVS autonomy employees are called, believe in the In 2019, TOTVS redesigned its employer branding model company’s future and 88% of them are proud to work at TOTVS. GRI 102-43 86% My leader acts in accordance with the and ramped up actions to reach out to university and vocational education students. Thirty-five visits to company's culture TOTVS were conducted and 15 lectures were organized at universities, resulting in interaction with approximately 3,000 university students. The onboarding process was redesigned as well; since the first contact, the new professional is immersed in the TOTVS Culture, which values the “spirit of ownership” and “TECH essence” in all areas of the company. GRI 102-43 TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 43 H U M A N C A P I TA L # W E A R E T O T V E R S PEOPLE MANAGEMENT CYCLE GRI 404-3 PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL The People Management Cycle is based on the #SOMOSTOTVERS culture and represents the three main stages that are The Performance Appraisal process is the foundation for followed by each TOTVS leader in their team management and development process. The company adopts meritocracy, implementing the concept of meritocracy through effective actions, which include: which is applied in accordance with the ARCO (Attitude, Result and Consequence methodology, in all stages of the cycle, as represented in the figure: /// Promotions; /// Salary increases; /// Participation in recognition programs; /// Observation and support for performance recovery; /// Exit strategy; Figure: People Management Cycle – ARCO Figure: Meritocracy Cycle Schedule Meritocracy is the key element in the development pillar of TOTVERS. It is based on the annual performance assessment carried out under the 9 Box methodology, which consists of formal stages of feedback that guide the design of an individual development plan, validation of successors and setting of annual targets in alignment with the company’s strategy. The 9 Box Matrix is a tool used to evaluate professionals on two parameters: their results and their skills. In the cartesian plane (x, y), the result is placed on one 9 Box axis and adherence to strategic skills is placed on the other axis. The discussion of calibrating the tool also involves the potential development of TOTVERS. The Program of Targets aims at ensuring and measuring (indicator) all deliverables related to TOTVS’ strategic objectives. TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 44 H U M A N C A P I TA L # W E A R E T O T V E R S Hiring and turnover by gender PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL GRI 404-3 RETENTION GRI 401-1 Retaining talent will always be a sensitive issue when it comes to technology companies. The high turnover Hiring and Employees who underwent performance appraisal turnover and career development (%)¹²³ in the sector is due to the intensively dynamic activities by gender¹² Hiring Terminations Turnover and projects in this segment, combined with the scarcity Men 722 1,209 20.9% of professionals in relation to market demand. For these 91% 91% 89% 91% 94% 91% 89% Women 388 586 20.7% 83% 85% 82% 84% 83% employees, it is important to consistently offer career Total 1.110 1,795 20.8% development processes, recognition mechanisms, and also ¹ Considering all units in Brazil, Argentina, Colombia, Mexico and the United challenges that stimulate their creativity and keep pace States and excluding franchises. ²Excluding statutory employees, interns and apprentices. with technology. GRI 401-1 During 2019, 1,110 people were hired and a total of 1,795 Hiring and left the company. Our turnover rate was 20.84%, which was turnover Men Women Men Women 1.37% lower than in the previous year (22.21%). Internal by age group¹² Hiring Terminations Turnover 2018 2019 Below 30 516 729 31.9% mobility is also an important mechanism for retaining % by gender % leadership positions % other positions these talents. Approximately 25% of job openings created Between 31 and 50 564 963 16.5% in 2019 were filled internally. Above 50 30 103 16.8% ¹ Considering all units in Brazil, Argentina, Colombia, Mexico and the United States. ¹ Considering all units in Brazil, Argentina, Colombia, Mexico and United States Excluding franchises. and excluding franchises. ² Leaders are: lead analysts, coordinators, managers, executive managers, executive ²Excluding statutory employees, interns and apprentices. officers and vice presidents. Other positions: apprentices, interns, assistants, technicians, analysts and specialists. TURNOVER GRI 401-1 GRI 401-1 ³ Including all TOTVERS who underwent performance appraisal over the year (including those who left the company for some reason in 2019). Hiring and Turnover ratio¹²³ 2017 2018 2019 turnover In all areas, TOTVS stimulates proactive effort by 21.22% 22.21% 20.84% by region¹² Hiring Terminations Turnover its employees, providing the tools necessary for South 151 323 16.4% ¹ Considering all units in Brazil, Argentina, Colombia, Mexico and the United them to build their own success story. As such, States and excluding franchises. Southeast 859 1,266 22.5% ²Turnover = [(People Hired + Terminated) / 2] Active employees with the development routes, the company also Midwest 33 99 16.4% ³Excluding statutory employees, interns and apprentices. reinforces the TOTVS Culture of “valuing good Northeast 11 35 19.8% professionals who are good people,” which also North³ 3 33 69.2% influences talent retention. International Market 53 39 18.0% ¹ Considering all units in Brazil, Argentina, Colombia, Mexico and the United States and excluding franchises. ²Excluding statutory employees, interns and apprentices.³ The difference in percentage in the North region is due to the demobilization of a project. TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 45 H U M A N C A P I TA L # W E A R E T O T V E R S The Profit Sharing Program (PLR) recognizes the efforts of employees and their contribution to the Recognize those who make a difference company’s results. The Long-Term Incentive (LTI) plan is another retention strategy designed to align TOTVERS’ interests with the interests of shareholders, broadening their sense of ownership and To recognize the value of its employees, TOTVS commitment through the concept of investment and risk. The program is divided into 3 sections and entails the distribution of TOTVS shares to its recipients. TOTVERS nominations are approved by the implemented several actions in 2019. In the People Committee and the Board of Directors. GRI 102-35, 102-36, 102-37 “You Make a Difference” program, awards were given to 31 TOTVERS from among over 400 professionals nominated by their colleagues for demonstrating behavior or working on projects LTI Partners LTI Executives LTI Highlights of the year aligned with the Culture. /// executives, critical specialists /// includes the CEO, VPs, /// annually, 1% to 3% of nonand Talents are eligible (once elected, Executive Officers and Executive executive TOTVERS (Managers, become permanent partners; Managers; Coordinators, Specialists and “Achieve and Show” is a recognition program Analysts), considered outstanding targeted at TOTVERS in the technology and /// differential in significant wealth /// part of executive compensation employees of the year based generation in the long term for of TOTVS (compared to the market); on performance appraisal, are services areas. These are TOTVERS who TOTVERS who become partners; nominated; implemented projects with disruptive and /// instrument of long-term incremental innovations that resulted in better /// promotion of the sense of engagement and retention; /// significant additional “deferred” “ownership” and shielding of highcompensation in the year of receipt; customer experience. impact TOTVERS in the current /// creation of long-term value business and in the strategy/ and consistent legacies for /// instrument of recognition, operations of the company in the shareholders. motivation, differentiation and The Long-Term Incentive (LTI) model is also medium and long terms; long-term retention; targeted at TOTVERS, and not just at executives. /// instrument of mitigation of /// reinforcement of meritocracy The company’s talents are invited to join continuity and governance risks. culture, ARCO and expected this program which, in practice, makes these standards of performance; TOTVERS non-controlling shareholders of the /// ensure that internal processes company. In 2019, more than 230 TOTVERS of succession and innovation/ benefited from this program, which corresponds operational efficiency are generally led by these talents. to 4% of all eligible TOTVERS. TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 46 H U M A N C A P I TA L # W E A R E T O T V E R S SUCCESSION CONTINUOUS DEVELOPMENT TOTVS believes that a well-designed succession process is Technology is speed, agility, and a constant change in a the guarantee for the continued growth of the company and segment that, by its very characteristics, is highly dynamic, for increasing its capacity to respond to both expected and with new areas and knowledge emerging all the time, driving unexpected changes. The process of mapping successors the development of proactive, self-taught and collaborative at TOTVS is carried out annually in the same period as professionals in sharing and generating knowledge on the the performance management cycle, with assessment and network. To ensure stimulative learning mechanisms in the approval by the company management. internal environment and lay down career development paths, TOTVS implemented a year-long project focusing on specific Potential successors at the first and second levels are areas. The company redesigned the career attributes of “DEVS” nominated by TOTVERS who occupy the corresponding TOTVS developers, who are at the forefront of technology -, positions. The Human Relations area, along with the as well as professionals from the support and services areas. managers and the People and Compensation Committee, In 2020, the company plans to lay the path for its back office, validates these nominations to identify and accelerate the which consists of the administrative, finance, human resources development of skills required for the position, which also and marketing areas, thus completing 100% of the careers involves close monitoring by leadership and the creation in the company. With this, each professional can identify the of real and planned career opportunities considering the requirements for the career of their choice, as well as their aspirations, desires and skills of TOTVERS. strengths and points for improvement. TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 47 H U M A N C A P I TA L # W E A R E T O T V E R S TRAINING GRI 404-1 In 2019, TOTVS offered approximately 158,000 hours of training, which came to 18 hours per TOTVER on average. This information refers to the number of TOTVERS that underwent any type of internal training (which may be multiplied by TOTVERS themselves or suppliers, depending on the business need and the planning of University actions), external training and training completed in online platforms. The increase in training hours compared to 2018 was due to the increase in the internal training programs conducted through multipliers in each area. Starting from 2020, the data collected will also measure the training hours per functional category (in the last two years, the data collected did not include this category). AVERAGE TRAINING HOURS BY GENDER GRI 404-1 2018 2019 Total hours Hours per employee Total hours Hours per employee Men 64,836 20.86 108,487 19.28 Women 29,071 16.24 49,151 16.84 Total 93,907 19.17 157,638 18.45 ¹Refers to training hours of the TOTVS operation, considering the companies acquired that are already part of the headcount (excluding franchises and channels). 2 Including all TOTVERS who took any type of training during the year (including those who left the company for some reason in 2019). ³ In 2019, the Bematech units were not considered. Apart from formal and informal training programs, TOTVS also supports the development of TOTVERS through scholarships for academic studies (undergraduate degree, graduate degree/MBA, master’s degree and doctorate) and language courses. In 2019, the amount invested in scholarships was a little over R$1 million. In all, TOTVS invested R$5.1 million in scholarships, as well as internal, external and online programs and platforms for its employees in 2019. GRI 404-2 INVESTMENT IN COURSES GRI 404-2 2018 2019 No. of scholarships¹ 560 527 Amount invested (R$ thousand) R$1,131 R$1,061 ¹ Includes scholarships for undergraduate degree, language courses, graduate degree, MBA, master’s degree and doctorate. ² For this report, the indicator amount was adjusted, considering the amounts invested in scholarships. TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 48 H U M A N C A P I TA L # W E A R E T O T V E R S PRODUCING AND SHARING KNOWLEDGE As part of the sector’s ecosystem, TOTVS reinforced Knowledge is created, learned and shared. TOTVS’ commitment the role of women in technology, whether through the to the generation of knowledge and technological solutions for participation of female specialists and executives from its internal stakeholders relies on the dissemination among the company in external events, or through institutional TOTVERS through agile and intuitive communication channels. support to third-party events, giving up the company's space It is the case of the concept of a networked university and for its realization. One of these initiatives was Conecta videos, in which specialists, teachers and artists will be the Empreendedoras an event organized by Grupo Mulheres do employees themselves. Thus, it represents an evolution of Brasil, whose mission is to inspire, train and drive sustainable TOTVS University, the internal communication channel that female entrepreneurship. TOTVS hosted the event, which offers part of the continuing education of the company. was held in November 2019, and held the opening workshop “Technology that Connects Businesses.” DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION GRI 405-1 For TOTVS, diversity is an inherent value of its work environment, These actions aimed at exchanging knowledge and experiences an agenda that should progressing over the coming years. In were part of the process of building the Diversity Program, the Human Relations and Sustainability agenda, the Diversity launched by TOTVS in March 2020. For this, the company set and Inclusion pillar reflects the company's commitment to up a team focused on diversity and inclusion and conducted continuously improving its performance on SDG 5 (Gender a confidential internal survey (which was optional) to gauge Equality). In 2019, the company set up the Diversity, Inclusion and the perception of TOTVERS on diversity and inclusion in Social Responsibility area within the Human Relations structure, the company and then design the best strategies and fronts launched a process to identify the issues to be addressed by it in that will guide the Program and its related policies. In 2020, the coming years and rolled out a series of actions to underscore the program will focus on gender equality, seeking to bring the importance of the theme. information and knowledge on the topic to promote the culture of inclusion and, therefore, increase the number of women in leadership and technology-related positions. TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 49 H U M A N C A P I TA L # W E A R E T O T V E R S In 2019, the main diversity highlights of the company were: /// In 2019, we held another edition of the Festival of Social Impact, which was extended to other cities where TOTVS operates apart from São Paulo, such as Belo Horizonte and Joinville. The goal is to value individuals and organizations that develop exponential and disruptive solutions that create a concrete and positive social and environmental impact on people's lives, society and the environment. The week's anchor theme was Tech for good: Brazil that makes a difference to discuss the role of technology as a tool for social transformation. The power of social transformation of large companies, more women in technology, diversity and inclusion, accessible design for TOTVS software, peripheral entrepreneurship and customized educational methods for youth and children in socially vulnerable situations were some of the highlights of the agenda that featured 18 panel discussions, 54 speakers, 5 cultural interventions and the participation of over 1,000 TOTVERS and external guests. /// In February 2019, students of the Institute of Social Opportunity (IOS), maintained by TOTVS in partnership with other companies, participated in the Diversity and Inclusion Startup Weekend event organized by TechStars in Brazil. The event aims to stimulate entrepreneurship through social impact initiatives by underrepresented groups. In April, representatives of the projects that won awards at the program visited TOTVS in São Paulo. The visitors participated in a Design Thinking workshop at UX Lab, an environment manned by a team of researchers and designers exclusively dedicated to exploring market trends and improving the user experience of our solutions and services through constant research and field observation with clients. They also visited the Institute of Exponential Ideas (iDEXO), created by the company with the mission of connecting startups, entrepreneurs and developers with large companies in order to pursue new business solutions. /// As part of the partnership with Instituto Luís Gama, TOTVS received at its auditorium, in April 2019, one more edition of the Course “Structural Racism”. Around 20 TOTVERS and IOS professionals participated in the event. /// It was also held #TogetherwithITLGBT edition, with support from various TOTVS employees and partner organizations, such as Games Diversidade, which conducted the DiversiLAB workshop. Educators and team from the Institute of Social Opportunity hosted a workshop on programming logic for over 50 LGBT youth interested in pursuing a career in technology. TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 50 H U M A N C A P I TA L # W E A R E T O T V E R S DIVERSITY AND EQUITY OF OPPORTUNITIES GRI 405-1 Employees by position and gender (%)¹² 2018 2019 Men Women Men Women Executive Officers and Managers 78.4 21.6 73.7 26.3 Managers 68.6 31.4 68.1 31.9 Coordinators 68.8 31.2 66.7 33.3 Specialists 75.8 24.2 77.3 22.7 Analysts 67 33 66.2 33.8 Technicians and Assistants 54.5 45.5 54.9 45.1 ¹ The data include TOTVERS at branches in Brazil and excludes franchises. ² Excluding statutory employees, interns and apprentices. GRI 405-1 Employees by 2018 2019 position, age group Below Between Above Below Between Above and gender (%)¹² 30 30 and 50 50 30 30 and 50 50 Executive Officers Men 0 82.9 17.1 0 84.9 15.1 and Managers Women 0 95.2 4.8 3.8 92.3 3.8 Managers Men 4.5 85.3 10.2 6.3 83.5 10.1 Women 6.2 88.9 4.9 2.7 93.2 4.1 Coordinators Men 8.3 85.5 6.2 5.5 89.0 5.5 Women 4.7 89.3 5.9 4.1 88.3 7.6 Specialists Men 3.2 80.0 16.8 4.2 79.4 16.4 Women 3.0 81.5 15.5 3.4 82.8 13.8 Analysts Men 33.3 62.2 4.5 30.0 65.4 4.5 Women 29.9 66.6 3.4 26.3 69.6 4.2 Technicians and Men 68.1 29.4 2.5 71.0 26.8 2.2 Assistants Women 58.9 38.8 2.3 64.5 34.4 1.1 ¹ The data include TOTVERS at branches in Brazil and excludes franchises. ² Excluding statutory employees, interns and apprentices. TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 51 H U M A N C A P I TA L # W E A R E T O T V E R S GRI 405-1 Employees with disabilities by position and gender (%)¹² 2018 2019 Leaders 1.3 1.1 Specialists 1.9 3.6 Analysts 21.2 25.4 Technicians and Assistants 75.6 69.9 Total 100 100 ¹ The data include TOTVERS at branches in Brazil and excludes franchises. ²Excluding statutory employees, interns and apprentices. Race and ethnicity of employees by gender and position (%)¹²³ 4 2019 % LEADERS % OTHER POSITIONS Men Women Men Women White 78.7 White 86.1 White 67.5 White 71.2 Black 1.9 Black 0.8 Black 4.2 Black 19.5 Brown 12.6 Brown 8.2 Brown 23.2 Brown 3.8 Yellow 1.5 Yellow 0.0 Yellow 0.9 Yellow 1.1 Indigenous 0.2 Indigenous 0.4 Indigenous 0.2 Indigenous 0.5 Not informed 5.0 Not informed 4.5 Not informed 3.9 Not informed 3.8 ¹ Including TOTVERS at branches in Brazil and excluding franchises. ² Excluding statutory employees, interns and apprentices. ³ According to the nomenclature used by the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE). 4 The positions of executive officers, managers and coordinators were considered leaders, while specialists, analysts, technicians and assistants were considered non-leaders. TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 52 H U M A N C A P I TA L # W E A R E T O T V E R S CARE AND HEALTH To prevent and reduce the number of occupational accidents Federal Government’s Corporate Citizen program, the The health of employees is an important issue for TOTVS and and diseases, TOTVS has a series of measures, such as company offers maternity leave of six months and paternity critical for the technology sector. The Specialized Occupational ergonomic workstations, “blitz” on posture with information leave of 20 days. The retention rate of TOTVERS that return Safety and Health Engineering Services (SESMT) area belongs on how to organize workstations and make them ergonomic, to work after a 12-month of leave is 83% for mothers and to the Shared Services Center (CST) and is responsible for as well as newsletters containing health tips sent to TOTVERS. 91% for fathers, as shown below: ensuring the health and protecting the physical integrity of In addition, the company also has the +Health program, which GRI 401-3 TOTVERS, as well as meeting the legal occupational safety and underscores its commitment to the health and well-being of Return to work and retention health requirements. TOTVERS and is divided into three pillars: rate after maternity/ 2019 paternity leave¹ Women Men Compared to 2018, the number of lost days and injuries in 1Health Promotion Programs Employees who went on leave 125 120 2019 decreased slightly, possibly due to the change in Brazilian 2Prevention of Diseases Employees who returned to work labor laws regarding commuting accidents, which are no longer 3 Encouragement to Physical Activity after the leave period 125 120 considered occupational accidents (the change took effect in Employees who returned to work November 2019). Moreover, absenteeism increased in relation GRI 401-2 from leave and were still employed to 2018 due to the implementation of a system that improved TOTVS also has a series of benefits and initiatives aimed at a after 12 months of their return 104 109 the collection, monitoring and systematization of the process. healthier lifestyle, which include: Retention rate of employees who returned to work after the end of leave (%) 100% 100% /// Health and Dental Insurance to TOTVERS and their dependents Retention rate of employees who returned GRI 403-2 /// Life Insurance to work after 12 months 83% 91% Number of injuries, occupational diseases /// Internal Clinical Support ¹ Including TOTVERS from TOTVS S.A., TOTVS TECHNOLOGY and TOTVS LARGER branches in Brazil and excluding franchises. and lost days 12345 2018 2019 /// Monitoring of Chronic Diseases Occupational diseases 1 1 /// Monitoring of Hospitalizations Number of lost days 659 629 /// Nutritional Monitoring and Support The company also has the following programs dedicated to Number of accidents 73 69 /// Vaccination Campaigns mental health: Absenteeism rate (%) 0.95 1.59 /// Group to Encourage Physical Activity /// Mental Health Guidelines and Monitoring Deaths 0 0 /// 24/7 Emergency Channels /// Care for Welfare and Relaxation ¹ Including TOTVERS from TOTVS S.A. branches in Brazil in 2018 and 2019 and excluding franchises. ² This indicator considers Bematech units for 2018 and 2019. ³ Commuting /// Digital Health Information Channel /// Exclusive Personal Guidance Channel that provides legal accidents were considered until November 11, 2019, after which they ceased to be treated as occupational accidents due to a change in law (Provisional Presidential /// Mother’s love: Health support and guidelines for pregnant assistance, social support, psychological guidance and Decree 905, published in the Federal Register on November 12, 2019, which revoked Law 8,213/91). 4 To calculate the total lost days, the number of occupational diseases women since the onset of pregnancy until the baby is 1 financial advice. and accidents was considered, but minor injuries were not included in this case. 5 As for the absenteeism rate, both the days and hours of the certificates were considered, while year old. Apart from support to mothers, TOTVS also has leave of absence borne by social security were included. Maternity leave days were not considered. The calculation considered total lost days and days worked vs. the number a lactation room at the head office in São Paulo and the of active employees. Joinville unit in Santa Catarina. Being a member of the TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 53 INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL Organizational intangibles based on knowledge, including intellectual property, such as patents, copyrights, software, rights and licenses; “organizational capital”, such as tacit knowledge, systems, procedures and protocols. I N T E L L E C T U A L C A P I TA L RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT GRI 103-2, 103-3 MAIN OBJECTIVES OF R&D UX LAB: At the TOTVS User Experience Lab (UX LAB), researchers As a software company, TOTVS has technology as the and designers are dedicated to exploring opportunities for innovation foundation of its business, backed by highly-skilled teams and the market trends in improving the user experience of solutions /// Software improvements, enabling more and the development of agile solutions at the cutting edge and services offered, through constant surveys, validations with of innovation. TOTVS seeks to meet the market demand for efficient development of solutions; clients and collaboration. Projects are executed using the Design software and services, which is reflected in the continuous /// Adoption of new technologies and Thinking approach and involve empathy, collaboration and creativity efforts by its research and development unit to develop cuttingassessment of their impact; in order to discover new solutions based on clients’ needs, constant edge software and services. improvement of processes, review of interfaces and navigability /// Technologies to ensure protection and of products, while unifying the identity and unique experience of The company also invests in the development of new products safety of its products and operations; their solutions and disseminating the culture of design to company in order to access new markets. To identify the products /// Creation and strengthening of a employees and clients. that must be developed, TOTVS conducts market research development ecosystem based on TOTVS tools; to identify business segments that need specific solutions IDEXO: Through the Institute of Exponential Ideas (iDEXO), TOTVS /// Improvement of concepts, functionalities and then develops solutions targeted at those segments. invests in fostering entrepreneurship and open innovation based and uses of software products; The research also aims to analyze, together with the sales on co-innovation among startups, entrepreneurs and developers. channels, the potential segments that would drive the growth /// Development of special products for clients; The mission of the non-profit Institute, located at the company’s in business volume. Modularization has also been essential /// Integration of third-party tools; headquarters, is to identify innovative ideas that could be adopted in TOTVS’ growth strategies to stimulate the development and drive the exponential growth of TOTVS’ and its clients’ operations. /// Assessment of new organizational models of applications whose main solutions are run by internal and It currently has more than 70 startups that serve the 12 economic and their applicability. external developers (small software, app developers and segments in which TOTVS operates. In two years, over 200 clients technology startups). of the company had their business issues resolved by a startup supported by iDEXO. The connection with the ecosystem of startups NEW RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT enables TOTVS to expand its portfolio of solutions for its clients and AND OPEN INNOVATION STRUCTURE make the innovation process of companies even more agile, reducing R&D CENTERS: Specialized in 12 strategic segments of the company, costs and increasing revenue. these are distributed all over the country, exploring the technological potential, economic vocation and supply of skilled human capital in these regions, creating opportunities and driving social and economic development. These centers have teams specializing in product and development, support, customer service and relationship, services (implementation), design and interface to meet the specific requirements of each segment. TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 55 I N T E L L E C T U A L C A P I TA L SOFTWARE AND SOLUTIONS BASED USA TOTVS LABS NOW IN A NEW LOCATION ON THE AGILE DEVELOPMENT MODEL GRI 102-10, 103-2,103-3 TOTVS is alert to leading global trends in software development 2019 also marked the change of address of the and has been evolving significantly in agile processes and tools. TOTVS R&D unit in the United States. TOTVS It has implemented an agile development process at all segments LABS, established in 2012 in Mountain View in of the company through the Scrum and Lean methodologies in the Silicon Valley, has moved to Raleigh, North the software development teams (Innovation, Maintenance and Carolina. The city is located at one of the country’s Testing) of the products. In the agile model, with the integration most important technology and research regions, of teams, a highly collaborative process was built among known as the Research Triangle Park (RTP), the professionals with a multidisciplinary vision and greater freedom largest scientific research hub, in a region that for creation, who are dedicated to developing the best solution boasts a robust technological environment and in a more consistent process that leaves lower margin for error, abundant supply of talent. TOTVS LABS has a thereby guaranteeing high-quality deliveries and added value to multicultural team of approximately 20 people the end client. dedicated to identifying new business models and startups, establishing strategic alliances and Check out on the company’s YouTube channel content we transferring knowledge to other TOTVS business have specially prepared to foster dialogue on the subject of units. Among the key technologies worked on are agility at TOTVS, bringing together Devs professionals and Artificial Intelligence, Computer Vision, Natural market specialists in three thematic meetings for the “Beer Language Processing, Distributed Computing, 3D for Devs” program: “O Manifesto Ágil”, “Scrum ou Kanban na Printing, Robotics, Virtual Reality, Augmented Metodologia Ágil?” and “Como ser ágil”. Reality and UX Design. TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 56 I N T E L L E C T U A L C A P I TA L Over the years, TOTVS has consolidated its ERP market leadership CERTIFICATIONS GRI 103-2,103-3 in the small and medium business segments. Investments in The following certifications are an important tool for R&D IN NUMBERS research and development were essential for TOTVS to stand continuously improving the management of processes and apart from competition by bringing innovative solutions powered controls at TOTVS. /// Over R$1.5 billion invested in R&D by proprietary technology and providing value-added services. in the last five years TIER – Effectively assesses the structure of datacenters in TOTAL INVESTMENTS IN RESEARCH AND terms of business requirements for system availability, based /// 2,200 TOTVERS in the R&D structure in DEVELOPMENT (R$ MILLION) on performance or functioning time expected from the site Brazil and the international market infrastructure. Currently, TOTVS has the TIER III certification. (32% of our human capital) Year Amount invested % of Net Revenue MPS BR – Reference model for processes containing good 2019 R$397.8 million 17.4% software development practices, aimed at increasing /// Implementation of Agile Model for 2018 R$382.0 million 18.0% competitivity and improving software development processes software development, unifying and 2017 R$343.3 million 17.2% in Brazil’s software market. integrating all the Innovation, ISO 9001 – Standardization certificate that specifies a set Maintenance and Support teams BRAND of requirements aimed at guiding companies in the quality Solid trajectory, close understanding of the reality and specific management system in order to satisfy clients, pursue constant /// 185 Agile Development squads demands of strategic segments, highly-skilled and innovative teams improvement, and assure competitiveness and quality at /// 50 UX projects with 24 areas and that are committed to offering the best solutions and customer companies. 69 people involved (Core Team) service. These are some of the attributes of TOTVS, which is also ISO 27001 ISO/IEC is the international standard for and 1,709 engaged customers recognized for its strong corporate governance and permanent information safety management. It describes how to put commitment to the development of the technology sector and the into practice an information safety management system /// 70 startups in iDEXO and over growth of the country. It is a consolidated and respected brand, and and enables confidential and sensitive data to be protected, 200 TOTVS clients with issues resolved is the only technology company in Interbrand’s “The most valuable thereby minimizing the chance of their being accessed illegally brands in Brazil” ranking. or without permission and ensuring that they are available /// Over 90 patents and 100 software when necessary. Brand value (R$ million)¹ ISAE 3402 ISAE 3402 is a formal report used by service trademarks providers and is prepared by an independent audit firm, which -8% +5% /// Strategic partnerships with universities, describes the development, implementation and operational research institutes, incubators and effectiveness of the controls of an organization, guaranteeing 498 457 478 the quality and control of services provided, and mitigating other companies for innovative projects risks for clients. 2017 2018 2019 ¹ Amount according to Interbrand survey ranking. TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 57 SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL Relations within and among stakeholders, and the capacity to share information to improve the individual and collective well-being. Social and relationship capital covers: shared s tandards, as well as common values and behaviors; relations with key stakeholders, trust and commitment to building and protecting external stakeholders; intangible assets associated with the brand and reputation; operating permit of an organization. S O C I A L A N D R E L AT I O N S H I P C A P I TA L C L I E N T S CLIENTS GRI 103-2,103-3 TOTVS believes in a Brazil that GETS THINGS DONE What moves so many companies across Brazil closer to their dreams? What makes them move forward despite all challenges? DOING IT! No matter how many times. Doing, testing, making mistakes, learning. That's the strength that leads companies of all sizes in our country to surmount obstacles every day. We are proud to be a part of so many stories. Of helping so many clients to innovate, grow and perpetuate their business. In 2019, TOTVS began repositioning its corporate campaign corner of Brazil. The company's clients are entrepreneurs from and its signature. As Brazil's largest technology company, it the country's north to south, of different sizes from micro reiterates its purpose of simplifying the world of business, as and small to large companies -, have different purposes and beone of the Brazilian companies that believe and invest in the liefs, but all of them share a common goal: to perpetuate their country and are a benchmark in their sectors. Its Brazil that business and help build a better country. As with many of these GETS THINGS DONE, DOES with TOTVS campaign reiterates companies, TOTVS shares moments of challenges and achievethe company's commitment to support and walk alongside ments. This doing together means for TOTVS to have a busicompanies that drive the country. And for that, it brings the ness that is part of the business of more than 30,000 companies voice of those who turn the economy's wheel in every nook and in 12 segments that innovate, transform and get things done. TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 59 S O C I A L A N D R E L AT I O N S H I P C A P I TA L C L I E N T S ALL SIZES, ALL OVER BRAZIL GRI 102-43 TOTVS BELIEVES IN A BRAZIL At the heart of TOTVS' business model is its relationship with UNIVERSO TOTVS IS BACK THAT GETS THINGS DONE clients. Since the first contact, TOTVS teams and processes The 2019 edition of Universo TOTVS, held in June, was With the slogan, TOTVS believes in a Brazil that GETS strive to identify the specific needs of each company whether a success. After a 4-year break, the event featured THINGS DONE, the company launched a series of media by size or segment, while also considering the characteristics 4,500 participants a day, 60 exhibitors and 200 hours and marketing actions. These are stories of challenges and of the markets, audience segments and locations where they of events. The two days were replete with activities surmounting them, of innovations and transformations, operate. The company adopts the AR Theory (Service and ranging from master classes featuring Brazilian and which enabled these companies to perpetuate their Relationship), in which the same team that sells also provides international keynote speakers, segmented tracks, business. And TOTVS is very proud to be part of these the service. This proximity is also possible thanks to the which brought cutting-edge content to the market. journeys. These actions include an audiovisual campaign TOTVS Distribution Model, which combines its own units This edition saw several activities targeted at the tech featuring entrepreneurs talking about TOTVS' technology with its franchise network. Such a structure means agile and audience. The agenda included prominent names in the and partnership in their companies customized service according to the size of the client, being technology sector, Code & No Code sessions to create close and present where the client is located. See more details prototypes with the company's platforms and Coffee Click here to know customer success stories. of the service structure and the customer journey in “TOTVS” & Code space set up to provide in-depth knowledge (*Information available in Portuguese only). in Manufactured Capital section. of programming language to visitors. Results couldn't have been better: tech enthusiasts and developers DIFFERENTIALS OF FRANCHISE MODEL embraced the proposal and enjoyed and shared /// Regional reach – footprint in all states and major economic hubs their experiences with the TOTVS technical team. /// 650+ people in sales and marketing fields. Over 3,000 people in deployment service areas /// Nearly 50% of new sales are generated by TOTVS franchise network /// Regional experience: regional accent, regional knowledge and regional entrepreneurs /// Local support: presence of franchises helps strengthen regional entrepreneurship and appreciating technology as an instrument of business development /// Quality: standardization in sales, service and deployment of TOTVS solutions nationwide /// Commitment to TOTVS: exclusive rights in distributing TOTVS solutions TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 60 S O C I A L A N D R E L AT I O N S H I P C A P I TA L S O C I E T Y SOCIETY GRI 103-2,103-3 A 100% domestic company, TOTVS is a partner in Brazil's development. Its commitments go beyond its ecosystem and reach the broader society with the responsibility of being the country's largest technology company. It understands that its legacy includes fostering the development of the tech sector, especially among youth, so that they can dedicate themselves to future careers while also acquiring the skills to understand problems and propose solutions, not just as techies but also as citizens who can positively intervene in their own realities and communities. As such, the diverse social and environmental responsibility initiatives promoted by it include the Institute of Social Opportunity (IOS). TOTVS also takes part in groups and institutions that promote the sustainable development of companies, human rights, as well as proactive approach and citizenship of people. In 2019, the company participated in a training program on Due Diligence in Human Rights as part of an event organized by the UN Global Compact, at the House of United Nations in Brasilia, and also hosted the Workshop on Transparency in Human Rights organized by the Ethos Institute in partnership with the Fundação Getúlio Vargas (FGV). The company is also a signatory to the Ethos Institute's Business Pact for Integrity and Against Corruption. As for its software, the company has dedicated efforts to make its products increasingly accessible to people with special needs. TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 61 S O C I A L A N D R E L AT I O N S H I P C A P I TA L S O C I E T Y PARTNERSHIPS TO GROOM IOS students, 90% have studied in public schools, 57% are FRESH TALENT women and 57% are black. IOS functions in the states of São In addition to in-house training programs, TOTVS also Paulo (interior region and greater São Paulo), Minas Gerais, engages with other players in the ecosystem to groom Santa Catarina, Rio de Janeiro, Rio Grande do Sul, Paraná and new professionals in the country. Through a partnership Pernambuco. with the São Paulo State Government, coordinated by the Centro Paula Souza, it participates in the My Chance The focus is on the employability of these youth. Every year, Program, which provides training for young students more than 2,000 youth are trained and, of these, about 1,000 on from the State Technical Schools (ETECs) and State average are employed by partner companies in diverse various Technological Colleges (FATECs). This is also the mission segments and TOTVS, creating a strong direct social impact on of the Institute of Social Opportunity (IOS), an institute employment and income generation. The new job opportunity supported by TOTVS which offers training in the areas of also represents, according to a survey by the Institute, an business management and technology. increase of about 47% in the household income when a student starts working. In 2019, IOS had more than 3,000 students, of INSTITUTE OF SOCIAL OPPORTUNITY (IOS) which 2,250 completed their vocational programs and 1,400 Established in 1998 by volunteers from TOTVS, then known landed their first job. TOTVS invested more than R$5 million as Microsiga, IOS is a non-profit institution supported by in the Institute in 2019. For more information about IOS, visit: private initiative, which provides training for youth in socially www.ios.org.br. GRI 203-1 vulnerable situations and people with special needs to prepare them for the labor market, and providing access to technology with the main goal of employing qualified professionals in the economy of the future. IOS' professional training model offers business management and information technology programs, which include modules on Digital Education, Citizenship, Sustainability, Math, Communication and Expressions, Soft skills, as well as psychosocial assistance by a multidisciplinary team consisting of psychologists, social workers and psychopedagogists. During the program, students get the chance to apply the concepts using software available in the market. Since its creation, it has trained over 36,000 students. The target audience of the Institute is socially vulnerable youth and disabled people aged between 15 and 29. Of the TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 62 S O C I A L A N D R E L AT I O N S H I P C A P I TA L S O C I E T Y INITIATIVES TO FACE COVID-19 The campaign was also carried out at TOTVS units in the a tool to face the pandemic, in order to mitigate the risks of the In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, TOTVS International Market. In Argentina, blankets were collected to spread of Covid-19 and unite the IT&C sector in overcoming the implemented several actions to maintain the relationship help homeless families in vulnerable communities in Greater important social and economic challenge imposed by pandemic. with its ecosystem active and to promote social Buenos Aires, assisted by the NGO Manos en Acción. In responsibility across the sector and society, such as: Mexico, support was provided for the purchase of basic food /// Leadership in the construction of the baskets for extremely vulnerable families in the city of Chiapas, Todos Juntos industry project. /// Provision of distance training platform a region with high poverty rates in the country, through the TOTVS has also been leading the development of “Todos Understanding the importance of quality training, TOTVS offered NGO Aldeias Infantis. Juntos” (Everyone together), a nonprofit, collaborative project its distance training platform free of charge for use during the involving the Information Technology and Communication physical distancing period to broaden the knowledge of content /// Minimum Protocol for Return for Information companies affiliated to Brasscom. The initiative aims to ensure that impact the performance of those interested in working in the Technology and Communication Sector a safer and more organized return to the physical working technology sector. A total of 32 batches (50 seats in each batch) TOTVS helped prepare the Minimum Protocol for Return to environment, managing the economic impact of the pandemic were offered training on TOTVS’ Protheus and RM lines, as well as activities by the Brazilian Association of Information Technology and certifying the health status of employees to ensure a safe the TOTVS Moda product, targeted at the textile production chain. and Communication Companies (Brasscom). To offer inputs for and organized return to the physical working environment after enabling a safer return by employees to onsite work, the protocol the physical distancing period. Companies that join the project /// TOTVS Project and IOS was based on best practices and recommendations from health will, in partnership with clinical laboratories, conduct periodic Everyone Together for Economic Resumption authorities, as well as the qualitative survey conducted among examinations of their employees in order to certify whether The activities of the Institute of Social Opportunity, social investment Brasscom members in April 2020. The document is divided into they can return to the working environment. “Todos Juntos” is of TOTVS, which offers free professional training on business 4 topics: Physical distancing and new behaviors; Hygiene and an app with individual and unique access for each employee, management and information technology courses for youth in sanitization at the company's facilities; Raising awareness; and who can check their exam results in the form of status, access socially vulnerable situations and People with Disabilities, were Care for professionals. Driven by its commitment to the health the company’s guidelines, check the history of exams undergone also impacted by the pandemic. The two main problems reported by and safety of its employees, TOTVS adhered to the Protocol as and other precautionary measures. students were lack of Internet access (two-thirds could not attend classes because they did not have durable connectivity and data package availability) and, in many cases, the problem was lack of food for their families' survival. With this in mind, TOTVS launched an internal campaign to collec Food Cards and donate data packages that aims to provide the opportunity to continue studies for part of students enrolled in courses in the second semester, those in greater social vulnerability. TOTVS R I NE TL EAG TOR AITNETDE G RREA PODO R T2 20 01 19 9 63 S O C I A L A N D R E L AT I O N S H I P C A P I TA L I N N O VA T I O N C O M M U N I T Y INNOVATION COMMUNITY IDEXO: STIMULATING TOTVS DEVELOPERS THE INNOVATION ECOSYSTEM 103-2,103-3 It is a technically oriented blog to share experiences and GENERATING KNOWLEDGE Founded by TOTVS in 2017, iDEXO is an institute that knowledge by bringing together all those interested in trending connects startups, entrepreneurs and developers to create topics related to software development. The target audience AND TECHNOLOGY IN THE NETWORK new business solutions. Its mission is to generate concrete consists of Developers, DevOps, Solutions Architects, TOTVS fosters the growth of the technology business deals between large companies with some need SysAdmins, Data Scientists and Technology specialists. With for innovation and startups with exponential solutions. the new channel, TOTVS underlines its strategy of revamping sector and the increase in the number of Conceived in the open innovation platform model, iDEXO has its image in the development market and reaching out to this already assisted 70 startups in two years, operating in 12 audience, while also seeking to attract and retain talent. The people involved in the tech universe. As for its segments related to the operations of TOTVS and its clients. key players are the company's developers who share their relationships, it holds events focused on the Learn more about iDEXO. experiences and show how innovation and development are handled in the company's development cells. The portal also tech audience and stimulated the exchange of encourages and facilitates the engagement of professionals know-how among the players in the technology and companies wishing to collaborate with TOTVS platforms, providing a guidebook for integrating the company's APIs, sector. One of its initiatives is the Beer for Devs, a library for the development of responsive web and mobile a YouTube show akin to a happy hour , with apps, a code testing area in diverse programming languages and other tools. Innovation, technology, knowledge, developers talking about different technology enthusiasm, creativity and curiosity are the guiding principles topics. Following this same open knowledge of this network. The community now has over 10,000 members in its blog, 6,000 members in its official website and 1,700 principle of sharing know-how, TOTVS launched subscribers on YouTube. Learn more details about the initiative in 2019 the Portinari UI Project, a virtual open by visiting the Blog's official website and join us to learn, share, collaborate and discuss the main topics on technology. source library. TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 64 S O C I A L A N D R E L AT I O N S H I P C A P I TA L S U P P L I E R S | G O V E R N M E N T SUPPLIERS GRI 102-9, 102-43, 414-1 system of registration, which digitally analyzes aspects related RELATIONS GUIDED BY TOTVS' supplier chain is formed by companies in the segment to the identification and assessing of compliance risks, among ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY of development of software that the company markets, as others. This assessment is made to ensure that TOTVS does well as technological platforms and databases that are resold not do business with suppliers involved in any kind of illegal ETHICAL AND IMPARTIAL CONDUCT the company to customers. The company's supply chain also includes or wrongful practices, pursuant to the anti-corruption laws values ethical and responsible conduct in its relations consulting services in different areas such as audit, marketing, in force and in line with the ethical principles adopted by the with government authorities and forbids any illicit building infrastructure services such as cleaning, security company. practice, strictly in compliance with the Anti-Corruption and maintenance services, as well as assorted supplies, such Law (12,846/13). It does not take any political stance and as office, hygiene and consumption, administrative materials, does not take any initiative that could be construed as among others. Materials and services are mostly provided GOVERNMENT GRI 103-2, 103-3 benefiting politicians or parties. It fully respects the right by suppliers located in the same city as TOTVS branches and of TOTVERS to actively participate in Brazilian politics, companies. TOTVS believes that advocating for the sector in favor of encouraging them to fulfill their duties as citizens. aspects it deems essential for the country's development The process for contracting suppliers and/or service providers means strengthening its responsibility as a company and GIFTS AND PRESENTS it complies with Resolution 3 complies with the company's Procedures for Acquisition expanding its positive social impact. The Institutional and (11/23/2000), which regulates the handing of gifts and of Products and Services and on Management of Supplier Government Relations team strives to make TOTVS a leading presents to public authorities, as well as the policies and/or Agreements and its Code of Ethics and Conduct, considering player in the country's development agenda. Through an codes of the respective public agents, bodies and entities equitable assumptions such as price, delivery deadline, agenda addressed jointly with other sector players, in 2019 to which they belong. With regard to gifts, it permits payment terms, quality and others. it sought an increasingly closer, technical and transparent the delivery of corporate items with the TOTVS and/or relationship with the Executive and Legislative branches to IOS logo to public agents. As for presents, no employee, Agreements set forth obligations regarding compliance with formulate and improve public policies that bring economic contractor, agent, franchisee or any other person acting the Anti-Corruption Law, labor obligations and the guarantee growth and social progress using technology. The more on behalf of TOTVS is allowed to deliver presents to any that there is no slave-like or child labor, in addition to clauses prominent use of technologies as catalysts of development, public agent. indicating respect for human rights and diversity in all its have sparked the interest of the public sector in debates forms, as well as environmental standards. We also encourage that permeate the regulatory agenda of the sector, including DONATIONS AND PECUNIARY CONTRIBUTIONS TO our suppliers to demand the same in their supply chains. Learn issues related to the business environment and the PUBLIC AGENTS it forbids all types of contributions, more in our Governance chapter. prosperity of the IT sector itself. donations and payments, whether pecuniary or not, to Public Agents, as well as any kind of support for election In addition, since 2018, TOTVS has intensified the supplier campaigns by public or private agents. management process through a platform connected to the TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 65 S O C I A L A N D R E L AT I O N S H I P C A P I TA L E N T I T I E S I N T E C H N O L O G Y S E C T O R 23 ENTITIES IN TECHNOLOGY SECTOR ENGAGEMENT IN INDUSTRY ASSOCIATIONS Some notable corporate events that TOTVS sponsored and discuss proposals and opportunities for Brazil in light of the AND ORGANIZATIONS GRI 102-13 participated in helped disseminate information and good technologies available and to spread innovative experiences sector practices. and reinforce the national innovation ecosystem. TOTVS was TOTVS actively takes part in the main discussions focused on the represented by Laércio Cosentino in the panel discussion on development of the technology sector and in entities that are Brasscom TecFórum: event that promotes dialogue between Innovative Brazil: the most important developments . relevant for our business segments, such as: public and private agents, encouraging them to reflect on technology, public policies and digital government in order to Abes Conference: the event provided an opportunity to discuss /// Brazilian Association of Software Companies (ABES) achieve a Digital, Connected and Innovative Brazil. The company's ways to make Brazil an increasingly vibrant, prosperous and /// Rio de Janeiro and Minas Gerais branches of the Association founder, Laércio Cosentino, chaired a panel with the Brazilian globally competitive economy by building an ecosystem that of Brazilian Information Technology Companies Association of Information Technology and Communication favors innovation and is attractive to investors. (Assespro/RJ and Assespro/MG) Companies (Chairman Sérgio Paulo Galindo) and the Ministry of /// Association to Promote the Excellence of Brazilian Science, Technology, Innovation and Communications (MCTIC São Paulo Tech Week: the innovation and technology festival Software (SOFTEX) Executive Secretary Júlio Semeghini). In the same event, a TOTVS that values São Paulo's entrepreneurial and innovative vein, /// Business Mobilization for Innovation Commitee Labs representative spoke on Carol, the artificial intelligence which featured more than 500 activities and events on diverse of the National Confederation of Industry (MEI/ CNI) platform developed by team members in Brazil and the United topics, such as programming and systems development, IoT, /// American Chamber of Commerce States, which contributes to meeting Brazil's challenge in AI, digital transformation, diversity and digital inclusion, Brazil-United States (AMCHAM) education, tackling the high dropout rates faced by universities. talent attraction, industry 4.0 and many other topics. TOTVS /// IT Executive Bureau of the Ministry of Economy; participated with the focus on diversity and inclusion, women in /// Manufacturers’ Board of the Brazilian Association 18th ANPEI Conference on Innovation: forum in which company technology and design thinking. of Trade Automation (AFRAC) representatives, government agencies, as well as science, /// Associação Brasileira de Internet Industrial (ABII) technology and innovation (ST&I) institutions came together to Funding for Public Policies* /// Agribusiness Network (RedeAgro) discuss and propose policies and practices focused on innovation Amount invested* (in Brazilian reais) /// Brazilian Franchising Association (ABF) in companies and the country. Among the issues raised by the /// Brazilian Association of Publicly Held Companies (ABRASCA) company was its vision on data security and the partnership /// Board of Directors of the Brazilian Association of Information between TOTVS and IOS in social inclusion through vocational 2,304,137.82 2,194,000.00 2,821,000.00 and Communication Technology Companies (BRASSCOM) training on technologies of the future. 2017 2018 2019 /// Board of the National Association for Research *Considers expenses with participation in associations, industry organizations, agendas and Development of Innovative Companies (ANPEI); 8th Brazilian Congress on Innovation in Industry: organized and development forums that help improve the business scenario in the information technology sector and foster discussions of public policies. by Brazil's National Industry Confederation (CNI) in 2019 to promote the culture of entrepreneurial innovation, as well as TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 66 S O C I A L A N D R E L AT I O N S H I P C A P I TA L INVESTORS INVESTORS GRI 102-7 RETURN OF TOTVS DAY G RI 1 0 2 4 3 TOTVS ended the year with capital stock of R$1,382,509 In response to renewed interest in TOTVS, thousand. At the end of 2019, the capital stock of the company the Investor Relations department and other was composed of 192,637,727* common shares, with 85.0% being free float, of which 98.4% was held by institutional executives held numerous dialogues with investors and 64.7% by foreign investors. investors and shareholders over the past year, and began 2020 with the return of Investor Day, TOTVS – Shareholders’ Structure* which was held in February at its technological TREASURY STOCKS MANAGEMENT AND STOCK MARKET 1.0% RELATED PARTIES The improvement in the economic scenario and key indicators campus in São Paulo. The event, which had not 15.1% such as GDP, IGP-M and IPCA and the monetary policy during been organized since 2017, was attended by more the period helped boost the sharp demand for variable rate than 250 people including investors, analysts investments, which had a positive impact on the capital FREE-FLOAT markets, with the Ibovespa stock market index breaking and capital market professionals. Visitors 83.9% consecutive historical records in 2019 to reach 115,000 watched presentations, both in person and via points, an increase of 31.6% year-on-year. According to data webcast, and participated in a Q&A session with released by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), Brazil was the world's 4th most the entire executive board of the company. The attractive destination for foreign investments during the year, topics of the presentations included: competitive which reached US$75 billion in 2019, as against US$60 billion in 2018, an increase of 26%. landscape; vision of the future; human capital; Institutional 98.4% Investors client journey and distribution platform; core Non-Institutional In 2019, TOTVS shares (B3: TOTS3) rose 137.8%, while 1.6% business of management; Techfin; and Business Investors Ibovespa index rose 31.6%. Average financial volume in 2019 stood at R$67.1 million/day, compared to R$16.0 million/day Performance. Videos of the presentations and Foreign 64.7% Investors in 2018. In 2019, the average price of shares was R$47.48, and other materials are available on the TOTVS Local Investors 35.3% the total financial trading volume was R$16.6 billion, five times Investor Relations website: https://ri.totvs.com/ higher than in 2018. For more details on trades in the last 3 *In the current fiscal year, on April 27, 2020, the Management approved the stock split of all the shares issued by the company at the ratio of one common share to three shares of the years, see item 18.4 of the Reference Form. en/capital-markets-communication/totvs-day/. same type (1:3), with no change in the capital stock, and the aforementioned numbers do not reflect this effect. As a result, the number of common shares comprising the company's capital stock increased from 192,637,727 to 577,913,181. TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 67 S O C I A L A N D R E L AT I O N S H I P C A P I TA L S O C I A L N E T W O R K S SOCIAL NETWORKS In order to enable a greater connection and communication with its different audiences, is present in several networks, bringing their followers of the Company's practices and purposes, such as: ENGAGEMENT IN SOCIAL NETWORKS – 2019 GRI 102-43 Institutional website: www.totvs.com LinkedIn Towel Day Investor Relations website: Every year on May 25, all TOTVERS the Hitchhikers ri.totvs.com/en/ of the Galaxy bring their towels and embark with the Twitter: @totvs company on the Douglas Adams' incredible trip! 20.918 followers The #TOWELDAY and also the #GEEKPRIDEDAY mobilizes TOTVERS all over Brazil to dress up like their LinkedIn: br.linkedin.com/company/totvs favorite characters, inspired by this very special and 545.970 followers present movement in our culture. Instagram: www.instagram.com/totvs 34.545 followers Programmer Day On programmers' day, the company brings its Youtube: www.youtube.com/totvs programmers together to talk about main tips for the 19.200 subscribers daily routine in a special livestream on the subject in its LinkedIn profile. TOTVS Channel: focused on content, it features videos about management, technology and the geek world. YouTube TOTVS Solutions channel: focused on products, it features Beer For Devs video cases, webinars and demos for our clients. A program in which developers talk about diverse technology issues. Blog TOTVS: https://www.totvs.com/blog/ Focused on management content and softwares for companies. Product Portal TOTVS: https://produtos.totvs.com/ focus on releases and novelties of TOTVS solutions. TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 68 NATURAL CAPITAL All renewable and non-renewable resources and processes that provide goods or services that support an organization's past, present and future prosperity. This includes: water, land, minerals and forests; biodiversity and health of the ecosystem. N AT U R A L C A P I TA L As a technology company, TOTVS plays an important role both in monitoring and managing the impacts generated, as well as in developing products and services with the potential to drive the efficient use of resources and mitigate impacts from the operations of its clients. Through artificial intelligence, the Internet of Things and machine learning, for instance, it is possible to streamline processes, increase productivity and thus improve the use of natural resources, whether in agriculture, industry, retail or hospitals, to name a few activities that improve their performance by using technology. This is the case of the positive technological effect on logistics, which ensures more efficient modes and better management of transport, an important factor when it comes to combating climate change. In 2019, to reinforce the sustainability agenda in the company, we established the TOTVS Environmental, Social and Governance Working Group (ESGWG). Its mission includes the development of an action plan to integrate sustainability into company’s management, governance and strategy. The plan is being prepared based on the priority issues and their relation with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), which include the SDG 12 regarding responsible consumption and production. The Sustainability Work Group also discusses the main impacts and risks of the business, as well as opportunities for innovation in products, services, processes, as well as management and business models. The Group is also drafting and discussing the TOTVS Sustainability Policy, which will enable the company to formalize, guide and act in this front. TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 70 N AT U R A L C A P I TA L 23 SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGIES /// Logistics: the services offered by TOTVS enable a better ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS logistics strategy, with better transport management and, TOTVS believes that investing in technology and raising awareness As a technology company, TOTVS seeks to add value consequently, lower consumption of natural resources and are efficient ways to promote responsible consumption of throughout its chain by developing products and services greenhouse gas emissions. natural resources and reduce the negative impacts on the that translate into sustainable practices in companies in environment. With regard to energy consumption, the company diverse industries and sizes, such as: /// Retail: solutions ranging from inventory control to the has implemented actions that enable optimization of resources use of artificial intelligence to create customized offerings for year after year. One example is that its head office building was /// Agriculture: the use of technology such as artificial consumers, which generate a number of benefits, such as lower designed to save natural resources and measures included the intelligence, Internet of Things and machine learning has helped to costs and food waste. installation of 100% LED lighting and photovoltaic cells on the increase productivity in Brazil's agribusiness sector. By installing building façade, all of which complement the energy sources at its sensors, devices and software in the field, farmers improve their /// Manufacturing: several solutions such as process facilities. For instance, from 2016 to 2017 the drop in consumption crop, optimize the use of natural resources and reduce the risks automation, supply chain synchronization, data capture and was approximately 42%. In 2019, upholding this commitment, the inherent to agribusiness. analysis, collaboration and information sharing, all of which reduction stood at 35% due to renovations and automation of the enable real-time management of industrial operations, thereby energy systems at the Belo Horizonte (Minas Gerais) and Joinville /// Paperless technologies: besides facilitating access to increasing energy efficiency, productivity and product quality (Santa Catarina) units. In July 2019, the Jundiaí unit in São Paulo and increasing the security of information, the use paperless while reducing wastage in the production process. TOTVS also has was shut down with the sale of Bematech. technologies reduces the environmental impact on processes, an environmental management system that helps companies to especially administrative, financial and customer service periodically evaluate and continuously improve their processes, ENERGY GRI 102-48, 302-1,302-4 processes. risks and environmental impacts. Energy consumption (GJ)4 Electricity TOTVS Units³ 80.981 52.687 2018¹ 2019² ¹ All TOTVS units in Brazil were considered (including those acquired with the management of headquarters in 2018): Assis, Belo Horizonte, Brasília, Caxias do Sul, Cianorte, Goiânia (PC Sistemas), Joinville, Jundiaí (Bematech), Porto Alegre, Recife, Rio de Janeiro (TOTVS and CNMET), Salvador, São Paulo (head office in Sêneca, Data Center 1793 unit, Soror Angélica). ² All TOTVS units in Brazil were considered (including those acquired with the management of headquarters in 2019): Assis (new head office), Belo Horizonte, Brasília, Caxias do Sul, Cianorte (new head office), Goiânia (PC Sistemas), Joinville, Jundiaí (Bematech), Porto Alegre, Recife, Rio de Janeiro, Salvador, São Paulo (head office in Sêneca and Data Center 1793 unit). ³ Predominantly renewable source.4 The methodology for calculating this indicator was reviewed for 2018 and 2019 in order to ensure greater comparability between the data considering the constant acquisitions and sales of units, recurring in TOTVS' operations. TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 71 N AT U R A L C A P I TA L WATER WASTE Regarding water consumption, TOTVS started analyzing and As for waste management, there was also a reduction in all monitoring this indicator in all its units. In 2019, the company indicators. Internally, the implementation of a new flow for recorded an increase in water consumption compared to invoice receipts in Fluig, a process headed by the Accounts 2018, due to renovations and expansion of the structure at Payable area at TOTVS but with the involvement and support the Assis (SP) and Cianorte (PR) units, which now have new from the Procurement, Supplier Agreements and Fiscal areas, head offices. helped reduce consumption and direct expenses related to GRI 102-48, 303-1. printed forms. On average, 87,000 prints ceased to be made Water consumption (m³) TOTVS units every year. It should be noted that about 90% of the depreciated furniture is donated to charities and the proceeds from the sale recycled materials are directed to IOS. 41.063 47.866 GRI 306-2 2018¹ 2019² Total weight of waste), by type ¹ All TOTVS units in Brazil were considered (including those acquired with the management and method of disposal (kg)¹ 2018 2019 of headquarters in 2018): Assis, Belo Horizonte, Brasília, Caxias do Sul, Cianorte, Goiânia (PC Sistemas), Joinville, Jundiaí (Bematech), Porto Alegre, Recife, Rio de Janeiro (TOTVS and Recycling 12.818 8.367 CNMET), Salvador, São Paulo (head office in Sêneca, Data Center 1793 unit, Soror Angélica). ² All TOTVS units in Brazil were considered (including those acquired with the management of headquarters in 2019): Assis (new head office), Belo Horizonte, Brasília, Caxias do Sul, Cianorte Landfill 2.110 1.980 (new head office), Goiânia (PC Sistemas), Joinville, Jundiaí (Bematech), Porto Alegre, Recife, Rio ¹ To calculate this indicator, the company's head office in São Paulo was considered. de Janeiro, Salvador, São Paulo (head office in Sêneca and Data Center 1793 unit). TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 72 REMISSIVE INDEX GRI 102-55 REMISSIVE INDEX ASPECT GRI INDICATOR PAGE / DIRECT RESPONSE SDG COMPACT GLOBAL Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization. 3, 13 102-2 Main brands, products, and services. 13, 16, 17 102-3 Location of headquarters. 14 102-4 Location of operations. 14 102-5 Ownership and legal form. Corporation. 102-6 Markets served. 4, 17 102-7 Scale of the organization. 7, 14, 19, 42, 67 102-8 Total employees, by type of employment, employment contract 42 8 6 and region, broken down by gender. 102-9 Supply chain. 65 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain. 8, 14, 21, 36, 56 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach. We have not formally adhered to the Precautionary Principle. However, we updated our Map of Risks in 2019 and reviewed our process for analyzing the key impacts and risks of our operations. 102-12 Letters, principles or other initiatives developed externally on economic, 27 environmental and social aspects that the organization subscribes to or endorses. 102-13 Key memberships of associations. 27, 66 TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 74 REMISSIVE INDEX ASPECT GRI INDICATOR PAGE / DIRECT RESPONSE SDG COMPACT GLOBAL Strategy 102-14 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization about 8, 10 the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its sustainability strategy. 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 24 7 Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior. 25, 26 16 1,10 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics. 25, 26 16 2,10 Governance 102-18 Governance structure of the organization. 20 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees. 21 5,16 102-23 Inform whether the chairman of the highest governance 21 16 body is also an executive officer. 102-25 Processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts 19 16 of interest are avoided and managed. 102-26 Roles played by the highest governance body and by senior executives. 21, 22, 25 16 102-29 Highest governance body’s role in identifying and managing 23, 27 16 economic, environmental, and social topics and their impacts, risks, and opportunities. 102-30 Highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness 23 of the organization’s risk management processes for economic, environmental, and social topics. 102-31 Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, 23 environmental, and social topics and their impacts, risks, and opportunities. TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 75 REMISSIVE INDEX ASPECT GRI INDICATOR PAGE / DIRECT RESPONSE SDG COMPACT GLOBAL Governance 102-32 The highest committee or position that formally reviews The report is approved by the Board of Directors. and approves the organization’s sustainability report. 102-33 Process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body. 26 102-35 Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives. 22, 46 102-36 Process for determining remuneration. 22, 46 6 102-37 Inform how stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account 22,46 16 regarding remuneration, including the results of votes on remuneration policies and proposals, if applicable. Stakeholder 102-40 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 3 Engagement 102-41 Inform the percentage of total employees covered by collective Collective bargaining agreements cover 100% 8 3 bargaining agreements. of TOTVERS and follow the standards and limits determined by law. 102-42 The basis for identifying and selecting stakeholders with whom to engage. 3, 4 102-43 Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement. 3, 5, 6, 43, 60, 65, 67, 68 102-44 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder 3, 4, 5, 6 engagement and measures taken by the organization. Reporting Practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements. 19 TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 76 REMISSIVE INDEX ASPECT GRI INDICATOR PAGE / DIRECT RESPONSE SDG COMPACT GLOBAL Reporting Practice 102-46 Process for defining the report content and the topic boundaries. 3, 4, 5, 6 102-47 Material topics identified in the process for defining report content. 5 102-48 Effect of any restatements of information given in previous reports, 3, 71, 72 and the reasons for such restatements. 102-49 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the list of material None. topics and topic boundaries. 102-50 Reporting period.. 3 102-51 Date of the most recent previous report (if applicable). The most recent report in the GRI format was published in 2018 (base year 2017). However, in 2019 (base year 2018) we published the UN Global Compact's Communication on Progress (COP) Report. 102-52 Reporting cycle. The cycle of the previous report was biannual, starting from 2020 (base year 2019) the report cycle will be annual once again. 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 3 102-54 Option chosen by the organization according to the options of GRI Standards. 3 102-55 Summary of GRI Content for the option chosen. 73 80 102-56 External assurance. Not conducted. Management Approach 103-1 Reason why the topic is material. 5, 6 103-2 For each material topic, inform how the organization 24, 26, 30, 32, 36, 39, 55, 56, 57, 59, 61, 64, 65 1, 5, 8, 16 manages the material topics. 103-3 How the organization manages the material topic or its impacts 24, 26, 30, 32, 36, 39, 55, 56, 57, 59, 61, 64, 65 and how the management approach is evaluated. TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 77 REMISSIVE INDEX ASPECT GRI INDICATOR PAGE / DIRECT RESPONSE SDG COMPACT GLOBAL Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. 33, 39 2, 5, 7, 8, 9 201-3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. The private pension program offered by TOTVS aims to complement the amount already paid by Social Security. It consists of the monthly contribution from both employees and the company of up to 5% of the compensation in case of executive officers and up to 2% of the compensation for other TOTVERS who also join the program, and in both cases, the company contributes the same percentage. 201-4 Material financial assistance received from government. 39 7, 8, 9 Market Presence 202-1 Ratio of salary by gender compared to local minimum wage. The lowest salary paid by TOTVS is the minimum wage established by law. The minimum wage in Brazil in 2019 was R$998. A few states where we operate have a regional minimum wage. There is no gender pay gap. 202-2 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired There is no specific procedure for local hiring. from the local community at key operating units.. However, whenever possible, the company gives preference to hiring employees in local communities. Indirect Economic 203-1 Development and impact of investments in infrastructure and services 62 2, 5, 7, 1, 7, 8, 9 Impacts offered, mainly for public benefits, through commercial engagement, 9, 11 in products or services or pro bono activity. TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 78 REMISSIVE INDEX ASPECT GRI INDICATOR PAGE / DIRECT RESPONSE SDG COMPACT GLOBAL Procurement Practices 204-1 Policies, practices and proportion of expenses with local suppliers There are no formally established policies or practices 12 at important operating units. that give preference to contracting local suppliers. However, especially considering logistics issues, we commonly make purchases and engage local suppliers (those located in the same city as the companies and branches of the company). Anti-Corruption 205-1 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks 16 10 related to corruption. 25 205-2 Communication and training on policies and procedures to combat corruption. 16 10 27 205-3 Confirmed cases of corruption and measures taken. There were no confirmed cases of corruption in the 16 10 company. Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization. 71 7,8, 12, 13 7,8,9 302-4 Reduction in energy consumption. 71 7, 8, 12, 13 7,8,9 Water 303-1 Total water withdrawal by source. 72 7,8,9 Effluents and Waste 306-2 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 72 3,6, 12 7,8,9 Employment 401-1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover 45 5,8 by age group, gender and region 401-2 Benefits granted to full-time employees that are not offered to temporary 53 8 or part-time employees, broken down by important operating units of the organization. 401-3 Rates of return to work and retention after maternity/paternity leave, 53 5, 8 broken down by gender.. TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 79 REMISSIVE INDEX ASPECT GRI INDICATOR PAGE / DIRECT RESPONSE SDG COMPACT GLOBAL Health and Safety 403-2 Types and rates of injuries, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism. 53 Training and Education 404-1 Average hours of training per employee per year, by gender, 48 4, 5, 8 broken down by functional category. 404-2 Skills management and continuous learning programs that support 48 8 the continued employability of employees and to manage the end of their careers. 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance appraisal 44, 45 5, 8 and career development, broken down by gender. Diversity and Equal 405-1 Composition of groups responsible for corporate governance and breakdown 21, 22, 49, 51, 52 5, 8 Opportunity of employees by functional category according to gender, age group and other diversity indicators. Supplier Social 414-1 Percentage of new suppliers selected based on social criteria. 65 4, 5 Assessment Customer Privacy 418-1 Total number of proven complaints regarding breach of privacy In 2019, there were no records of any investigation 9, 12, 16 and loss of customer data. solely involving the violation of privacy. Learn more about our initiatives on page 24 and click here to access our Information Security Policy. TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 80 G LO S S A R Y ACRONYMS MEANING DESCRIPTION AND DEFINITION AND TERMS COP Communication on Progress Annual report on advances in the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. IBGC Instituto Brasileiro de Governança Corporativa Non-profit organization, a national and international reference that aims to promote corporate governance. Ibovespa Ibovespa Index It is the most important indicator of the average performance of the prices of shares traded on the B3 stock exchange Brazil, Bolsa, Balcão. It is formed by the shares with the highest volume traded in recent months. IGPM Acronym for General Market Price Index Is an economic price indicator earned monthly used to measure inflation, calculated every month by Fundação Getúlio Vargas (FGV). IPCA Acronym for Broad National Consumer Price Index Index released monthly by the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics, aims to measure inflation. IOS Institute of Social Opportunity Non-profit institution. TO T V S I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 81 2019INTEGRATED REPORT Coordinating Investor Relations / ESG and supervisor Alexandre Pereira ri@totvs.com.br Consulting, SOCIETÀ CONSULTORIA text and editing www.societaconsultoria.com.br Graphic design FMCOM and layout https://www.fmcom.com.br/ Support Environmental, Social and Governance Working Group (ESG WG)
