INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES Contents 01 Introduction 08 Sustainability 17 Connecting 74 Connecting 97 Connecting 129 Appendices Approach Lives Communities the Future Message by Singapore Sustainability Journey 08 Governance 18 Suppliers 75 Environment 98 List of Key Abbreviations 01 129 Airlines CEO and Acronyms Sustainability Highlights 09 Employees 28 Shareholders 86 About the Report 02 Definitions and 130 Methodologies Our Response to Covid-19 10 Safety 47 Society 93 About Singapore Airlines 04 GRI Content Index 134 Sustainability Governance 13 Customer-focus 61 Route Network 05 Sustainability Strategy and 14 Fleet Information 07 Materiality Sustainability Ambitions 15 Timeless Connections 16 Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES MESSAGE BY SINGAPORE AIRLINES CEO 102-14 The impact of the Covid-19 pandemic has been deep and wide, affecting many Connecting Lives, Communities and the Future Elevating Sustainability countries and industries globally. Reporting Standards At the closing of this report, this crisis continues to have a significant impact on In this year’s report, the theme of Timeless Connections has been chosen to detail our sustainability journey. During the year, we continued to the aviation industry amid the unprecedented global travel restrictions and border look at how we could improve our closures. As a result, airlines around the world have been pre-occupied with survival Beyond connecting cities and destinations as an airline, we connect lives, sustainability reporting in the areas and recovery. communities, as well as the future. These form the three sections in this year’s of transparency and accessibility. However, even during this period of uncertainty, the SIA Group’s commitment sustainability report, which will cover our seven material topics: For instance, we have clearly tagged to sustainability remains strong. We continue to be invested in conducting our the corresponding GRI Standards businesses responsibly, and integrating sustainability into our operations. Connecting Lives relevant to each section, as well as • Governance the SDGs that the sections support. Commitment in Sustainability • Employees This increases clarity and Recognising the importance of sustainability well ahead of our peers, we published transparency within the report, • Safety elevating our standard of reporting, our first Environment Report to communicate our environmental initiatives and performance in 2001. In 2013, we released our first Sustainability Report, three years • Customer-focus as well as our efforts to continuously ahead of the mandatory reporting requirements by Singapore Exchange. A year later, improve in this area. we published our report in line with the GRI-G4 reporting guidelines. SIA has been a signatory to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Connecting Communities The Road Ahead since 2018. This report serves to communicate our efforts to support and uphold • Suppliers these principles, and supplements our Active Level Communication on Progress (COP). The Covid-19 crisis has created • Shareholders several headwinds for the aviation industry. Yet, in many ways, it has Mapping Our Sustainability Journey also generated a strong momentum for change and illuminated the We have one of the youngest fleets in the world, comprising technologically advanced importance of critical environmental, and fuel-efficient models such as the Airbus A350 and Boeing 787. Investing in new Connecting the Future social, and governance factors in the aircraft is the most immediate and effective way for airlines to reduce their carbon • Environment new normal. emissions, and the SIA Group is a clear leader in this area in the industry. Our next Transformation chapter will At the same time, we have also contributed to a greener planet in many other ways, as see the Group taking a fundamental well as engaged our stakeholders and participated in meaningful community efforts. relook at our business. Together with A dedicated Sustainability Office was set up in December 2019, looking into all the stakeholders in our sustainability We identified our key contributions to the United Nations Sustainable Development aspects of our operations and coordinating long-term sustainability initiatives across journey – our employees, customers, Goals (SDGs) based on our material topics. This is detailed on page 15 of the report. our business units. This office reports to me directly, underscoring our commitment to governments, suppliers, shareholders We continue to prioritise three of the 17 goals, which are relevant to our Company’s do more as a Group collectively. and communities – we will come out sustainability strategy and long-term targets. These are: from the crisis stronger. The SIA Board also recognises the importance of sustainability, with the Customer • Goal 8: Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and Experience, Technology and Sustainability Committee overseeing the topic. The Please stay safe and well. productive employment and decent work for all Board steers the management in ensuring that SIA’s long-term value creation is achieved with environmental, social and governance factors as guiding principles at • Goal 12: Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns With regards, all times. This will ensure that sustainability is an integral part of SIA’s operations and • Goal 13: Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impact will be anchored at every level of the organisation. Goh Choon Phong Chief Executive Officer Singapore Airlines Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 1 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES About the report This is the eighth Sustainability Report of Singapore Airlines. In 2013, we voluntarily published our first Sustainability Report and, since then, have been committed to disclosing our sustainability information in a transparent and open manner. Sustainability reporting enables us to better communicate our management approach and the performance of SIA’s material economic, environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics with our stakeholders. It enables us to identify opportunities, helping us better measure, monitor and manage these sustainability topics at all levels of our organisation. We recognise the role we play in sustainable development and endeavour to work closely with all stakeholders in enhancing and integrating sustainability across our value chain. Reporting Framework and Initiatives 102-12 102-54 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) United Nations (UN) Global Compact UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Our report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. SIA is a signatory to the Ten Principles of the SIA supports the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the 17 SDGs, with The GRI Standards are selected as it represents the global best practice for reporting UN Global Compact. Our report serves as a priority on SDGs . In our report, we mapped our key contributions to the on an organisation’s sustainability impacts. our Active Level Communication on Progress SDGs through the management of our material sustainability topics. The following (COP) which details our actions to embed the Ten Principles into our business indicates the icons that we have used throughout our report whenever a section aligns The following indicates an example of a tag that we use throughout our report strategies and operations. The following indicates the tags that we have used with an SDG: whenever a disclosure is made in line with a GRI Standard disclosure: throughout our report whenever a section aligns with a principle: Icon Goal Icon Goal Tag Example Tag Principle End poverty in all its forms Reduce inequality within and among everywhere countries Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Standard number PR-1 human rights. End hunger, achieve food security Make cities and human settlements and improved nutrition and promote inclusive, safe, resilient and PR-2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. sustainable agriculture sustainable ABB-CC Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the PR-3 Ensure healthy lives and promote right to collective bargaining. Ensure sustainable consumption and well-being for all at all ages production patterns PR-4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote Take urgent action to combat PR-5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. lifelong learning opportunities for all climate change and its impacts Disclosure number Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment PR-6 Achieve gender equality and and occupation. Conserve and sustainably use the Our GRI Content Index, located on page 134, summarises the GRI Standards empower all women and girls oceans, seas and marine resources selected for reporting. It also directs readers to the appropriate references in this PR-7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. for sustainable development Sustainability Report and other publicly available resources published by SIA. Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation Protect, restore and promote PR-8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. for all sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat Singapore Exchange (SGX) Sustainability Reporting Listing Rules desertification, and halt and reverse land Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentallyand Guide PR-9 friendly technologies. Ensure access to affordable, reliable, degradation and halt biodiversity loss sustainable and modern energy for all Our report has been prepared in accordance with the five primary components set Promote peaceful and inclusive societies PR-10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. for sustainable development, provide out by the SGX-ST Listing Rules 711B and takes reference from the SGX Sustainability Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and access to justice for all and build effective, Reporting Guide, which provides guidelines on component requirements and accountable and inclusive institutions at productive employment and decent reporting principles. all levels work for all Build resilient infrastructure, Strengthen the means of implementation promote inclusive and sustainable and revitalise the global partnership for industrialisation and foster innovation sustainable development Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 2 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES About the report (continued) Reporting Period 102-50 102-51 102-52 Reporting Quality 102-56 The reporting period covers SIA’s financial year 2019/20 (FY2019/20) from 1 April 2019 to 31 March 2020. Data and information While we have not sought external assurance for our report, we have systems of internal controls in place that are important to from past reporting cycles have been included, where available. Our report is published on an annual basis, with our last report assess the quality of data and information reported. Since publishing our first Sustainability Report in 2013, we have been working published in June 2019. closely with external consultants to perform an annual gap analysis to continually improve on the quality of the report. Reporting Scope 102-2 102-45 Our report should be read in tandem with the SIA Annual Report FY2019/20 and the SIAEC Sustainability Report FY2019/20 The SIA Group’s business is organised and managed separately according to the nature of services provided. All sustainability for a more comprehensive overview of the SIA Group’s sustainability performance. data and information presented in our report primarily relates to three of our reportable businesses – Singapore Airlines, SilkAir and Scoot – unless otherwise stated. The sustainability data and information relating to Singapore Airlines Engineering Company (SIAEC) is disclosed separately in SIAEC’s Sustainability Report published annually by our subsidiary. Coverage Organisation Description of Services in this SR Singapore Airlines provides passenger and cargo air transportation, with a focus on the full-service passenger segment serving short to long-haul markets. SilkAir provides passenger air transportation, with a focus on the full-service passenger segment serving regional markets. Scoot provides passenger air transportation, with a focus on the low-cost passenger segment. SIAEC Sustainability Report FY2019/20 SIAEC is in the business of providing airframe maintenance and overhaul services, line maintenance, technical ground handling servics and fleet management. It also manufactures aircraft cabin equipment, refurbishes aircraft galleys, provides technical and non-technical handling services, as well as repair and overhaul of hydro-mechanical aircraft equipment. SIA Annual Report FY2019/20 Other services provided by the SIA Group, such as the training of pilots, air charters Others and tour wholesaling, have been aggregated under ‘Others’. In Scope Not In Scope Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 3 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES Our Mission Statement About Singapore Airlines Singapore Airlines is a global company dedicated to providing air transportation services of the highest quality and to maximising returns for the benefit of its shareholders and employees. The Singapore Airlines Group’s history dates back to 1947. Since its establishment, Singapore Airlines’ commitment to service excellence, product leadership and network connectivity has Our Principal Activities 102-2 distinguished it as a world-class international airline group. Today, we continue to expand our horizons to offer more than just a Great Way to Fly. With our world-famous Singapore Girl as the iconic symbol of quality Our principal activities consist of passenger and cargo air transportation, customer care and service, we strive to push the boundaries of what we can achieve, both on the ground and in the air. engineering services, training of pilots, air charters, as well as tour wholesaling and related activities. FY2019/20 Numbers for the SIA Group1 Our Core Values 102-16 35.8 mil passengers carried 82.4 % passenger load factor2 171,211.2 mil available seat-kilometres Excellence Care Safety 203 fleet size3 140,998.5 milrevenue passenger-kilometres 141 destinations4 Integrity Customer-focus Teamwork Our Memberships 102-13 1 As at 31 March 2020, including destinations originally scheduled up to end-April 2020. For more information, please refer to the FY2019/20 SIA Annual Report. We are a member of Star Alliance, the International Air Transport 2 Maximum passenger load factor achieved in FY2019/20, not taking into account the impact of the Covid-19 outbreak. 3 Excludes six Boeing 737 MAX 8 aircraft that are currently not in service, and includes freighter aircraft. Association (IATA), the Association of Asia Pacific Airlines (AAPA), the Includes destinations served by both passenger and freighter aircraft, as well as destinations that we used to serve before the Covid-19 outbreak. Sustainable Aviation Fuel Users Group (SAFUG) and the Singapore 4 Institute of Directors (SID), among other groups. We are also represented in various committees and working groups as part of our membership in these groups. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 4 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES Route network 102-2 102-4 102-6 102-7 As of 31 March 2020, the Singapore Airlines Group’s passenger and freighter network covers 141 destinations5. Destination Airline Destination Airline Destination Airline Destination Airline Destination Airline Destination Airline The Americas North Asia North Asia (Continued) South East Asia (Continued) South West Pacific West Asia and Africa (Continued) Anchorage Beijing Shenzhen Koh Samui Adelaide Kolkata Dallas / Fort Worth Busan Taipei Kota Bharu Auckland Male Houston Changsha Tianjin Kota Kinabalu Brisbane Mumbai Los Angeles Chengdu Tokyo (Haneda) Krabi Cairns Nairobi New York ( John F. Kennedy ) Chongqing Tokyo (Narita) Kuala Lumpur Canberra New Delhi New York ( Newark Liberty ) Fukuoka Wuhan Kuantan Christchurch Sharjah San Francisco Fuzhou Wuxi Kuching Darwin Thiruvananthapuram Seattle Guangzhou Xiamen Langkawi Gold Coast Tiruchirappalli Haikou Xi’an Lombok Melbourne Europe Visakhapatnam Amsterdam Hangzhou Zhengzhou Luang Prabang Perth 5 Includes destinations served by both passenger and freighter aircraft, as well as destinations that Athens Harbin South East Asia Makassar Sydney we have temporarily stopped flying to due to the Barcelona Hong Kong SAR Balikpapan Manado Wellington Covid-19 outbreak. Berlin Jinan Bandar Seri Begawan Mandalay West Asia and Africa Brussels Kaohsiung Bandung Manila Ahmedabad Copenhagen Kunming Bangkok (Don Mueang) Medan Amritsar Dusseldorf Macau SAR Bangkok (Suvarnabhumi) Palembang Bengaluru Frankfurt Nagoya Cebu Pekanbaru Cape Town Istanbul Nanchang Chiang Mai Penang Chennai Singapore Airlines London Nanjing Clark Phnom Penh Coimbatore Manchester Milan Nanning Ningbo Da Nang Davao Phuket Semarang Colombo Dhaka 66 destinations Moscow Osaka Denpasar Siem Reap Dubai SilkAir Munich Paris Qingdao Sapporo Hanoi Hat Yai Singapore Surabaya Hyderabad Jeddah 36 destinations Rome Seoul Ho Chi Minh City Vientiane Johannesburg Scoot Stockholm Zurich Shanghai Shenyang Ipoh Jakarta Yangon Yogyakarta Kathmandu Kochi 68 destinations Legend Singapore Airlines (Passenger Aircraft) SilkAir Scoot Singapore Airlines (Freighter Aircraft) Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 5 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES Route network (continued) Network Changes in FY2019/20 102-10 • Launch of non-stop services to Seattle, the fifth US city in SIA’s network, in • Launch of flights between Singapore and Busan in May 2019 • Commenced flights to four cities in China – Changsha, Fuzhou, Kunming and September 2019 Wuhan • Cairns frequency stepped up from five times weekly to daily from June 2019 • Milan frequency increased from six weekly flights to daily from July 2019 • Launched flights to three cities in India – Coimbatore, Trivandrum and • Darwin frequency increased to daily from six times weekly, from July 2019 Visakhapatnam • Copenhagen frequency stepped up from five times weekly to daily from January • Stepped up existing daily Singapore-Danang services to 10 times per week, with 2020 • Launched flights to Kota Bharu, Kota Kinabalu, Luang Prabang and Vientiane, and further increased frequency to 11 times per week from December 2019 took on additional frequencies to Chiang Mai from SilkAir • Services to Wellington via Melbourne increased to five times weekly from four • Increased the frequency of services to Bengaluru, Cebu, Davao, Nepal and Surabaya times weekly, from January 2020 • Shenzhen frequency increased from daily to 12 times weekly, as Scoot transferred • Addition of a third daily service to Osaka’s Kansai International Airport to meet its services to SilkAir from Scoot from June 2019 growing travel demand between Singapore and Japan from April 2019, bringing the total weekly frequency to 21 • Penang and Phuket each had their frequency stepped up with a sixth daily service In early 2020, the global spread of Covid-19 resulted • Johannesburg frequency increased from daily to 10 times weekly from • Increased services to Kochi to twice daily, due to a transfer of services from Scoot in dampened travel sentiment and border restrictions March 2019 in November 2019 implemented across the world. Due to the outbreak, • Stepped up existing Bengaluru daily services to 10 times, due to a partial transfer • Discontinued the Yangon-Mandalay circular flight. Mandalay services were the SIA Group reduced its capacity for Mainland China from Scoot from May 2019 operated on a seasonal basis between November 2019 and January 2020 routes from January 2020. The growing scale of the • Took over SilkAir’s services to Busan from October 2019 • Ceased services to Hiroshima and Kolkata in March 2020 virus led SIA and SilkAir to further cut capacity to other • Announced route joint ventures with Malaysia Airlines in October 2019 and • Ceased services to Luang Prabang and Vientiane in March 2019 and transferred these routes to Scoot to begin operations in April 2019 regions, reducing network capacity by 50 per cent in All Nippon Airways in January 2020 mid-March 20206 and eventually announcing that the • Continued to expand network reach with existing codeshare partners such as Alaska Airlines scheduled passenger capacity from April to June 2020 would be cut by 96 per cent. 6 For flights originally scheduled up to end-April 2020. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 6 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES 7 fleet information 102-2 102-7 Singapore Airlines Group Fleet Our 203-aircraft8 strong fleet is one of the most modern and fuel-efficient fleets in the world. Singapore Airlines (Freighter Aircraft) Singapore Airlines (Passenger Aircraft) SilkAir Scoot AVERAGE FLEET AGE AVERAGE FLEET AGE AVERAGE FLEET AGE AVERAGE FLEET AGE 16 4 7 o 5 5 122 68 6 2 25 31 5 8 49 51 9 years months in fleet on order years months in fleet on order years months in fleet on order years months in fleet on order BOEING 747-400 FREIGHTER AIRBUS A330-300 AIRBUS A319 AIRBUS A320 7 in fleet 8 in fleet 2 in fleet 26 in fleet AIRBUS A350-900 AIRBUS A320 AIRBUS A320NEO 48 in fleet 19 on order 6 in fleet 3 in fleet 30 on order AIRBUS A380-800 BOEING 737 MAX 8 AIRBUS A321NEO 19 in fleet 6 in fleet 31 (not in service) on order 16 on order BOEING 777-300/300ER BOEING 787-8 BOEING 737-800 32 in fleet 17 in fleet 10 in fleet 3 on order BOEING 777-9 BOEING 787-9 20 on order 10 in fleet 2 on order Information is correct as at 31 March 2020. BOEING 787-10 7 8 Our operating fleet includes aircraft that were withdrawn from service for temporary 15 29 storage due to significant capacity cuts arising from the Covid-19 outbreak. 9 Excludes six Boeing 737 MAX 8 aircraft that are currently not in service. in fleet on order Singapore Airlines aircraft images courtesy of YuccaStudio Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 7 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES 1992 1996 2001 2008 2010 SIA sets up the Environment SIA conducts environmental SIA publishes its first Environment Report FY2000/01 to SIA Cargo is voted as the ’Best Green Service Provider SIA commits to rainforest preservation by supporting the Harapan Sustainability Unit under the Safety and Security department, and issues its first Environmental awareness training for 4,000 employees, over a 10-month period. communicate environmental initiatives and performance. 2002 Airline’ by readers of Cargo News Asia – a leading shipping, supply chain and cargo transport newspaper. Rainforest Initiative as the exclusive airline partner. This large-scale green project aims to restore ecosystems threatened by deforestation and the conservation of a rainforest. journey Statement. 2000 SIA initiates the Corporate SIA is one of the five airlines selected, and the only company from Singapore, to be included in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Indexes (DJSI World). 2009 SIA supports IATA’s three climate goals and FourPillar Strategy. The goals and strategy aim to reduce 1993 Occupational Safety, Health and Environment (OSHE) Management carbon emissions and decarbonise the aviation sector SIA pledges support to the SIA’s Environment Report FY2001/02 wins the inaugural System to track environment collectively. Singapore Business Charter Singapore Environmental Reporting Award in 2002. for Sustainable Development, performance data for management The SIA Training Centre wins the 10th ASEAN Energy demonstrating our dashboard and sustainability reporting. 2005 Efficient Building Award in the Retrofitted Building commitment to protecting the The SIA Environment Report FY2004/05 wins the Category. The building retrofit initiatives achieved a environment. Runner Up Best Environmental Report in the Association total energy savings of 2.47 Gwh or 18.8 per cent in of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) Singapore FY2008/09 compared to the previous year. Environmental & Social Reporting Awards 2005. 2015 2013 2012 2011 2010 SIA organises a series of community events to commemorate SIA publishes its first SIA implements the Suppliers’ Code of Conduct to promote SIA takes another step towards greener skies by joining SIA successfully completes the world’s first multi-sector Singapore’s Golden Jubilee, including an Airbus A380 Charity Sustainability Report sustainable development. It is prepared in line with the Ten the Sustainable Aviation Fuel Users Group (SAFUG), demonstration green flight under the Asia and Pacific Initiative Flight for more than 300 beneficiaries from the Community in FY2012/13, ahead Principles of the UN Global Compact around human rights, labour, which focuses on accelerating the development and to Reduce Emissions (ASPIRE) programme, which aims to Chest of Singapore. of SGX introducing environment and anti-corruption. commercialisation of sustainable aviation fuel. promote environmental stewardship in the region. SQ11, which sustainability reporting operates from Los Angeles to Singapore via Tokyo, achieves SIA is the Official Airline for the Giant Panda collaborative on a “comply or explain” fuel savings of more than 10 tonnes and a reduction in carbon programme between Wildlife Reserves Singapore and the China basis in June 2016. A emissions of more than 33 tonnes. Wildlife Conservation Association, and helped transport the giant year later, SIA published pandas Kai Kai and Jia Jia to Singapore on board an SIA Cargo its report in line with Boeing 747-400 freighter from Chengdu, China. the GRI-G4 reporting guidelines. 2016 2017 2018 2019 SGX recognises SIA In partnership with the Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore, SIA operates a SIA aims to be entirely plastic straw-free on board our flights by September 2019, replacing them with SIA unveils its new digital innovation lab, KrisLab, as part of the SIA Group’s significant as a frontrunner in series of 12 green package flights over a three-month period from May on its environmentally-friendly paper straws. investment programme to become the world’s leading digital airline. KrisLab seeks to environmental, social and non-stop San Francisco-Singapore route. It highlights SIA’s commitment to support Singapore’s open innovation ecosystem to develop digital ideas and solutions SIA takes a Climate Action Pledge to declare our readiness to fight climate change alongside like-minded governance standards by sustainable growth and to the reduction of international aviation emissions. through collaboration with start-ups, smalland medium-sized enterprises, as well as organisations and members of the public. SIA launches an inaugural Environment Roadshow, in line with including SIA in the new SGX industry partners. SIA introduces a ‘From Farm to Plane’ concept to promote environmental the Singapore government’s designation of 2018 as the Year of Climate Action. Sustainability Leaders Index. sustainability and support local farmers’ communities. Singapore Airlines intends SIA transforms its staff canteen to be an eco-friendly canteen by eliminating styrofoam and SIA is the first to fly the new Boeing 787-10 Dreamliner, one of the most fuel-efficient aircraft in its fleet. SIA takes delivery of its first to use more sustainable and meatless ingredients, as well as local produce, in its installing an eco-digester to convert food waste and canteen waste into refuse derived fuel. Airbus A350-900, which is in-flight meals. SIA sets up the Sustainability Office to enhance its sustainability strategy and framework, one of the most fuel-efficient SIA signs the United for Wildlife Transport Taskforce Buckingham Palace and drive sustainability initiatives across the SIA Group. aircraft in its fleet. Declaration in support of efforts to prevent illegal trafficking and transportation of wildlife and their products. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 8 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES Sustainability highlights 0 significant fines or Most Attractive non-monetary sanctions Employer in ↓ 19% for non-compliance with environmental, health and Singapore decrease in our average awarded to Singapore Airlines delayed or lost baggage rate safety laws and regulations in 2019 by Randstad >150 0 work-related fatalities and high 28,160 publications available for total employees in the download through the consequence work-related e-Library of our SingaporeAir injuries for employees and SIA Group mobile app key contractors S$43.5 mil >500 0 investment in learning and brands available on revamped cases of recordable work-related development of employees ill health for employees and key 1,455 tonnes 11.13 LTK/AG KrisShop, with over 20 dedicated contractors of waste generated at SIA 12% overall fuel productivity for fleet online shopfronts overall new hire rate of SIA buildings in Singapore 63,803 tonnes CO2e 0 employees substantiated complaints 98,555 hectares 0.7 tonnes total estimated GHG concerning breaches of of lowland tropical forest emissions saved as a result 228,317 TJ estimated staff canteen of our fuel reduction and customer privacy covered by the ecosystem waste recycled onsite by restoration concession under of energy consumed for all SIA eco-digester daily efficiency measures across the Harapan Rainforest Initiative operations our fleet 16.3 mil tonnes CO2e 77 tonnes 2,787 trees of waste recycled at SIA 388 tonnes replanted under the Harapan total Scope 1 and 2 GHG buildings in Singapore of waste recycled from our flights Rainforest Initiative, with 260 emissions hectares of forest restored 171,042 m3 100% 120 kWh/m2 of our fleet meets the 2004 total water withdrawal for SIA electricity intensity for SIA buildings and offices in Singapore ICAO CAEP/6 or the stricter buildings and offices in Singapore CAEP/8 emissions standards for NOx Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 9 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES OUR RESPONSE TO COVID-19 102-10 Information accurate as of 30 June 2020. We will weather these turbulent times with you. When the Employees storm clears, we will be ready to welcome you back on board and deliver the exceptional SIA experience that you expect The health and safety of our employees and our relationships with them matter deeply to us. We desire to work with them to establish mutually-reinforcing and are familiar with. support systems that can ensure our long-term sustainability. We are using this time to equip our employees with new skills and knowledge that will be required in the future economy. They are also provided with opportunities to give back to the community or try out new experiences such as being a Care or Transport Ambassador. Dedicated Employee Enhanced Health and Safety Measures Prudent Cost-cutting Initiatives Support Portal Personal protective equipment (PPE), to Protect Jobs One-stop platform for communication temperature screening and declaration, Cuts in Board of Director fees and with employees on enhanced cleaning and disinfection, Management salaries, voluntary and Covid-19-related matters facility closures, social distancing, compulsory no-pay leave schemes, work from home hiring freeze Job Support Programme Financial Support Upskill and Enrich Employees Alternative employment opportunities, Financial assistance schemes Shorter work months with learning and Responding to the impact of the Covid-19 outbreak has been our focus since the start of 2020. Despite additional earning and new experiences. through banks and government agencies volunteering opportunities the uncertainty, we are staying grounded to our roots, our values and vision for all our stakeholders. These include our Care Ambassador and We see this as an opportunity to take a step back and look at the bigger picture of what sustainable Transport Ambassador Programmes development means to us. In April 2020, we set up an internal task force to spearhead plans on how we can do more for our stakeholders and forge stronger, resilient relationships post-Covid-19. More than ever, we recognise that our stakeholders are a part of our shared journey. For more details on our Covid-19 response for our employees, please refer to page 46 of this report. For more details on our Covid-19 response on our health and safety measures, please refer to pages 59 to 60 of this report. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report 2019/20 FY2019/20 10 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES OUR RESPONSE TO COVID-19 (continued) Customers Our top priority is the health and safety of our customers. We introduced a slew of health and safety measures and continue to make adjustments to our operations based on the evolving situation. We understand the level of stress and anxiety that our customers are going through and do not take their support for granted. We remain connected with them and keep them updated on how best we can flexibly support them on their travel plans. Dedicated Covid-19 Covid-19 Assistance Bolstered Customer Governments Information Centre Request Form Service and Handling Capacity We remain steadfast in supporting the measures imposed by governments around the world and continue to be One-stop platform for Service automation compliant with the border controls and travel restrictions. communications with for greater efficiency More than 460 employees customers volunteered to handle the surge in We adopt a coordinated approach with the Singapore government and continue to play a crucial role in efforts customer enquiries at our call centres, to keep the country’s airfreight supply lines for essential goods open. Above all, we do our best to connect service centre and social media Enhanced Health and people with their loved ones around the world. Safety Measures Complimentary Care Kit, temperature screening and declaration, Flights with Partnering with CAAS, enhanced cleaning and Special Approval CAG and MINDEF disinfection Flying Singaporeans and Parking of aircraft while permanent residents home, ensuring they are appropriately and foreign nationals back maintained during this period of to theirs depressed demand and activity Adjustments to Global Travel PPS and KrisFlyer In-flight Service Waiver Policy Members’ Recognition Limited onboard interactions, Full refunds, bonus flight credits, Membership extension, proactive changes in service and flexibility to rebook tier upgrades, extension of meal offerings to minimise contact various rewards and benefits Maintaining Airfreight Government Support Supply Lines for Wage support through Jobs Essential Goods Support Scheme, cost reliefs Medical supplies, PPE, for rents, rebates on landing phamaceuticals and fresh food and parking charges For more details on our Covid-19 response for our customers, please refer to page 72 of this report. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report 2019/20 FY2019/20 11 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES OUR RESPONSE TO COVID-19 (continued) Suppliers and Partners Shareholders Communities The Covid-19 outbreak has had an unprecedented impact on the global supply Our shareholders are important to us. We continue to engage them, address their Since our humble beginnings, we have fostered strong bonds and inculcated a chain and is the greatest challenge in aviation history. We strive to maintain concerns and provide timely disclosures. Decisive steps are being taken to keep our sense of responsibility towards the communities we serve. collaborative relationships with our suppliers and business partners to respond strategic priorities intact. We are proud that many of our employees have epitomised the SIA spirit swiftly to our shared challenges. We have also commenced on an agile plan to restart our operations, which will by volunteering as frontline ambassadors in the fight against Covid-19 in As disruptions continue to intensify, we recognise the role we must play to enable us to capitalise on opportunities in the current situation. The way we Singapore, by taking up important roles in the healthcare, transport and social enable the continuous flow of essential goods around the world. We endeavour collectively respond to this crisis will greatly shape our long-term sustainability and service sectors. to maximise the use of our freighter fleet, schedule cargo-only passenger flights boost our capability for sustainable value creation. and ad hoc charter flights where opportunities arise. Ongoing Engagement and Transparent Disclosures Volunteering and Redeployment of Cargo-only Passenger flights Address key queries in a timely and accountable Cabin Crew for Community Support Regulatory approval for in-house loading and manner Care Ambassadors, Transport Ambassadors, strapping procedures to carry cargo in the cabins of passenger aircraft and other social services Managing Liquidity and Cash Requirements Tapping on lines of credit maintained for contingency situations, exploring other sources Working With Our Aircraft of funding Medical, Food and Humanitarian Support Manufacturers Specially mounted flights for uplift of essential Ongoing discussions to negotiate adjustment to goods to and from key destinations delivery streams for existing aircraft orders Raising Capital Through the Issuance of Rights Shares and Rights Mandatory Convertible Bonds To address near-term liquidity requirements and build financial resilience Anticipating Potential Supply Supporting Singapore’s Community Chain Disruptions Getting Ready to Restart Our Care Facilities for Covid-19 patients Working closely with SATS Ltd and Operations Donations of amenity items such as blankets, other suppliers and partners to monitor the eye shades and ear plugs evolving situation Task force to plan and coordinate our new Transformation chapter For more details on our Covid-19 response for our suppliers and partners, please For more details on our Covid-19 response for our shareholders, please refer to page 90 For more details on our Covid-19 response for our communities, please refer to page 45 refer to page 85 of this report. of this report. of this report. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report 2019/20 FY2019/20 12 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES Sustainability governance 102-14 102-18 102-19 102-20 102-26 102-31 102-32 We have a long-standing commitment in the continual integration of sustainability into every aspect of our business. The Board Customer Experience, Technology and Sustainability Committee (CETSC) To achieve our sustainability goals, clear lines of accountability are of oversees sustainability and provides advice and guidance on sustainability management paramount importance and enable us to strengthen our decision-making. through the development of a strategic roadmap for environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics. In addition, sustainability risks (climate-related, safety, etc.) are part of the enterprise risk management framework that is overseen by the Board Safety and Risk Committee (BSRC). Board Statement The CEO, assisted by the Management Committee (MC), makes strategic The Board recognises the proposals to the Board and oversees the execution of the Board’s decisions, with direct oversight of the newly minted Sustainability importance of sustainability. Office. The CEO oversees the execution of the Company’s corporate and business strategies and policies, and the conduct of its business, It steers the Management ensuring that sustainability is driven across the company. Committee in ensuring that SIA’s long-term value creation is achieved with environmental, social and governance factors Sustainability Office as guiding principles at all times. The Sustainability Office (SO), led by the Vice Sustainability is an integral part President Sustainability, was set up in December 2019. It is involved in policy planning and the of SIA’s operations and will be coordination of Company-wide sustainability efforts, and engages both partners and anchored across all levels suppliers in these efforts. SO also acts as the of the organisation. secretariat for the SSC and the SSWC. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 13 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES Materiality 102-42 102-46 We identify and prioritise the sustainability topics that matter most to SIA and our stakeholders. Our activities and relationships with other entities across our value chain will impact our stakeholders and the environment. In 2013, we conducted our inaugural Materiality Assessment to assess our significant sustainability impacts, and considered the concerns and expectations of our key stakeholders. In scoping the coverage of our Materiality Assessment, we focused on our operations in Singapore. We strive to progressively expand the boundaries to include the operations of our subsidiaries, so as to reflect a more holistic picture of the Group’s sustainability risks and opportunities. Our material sustainability topics were last reviewed in 2017 for its continued relevance and were endorsed by SIA’s Management Committee and the Board. The seven material sustainability topics are summarised in the following section. Sustainability strategy 102-15 Our sustainability strategy empowers us to contribute as a responsible corporate citizen. Since 2013, our sustainability strategy has provided us with a guiding framework to continually strive to fulfil our mission and vision of sustainability stewardship through four key thrusts — Managing Environmental Impact; Safety; Stakeholder Engagement; and Supporting Our Communities. We recognise that our sustainability risks and opportunities are continuously evolving. In FY2019/20, we embarked on a journey to renew our sustainability strategy, the details of which will be unveiled at a later stage. Image courtesy of BirdLife International Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 14 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES sustainability ambitions 102-12 102-44 102-47 We believe in sustaining a great world to fly. To do that, we have set ambitions that will help us chart a flight path towards global sustainable development. Material Topic Ambition Supporting the SDGs Through the Management of our Material Topics We seek to maintain high standards of corporate governance, professionalism, integrity and commitment at all levels, underpinned by strong internal controls and risk management systems. Governance We value our employees and care for their well-being and development. Employees We strive to improve our safety practices, as well as inculcate a strong and positive safety culture within the organisation. Safety We endeavour to offer customers the best travel experience through service excellence and proactive customer engagement. Customer-focus We treat suppliers with respect, emphasise fairness in our relationships, and work towards sustainable business practices. Suppliers We seek to maximise returns for long-term profitability, with the aim of creating sustainable shareholder value. Shareholders We remain committed to environmental sustainability and for our operations to be carried out responsibly in support of industry goals. Environment Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 15 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES We have come a long way from our humble beginnings And built a brand recognised the world over for its timeless quality As we grow, we asked ourselves what it will take to remain timeless We realise it must begin with sustaining our precious connections With people, with the world, with nature These connections chart a course towards sustainable development Empowering us to navigate headwinds And remain true to the reasons for our existence The lives of our employees, our customers and their loved ones Forging meaningful, stronger relationships with our stakeholders Implementing solutions to reduce our environmental footprint Making our workplace and every flight a home away from home From the investing community to our partners, aviation Doing all we can to future-proof the wonders of travel communities and those we serve Where they can rest knowing we are doing all we can to make it safe For the adventurers of tomorrow and generations to come Where we weave Singapore’s social fabric with a global We build and sustain our connections with people We sustain our connections with nature shared heritage Because we believe our journey with them never ends Because we believe in conserving our planet and the We sustain our connections with the world destinations we serve Because we believe in flying the extra mile, with a higher purpose Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 16 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES The lives of our employees, our customers and their loved ones Making our workplace and every flight a home away from home Where they can rest knowing we are doing all we can to make it safe We build and sustain our connections with people Because we believe our journey with them never ends Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 17 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES governance 103-1 103-2 103-3 We are committed to enhancing long-term value for our stakeholders by maintaining high standards of corporate governance across all levels of our organisation, underpinned by strong leadership and a robust approach to risk management. Good governance enables us to ensure that the right resources are allocated judiciously to strengthen our business resilience and ensure sustainable growth. LEADERSHIP RISK MANAGEMENT VALUES AND PRINCIPLES COMPLIANCE OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH Key Engagement Activities Key Policies, Processes and Procedures10 SIA’s Ambition • Anti-Corruption/Anti-Bribery Policy and Procedures We seek to maintain high standards of corporate governance, professionalism, integrity and Engagement Mode Frequency commitment at all levels, underpinned by strong internal controls and risk management systems. Audits and Assessments Regular • Anti-Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement Target Due Status Board Meetings Quarterly/Ad hoc • Conflict of Interest Policy At least 95% of our employees11 to complete the Every Achieved Crisis Management Exercises Yearly • Risk Management Framework anti-corruption web-based training by the due date year Employee Portals Regular • Staff Regulations External, Statutory and Regulatory Regular Communications • Suppliers’ Code of Conduct Supporting the SDGs Meetings (Briefings, Dialogues, Forums, Regular • Whistleblowing Policy Townhalls, etc.) Orientation Programmes Regular Publications (Bulletins, Circulars, Magazines, Newsletters, Notices, etc.) Regular Strategy Sessions Regular FY2019/20 in Numbers Training Programmes Regular (Anti-corruption, etc.) 95.8% 0 0 Available for of employees completed incidents of corruption involving significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for non compliance Whistleblowing Channel reporting the anti-corruption training employees or business partners with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations 10 Please refer to pages 66 to 86 of the FY2019/20 SIA Annual Report. 11 Our target excludes line pilots and cabin crew, as they do not need to enter into transactions on behalf of the Company in the ordinary course of their work. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 18 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES Leadership The SIA Board of Directors and Management Committee play a crucial role in furthering SIA’s sustainability Board Committees 102-18 agenda. They drive conversations around the things we can and must do to contribute Six board committees assist the Board in the execution of its responsibilities. Each to sustainable development. committee has written terms of reference and operating procedures as set out in their respective charters, which are reviewed periodically. A brief summary of their key functions are as follows: Board of Directors 102-22 102-23 102-25 102-26 Board Executive Committee (ExCo) The Board oversees the business performance and affairs of the Company, and provides general guidance to management. Its principal functions include charting the Group’s strategic direction, guiding management on digitalisation, technology and innovation, reviewing and approving annual budgets, financial plans and monitoring the • Oversees execution by Management on the overall strategic direction, Group’s performance, approving major acquisitions and fundraising exercises, as well as ensuring the Group’s compliance with all laws and regulations as may be relevant policies and guidelines set by the Board to the business. The Board recognises the importance of sustainability. It steers the Management Committee in ensuring SIA’s long-term value creation is achieved with • Reviews and recommends annual operating and capital budgets environmental, social and governance factors as guiding principles at all times. Our Directors come from diverse backgrounds bringing strong and varied expertise across the fields of business, finance, legal, management and marketing. Board Audit Committee (AC) • Oversees financial matters such as reporting, audits, risk Name of Director Position Held Nature of Appointment Date of Appointment Date of Last Re-election as Director management, interested persons transactions and whistleblowing Mr Peter Seah Lim Huat Chairman Non-executive / Independent 1 September 2015 29 July 2019 Board Compensation and Industrial Relations Committee Mr Goh Choon Phong Director Executive / Non-independent 1 October 2010 27 July 2018 (BCIRC) Mr Gautam Banerjee Director Non-executive / Independent 1 January 2013 27 July 2018 • Reviews and recommends the general framework of remuneration for the Board and relevant key Management personnel Mr Simon Cheong Sae Peng Director Non-executive / Independent 1 June 2017 28 July 2017 Board Safety and Risk Committee (BSRC) Mr Dominic Ho Chiu Fai Director Non-executive / Independent 1 May 2017 29 July 2019 • Oversees the regulatory compliance of systems and programmes Mr Hsieh Tsun-yan Director Non-executive / Independent 1 September 2012 27 July 2018 • Reviews safety performance and matters Mr Lee Kim Shin Director Non-executive / Independent 1 September 2016 29 July 2019 • Oversees Risk Governance Framework and Risk Management System Mr David John Gledhill Director Non-executive / Independent 1 September 2018 29 July 2019 Board Nominating Committee (NC) Ms Goh Swee Chen Director Non-executive / Independent 1 January 2019 29 July 2019 • Reviews and recommends appointment and re-election of Directors • Determines independence of Directors Further information on our Board of Directors, including their qualifications, current directorships in other listed companies and other principal commitments are available on pages 87 to 91 of the FY2019/20 SIA Annual Report. Customer Experience, Technology and There is a strong independent element in the Board. Eight out of nine Directors are independent from management and our substantial shareholder, Temasek Holdings Sustainability Committee (CETSC) (Private) Limited (Temasek). Our sole non-independent Director is Mr Goh Choon Phong, who is the CEO of the Company. There is an appropriate division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the CEO, which ensures a balance of power and authority within the Company. • Provides advice and guidance on sustainability matters through the development of a strategic roadmap for environmental, social and governance factors • Provides guidance on matters related to customer experience and digital innovation Further information on the Board Committees’ work, membership and meeting attendance are available on pages 66 to 86 of the FY2019/20 SIA Annual Report. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 19 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES Leadership (continued) Appointment and Re-election of Directors 102-24 The size and composition of the Board are reviewed from time to time, taking into account the scope and nature of our operations Newly appointed Directors serve an initial term of three years, after which they may be considered for nomination for re-election to ensure that the Board continues to have diverse views for effective decision making. Under its charter, the Board Nominating for additional terms. Their nominations are subject to the recommendations of the NC. Committee’s (NC) responsibilities include making recommendations to the Board concerning the appointment and re-election of Our Constitution provides that at each Annual General Meeting (AGM), one-third of the Directors for the time being12 are required Directors, and determining the independence of the Directors. The NC’s recommendations are based on a review of the range of to retire from office and are eligible for re-election. Retiring Directors are selected on the basis of those who have been longest in expertise, skills and attributes of current Board members and the needs of the Board. The committee takes into account our future office since their last re-election, failing which they shall be selected by agreement. The CEO is also subject to retirement and rebusiness direction, the tenure of service, contribution and commitment of each Board member. Board rejuvenation is a guiding election in accordance with the Constitution of the Company. New Directors appointed in the year are subject to retirement and principle in determining the need for new appointees to the Board. re-election by shareholders at the next AGM after their appointment. All new appointments and re-elections require the approval With regard to the selection of new Directors, the NC evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board. of the Special Member, the Minister for Finance. It also determines the role and desirable competencies for a particular appointment to enhance the existing Board composition. At least one member of the NC meets with the short-listed Board candidates to assess their suitability and availability. The NC then makes recommendations to the Board for approval. 12 Or, if their number is not three or a multiple of three, then the number nearest to but not less than one-third. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 20 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES Communicating with our Stakeholders We value our relationship with our stakeholders and remain committed to strengthening trust with the investing community. SIA ensures that pertinent and price-sensitive information such as financial results are shared in a timely manner to create a transparent process for disclosures. We publish such information on various communications platforms. These include press releases posted on our website, as well as disclosures on Singapore Exchange Ltd (SGXNet). Quarterly results announcements, news releases, presentation slides, monthly operating statistics, annual reports, sustainability reports and other key facts and figures about the Company are also shared with the investing community. We hold analyst and media briefings to announce the half-yearly and full-year results. A physical media and analyst briefing was organised after the release of our half year (1H FY2019/20) results. A full transcript of the proceedings was made available on SGXNet and the SIA website on the next working day. Following the announcement of our full-year results, we organised an analyst and media conference call due to physical meeting restrictions imposed during the Covid-19 outbreak. The audio recording of the conference call was uploaded on the SIA website the next day, followed by the transcript of the question and answer segment, which was subsequently posted on SGXNet and the SIA website. The Investor Relations department also meets analysts and investors on a regular basis through investor conferences, roadshows, post-results luncheons, as well as ad hoc meetings and teleconferences. A dedicated investor relations email address (investor_relations@singaporeair.com.sg) and hotline (+65 6541 4885) are maintained for the investing community to reach out to the Company for queries. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 21 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES Risk management Identifying, managing and responding to risks while capitalising on potential opportunities allow us to remain agile and make informed decisions to achieve our strategic objectives. Every business opportunity Board of Directors includes risks that could jeopardise SIA’s Board of Directors reviews and discusses the strategic risks and a company’s finances. As a publicly listed company, we need to Group Risk Governance other key risks of the Group annually. manage our finances and assets and Reporting Structure 102-30 Board Committees responsibly, while protecting the SIA Board of Directors The Board’s oversight is supported by the BSRC and other Board interests of our shareholders. Committees. They review and ensure that top risks are managed With this in mind, SIA formalised appropriately. The BSRC oversees the management’s implementation of the Risk Management Framework, the Risk Management Framework and assesses effectiveness through which encompasses a governance regular reviews. and reporting structure, risk assessment process, as well as a Risk Management Committees set of risk management principles, SIA Board Safety and Risk Committee (BSRC) The GRCMC and various Risk Management Committees or their policies and guidelines. These help equivalent drive the implementation of the Risk Management to ensure that we have a sound Framework, through detailed reviews of risks and corresponding system in place to manage risks, controls. This helps to ensure that key risks are identified, managed and where controls are implemented surfaced to the Board Committee. and reviewed regularly so that relevant risks are managed Occupational Risk Management Department efficiently and effectively. Safety, Health SIA Group Risk and Compliance Management A dedicated Risk Management department provides support to the Risk Committees and business units. This helps to ensure that risks and Environment Committee (GRCMC) are surfaced by business units from the bottom-up to the top-down Committee perspectives provided by the Management and Risk Committees. (OSHE) We want to instil a culture of risk-awareness in the organisation, where risks are managed proactively at all levels. To achieve this, our Risk Management (RM) department dedicates resources to reach out to all levels of employees through targeted communications and engagement activities. Continual training is another key element to equip our employees with the relevant knowledge and the right mindset to manage Other Subsidiaries SIA and SilkAir Risk risks. RM department developed an interactive web-based training Company Risk and Compliance module, which is mandatory for all employees to complete once every Air Safety Mangement two years, to complement the theoretical training for employees. Committee Management Committee Committee Business Continuity Plans are also tested regularly and independently (ASC) (RCMC) verified to assess employees’ readiness in responding to disruption or Equivalent scenarios in key operational functions. The completion of various risk management activities are tracked. The RM department also conducts employee surveys periodically to assess the programme’s effectiveness so that adjustments can be made accordingly. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 22 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) Risk Management Framework 102-30 PR-1 PR-2 PR-3 PR-4 PR-5 PR-6 PR-7 PR-10 Philosophy Risk Management Process SIA is to be a risk-aware organisation such that the taking of risks necessary for the achievement of its corporate objectives We continually identify new and emerging risks and evaluate existing risks and associated controls to determine their relevance in is carried out knowingly, and risks that present a threat to SIA are managed so as to protect and enhance the value of the the current context. A comprehensive guide and a Risk Assessment Matrix are in place to facilitate and ensure consistency in the organisation, taking into consideration our stakeholders’ and shareholders’ interests. risk assessments conducted by business units. Identified risks are graded and prioritised for more effective allocation of resources to manage the Company’s risks. Principles There are seven key areas in the Risk Appetite Statements13 to guide business units in their risk management approach. A set of Risk Management Principles, adapted from ISO 31000, provides the underlying basis for the scope and objectives of our risk management efforts. At SIA, risk management should: • Create and protect value by facilitating continual • Be based on the best available information and reviewed improvement of the organisation regularly Environmental Financial Information Operational Regulatory Safety Strategic • Be an integral part of all organisational processes, • Be customised to the needs of the organisation, including including decision making taking into account human, cultural and environmental factors Technology • Reduce the probability and/or consequence of the risk event • Be transparent and inclusive Our five-step Risk Management Process facilitates communication, understanding and application by all • Be systematic, structured and timely • Be dynamic, iterative and responsive to change levels of employees. Corporate Risk Objectives Our set of corporate risk objectives – PEARLS – guides our business units in formulating plans to manage risks: 1 2 3 4 5 P eople To protect people from harm or injury Identify Evaluate Prioritise Treat Monitor E nvironment To protect the environment from damage and pollution Our risk appetite, risk policies and guidelines are developed and embedded in the Risk Management Process. This helps to ensure a sound system of risk management and internal controls, so as to safeguard the interest of the Company and that of our shareholders. A ssets To protect the assets of the Company Multi-pronged risk response strategies such as avoidance, prevention, mitigation and transference, are employed to address the identified risks. A combination of control measures serves to protect the organisation, allowing for more effective management of risks. Crisis Management, Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery Plans are also developed to mitigate the impact on business R eputation To protect the reputation of the Company operations and ensure business resilience. The SIA Risk Management Framework emphasises the iterative process of assessing risks. In addition, all identified risks at L iability To protect against incurring liability the business unit level are consolidated to facilitate the assessment of Company and Group risks through a Group-wide Risk Management Review exercise annually. During the exercise, business units ensure that risk registers are kept current and their S upply Chain To protect the supply chain against critical disruptions response strategies are adequate and relevant. These processes are embedded within the work schedules of the business units and driven by the quarterly risk review activities of the Risk Committees. 13 Risk Appetite Statements can be found on pages 64 and 65 of the FY2019/20 SIA Annual Report. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 23 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES Risk management (continued) Crisis Management Prudent crisis management enables SIA to manage major threats to our business through a coordinated and professional response. Our Crisis Management Manual (CMM) sets out a set of procedures that guides our crisis response. It contains processes for our functional groups, and broadly describes the policies and procedures that enable our head office and station crisis appointment holders to manage a crisis globally. The manual has been prepared in accordance with the CAAS Air Navigation Regulations (ANR), family assistance laws and regulations governing aviation accidents. We remain vigilant against the ever-evolving global landscape. In FY2019/20, we swiftly activated our business continuity plans to manage the challenges arising from the Covid-19 outbreak. Measures were taken across the Company to ensure the health and safety of all stakeholders, as well as operational and economic resilience. A summary of our response and initiatives is available on pages 10 to 12 of this report. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 24 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES values and principles 102-16 Our values and principles guide us in the way we work with our stakeholders and how we conduct ourselves in the things that we do. SIA’s Core Values Supporting the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Corporate sustainability begins with our core values. We design a future-fit, principles-based approach to conduct our business. SIA has been a signatory to the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact since 2018. We believe in building a responsible business, one which operates in ways that meet the fundamental responsibilities in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We align our corporate strategies, policies Safety Care Teamwork and procedures with the Ten Principles and strive to uphold our responsibilities to people and planet. We put safety at the core of We care for our people and We work as one team to everything we do. Every time. community. Every time. achieve our goals. Every time. Employee Code of Conduct We believe in bringing out the best in our people and working with them to align their values and goals with that of the Company’s. All employees are expected to adhere to our staff regulations, which covers areas such as anti-corruption, competition law, personal conduct, discipline, non-discrimination and personal data protection. We have an established disciplinary inquiry process to handle cases in the event an employee violates the staff regulations. Excellence Customer-focus Integrity Such proceedings are recorded and a summary report of each inquiry We strive to be the best we We understand our guests so We go out of our way to do the is submitted to senior management. Our staff regulations are also reviewed can be. Every time. we can truly delight them. right thing. Every time. regularly by our Human Resources Division and Legal department to ensure Every time. continued relevance. Changes are communicated to all employees in a timely manner for compliance. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 25 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES values and principles (continued) Anti-corruption 205-2 205-3 PR-10 SIA has a zero-tolerance stance on corruption in all forms. Incidents of corruption can cause serious damage not only to our organisation and our stakeholders, but also cascade to the communities we operate in. It has a crippling effect on global sustainable development efforts and we recognise the significance of working with our stakeholders in our value chain to drive our anti-corruption efforts. Employees undergo a mandatory anti-corruption web-based training annually and are assessed on their knowledge and understanding at the end of the course. In FY2019/20, we achieved our annual target of at least 95% of our ground employees completing the anti-corruption training by the due date14. Of the 5,452 ground employees required to complete the anti-corruption training, a total of 5,221 (95.8%) employees completed the training. Completion of Anti-corruption Training, by Employee Type and Region FY2019/20 Non-management Management15 Total Total employees required to complete, by employee type 5,010 442 5,452 Total employees completed, 4,799 (95.8%) 422 (95.5%) 5,221 (95.8%) by employee type and region Singapore (Head Office) 2,593 341 2,934 The Americas 144 10 154 0 95.8% Europe 429 28 457 North Asia 583 13 596 South East Asia 460 10 470 incidents of corruption of ground employees involving employees or completed the South West Pacific 345 11 356 business partners in anti-corruption FY2019/20 training in FY2019/20 West Asia and Africa 245 9 254 Our business partners and service providers are also required to sign contracts that include an anti-corruption and anti-bribery clause, along with the SIA Suppliers’ Code of Conduct16. In FY2019/20, there were zero confirmed incidents of corruption involving our employees or business partners. There were also no legal cases of corruption brought against the Company. In FY2019/20, there were zero confirmed incidents of corruption involving our employees or business partners. There were also no 14 Our target excludes line pilots and cabin crew, as they do not need to enter into transactions on behalf of the Company in the ordinary course of their work. 15 Management refers to those who are holding managerial positions and above, and management pilots. legal cases of corruption brought against the Company. 16 Please refer to page 78 of this report for more information on the Suppliers’ Code of Conduct. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 26 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES values and principles (continued) compliance 307-1 416-2 Conflict of Interest We seek to do our utmost to conduct our business in a manner that is just and responsible Our policy on conflict of interest requires employees in a conflict of interest situation, or in one which to the society and the environment. could potentially lead to a conflict of interest, to report the matter immediately. The policy also requires Being compliant with the laws and regulations that govern us helps to foster trust and better relationships with our stakeholders. In FY2019/20, there all employees to make a declaration of all actual and potential conflict of interest situations to the Human were no significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. Resources Division annually. Anti-modern Slavery and Human Trafficking PR-1 PR-2 PR-4 PR-5 At SIA, we do not condone any form of slavery and human trafficking. We remain dedicated to combating these risks in our value chain. Our suppliers are selected on the basis of their commitment to our principles and are required to comply with local labour standards as set out in our Suppliers’ Code of Conduct. Those found to be in breach of this Code of Conduct risk having their supplier contracts terminated. More information on the Suppliers’ Code of Conduct can be found on page 78 of this report. We also recognise the important role we play in preventing human trafficking as there is a risk that our airline services could be used by human traffickers. We work closely with governments, national law enforcement agencies and airports in the countries and territories we operate in to ensure that all suspected trafficking on our flights are reported and dealt with appropriately. We are committed to sharing best practices with our peers through IATA platforms and believe in the importance of investing resources to train our employees so they can assess and report suspicious behaviour. The Anti-modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement is available on our website. Grievance Mechanism 102-17 We have channels for all internal and external stakeholders to raise concerns about possible improprieties in any matter, in confidence. Our whistleblowing programme, Policy on Reporting Wrongdoing, is communicated to our employees through our internal Intranet, staff regulations and a mandatory web-based training module. External stakeholders may report suspected matters of wrongdoing affecting the Company, either through email at ethnics_hotline@singaporeair.com.sg or via telephone at +65 9387 5667. The Audit Committee 0 continuously reviews the whistleblowing programme to ensure that it is adequate. In FY2019/20, two lunch-time outreach events were held for employees to inform and encourage them to do the right thing by whistleblowing on wrongdoings. All whistleblower reports on suspected wrongdoings are reviewed by the significant fines or Audit Committee at its quarterly meetings to ensure independent investigation and adequate resolution. non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 27 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES EMPLOYEES 103-1 103-2 103-3 Our success as one of the world’s leading airlines is a result of the passion and commitment of our employees. We recognise that attracting and retaining talents is essential to building a resilient and thriving organisation. We invest heavily in our employees to keep them motivated and provide them with ample opportunities for personal and professional development. We believe we can soar to greater heights by working together. OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH Key Engagement Activities Key Policies, Processes and Procedures SIA’s Ambition • Collective Agreements We value our employees and care for their well-being Engagement Mode Frequency and development. Chill Out with CEO Sessions Quarterly • Global Job Mobility Policy Community Service Activities Regular • Learning and Development Policy Supporting the SDGs Engagement with Trade Unions’ Leadership Quarterly • Learning Management System (Scoot) Extra-curricular Activities (Arts, Health and Wellness, Social and Recreation, Social Regular Functions, Sports and Recreation, etc.) • Returning Crew Scheme Publications (Bulletins, Circulars, Magazines, Newsletters, Notices, etc.) Regular • Staff Benefits Policy Safety and Security Week Yearly • Staff Recruitment Policy Surveys (Organisational Climate Survey, Transformation Pulse Survey, etc.) Regular • Staff Regulations FY2019/20 in Numbers Most Attractive Employer 28,160 4% 0.9:1 12% 92% S$43.5 mil in Singapore employees in the SIA Group growth in the SIA Group’s workforce gender ratio (male: female) overall new hire rate of SIA return to work rate of SIA employees who investment in learning and development of employees awarded to Singapore Airlines in 2019 of SIA employees employees took parental leave by Randstad Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 28 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES Our employees17 SIA is, and always will be, a people’s organisation. As we serve and connect with people from different cultures and walks of life, it is only natural that our workforce mirrors that too. We embrace the strengths that diversity in the workforce brings – from fresh perspectives to engaging and meaningful conversations. Strength in Diversity 102-7 202-2 As of 31 March 2020, the SIA Group comprises a total of 28,160 employees, reflecting a four per cent increase in headcount from the previous financial year. Of these, Singapore Airlines employs 17,204 employees (FY2018/19: 16,316 employees) based in 36 destinations. Female employees account for 52.2 per cent of our workforce, while male employees account for 47.8 per cent. Seventy per cent of our employees are Singapore Citizens or permanent residents, as are 96.4 per cent of Management18 based at our Head Office in Singapore. Full-time employees account for 99.7 per cent of our staff. Around 35.2 per cent of our employees are under 30 years of age, 48.5 per cent are between the ages of 30 and 50, and 16.3 per cent above the age of 50. New Hires and Turnover 401-1 In FY2019/20, Singapore Airlines’ overall new hire rate19 remained stable at 12 per cent (FY2018/19: 13.2 per cent), with new hire rate for male employees at 10 per cent, and female employees at 13.9 per cent. In terms of age group, our new hire rate was the highest for employees under 30 years of age at 26.9 per cent. 17,204 36 0.9:1 12% In line with our continuing efforts for talent retention, we saw an improvement in our overall turnover rate20 vis-à-vis FY2018/19 levels. In FY2019/20, Singapore Airlines’ overall turnover rate was 5.4 per cent (FY2018/19: 9.7 per cent), with turnover rate for male employees at 3.3 per cent, and female employees at 7.3 per cent. employees in Singapore Airlines destinations that our SIA gender ratio (male:female) overall new hire rate employees are based in of SIA employees of SIA employees 17 Please refer to the Appendix on pages 130 to 131 for definitions and methodologies. Due to rounding, numbers and percentages presented may not add up precisely to the absolute totals indicated. 18 Management refers to those who are holding managerial positions and above, and management pilots. 19 New hire rate is computed by number of new hires over the number of employees, expressed as a percentage. This can be computed by the respective demographic cuts. 20 Turnover rate is computed by number of turnover over the number of employees, expressed as a percentage. This can be computed by the respective demographic cuts. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 29 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES Our employees (continued) 102-8 401-1 405-1 FY2018/19 FY2019/20 FY2018/19 FY2019/20 Employees in the SIA Group 27,078 28,160 Singapore Airlines Employees 16,316* (100.0%) 17,204* (100.0%) Employees, by Subsidiary Employees, by Gender Singapore Airlines 16,316* 17,204* Male 7,851 (48.1%) 8,223 (47.8%) SilkAir 1,484 1,389 Female 8,465 (51.9%) 8,981 (52.2%) Scoot 2,334 2,406 Employees, by Gender SIA Engineering Company 4,478 4,372 SIAEC’s Subsidiaries 2,195 2,476 Tradewinds Tours & Travel 44 51 48.1% 47.8% FY2018/19 FY2019/20 52.2% Cargo Community Network 76 77 51.9% Singapore Flying College 66 82 SAGI 3 3 KrisShop 82 100 Male Female * Excludes Singapore Airlines staff seconded to other companies but includes staff seconded to Singapore Airlines. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 30 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES Our employees (continued) Employees, by Employee FY2018/19 FY2019/20 Employees, by Employee FY2018/19 FY2019/20 Category and by Age Group Category and by Age Group Pilots 2,261 (13.9%) 2,369 (13.7%) Ground Staff 5,311 (32.5%) 5,569 (32.4%) <30 yo 204 (1.3%) 293 (1.7%) <30 yo 1,115 (6.8%) 1,163 (6.8%) 30-50 yo 1,560 (9.6%) 1,549 (9.0%) 30-50 yo 2,656 (16.3%) 2,869 (16.7%) >50 yo 497 (3.0%) 527 (3.0%) >50 yo 1,540 (9.4%) 1,537 (8.9%) Cabin Crew 8,744 (53.6%) 9,266 (53.9%) Employees, by Employee Category and by Age Group <30 yo 4,285 (26.3%) 4,600 (26.7%) 1.3% 1.7% Pilots <30 yo 9.4% 9.6% 8.9% 9.0% Pilots 30 – 50 yo 30-50 yo 3,847 (23.6%) 3,932 (22.9%) 3.0% 3.0% Pilots >50 yo 16.3% 16..7% >50 yo 612 (3.8%) 734 (4.3%) Cabin Crew <30 yo Cabin Crew 30 – 50 yo FY2018/19 26.3% FY2019/20 26.7% 6.8% 6.8% Cabin Crew >50 yo Ground Staff <30 yo 3.8% 4.3% Ground Staff 30 – 50 yo 23.6% 22.9% Ground Staff >50 yo Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 31 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES Our employees (continued) Employees, by Employment Employees, by Employment Type (Full-time and FY2018/19 FY2019/20 Type (Full-time and FY2018/19 FY2019/20 Part-time) and by Gender Part-time) and by Gender Full-time 16,264 (99.7%) 17,150 (99.7%) Permanent 8,643 (53.0%) 8,883 (51.6%) Male 7,850 (48.1%) 8,220 (47.8%) Male 5,687 (34.9%) 5,849 (34.0%) Female 8,414 (51.6%) 8,930 (51.9%) Female 2,956 (18.1%) 3,034 (17.6%) Part-time 52 (0.3%) 54 (0.3%) Contract 7,673 (47.0%) 8,321 (48.4%) Male 1 (~0.006%) 3 (~0.01%) Male 2,164 (13.2%) 2,374 (13.8%) Female 51 (0.3%) 51 (0.3%) Female 5,509 (33.8%) 5,947 (34.6%) Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 32 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES Our employees (continued) Employees, by Employees, by Employment Type FY2018/19 FY2019/20 Employment Type FY2018/19 FY2019/20 (Permanent and (Permanent and Contract) and by Region Contract) and by Region Permanent 8,643 (53.0%) 8,883 (51.6%) Contract 7,673 (47.0%) 8,321 (48.4%) Singapore 6,248 (38.3%) 6,436 (37.4%) Singapore 7,626 (46.7%) 8,268 (48.1%) The Americas 156 (1.0%) 163 (0.9%) The Americas 3 (~0.01%) 3 (~0.01%) Europe 495 (3.0%) 508 (3.0%) Europe 19 (~0.1%) 25 (~0.1%) North Asia 579 (3.6%) 614 (3.6%) North Asia 11 (~0.06%) 11 (~0.06%) South East Asia 445 (2.7%) 439 (2.5%) South East Asia 2 (~0.01%) 6 (~0.03%) South West Pacific 390 (2.4%) 390 (2.3%) South West Pacific 1 (~0.006%) 1 (~0.005%) West Asia and Africa 330 (2.0%) 333 (1.9%) West Asia and Africa 11 (~0.06%) 7 (~0.04%) Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 33 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES Our employees (continued) FY2018/19 FY2019/20 FY2018/19 FY2019/20 New Hires, by Region New Hires 2,152 (100.0%) 2,073 (100.0%) Singapore 1,900 (88.3%) 1,779 (85.8%) New Hires, by Gender The Americas 45 (2.1%) 31 (1.5%) Male 825 (38.3%) 821 (39.6%) Europe 45 (2.1%) 45 (2.2%) Female 1,327 (61.7%) 1,252 (60.4%) New Hires, by Age Group North Asia 52 (2.4%) 78 (3.7%) <30 yo 1,830 (85.0%) 1,628 (78.5%) South East Asia 45 (2.1%) 45 (2.2%) 30-50 yo 310 (14.4%) 417 (20.1%) South West Pacific 41 (1.9%) 72 (3.5%) >50 yo 12 (0.6%) 28 (1.4%) West Asia and Africa 24 (1.1%) 23 (1.1%) New Hires, by Gender New Hires, by Age Group 0.6% 1.4% 14.4% 20.1% 39.6% 38.3% FY2018/19 FY2019/20 FY2018/19 FY2019/20 61.7% 60.4% 85.0% 78.5% Male Female <30 yo 30 50 yo >50 yo Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 34 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES Our employees (continued) FY2018/19 FY2019/20 FY2018/19 FY2019/20 Turnover, by Region Turnover 1,582 (100. 0%) 927 (100.0%) Singapore 1,296 (81.9%) 742 (80.0%) Turnover, by Gender The Americas 37 (2.4%) 16 (1.7%) Male 572 (36.2%) 269 (29.0%) Europe 62 (3.9%) 32 (3.5%) Female 1,010 (63.8%) 658 (71.0%) Turnover, by Age Group North Asia 63 (4.0%) 45 (4.9%) <30 yo 696 (44.0%) 571 (61.6%) South East Asia 46 (2.9%) 39 (4.2%) 30-50 yo 626 (39.6%) 331 (35.7%) South West Pacific 54 (3.4%) 34 (3.7%) >50 yo 260 (16.4%) 25 (2.7%) West Asia and Africa 24 (1.5%) 19 (2.0%) Turnover, by Gender Turnover, by Age Group 2.7% 16.4% 29.0% 36.2% 35.7% FY2018/19 FY2019/20 FY2018/19 44.0% FY2019/20 61.6% 63.8% 39.6% 71.0% Male Female <30 yo 30 50 yo >50 yo Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 35 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT Continual engagement with our employees enables us to understand them better. These interactions allow us to address key issues, feedback and concerns that our employees may have. Our quarterly ‘Chill Out with CEO’ is a casual session for employees to interact Engaging Our Employees 102-43 with our CEO and engage in open dialogue. We maintain many communications channels with all our employees, both local and overseas. The following table presents a summary of the key communications channels. We obtain feedback from employees through our Organisational Climate Survey (OCS), which we conduct once every two years. Last conducted in February 2019, the OCS enabled us to better understand employee Activities and Events Forums and Training Online Platforms Publications Surveys engagement, as well as identify strengths and areas of improvement so that we can deliver a more positive work Community Service Activities Business Meetings e-Learning Platforms Bulletins, Circulars, Organisational Climate Survey experience for our employees. Regular Biannual (SKIES, Zunos, etc.) Notices, etc. and Pulse Survey Our employees thrive when they feel Regular Regular Biennial that they can make a difference in what they do. In October 2019, we Demo Day by KrisLab Employee Platforms held 10 Human Resources townhall Chill Out with CEO Session Cabin Crew Times Transformation Pulse Survey sessions, and connected with over 1,200 Regular Quarterly (1SQ, Employee Service Centre, Monthly Regular employees in Singapore and overseas. W@vesWorkplace, Workplace During these townhall sessions, the Divisional Communication Chat, etc.) three topics discussed were career Sessions Dialogues, Forums, Townhalls, etc. Regular Fleet e-Newsletters development, total reward and Regular Biannual performance management. The townhall Quarterly Internal Collaboration using sessions served as opportunities for us to listen to our employees and address Microsoft Teams Flight Safety Magazine Extra-curricular Activities Training and Development their feedback and concerns. (arts, health and wellness, Regular Programmes Half-yearly Staff Ideas-in-Action is an initiative sports and recreation, social to encourage ideation and inculcate Regular functions, etc.) Yammer Groups an open, vibrant innovation culture. Quarterly Regular Hazard Newsletters Employees are challenged to review Quarterly their work processes and identify areas for improvement so as to enhance Safety and Security Week revenue, reduce costs, promote Annual Outlook Magazine efficiency and improve safety, among Monthly others. In FY2019/20, close to 5,000 ideas were received and evaluated. Staff Ideas-in-Action Regular Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 36 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT (continued) Leveraging Digital Tools We are constantly on the look out for new digital tools that we can leverage to better connect with our employees, while allowing them to access functions that will increase their efficiency. 1SQ, SIA’s One-stop Employee Mobile App Kaki, Scoot’s Employee Chatbot Employee Service Centre, Scoot’s One-stop Digital Solution for Launched in February 2018, 1SQ is designed to provide our employees with Kaki, an employee chatbot, is available on Scoot’s Workchat mobile app for employees Service Requests on-the-go access to the latest news, corporate deals and the ability to perform to clarify questions they may have on-the-go. As of December 2019, Kaki has serviced Employee Service Centre is Scoot’s one-stop digital solution for all employee service self-service functions such as leave submissions or travel requests. The launch of 1SQ over 2,000 employees and successfully resolved 92 per cent of all queries. Since its requests such as insurance claims, flexible work arrangements, team bonding was an important step to empower our workforce digitally. Around 93 per cent of our launch in December 2018, Kaki’s responses are continuously finetuned to better proposals and more. The service centre carries over 100 knowledge articles including employees in Singapore are users of 1SQ. support our employees. Employees receive a short survey after each session with the company policies and self-help documents. In FY2019/20, it had a satisfaction rate of chatbot, which allows the chatbot team to correct any inaccurate responses. 1SQ runs on an agile methodology where new features are regularly introduced. In 83.6 per cent amongst users. FY2019/20, we introduced hazard reporting, digital name cards and an interactive feature where our employees can share their memories and well-wishes with one another. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 37 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES PR-3 PR-6 We believe in investing in our employees’ well-being and development and keeping them engaged with meaningful work. In 2019, Singapore Airlines was named the Most Attractive Employer in Singapore by Randstad for the fourth time. Singapore Airlines was also named one of the Most Attractive Employers in Singapore by the Universum Awards, ranking us 3rd by over 9,000 undergraduates from the four local universities. Collaborative Partnerships 102-41 We adopt a collaborative partnership approach when engaging with our unions. Our management and union leaders work closely, meeting monthly to address matters pertaining to the workforce. They also share updates on initiatives aimed at developing our employees’ careers and competencies. Terms and conditions of service, which are encapsulated within the respective Collective Agreements, have been jointly developed. Progressive wage increments benchmarked against company performance, productivity growth and market conditions are also discussed with our unions annually. In FY2019/20, we successfully concluded the annual service increment agreements with ALPA-S and SIASU, as well as the 2019 Collective Agreement with ALPA-S. An agreement was also concluded with AESU to restructure the Executive salary structures to be pegged to market conditions. In addition, to demonstrate our commitment to building a future-ready workforce, a Company Training Committee (CTC) comprising management and union representatives from AESU and SIASU was set up, to review training needs of our workforce in view of industry transformation. Our union leadership has also taken a progressive approach and supported us over the years in launching initiatives and programmes to enable our workforce to be better prepared for the future. SIA’s Chairman and Senior Management have quarterly lunch meetings with union leaders to share the Company’s business outlook and discuss workforce matters. Union leaders are also invited to company functions such as retirement and long service award ceremonies, as well as SIA’s business meetings, amongst others. Union-Management retreats are also organised for both parties to discuss longer-term strategic workforce initiatives regularly. P 2758 U 98% of SIA employees are Air Transport Executive Staff Union Air Line Pilots Association Singapore Singapore Airlines Staff Union covered by collective (AESU) is a representative body for (ALPA-S) is a representative body for (SIASU) is a representative body about 50 per cent of SIA executives. about 94 per cent of SIA pilots. for about 65 per cent of cabin crew bargaining agreements and associates. THE MOST ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER IN SINGAPORE RANDSTAND 2019 AWARDS Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 38 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES (continued) Notice Periods 402-1 Our Collective Agreements set out the minimum notice period for termination or resignation of our employees. For Singapore-based employees, the notice period is three months for confirmed cabin crew, pilots, executives and managers, and one month for confirmed ground associates. For overseas employees, the notice periods may vary subject to local regulations and union agreements. Should a scenario arise that calls for a significant operational change, we work closely with our unions to coordinate the best suited response that is fair and reasonable to all parties. We also provide affected employees with reasonable notice prior to its implementation. SilkAir integration We are in the midst of our multi-year SilkAir integration effort, which was announced in May 2018. Employees were informed at least two months in advance before the integration of their respective departments into SIA. Career Transition Programme 404-2 We have in place a career transition programme specially developed for our cabin crew who wish to continue working beyond their retirement. A Career Transition Guide and a list of career opportunities are shared with them six months before retirement. Potential employers will also be informed so they may get in touch with retiring crew members. The guide offers useful links, strategies and tools to support our cabin crew in developing an effective plan so that they can make informed decisions for their career. Preparation of good cover letters, tips for interviews, contacts for counselling, as well as worksheets for self-evaluation are included in the guide. Financial management courses are also available to assist crew in making sound financial decisions in preparation for retirement. Returning Crew Scheme As the safety of our employees is paramount to SIA, we do not permit pregnant crew members to carry out duties on flights. Under the Returning Crew Scheme, crew are encouraged to return to their flying duties after delivering their child, subject to a pre-set list of criteria. Cabin crew members can return to their duties with minimum disruption to their careers, while retaining their previous years of service. To raise awareness of the scheme, talks are conducted twice a year with healthcare professionals for crew who left due to their pregnancy. The Returning Crew Scheme is reviewed during divisional level meetings on a quarterly basis, with progress assessed and appropriate action plans implemented. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 39 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES (continued) In FY2019/20, the overall retention rate and return to work rate of SIA employees who took parental leave remained stable at 90.3 per Employee Benefits 401-2 401-3 cent and 92 per cent respectively. Our employees’ well-being and work-life integration is important to us. We have flexible work arrangements such as a work-from-home scheme and staggered working hours, where operationally Parental Leave Statistics feasible. Our employees and their eligible dependants are also covered by a range of medical benefits. These include out-patient, specialist, hospitalisation, as well as subsidised insurance benefits, where FY2018/19 Male Female Total applicable. Apart from healthcare, other benefits include life insurance and parental leave. Full-time, Singapore-based employees enjoy benefits such as: Employees who were entitled to parental leave 2,168 1,235 3,403 Employees who took parental leave 1,366 991 2,357 Adoption, Annual, Childcare, Compassionate, Maternity, Matrimonial, National Service, Paternity and Shared Employees who returned to work after parental leave ended 1,170 991 2,161 Parental leave Returned to work after parental leave ended and who were 1,133 970 2,103 still employed 12 months after returning to work Different tiers of company subsidies for Group Personal Accident Insurance, Group Term Life Insurance Scheme, Retention rate21 of employees who took parental leave 82.9% 97.9% 89.2% and Medical Insurance for dependants of employees Return to work rate22 of employees who took parental leave 85.7% 100.0% 91.7% Dental, in-patient, out-patient general practitioner and FY2019/20 Male Female Total specialist care Holiday accommodation subsidies Employees who were entitled to parental leave Employees who took parental leave 2,191 1,467 1,026 987 3,217 2,454 90.3% overall retention Employees who returned to work after parental leave ended 1,465 792 2,257 rate of SIA employees who took parental leave Staggered working hours, work-from-home scheme and Returned to work after parental leave ended and who were 1,447 770 2,217 92% casual-wear every day for ground employees based in Singapore still employed 12 months after returning to work Retention rate21 of employees who took parental leave 98.6% 78.0% 90.3% We provide all full-time employees and their eligible dependants with the opportunity to travel overseas. This includes complimentary return air tickets once a year to any destination that Return to work rate22 of employees who took parental leave 99.9% 80.2% 92.0% overall return to SIA and SilkAir serve and discounted airfares for employees and eligible dependants. To further work rate of SIA enhance the travel benefit offerings for our employees, we are working on launching interline employees who travel partnerships with other airlines. 21 Retention rate is computed by number of employees who returned to work after parental leave ended and who were still employed 12 months after their return to work, over number of employees who took parental leave, expressed as a percentage. took parental leave 22 Return to work rate is computed by number of employees who returned to work after parental leave ended, over number of employees who took parental leave, expressed as a percentage. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 40 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES A FUTURE-READY WORKFORCE 404-2 Equipping our employees with the right skills to thrive. Revamped Employee Portal: My Career Centre We believe that the continuous development and growth of our employees are our key differentiators to remaining competitive In FY2019/20, we revamped our employee portal, myTMS, and renamed it My Career Centre. This revamped employee portal is a and resilient. This is why we constantly seek opportunities to motivate our employees and equip our workforce with the right one-stop platform for performance development, talent management and internal job placements. Employees now have increased skillsets to prepare them for the future. visibility of job opportunities within our organisation. To further support mobility across our offices worldwide, a Global Job Mobility Policy was rolled out to detail the application process and provide employees with support for their transfers. The revamped portal also enables our employees to participate in e-learning modules on performance development that cover topics such as how to give or receive feedback, performance differentiation and effective goal setting. The purpose is to strengthen competencies of both our staff and management, ultimately driving greater efficiencies and productivity. Continuous Learning Under the ambit of SIA’s Transformation journey, SIA strives to inspire passion in our people by providing opportunities for personal growth. We continue to focus our efforts toward building a future-ready and responsive workforce, in order to remain competitive amid an evolving business landscape. This includes equipping our employees with essential soft and hard skills, as well as upskilling and re-skilling employees to support our transformation initiatives. We aim to continually reinforce and promote a vibrant learning and innovative culture geared towards empowered and continuous learning. Significant resources are invested to develop our employees globally. In FY2019/20, we invested a total of S$43.5 million in the learning and development of our employees, which includes a S$1.7 million grant from SkillsFuture Singapore, a Singapore government-led movement. SIA’s Leadership and Functional Competency Framework Following the review of the SIA Leadership Competency Framework in FY2018/19, we stepped up our focus to develop and strengthen our employees’ domain expertise in this highly critical and rapidly changing business landscape. We will continue to refine the existing Functional Competency Framework to enhance employees’ competencies and further develop their professional career with SIA. This framework will provide employees with information on the functional S$43.5 mil competencies required for personal growth and development. It will also allow employees to have greater visibility of similar job roles across the organisation. Adopting a systematic approach, this multi-year project will cover key job competencies across SIA, starting from our operational and commercial functions. Functional competencies will be developed for these roles, along with the relevant training and developmental courses that employees can tap on and for management’s use to guide their teams. investment in learning and development of employees in FY2019/20 Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 41 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES A FUTURE-READY WORKFORCE (continued) The table below presents the average number of training days taken by our employees, Pilot and Cabin Crew Training languages, people management, and leadership skills. The objective of the programme by employee category. Average training days for FY2019/20 were lower as compared is to empower our crew to take charge of their development and upgrade their core Before they can perform their flight duties on board, new cabin crew members must skillsets with certified professional competencies. to FY2018/19 due to a suspension of training in the last quarter as a result of the complete a 14-week classroom and on-the-job training programme. The training Covid-19 outbreak. SIA’s pilot training programmes are designed to achieve the highest standards of programme covers topics such as food knowledge, meal service procedures, personal grooming, social etiquette and wine appreciation. Aligned with SIA’s emphasis on training that meet all regulatory requirements, and to also satisfy the safety and Average Number of Training Days, by Employee Category 404-1 safety, our crew also undergo training in security, safety and first aid procedures, quality objectives of our organisation. Besides mandatory training programmes, which include learning cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR). we conduct developmental programmes for all ranks of pilots to enhance their FY2018/19 FY2019/20 operational and flight skills. We also have a mentoring framework in place to instil The Cabin Crew Learning and Development department implemented a series of our Company’s core values and enhance our pilot’s competencies by learning from initiatives to facilitate an enhanced learning experience that leverages technology. For experienced peers. Associates 7 4 example, the training programme was recently revamped to adopt a simulated flight phase training approach to enable new crew members to retain knowledge and apply Scoot’s Learning Management System was developed in 2018 for cabin crew trainees their learning effectively. It also provides new crew with more hands-on opportunities and trainers to maximise instructional time spent in classrooms. For instance, trainees Cabin Crew 17 15 to reinforce their learning. can access material online before in-class training sessions, which has reduced total class time by at least half a day. The system enables Scoot’s instructors to make Executives 8 5 Our cabin crew are also equipped with strong communications and passenger the most of classroom hours by focusing on the application of knowledge through handling skills to cater to the needs of all of our customers. Cabin crew are taught techniques such as role-playing. techniques on how to deliver personalised service to young children, the elderly, Managers and Above 5 3 and mobility-challenged individuals. As part of the SIA Group’s Cadet Pilot Programme, SIA Flight Operations Management, along with Human Resources representatives, make regular visits to Beyond functional skills required for cabin crew to carry out their duties on board, cadets stationed in Perth, Australia. This allows the cadets to have dialogues with Pilots23 8 8 opportunities for self-development are provided through our Self-Directed Learning management and share their feedback and concerns on the training programme. programme. The programme offers a variety of courses such as culinary arts, 23 Training days for Pilots are based on Recurrent Training and Base Check hours. 6 Training days for Pilots are based on Recurrent Training and Base Check hours. 7 Average training days for FY2019/20 were lower as compared to FY2018/19 due to a suspension of training due to the Covid-19 outbreak. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 42 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES A FUTURE-READY WORKFORCE (continued) Refreshed Suite of Leadership and Professional Development Programmes Following the review of the SIA Leadership and Functional Competency Framework, we introduced a suite of Leadership and Professional Development programmes in FY2019/20, with the purpose of strengthening our leadership and enhancing workforce capabilities across all employee grades. Focus areas include teamwork and personal effectiveness, change management and resultoriented leadership. Continued priority was also placed on arming our employees with future readiness and digital capabilities, with emphasis on building knowledge and skills amongst ground staff in design thinking, agile methodologies and data analytics. Enhancements were also made to various learning platforms and resources during the year in review, through the adoption of new technologies in curriculum design and delivery. These include: Implementation of Virtual Reality Introduction of interactive video technology Providing access to the SKIES e-learning simulations in the Heavy Cargo Handling to design custom scenario-based e-learning, platform to all Singapore Airlines and SilkAir programme for faster learning applications on topics such as performance development employees globally. The SKIES mobile to improve handling of lost baggage app was launched in FY2019/20, further empowering employees to take charge of their learning and self-development on-the-go SKIES e-Learning Platform: Learn Anytime, Anywhere Over 13,000 Bite-sized Modules Learn On-the-go Virtual Learning Globally, SIA and SilkAir employees have access to our courses on the SKIES e-learning platform. In October 2019, over 13,000 bite-sized learning modules from our e-library were made available to our employees. With the launch of SKIES on Mobile in FY2019/20, all SIA and SilkAir employees are empowered to take charge of their learning and development through distance-based learning. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 43 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES A FUTURE-READY WORKFORCE (continued) Scoot SilkAir In August 2019, Scoot, the Scoot Tigerair Staff Union, and the Singapore Employment and Employability Institute signed a Memorandum of Agreement for the At SilkAir, emphasis is placed on integrating new employees to the best practices and culture of formation of the Scoot Company Training Committee to plan and introduce skills training initiatives. In FY2019/20, Scoot inculcated a culture of learning and the organisation. New hires undergo an induction programme to introduce them to the aviation continual growth among employees with initiatives including: industry and know-hows of the Company. SilkAir also has a strong mentorship scheme through which newly joined executives can learn from the experience and skills of other senior executives • Launch of Zunos in April 2019, a digital learning management platform, accessible on desktops and mobile devices to facilitate learning on the go. Zunos also and managers. SilkAir offers training for ground employees through SIA’s Corporate Learning enables managers to track their team’s learning progress Centre. In addition, SilkAir has continuing education opportunities that empower and offer • Introduction of a three-day event called Learning Fest in July 2019, in conjunction with SkillsFuture Singapore. Learning Fest comprised a roadshow and a series scholarship assistance to employees, allowing them to further their studies and upgrade their of talks and workshops covering themes such as digital skills, innovation, personal mastery and well-being. Over 60 per cent of Scoot’s employees, skillsets. Moreover, all SilkAir employees have access to e-learning modules on SKIES and other including pilots, cabin crew and office staff, participated in at least one talk or workshop digital platforms run by SIA’s Corporate Learning Centre. • Roll out of four design-thinking workshops in FY2019/20 to equip employees with the skills to develop customer-centric solutions • Roll out of four data analytics courses in FY2019/20 to raise employees’ digital proficiency in data analysis • Curation of a series of Career Skills Awareness workshops, sharing strategies on career planning and skills upgrading. The workshops were conducted for over 100 Scoot employees including office staff, cabin crew and pilots • Partnership with Udemy for Business in August 2019, an online learning platform for professionals. Through this partnership, office-based employees were granted access to over 3,500 online courses for self-learning. Approximately 80 per cent of Scoot’s office-based employees are now registered on Udemy with around 50 per cent participating in the online courses. Moving forward, Scoot plans to continue cultivating a learning culture through promotional activities such as its bimonthly “Learning Happy Hour” sessions, for employees, which provides them with dedicated time to learn on the Udemy platform Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 44 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES The Covid-19 outbreak is the greatest challenge in SIA’s history. Yet, it has also taught us many lessons and strengthened the bonds within the SIA family. While uncertainties may linger, the SIA Group remains steadfast and resilient, working CASE STUDY SIA Care Ambassadors undergoing training to provide together to overcome KEEPING OUR EMPLOYEES ENGAGED support to patients in Singapore General Hospital these challenges and WHILE GIVING BACK TO THE COMMUNITY Image courtesy of SGH emerge stronger, together. The Covid-19 outbreak is the greatest challenge faced by SIA. Despite the challenges, our employees have shown tremendous strength and resilience, demonstrating the true spirit of SIA. In support of Singapore’s healthcare and transport sectors’ frontline efforts, hundreds of our cabin crew members volunteered for the roles of Care and Transport Ambassadors, using their expertise and experience as care providers to support hospitals and public transport stations. As of end-May 2020, more than 1,000 employees from the SIA Group participated in the following schemes: 346 Care 44 Contact Tracing 230 Social Service Office (SSO) 471 Transport Ambassadors^ Ambassadors* Processing Officers^ Ambassadors^ Care Ambassadors take on a non-clinical role Contact Tracing Ambassadors support SSO Processing Officers provide Transport Ambassadors support the manning of to provide support and attend to patients Singapore’s contact tracing team by reaching administrative support to the Ministry of thermal stations, actively remind commuters on who require routine medical care, under the out to potential contacts and requesting Social and Family Development (MSF) in safe distancing measures, regulate commuter supervision of hospital nursing staff. required information to aid authorities in their processing schemes to determine applicants’ flow and facilitate crowd control at various public contact tracing efforts. suitability for relief grants. transport stations across Singapore. ^ Includes Singapore Airlines, SilkAir and Scoot cabin crew employees. * Includes Singapore Airlines cabin crew employees only. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 45 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES OUR RESPONSE TO COVID-19 Information accurate as of 30 June 2020. Our relationships with our employees matter deeply to us. For us to remain sustainable in the long term, we recognise that tough decisions and sacrifices must be made now to address the rapid decline in air travel due to the tightened border controls globally. In March 2020, we announced that we will be cutting 96 per cent of the capacity that had been scheduled up to end-April. We face the unprecedented impact of Covid-19 with our employees and do our utmost to support them through these trying times. Collaborative Engagement Job Support Programme • Through collaborative engagement with union leaders, compulsory no-pay leave and leave of absence schemes for • Implemented a Job Support Programme to allow additional earnings and new experiences for our employees. We employees on re-employment contracts were implemented. Our overseas stations implemented similar measures waived the requirement for exclusive service to enable our ground staff (on voluntary no-pay leave or furlough) in line with local regulations and union agreements and operating crew to take up alternative employment outside of SIA. Our Human Resources Division has been reaching out to organisations to provide various external job opportunities. These organisations include the • To match manpower levels to the reduced level of activity due to the impact of Covid-19, we implemented the Ministry of Health, Ministry of Finance, Singtel, Singapore Land Authority, and more Shorter Work Month (SWM) initiative for our ground employees from May 2020, which comprises a progressive consumption of annual leave • Partnered with the Singapore Government’s Multi-Ministry Taskforce on several programmes (Care Ambassadors, Contact Tracing Ambassadors etc.) Communicating with Employees • Clear and regular communications on up-to-date information relating to Covid-19 was provided to all employees Training and Enrichment through various internal communications channels • Introduced an Enhanced Training Support Package to curate a suite of courses, providing employees with the opportunity to enhance and upgrade their skillsets and competencies • Introduced the SIA Employee Support Portal, which is a one-stop platform comprising information on Job Support Programmes, financial and income tax relief channels, voluntary no-pay leave and furlough schemes, as well as • Rolled out an Enrichment Day requirement as part of our SWM initiative for our employees. Employees can opt Enrichment Day, to offer support to our employees during this period to use the Enrichment Day for either learning or volunteering: • Introduced curated content on Scoot’s online employee platform group, ‘ScootToWellness’, providing Scoot employees ◊ Learning: Employees can choose to complete either a company-organised instructor-led online course, with tips on how to care for their own wellness and mental health during this period online learning via SKIES or LinkedIn Learning, and other training resources (Tableau, SkillsFuture, self-funded higher education, etc.) Financial Support ◊ Volunteering: Employees can choose to volunteer in a company-organised corporate social responsibility • Working with banks and agencies to support employees who require assistance to manage their finances. These (CSR) activity include insurance relief, home loan payment relief, credit card and personal loans relief, financial support for SIA shares and mandatory convertible bonds, among others • Partnered with the National Trades Union Congress (NTUC) to roll out home-based virtual learning programmes to retrain and upskill Scoot crew members Health and Safety of Employees • Please refer to pages 59 to 60 for more information on our Covid-19 response regarding the health and safety of our employees Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 46 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES SAFETY 103-1 103-2 103-3 Our priority has always been the health and safety of our customers and employees. At SIA, fostering a strong safety culture is a shared responsibility. It involves all individuals in our organisation and permeates the way we work. We are constantly looking at improving our processes to make them safer. In the face of intensifying geopolitical and societal risks, the onus is on us to remain vigilant and adapt swiftly when there are disruptions. OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH Key Engagement Activities Key Policies, Processes and Procedures SIA’s Ambition Engagement Mode Frequency • Flight Safety Policy We strive to improve our safety practices, as well as inculcate a strong and positive safety culture within the organisation. Audits and Assessments Regular • Safety and Health Policy • Security Policy Targets Due Status Bulletins and Notices Regular • Safety Risk Management Policy Conduct an annual Crisis Management Exercise Every year Achieved Crisis Management Exercises Yearly • Flight Safety Management System (SMS) Review the Departmental and Corporate Risk Every six Employee Portals (1SQ, W@ves, SKIES, etc.) Regular • Occupational Health and Safety Management System (OHSMS) Register (Operations) once every six months months Achieved • Quality Management System (QMS) Conduct at least two fire evacuation drills for each Evacuation Drills Semi-yearly Every year office location in Singapore annually Achieved • Security Management System (SEMS) External, Statutory and Regulatory Regular • Various operational manuals of our divisions and departments Conduct an IATA Operational Safety Audit (IOSA) Communications By FY2019/20 Achieved once every two years Flight Data Analysis Programme Newsletter Every four Conduct a Hazard Identification and Risk Assessment By FY2021/22 On Track months for Workplace once every three years Supporting the SDGs Flight Safety Magazine Conduct a Line Operations Safety Audit (LOSA) once Half-yearly By FY2022/23 On Track every five years Every four Hazard Newsletter months Hazard Reporting Programme Regular Incident Reporting and Investigation Regular FY2019/20 in Numbers Meetings (Associations, Briefings, Regular Townhalls, etc.) 100% 0 0 38 Safety and Security Week Yearly of all reported hazards have been work-related fatalities and cases of recordable work-related Safety Awards and Safety Citations investigated and addressed high consequence work-related ill health for employees and key awarded to employees at SIA’s Training Programmes Regular injuries for employees and key contractors Safety and Security Week 2019 contractors Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 47 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES Safety Management 403-1 403-4 403-7 PR-1 All employees are involved and actively engaged in the review and continual development of our safety programme. Safety Governance Safety cuts across all levels of our organisation. We have in place an open and effective safety culture that is built on trust and accountability, with clearly defined mandates, roles and responsibilities. Our leaders inspire and influence our employees’ attitudes and behaviour toward safety excellence. BOARD SAFETY AND RISK COMMITTEE (BSRC) BSRC provides strategic direction and guidance on Employees Divisions Executive Forums safety policies. It also oversees the Company’s safety performance and Every employee is empowered to be Every division is responsible for its Our Safety Management Systems are trends. It ensures that an effective system responsible for his or her health and Safety Management System, including regularly reviewed by our Board of is in place to manage critical operational safety, and that of others. its processes, procedures and allocation Directors and Management to ensure its safety and risk issues. of resources. suitability, adequacy and effectiveness. Adherence to Safe Work Procedures The key executive forums are: • Every employee must adhere to safe work Safety Action Groups (SAGs) procedures at the workplace, including the • Comprises representatives from relevant • Board Safety and Risk Committee (BSRC) use of protective gear and equipment departments in the division to address • Management Committee (MC) AIR SAFETY COMMITTEE (ASC) safety issues and performance within its Reporting of Hazards functional responsibilities ASC oversees the flight safety programme and Safety Management • Group Occupational Safety and Health System on behalf of the CEO. ASC monitors the safety performance • Every employee is encouraged to take the initiative in identifying and addressing Safety Management System (SMS) Committee (OSH) and trends, as well as takes actions to address risks. ASC also provides hazards across our operations and Co-ordinators • Group Security Committee (GSC) direction and guidance to the SAGs. workplaces • Appointed to facilitate the division’s SMS activities and function as the secretariat for • Crisis Management Group (CMG) Reporting of Incidents and Accidents their respective SAGs • Every employee is responsible for reporting • Air Safety Committee (ASC) any incident, accident, near miss or Occupational Safety & Health (OSH) • Corporate Operational Quality dangerous occurrence Co-ordinators Management Review (COQMR) SAFETY ACTION GROUPS (SAGs) • Appointed to ensure the safety and health of all stakeholders in the workplace SAGs are established within the operational divisions to address safety issues. These include Safety Risk Management and Safety Assurance of aviation-related activities within its functional responsibilities. The SAGs are chaired by the respective Senior Vice Presidents. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 48 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES Safety Management (continued) Safety Management Systems, Processes and Procedures 403-1 403-8 We adopt a systematic approach and have in place robust organisational structures, accountabilities, policies, processes and procedures to manage safety within the Company. Management Systems Flight Safety Management Occupational Health and Safety Management Quality Management System Security Management System System (SMS) System (OHSMS) (QMS) (SEMS) Based on: Coverage: Based on: Coverage: Based on: Coverage: Based on: Coverage: • CAAS Air Navigation • All operations • Workplace Safety and • All operations • CAAS Air Navigation • All operations • Airport Police Division (APD) • All security operations Regulation (ANR) Health (WSH) Act Regulations (ANR) Security Directive for Aircraft • All employees • All employees • All employees • All employees Operators • ICAO International Standards • BS OHSAS 18001:2017 • ISO 9001:2015 • All contractors • Applicable security and Recommended Practices Occupational Health and Quality Management • ICAO International Standards working at SIA providers Annex 19 – Safety Management Safety Management System System and Recommended Practices workplaces Annex 17 — Security • IOSA Standards Manual • IOSA Standards Manual Policies and Procedures The lines of accountability, policies and procedures relating to safety, security and quality are governed by operational manuals of our divisions and departments. Airport Operations Cabin Crew Cargo Crisis Management Engineering Flight Operations Safety, Security And Quality Department Division Division Department Division Division Department • Ground Services • Cabin Crew Division • Cargo Quality Manual • Crisis Management • SIA Maintenance • Crew Administration • Air Carrier Security Programme (ACSP) Manual (GSM) Manual (CCM) (CQM) Manual (CMM) Control Manual Manual (CAM) (SIAMCM) • Corporate Flight Safety Management and • Ground Services • Cabin Crew Safety • Cargo Safety Manual • Flight Operations Procedures Manual (CFSM) Quality Manual (GSQM) Management System (CSM) Quality Manual Manual (CCSMSM) (FOQM) • Corporate Operational Quality (Safety) Manual (COQM) • Cabin Crew Safety • Flight Security Procedures Manual (FSPM) Manual (CCSM) • Ground Safety Manual (SSQ GSM) • Cabin Crew Safety, • Premises Security Manual (PSM) Security, Quality and Health Department • Quality Manual (SSQ QM) Procedures Manual • Safety and Emergency Procedures Manual (SEPM) (CCSSQH DPM) • Security Management System Manual (SESM) Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 49 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES Safety Management (continued) Safety Audits and Assessments We also actively engage in other safety programmes across our operations. Together, these programmes facilitate the enhancement of safety holistically across the organisation. Safety is our first and foremost priority. We strive for continual improvement and constantly strengthen our safety processes. As part of our corporate safety assurance, safety audits and assessments are performed on a regular basis across the organisation. Programme Description Frequency We take the opportunity to evaluate the effectiveness of our management approach and make adjustments to the way we conduct our business activities when there are observations and findings from the audits. Cabin Operation • Conducted by our In-flight Auditors (Ward Leaders) Monthly Safety (CSO) • Provides real-time assessment on the safety competency and Programme Key Safety Audits Description Frequency performance of our cabin crew • The results are collated and discussed with the relevant stakeholders Air Operator Certificate • Conducted by CAAS in accordance with the Air Navigation Every year • Areas of development are identified and worked on so as to improve processes (AOC) Renewal Audit Regulations (ANR) • Assesses SIA’s regulatory compliance as an Air Operator Corporate • Consists of planned audits and reviews of SIA’s QMS and performance At least one audit Certificate holder and safety performance Operational per year for each • Ensures established policies, practices and procedures are observed and Quality (Safety) operational division* revised for continued compliance with applicable regulatory, company and Audit IATA Operational • Conducted by an independent IATA-accredited audit Every two years IOSA requirements for safe flight operations Safety Audit (IOSA) organisation in accordance with standardised IOSA quality audit principles Flight Data • Identifies systemic causes for deviation from standard operations in any Every flight • Assesses SIA’s operational management, control systems The last audit was Analysis part of the flight regime and safety performance for continual improvement completed in 2019. Programme • Captured in the aircraft’s Quick Access Recorders (QAR), flight data is (FDAP) regularly downloaded and used to analyse the aircraft’s flight and systems Line Operations • Conducted by The LOSA Collaborative (TLC), Klinect Group Every five years performance, irregularities and trends Safety Audit (LOSA) L.L.C. • Where necessary, corrective and preventive measures will be implemented • Assesses SIA’s level of organisational resilience to systemic to improve flying standards and enhance safety threats through a data-driven approach, identifies threats The last audit was and errors to flight safety, minimises risks that such threats may completed in 2018. generate, and implement measures to manage human error Ground Ramp • Promotes safety on the apron by identifying hazards and unsafe work practices Once a month for Incident each station • Eliminates occurrences of damage to aircraft and equipment Prevention (GRIP) Programme • Raises safety competency levels and measures safety performance for continual improvement Safety • Consists of planned audits and reviews of SIA’s SMS and performance At least one audit Management per year for each • Ensures established policies, practices and procedures continue to be System (SMS) operational division* suitable, adequate and effective Audit Workplace Safety • Ensures that the business units have implemented all necessary Fortnightly Inspection workplace safety and health policies, practices and procedures and that the risk control measures implemented in workplaces are effective * Cabin Crew Division, Cargo Division, Customer Services and Operations Division (Airport Operations department), Engineering Division and Flight Operations Division. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 50 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES PASSENGER SAFETY 403-5 403-7 PR-1 Crew Competency Our cabin crew and pilots are trained in safety and emergency procedures. Our cabin crew and pilots regularly attend safety and security courses and keep abreast of safety developments through avenues such as circulars, campaigns and regular divisional communication sessions. The importance of providing service while keeping in mind safety and security measures is consistently emphasised through these channels. Some key elements from our Safety and Emergency Procedures Manual include, but are not limited to: Emergency In-flight Medical Safety Equipment and Procedures Emergency Systems Pre-flight Safety Briefing As part of Standard Operating Procedures, pilots undergo a pre-flight safety briefing. The briefing covers general safety, as well as specific aircraft, route and weather information for the flight. For cabin crew, a mandatory briefing is also conducted prior to each flight. During the session, a safety video of the aircraft type they will be operating in is viewed and relevant safety topics and questions are discussed. This safety briefing reinforces and refreshes our crew’s safety knowledge for each flight. In-flight Safety Briefing Standard Operating Survival Procedures A mandatory in-flight safety briefing in the form of a safety video or live demonstration is carried out on all flights prior to departure. This is to increase our customers’ awareness on the appropriate safety measures to take during their flight in the unlikely event of an emergency. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 51 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES PASSENGER SAFETY (continued) Medical Emergencies and Infectious Disease Handling Infectious Disease Handling Procedures Emphasis is placed on the handling of medical emergencies when they happen on board our flights. In the event of an in-flight injury or illness, our cabin crew are equipped with the first aid skills and knowledge to administer care to the unwell passenger. The unwell Pre-flight passenger will be attended to by the relevant medical authorities upon landing. Observation and Health Screening We adopt strict measures on the ground and in the air to minimise the spread of infectious diseases. Our ground employees and crew Before boarding, any passenger observed to be unwell will be referred to the airport medical authorities. The passenger undergo basic training on the procedures necessary to manage infectious diseases, in line with the health regulations and requirements will only be allowed to board the aircraft after a doctor certifies that the passenger is fit to travel. implemented by local authorities. Cabin Safety Instructions (CSI) are issued and communicated to all crew when there are changes to the regulations and requirements. Disinfection and Grounding of Aircraft The procedures mentioned in the table on the right will be enhanced in line with the nature and scale of the infectious disease. Should a passenger be offloaded from our aircraft and sent to a designated hospital due to an infectious disease, the We remain prepared to respond swiftly and appropriately in the face of epidemics and pandemics. For more information on our aircraft will be disinfected before commencing the flight. Depending on the situation and health regulations at the response to Covid-19, please refer to pages 59 to 60. departing station, the aircraft and passengers may be grounded for further observation, if necessary. Food Safety 416-2 In-flight We are committed to serving in-flight meals that meet the highest level of food safety and hygiene. We have a policy of not using Monosodium Glutamate (MSG) in the meals served to our customers. Our caterers ensure that ingredients are sourced from licenced and accredited establishments, which conform to the requirements of relevant regulatory authorities, as well as the Caring for the Passenger Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points (HACCP) and International Organization for Standardization (ISO) systems. The While a dedicated crew member will care for the unwell passenger, other crew members will contact our tele-medical Quality Assurance team from our local caterer, SATS Ltd, conducts factory audits on external suppliers, regular laboratory tests and service provider for advice. In addition, the assistance of any onboard medical professional will be sought. random quality checks on incoming raw ingredients. Precautionary Measures and Disposal of Biohazard Waste Locally-manufactured items are procured from establishments licenced by the Singapore Food Agency (SFA), or the equivalent We endeavour to adopt the best possible means to ensure that there is a dedicated area for the unwell passenger to authority in other countries. In addition to our caterers’ food safety compliance with their local regulations, we engaged Medina recuperate. Any biohazard waste will also be disposed of properly to minimise contamination. Quality Assurance to conduct regular audits on SATS Ltd and selected overseas stations. Globally, all our caterers are certified by their relevant local authorities for food safety and hygiene. Caterers are required to Personal Protective Equipment comply with their local laws and regulations. Local authorities will advise SATS Ltd of such regulations during the development Infectious Disease Handling Kits, which include surgical face masks, protective gowns, anti-fog goggles, biohazard bags, of meals, so that the meals prepared are in line with local regulations. These include allergen labelling, minimum food safety disposable gloves and disinfectants are available on board all our aircraft. If necessary, the unwell passenger, our crew requirements for food handling for safe distribution into foreign countries, etc. members and any medical professional assisting on board the flight will be adequately equipped with the necessary In FY2019/20, there were zero incidents of non-compliance to food safety and hygiene that resulted in any fines, penalties or warnings. personal protective equipment. Alerting the Destination Airport Authorities If there is a suspected case of infectious disease on board the flight, our pilots will alert the authorities at the destination airport to ensure that the unwell passenger will be attended to by the relevant medical authorities upon landing. Post-flight Disinfection The aircraft cabin and lavatories will be disinfected to ensure that all surfaces are cleaned and refreshed for the next flight. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 52 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES With our FEP setting the roles and responsibilities EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS AND RESPONSE 403-4 403-5 403-7 PR-1 for occupants and building management to follow in the event of a fire emergency, our stakeholders are able to respond swiftly to a fire We have a robust set of measures in place to protect our stakeholders and assets in the event of an on-ground in any of our office premises. In FY2019/20, we emergency. Our Company Emergency Response Team (CERT) is the first to respond to an emergency to prevent conducted two fire evacuation drills at each of our further escalation. owned buildings. The primary objective of CERT is to mitigate and control an emergency during the initial stages prior to the arrival of the Singapore Civil Defence Force (SCDF). Our Emergency Response We also conduct Crisis Management Exercises on Plan (ERP) is a comprehensive plan that integrates our Fire Emergency Plan and Arson Prevention Plan. a regular basis. These are scenario-driven exercises for participants to derive solutions to likely emergency scenarios. It is intended to assist our Fire Safety Managers (FSMs) and building managers in addressing our occupants’ needs when emergencies arise from a security or terrorist threat. During the exercises, surfaced issues will be discussed and assessed. Solutions will be drawn up and implemented to ensure the preparedness and readiness of the Company to address such emergencies. Fire Emergency Plan (FEP) Arson Prevention Plan (APP) • Includes procedures for occupants and building • Includes procedures to safeguard the building’s fire management to follow in the event of a fire emergency safety system against security threats arising from arson attacks • Regular fire evacuation drills are conducted to test the effectiveness of the plan Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 53 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES HAZARD IDENTIFICATION AND RISK MANAGEMENT 403-2 403-3 403-4 403-5 403-7 PR-1 Hazard identification is part of our risk management process, which is centred around Hazard Reporting the principle of managing justifiable risks at the right time and at the right level. Our employees are encouraged to identify and address hazards across our operations and workplaces without fear of reprisal. Hazard reports can be submitted electronically via our 100% We evaluate the probability and potential consequences from the exposure of identified hazards, and determine the appropriate measures to employee portal or through hard copies. In FY2019/20, we introduced a new feature in 1SQ, prevent the occurrence of such situations. our one-stop employee mobile app, allowing employees to submit their hazard reports and photos on the go. All hazard reports are routed to the respective division or department to investigate and implement measures to remove these hazards. An initial risk assessment and STEP 1 Hazard We identify hazards from processes that are predictive, proactive and reactive. investigation findings of the hazard will have to be submitted within two weeks. of all reported hazards Identification The scope for hazards is wide and may relate to factors that are communication, design, Each report brings us a step closer to a safer environment for all our employees. All reported have been investigated and human, organisational, procedural, regulatory or work environment in nature. hazards have been investigated and addressed during the year. To raise awareness of hazards addressed in FY2019/20 among our employees and to encourage them to step forward to report hazards, all hazard reports and notable case studies are circulated internally through our quarterly Hazards Newsletter. STEP 2 Risk We perform risk assessments based on the probability of the hazard causing harm Fatigue Risk Management Assessment or adverse consequences, and take into consideration the severity of their outcomes. Our Flight Operations Division and Cabin Crew Division have a Fatigue Risk Management (FRM) framework in place to manage fatigue risk while operating flights. This framework includes a fatigue reporting system for crew to submit reports of fatigue that they might have experienced while performing their duties. These reports, together with tools such as a bio-mathematical fatigue model and fatigue surveys, will be used by the Management to STEP 3 Risk We adopt three basic strategies in risk mitigation: determine areas of fatigue concern across our operations. Mitigation • Avoidance Employees who are involved in crew rostering and scheduling are also trained in the science of fatigue risk • Reduction management. SIA is also an active member of the IATA Fatigue Management Task Force, which keeps abreast of the latest regulatory and industry developments in the area. • Segregation of exposure A combination of measures such as administrative or engineering controls, procedures, equipment or contingency plans are taken to contain risks. Control measures that are Pilot Psychological Well-being higher up in the Hierarchy of Controls, such as elimination and substitution, will be The mental well-being of our pilots is important to us. We have a comprehensive psychological support framework in considered first. place, which involves trained peer counsellors, aviation psychiatrists and psychologists, as well as the Civil Aviation Medical Board, to care for the mental well-being of our pilots. In addition to this framework, we abide by medical reporting guidelines, creating a safe environment for reporting and for pilots to seek assistance if required. We communicate the adopted measures to our internal stakeholders prior to their STEP 4 Implementation implementation. These may come in the form of bulletins, notices or workshops. Systematic Alcohol Screening A monitoring system is also put in place to monitor compliance and to assess the Safety is our highest priority and we view cases related to alcohol consumption seriously. SIA has clear policies adequacy of these measures. regarding the consumption of alcohol for our operating crew and these policies are constantly reinforced. In accordance with CAAS guidelines, SIA implemented the Airline Alcohol Management Programme (AAMP), which involves detection through alcohol test screening, following a risk-based, randomised approach. Prior to flight departure, certified ground employees will perform alcohol breathalyser tests on our operating flight crew reporting for duty. This programme is over and above the Airport Alcohol Testing Programme (AATP), which CAAS maintains and enforces. STEP 5 Review We conduct reviews to assess the adequacy of risk management and ensure that the implemented controls are effective. Our flight crew are prohibited from consuming alcohol within 10 hours from their flight duty. They are also encouraged to highlight any concerns they may have regarding the well-being and safety of our customers, fellow crew members and the aircraft they operate in. We continue to take all necessary measures to ensure that our flight crew are reminded of their responsibilities and the consequences of not adhering to these policies. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 54 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES AIRCRAFT INCIDENTS 403-2 403-5 403-7 PR-1 Extending beyond our legal and regulatory requirements, strong emphasis is placed on incident reporting and investigation so that an occurrence of a similar nature may be prevented in the future. Aircraft Incident Procedures Reporting Actions Investigation Communication A robust set of reporting procedures are in place for different Key stakeholder groups are engaged upon notification of the The purpose of the investigation is to determine the facts, Incidents and investigation reports are made available to all incident types. All incidents have to be reported promptly. incident or receipt of the incident report. They include: conditions and circumstances pertaining to the incident so that employees on the SSQ W@ves portal to increase the level of action can be taken to prevent a recurrence. safety awareness and education. • Air miss, air proximity, air traffic control, resolution advisory • Fleet incidents, traffic collision avoidance system All incidents, investigations and actions taken will be compiled • Safety, Security & Quality (SSQ) by SSQ into a bi-monthly summary, which will be reviewed by • Flight incidents • SIAEC the Air Safety Committee. • Ground incidents • SIA Operations Control • Incidents involving crew injury or illness • Station Managers and Cargo Managers • Incidents involving passenger and supernumerary injury or illness • Incidents involving tail strike • Significant or serious incidents • Suspected and actual bird strikes Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 55 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES workplace INCIDENTS 403-3 PR-1 We regularly review potential hazards and introduce measures to prevent the possibility of such incidents SIA has procedures in place to manage workplace incidents and accidents. In the event from occurring. For instance, we stepped up the frequency of mopping in washrooms to keep the floors dry that an employee suffers from a work-related injury, swift action will be taken to care for and increased placements of anti-slip mats at washbasin areas to reduce slip and fall incidents. During the year the employee. in review, we continued to engage our employees on occupational health and safety matters. The Cabin Crew Division focused on raising awareness on physical and mental well-being amongst crew members through a We also have a Confidential Incident Reporting programme to encourage employees to share any hazards, unsafe acts or situations encountered at series of dialogue sessions and communication tools. the workplace. Reports submitted under this programme will be treated in strict confidence. The identity of the reporter will be kept confidential and In FY2019/20, we recorded two work-related injuries for our key contractors. These were minor injuries their personal details are only required in the event that the SSQ department requires further information for investigation. relating to slip, trips and falls. Measures were implemented at the incident site, such as increasing illumination and installing friction strips on staircases to minimise future occurrences. Work-related Injuries24 403-9 In FY2019/20, we reported zero work-related fatalities and zero high consequence work-related injuries. We recorded four work-related injuries for our ground employees and 577 work-related injuries for our work-related fatalities and high consequence Workers Who are Non-Employees FY2018/19 FY2019/20 cabin crew, with an overall work-related injury rate of 35.1 injuries per million man hours worked. work-related injuries Each work-related injury is documented and the cause of each injury is identified. Additional measures are for employees and key put in place to ensure that such incidents do not occur in the future. We continue to closely monitor the Scope of workers who Key contractors only (cleaners, maintenance, landscaping, contractors in FY2019/20 situation together with our stakeholders to ensure the safety and well-being of our employees. are non-employees warehouse operations) Estimated number of 1,213,404 Employees FY2018/19 FY2019/20 1,294,689 man hours worked Estimated number 15,567,250 16,566,501 Number (and rate*) of fatalities of man hours worked 0 0 as a result of work-related injuries Number (and rate*) of fatalities 0 0 as a result of work-related injuries Number (and rate*) of high consequence work-related injuries 0 0 (excluding fatalities) Number (and rate*) of high consequence 0 0 work-related injuries Number (and rate*) of recordable 0 2 (1.5) Number (and rate*) of recordable work-related injuries 211 (13.6) 581 (35.1) work-related injuries Slip, trips • Slip, trips and falls Main types of work-related injuries Nil and falls Main types of work-related injuries • Struck by falling objects such as cabin baggage • Over-exertion and strenuous movements • Exposure to extreme temperatures such as scalds 24 Please refer to the Appendix on pages 130 to 131 for definitions and methodologies. * Rates are calculated per million man hours worked. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 56 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES workplace INCIDENTS (CONtinued) Work-related Ill Health25 403-10 Due to the nature of our operations, employees may be exposed to loud noise and various chemicals. In FY2019/20, we reported zero cases of work-related illnesses for our employees and key contractors. Employees FY2018/19 FY2019/20 Number of fatalities as a result 0 0 of work-related ill health Number of recordable 13 0 work-related ill health Main types of work-related Noise-induced deafness Nil ill health Workers Who are Non-Employees FY2018/19 FY2019/20 Scope of workers who Key contractors only (cleaners, maintenance, landscaping, are non-employees warehouse operations) Number of fatalities as a result 0 0 of work-related ill health Number of recordable cases of 0 0 recordable workwork-related ill health related ill health for employees and Main types of work-related key contractors in Nil Nil FY2019/20 ill health 25 Please refer to the Appendix on pages 130 to 131 for definitions and methodologies. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 57 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT 403-4 403-5 We believe in involving all employees to ensure safety in SIA. Various communications channels CASE STUDY are available for employees to share their feedback so that the safety measures implemented can SAFETY AND SECURITY WEEK 2019: REINFORCING RESILIENCE, STRENGTHENING SAFETY be improved. Safety Surveys SSQ conducts Safety Climate Surveys once every three years to identify safety issues that employees encounter in their daily operations. Their feedback and insights on potential safety implications are sought. This allows employees to clarify any doubts they may have regarding unsafe work procedures or conditions. Divisions in SIA are encouraged to conduct customised safety surveys to dive deep into specific issues relating to the division’s scope of work. For instance, Cabin Crew Division and Flight Operations Division conduct a safety survey with our pilots and cabin crew every two years. This survey assesses areas such as safety management, violations observed during operations and readiness of our crew to report on safety matters. It provides an overall assessment of the safety climate and culture, as well as safety concerns of our crew. A comprehensive list of quantitative and qualitative performance indicators helps us measure the effectiveness of our efforts. These indicators are reviewed on a quarterly basis and are benchmarked against industry standards. Safety Training All employees are equipped with safety skills and knowledge required for them to perform their duties and respond appropriately when the need arises. All newly recruited employees will have to undergo a comprehensive safety training programme, including specialised and vocational training. Continual education is also provided regularly through various channels to keep our employees abreast of recent The theme of Safety and Security Week (SSW) 2019 was “Reinforcing Resilience, Employees and stakeholders who exhibited exemplary judgment and skills toward developments. It also gives them the opportunity to familiarise themselves with Strengthening Safety”. Building on the previous year’s theme of “Resilience in safety were recognised at the annual Safety and Security Awards and Citations various operational systems. Operations”, the focus of SSW 2019 was to encourage employees to learn from Ceremony. A total of 18 Safety Awards and 20 Safety Citations were awarded to experience while inculcating a culture that values our human capital as the solution. employees from the SIA Group. These aim to strengthen the resilience of our employees, enabling them to cope with The SIA Group Safety Award is presented to individuals who exhibit exemplary the demands and uncertainties that are common place in our operations. judgement and skills in preventing an accident or major mishap from happening, or Guest speakers were invited to share their knowledge and experience at SSW 2019. in managing and overcoming a difficult situation. It is presented to individuals who These include Professor Erik Hollnagel, an internationally-recognised specialist in discover or correct major flaws in our aircraft or equipment systems, or contributed resilience engineering, systems safety and human reliability analysis. He conducted consistently and significantly towards safety. workshops to reinforce our employees’ understanding of resilience concepts and The SIA Group Safety Citation is presented to individuals who exhibit good provided opportunities for the participants to put their learning into practice. Over judgement and skills in preventing or in handling an incident. It is also presented to the course of the week, various activities were organised across the SIA Group such individuals who contribute noteworthy efforts to promoting safety. as forums, seminars and campaigns to promote safety and security at their respective work areas. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 58 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES Our response to Covid-19 Information accurate as of 30 June 2020. Caring for Our Stakeholders The health and Flight Operations safety of all stakeholders remains our top priority. Since January 2020, we have introduced various measures both on the ground and in the air to ensure the health Pre-flight In-flight Post-flight and safety of our stakeholders. We continue to make • Temperature screening and completion of health • All crew are required to wear face masks throughout the flight, as well as goggles • Temperature screening and completion of health declaration and/or health adjustments to these declaration for all crew before operating each flight or eye visors when interacting with passengers. Gloves are also worn during meal assessment for all passengers upon arrival* measures based service • Temperature screening and completion of health • All staff at the airports wear face masks and follow safety standards mandated by on the evolving declaration and/or health assessment for all • Cleaning frequencies of lavatories have been increased using manufacturerthe local authorities* situation, taking passengers prior to flight departure* approved high-strength disinfectants • Cleaning frequencies have been increased and long-lasting disinfectants are into account the • All staff at the airports wear face masks and follow • Adjustments to in-flight service and amenities applied to frequently touched surfaces* requirements and safety standards mandated by the local authorities* ◊ Removal of menu cards and seatback literature such as magazines and recommendations • Common surfaces and areas such as windows, tray tables, handsets, in-flight from IATA, • Markers on the ground and alternate check-in kiosks newspapers. Passengers have complimentary access to over 150 newspapers entertainment screens, lavatories and galleys are wiped with a strong disinfectant. government for safe distancing* and magazines available for download via our e-Library on the SingaporeAir If there is a confirmed Covid-19 case on one of our flights, our rigorous deep-cleaning authorities and mobile app procedures will be activated post-flight. These procedures take five times • Cleaning frequencies have been increased and international bodies ◊ Suspension of in-flight purchases. Passengers can order KrisShop items online longer than the regular process and includes the fogging of the entire cabin with long-lasting disinfectants are applied to frequently such as the World for collection in-flight or have it delivered to their homes disinfectants touched surfaces* Health Organisation ◊ Suspension of services such as distribution of hot towels, children’s amenities, • Headsets, headrest covers, pillow covers, bedsheets and blankets are replaced after (WHO). • All passengers receive a complimentary Care Kit baby kit bags and arrival cards to minimise contact every flight. Used linens are washed at high temperatures to disinfect them after containing a face mask, hand sanitiser, and • Adjustments to food and beverage services every use anti-bacterial wipes ◊ Meal services have been suspended for all flights within South East Asia and to • Enhanced measures for crew at station Mainland China in line with regulatory requirements. A snack bag with water ◊ Dedicated crew lanes for immigration clearance* and refreshments will be provided upon boarding instead ◊ Charter of large buses for safe distancing, where possible ◊ For all other flights, meal services have been simplified. First Class and ◊ Relocation of crew to hotels near airports, with dedicated floors Business Class meals are to be served as a one-tray offering, as per Singapore’s where possible regulations. This will consist of an appetiser, a main course and a dessert. We also adjusted the alcohol offerings in all cabin classes. For customers ◊ Layover measures such as room stays, room service and safe distancing requiring special meals, a reduced list based on the IATA guidelines will be available upon request * By airport operators. May vary across airports. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 59 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES OUR RESPONSE TO COVID-19 (continued) Caring for Our Stakeholders Ground Operations • Provision of PPE for employee use and availability of hand sanitisers at key areas • Twice-daily temperature screening for employees through a webform • Approximately 85 per cent of our employees are working from home (as at 7 April 2020). The remaining 15 per cent of our employees return to office for essential operations only Employee Measures • Measures taken to avoid cross-deployment, movement and interaction of employees from different office premises • Temporary closure of facilities such as the SIA Group Sports Club and the SIA Training Centre canteen • Safe distancing markings set up at all touchpoints • Enhanced premises cleaning procedures, with fogging of high traffic areas and increased Ground Premises frequency of wipe-down of high contact areas • Temporary closure of SIA’s Service Centre at ION Orchard Singapore, in line with Singapore’s circuit breaker measures • Consolidation of services at Singapore’s Changi Airport Terminal 3 (T3) • Requests by customers to be handled through our 24-hour Contact Centre and Airport Ticketing electronic means Offices • All SilverKris Lounges are closed except for the SilverKris Lounge at Singapore’s Changi Airport T3 • Mandatory for all customers and employees to wear masks • Social distancing markings set up at all touchpoints SilverKris Lounges • Enhanced hygiene measures have been put in place during meal services. Customers can enjoy à la carte meals in place of a buffet service in most of our lounges Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 60 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES customer-focus 103-1 103-2 103-3 Customer service is instrinsically linked to the Singapore Airlines brand promise. Whether pre-flight, in-flight or post-flight, we endeavour to make every journey personal for our customers and deliver a Great Way to Fly. We continue to place emphasis on the quality of service that our customers receive across all Singapore Airlines touchpoints. OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH Key Engagement Activities Key Policies, Processes and Procedures SIA’s Ambition Engagement Mode Frequency • Customer Experience Management System We endeavour to offer customers the best travel experience through service excellence and Annual Report, Sustainability Report Yearly • Customer Insights Portal proactive customer engagement. Customer Communications Channels (Chatbot, Email, Hotline, Live Chat, Social Media, etc.) Ad hoc • Performance Improvement Framework Press Releases Ad hoc Supporting the SDGs • Privacy Policy Publications (KrisWorld Magazine, Priority Magazine, SilverKris Magazine, etc.) Regular • Quality Framework Surveys (Voice Of Customer Post-flight Survey, etc.) Regular • Quality Management System • Service Audits • SOAR as ONE Service Philosophy FY2019/20 in Numbers >500 ↑11% ↓19% 0 brands available on our revamped KrisShop, improvement in our Telephone Service Factor decrease in average delayed or lost baggage substantiated complaints concerning with over 20 dedicated online shopfronts (TSF) from FY2018/19 rate, an improvement from FY2018/19 breaches of customer privacy Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 61 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES CUSTOMER-FOCUS We do our utmost to make every journey personal. Understanding the needs of our customers and enhancing customer experience are the key principles that guide our business decisions. We aim to create personal, lasting bonds with all customers. We do this by improving the service that our customers receive across all touchpoints, anticipating our customers’ needs and delighting them throughout their journey with us. We want our customers to be assured of the high standards of service and efficiency that they can expect from us, both on the ground and in the air. SIA recognises the value of innovation and knows that our customers desire it too. As an innovative market leader and industry trendsetter, we are proud to have achieved significant milestones through the decades. Industry-leading Innovations First to offer free headsets, a choice of First to fly non-stop across the Pacific First to introduce satellite-based First to introduce KrisWorld, First to involve a panel of world-renowned First to offer audioand video-on-demand meals and free drinks in Economy Class, between Hong Kong and San Francisco in-flight telephones in 1991 a state-of-the-art in-flight entertainment chefs, the International Culinary Panel, capabilities on KrisWorld in all cabin in the 1970s in 1989 and communications system across all in developing in-flight meals in 1998 classes in 2001 cabin classes in 1995 First to fly the Airbus A380 superjumbo, First to introduce Companion App that First to fly the lightweight and First to offer pre-ordering of First to offer pre-ordering of from Singapore to Sydney in 2007 offers customers greater control over fuel-efficient Boeing 787-10 in-flight meals for Suites, First Class Child Meals of different cuisines their in-flight entertainment experience Dreamliner in 2018 and Business Class customers in 2018 in 2019 in 2016 Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 62 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT Understanding our customers and going the extra mile for them when they travel with us. CASE STUDY GOING THE EXTRA MILE FOR OUR CUSTOMERS As a testament to his outstanding service record, Amir received the highest number of compliments from customers in FY2018/19 through our customer feedback system at the SIA Service Centre in Singapore. An example of Amir displaying his commitment to service excellence was when he went the extra mile to help our customers, Mr Stevenson* and his children, to return to their family in Cape Town. Mr Stevenson was unable to board the flight as his children did not have the documents required by the South African immigration authorities to clear immigration. After obtaining the necessary documents the next day, Mr Stevenson sought Amir’s assistance at the SIA Service Centre to arrange for a return flight on the same night. Unfortunately, the flight was fully booked. Undeterred, Amir took the effort to seek internal approval to arrange flight tickets for Mr Stevenson and his children on their preferred flight home. On a separate occasion, our customer, Mrs Lee*, was unable to claim her redemption ticket prior to its expiry date due to medical reasons. While it is uncommon to reissue an expired ticket, Amir took the initiative to escalate the case to his supervisor and succeeded in getting an approval to reissue the ticket as an exception. SOAR as ONE Amir Ghani Bin Musa Bakar Through these examples, Amir displayed qualities of kindness and empathy even when he faced customer service challenges. In 2017, we introduced SOAR as ONE as our service philosophy to Senior Customer Amir’s “Why Not?” mindset empowered him to challenge himself to do his best to resolve customer issues with compassion Services Officer and flexibility. reinforce our longstanding commitment to service excellence with a single unified call to action across the SIA Group and our service partners. “It is in these small acts of kindness that we remember why we choose to fly with Singapore Airlines.” – Mr Stevenson Structured service training programmes enable our employees to appreciate and understand their roles in our service chain and their CASE STUDY impact on overall customer experience. This allows us to align and ADDING A PERSONAL TOUCH WHILE CARING FOR OUR CUSTOMERS reinforce a service culture that engenders consistently high service delivery standards across all our touchpoints. In FY2019/20, SIA’s Christine’s strong commitment to personalised customer care is the embodiment of SIA’s culture of service excellence. Corporate Learning Centre (CLC) conducted 27 SOAR as ONE trainings for frontline employees, including cabin crew and service In September 2018, our customer, Ms Lim*, suffered from severe stomach cramps and nausea on board a flight from Singapore to Munich. Upon noticing Ms Lim’s condition, Christine took the initiative to care for Ms Lim to ease her discomfort. As a result of partners from SATS Ltd and call centres. Christine’s effort, Ms Lim was able to relieve the pain and rest during the flight. In response to Christine’s act of kindness, Ms Lim commented that having Christine next to her during the flight was akin to having a family member care for her. Service recognition schemes were also introduced as part of SOAR as Beyond the compassion she displays while caring for our customers, Christine picked up the German language so as to add a ONE to inspire frontline employees to uphold SIA’s promise of service personal touch while serving our customers on board. As a result, she impressed a few of our German-speaking customers by excellence. The annual CEO Service Excellence Awards event seeks to speaking to them in their native language, making them feel at home on board their flight. recognise exemplary individuals and teams for outstanding service and “I have been on more than 160 flights in the last five years and have had a fair amount of experience with cabin crew. Christine has absolutely exceeded my expectations.” – An SIA passenger service innovation ideas. A total of 164 frontline staff were recognised Christine Lim during the CEO Service Excellence Awards held in June 2019. Flight Stewardess *Customer names have been changed to protect their privacy. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 63 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES customer engagement (continued) Forging Connections Through Open and Engaging Communications Maintaining open lines of communications with our customers enables us to understand their needs and identify opportunities to Cabin Crew improve our service offerings. We proactively engage our customers on a regular basis and enhance the customer experience to meet their needs and exceed their expectations. In-flight Entertainment (IFE) Monitoring Customer Touchpoints to Meet Customers’ Needs Seats To consolidate customer insights gathered through the touchpoints, SIA piloted the use of the Customer Insights Portal (CIP) in FY2019/20, which will be fully implemented by the following year. By aggregating customer feedback and sentiments on a single platform and leveraging data-driven insights, SIA will be able to make more informed decisions, thereby enhancing the customer Cabin experience. Cleanliness SIA’s Customer Affairs (CA) department attends to customer feedback and enquiries daily, with a target response time of 10 working days, so as to ensure that customers enquiries and feedback are promptly addressed. Where necessary, Boarding investigations are carried out prior to any given response. This allows the CA Baggage department to assess and adopt the appropriate service recovery methods and In-flight Handling restore our customers’ confidence in SIA. A case management system is used Food and to track case assignments and closures. Key Performance Indicator reports Check-in Beverage are regularly prepared to monitor achieved response rates at the station, department and individual levels. Ensuring a positive customer experience across all touchpoints is a key priority for us. Customer satisfaction is measured by way of metrics across our various touchpoints. Some examples are summarised in the graphic on the right. Website Customer Transit Contact Services SilverKris Lounges Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 64 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES customer engagement (continued) Leveraging Digital Platforms and Data Analytics We live in a digitally connected world, with almost two-thirds of the world’s population owning a mobile CASE STUDY device26. SIA aims to transform our business digitally to continue thriving in a rapidly changing global environment. We are constantly on the look out for new digital tools to adopt and to further leverage KRISSHOP TRANSFORMATION data analytics to better engage our customers, streamline feedback, and respond more effectively to their concerns. Digital tools and platforms such as social media and mobile applications help us stay connected with our customers and improve on the delivery of our offerings and overall customer Founded in 1974, KrisShop started as an in-flight duty-free shop on board Singapore Airlines. In experience. August 2019, KrisShop achieved a major milestone with its brand revamp and a new website to deliver a seamless shopping experience for our customers. KrisShop has transformed into an omni-channel In FY2019/20, we continued to deliver new digital initiatives via our website and mobile applications to retailer for all customers, both travellers and non-travellers, by offering a wide range of products provide a more seamless and enhanced travel experience for our customers. These initiatives include and experiences with fuss-free delivery options. Customers are able to shop in the comfort of their proactively pushing relevant information as well as self-service functionalities that our customers can homes and have their purchases delivered to them in-flight or directly to their doorstep. KrisShop also access on their mobile devices. For example, real-time information on boarding gate details, weather launched a same or next day delivery and partnered with local hotels to enable travellers to collect their at their destination and baggage belt information are available to our customers. Self-service features purchases at selected hotels in Singapore. that our customers have access to include a baggage tracking feature. Our latest digital enhancements include allowing customers to receive updates on the recovery status of their delayed or mishandled baggage. SIA strives to maintain high standards in processing customer feedback. The CA department employs data analytics to automate and better manage SIA’s feedback handling process. The system allows for automated extraction of customer information, better feedback classification, case routing and prioritisation. Other digital initiatives implemented by the CA department include the use of electronic payment requests and online self-help options. Beyond improving customer response time, these digital initiatives helped to reduce paper usage and time spent on manual processing, enabling the support team to perform higher-skilled tasks. Social media is also an important communications channel through which we engage with our customers, communicate important travel information and obtain feedback. SIA’s social media presence Revamped Website Brand Stores Unique Concept Stores on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, LinkedIn and YouTube serve as additional touchpoints for online The KrisShop website sports a refreshed KrisShop has an extensive product KrisShop has curated concept stores that customer engagement. In 2014, the Social Media Engagement Unit (SMEU) was established to provide look with a modern interface for smoother selection, featuring over 500 brands. speak to customers’ beliefs and passions, round-the-clock service for our customers. The SMEU responds to customer feedback on SIA’s social navigation, enhanced search functionality Over 20 dedicated online shopfronts are ranging from supporting local brands media channels and provides assistance with requests and issues 24 hours a day, seven days a week. and live chat. also available for selected brands. (With Love, SG) and giving back to the community (KrisShop Cares) to helping customers to reduce environmental impact (KrisShop Green). Click here to stay updated with the latest products and brands on, lifestyle trends and more. 26 World Economic Forum, “Global Risks Report 2020”. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 65 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES customer engagement (continued) Ensuring Customer Satisfaction Through Service Excellence Tracking and Refining SIA’s Service Quality Performance A Data-centric Approach for a Customer-centric Design Ensuring high customer satisfaction levels is the goal of the The Customer Experience (CE) department was formed in 2016 to expand SIA’s potential to deliver exceptional customer experiences. The department works with business units across the organisation to Customer Contact Services (CCS) team. The team regularly adopt a consistent customer-centric and data-driven approach when designing and improving the end-to-end customer journey. collates and monitors customer satisfaction levels across SIA’s customer servicing channels. A Process Improvement Building on our commitment to deliver personalised and meaningful customer service, the CE department supports other business units by guiding their decisions based on customer insights gathered Framework is in place to help us achieve our service vision from the various touchpoints. These insights are gathered through a combination of qualitative and quantitative research that helps us understand customers’ needs, value drivers, concerns and potential through collaboration and continuous learning. Our employees opportunities for improvements. This information is then shared with the relevant business units to design and implement ways to enhance the SIA experience. In FY2019/20, the team mapped over 30 are trained to be on a constant lookout for opportunities customer journeys and designed improved ways to service our customers. to simplify and redesign processes. In addition, our Quality Beyond large scale data projects and design workshops, the team also carries out ethnographic research to understand more about subtle customer needs and requirements. This research is combined with Framework is continuously enhanced to enable us to deliver operational data, frontline observations and notations of customer preferences from our Customer Experience Management (CEM) system to provide a better analysis of the service delivery improvements high quality service. We also actively review and develop and requirements. Where in-depth research is unavailable or when execution timelines limit the ability to elicit customer insights, the team employs SIA’s Experience Principles to assist with design decisions capabilities across our contact centres to increase the resilience and implement initiatives that are true to our customers’ needs and SIA’s brand values. of our operations. This was demonstrated during the Covid-19 outbreak where work-from-home arrangements were set up for 70 per cent of our contact centre staff in Singapore. Proudly Thrillingly In addition, the use of data analytics has enabled the CCS team to Singaporean Consistent accelerate and enhance decision making and implement more effective changes in our contact centres. This has translated into a higher resolution rate and faster customer response time, as demonstrated by a 11 per cent improvement in our Telephone Service Factor (TSF)27 compared to FY2018/19. Openly SIA’S Precisely Collaborative Experience Personalised A Service Culture and Quality (SCQ) team was formed in February 2019 to promote and imbue the SIA service culture Principles within the SIA Group. The team tracks customer feedback and compiles monthly service quality performance reports to enable business units to monitor and refine their service performance. Moving forward, the SCQ team will be developing live dashboards, Empathetic Simply which will be used to equip business units with timely insights. at Heart Straightforward This will enable them to identify opportunitiesto further refine their service quality. To keep track of our progress, SIA continues to employ the Voice of Customer (VoC) post-flight survey, which was introduced in April 2018. Data from this survey is regularly reviewed during ↑11% management forums. They are also used by SIA’s business units to review existing customer-related policies, products and services. SIA also uses this survey to gather customers’ sentiment, feedback improvement in our and concerns on sustainability-related issues. Some of the key sustainability topics which have been highlighted by our customers include environmental sustainability, community engagement and Telephone Service data privacy. These feedback and concerns are raised and addressed at our Board Customer Experience, Technology and Sustainability Committee (CETSC) meetings. Through this survey, SIA derives Factor from FY2018/19 a Net Promoter Score (NPS), which is a management key performance indicator that measures our customers’ advocacy. In FY2019/20, our NPS improved for our three airline brands: Singapore Airlines, SilkAir and Scoot. 27 TSF is a metric used to measure the percentage of calls answered within a specific time frame. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 66 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES Customer engagement (continued) Enhancing Customer Touchpoints and Service Excellence We continually innovate and implement new initiatives to improve the way we engage our customers. Singapore Airlines and SilkAir Make Boarding Amazing Initiative Leave No Bags Behind Movement In FY2019/20, SIA’s Airport Operations and SATS Ltd’s Passenger Services jointly In FY2019/20, nine initiatives were trialled as part of the Leave No Bags Behind movement to improve our end-to-end baggage handling journey while ensuring timely and embarked on a Make Boarding Amazing (MBA) initiative with the objective of professional handling of baggage. simplifying the boarding process by providing a more organised and fuss-free experience for customers. Pilot tests were conducted for several Singapore Airlines Through the implementation of these flights departing Singapore Changi Airport, where the team experimented with new Better Collaboration with Stakeholders to Improve Efficiencies initiatives, we saw an improvement in our ways of boarding and implemented improvement measures. customer satisfaction scores on baggage • Enhanced baggage handling processes improved the chance of baggage being connected even during handling and an improvement in our flight delays average delayed or lost baggage rate, • Flights with shorter connection time that require a quicker turnaround are allocated to gates nearer to which decreased by 19 per cent. With Pre-recorded Audio Announcements each other an estimated 240,000 processing hours Enables standardised quality of announcements and frees saved annually, we continue to enhance • Established closer operational collaboration with Changi Airport Group and SATS Ltd to increase baggage our efforts to bring greater convenience up staff to perform other duties such as queue-combing. oversight in the Singapore Hub operations and efficiency to our customers. Proactive Handling of Mishandled Baggage Cases Demarcation at Gatehold Rooms • Trial initiative for a response team that proactively informs affected passengers upon arrival of their Coloured signs guide passengers to be seated according to mishandled baggage ↓19% their boarding groups. This allows for a more organised boarding experience. • Signboards are displayed near baggage carousels to inform passengers about baggage delays • Ground Handling Agents provide on-the-spot settlements at the Lost and Found counter, reducing escalation and processing time decrease in our average delayed or lost baggage Leveraging Digital Tools and Systems to Enable Better Service rate, an improvement from Visual Signages at Cluster Gates FY2018/19 Coloured signs with group numbers light up to alert passengers when it is time for their group to board. • Agents are trained to use the WorldTracer® system, a global baggage tracing and matching system to help customers locate lost baggage • Passengers can chat with Kris, our Chatbot, to get updates on their delayed baggage status Approximately 240,000 • SingaporeAir mobile app was enhanced to include a baggage tracking feature to allow passengers to track Through the VoC post-flight survey, we saw an improvement in our customer real-time status satisfaction scores for flights on the MBA initiative. Moving forward, we aim to implement these initiatives on all Singapore Airlines flights departing Singapore hours saved annually to Changi Airport and continue our engagement with the airport authorities to enhance process baggage cases boarding announcements. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 67 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES Customer engagement (continued) Singapore Airlines and SilkAir Introducing the Enhanced SingaporeAir Mobile App The enhanced SingaporeAir mobile app, which was launched in August 2019, was designed for faster performance and improved usability. The new features in the app offer customers a seamless and more personalised experience. Based on a ground-up rebuild and all-new underlying technical architecture, the enhanced mobile app delivers significantly enhanced booking and check-in flows for customers, improving transaction time by up to 60 per cent. Introducing WiFi Onboard Singapore Airlines Flights We recognise that our customers want to stay connected even when they are on board the aircraft. To enhance the customer experience, SIA provides complimentary WiFi for selected passengers on board certain aircraft types. Suites and First Class customers enjoy unlimited in-flight WiFi, while Business Class customers, PPS members Capture and Discover e-Library Measure Your Baggage My Trips Translation Assistant and supplementary cardholders are A search function that uses image Extended access to the e-Library A feature that helps travellers determine A feature that provides real-time A feature that uses real-time language entitled to 100MB of complimentary recognition as well as speech and natural magazine and newspaper content based if the size of their bag is within cabin information such as boarding gate details, translation by voice to help travellers onboard WiFi. In-flight WiFi price language processing matches the user’s on KrisFlyer membership tier and a baggage limitations. the destination’s weather and currency, communicate better when they are plans have been streamlined, offering intent to a Singapore Airlines destination, new search function to allow for easier as well as baggage belt information. overseas. customers even more reasons to stay with destination content and fare deals. content browsing in the e-Library and connected while they fly. We continue KrisWorld catalogue. to monitor our customers’ needs and preferences to enhance their in-flight Click here for more information on the SingaporeAir mobile app. experience with us. Enhancement of the KrisPay Mobile App KrisPay, the world’s first blockchain-based airline loyalty digital wallet, was launched in 2018 to bring SIA’s customers, assets and partners onto a common digital platform, enabling us to engage our customers beyond their flight journey. KrisFlyer members can convert their KrisFlyer miles into KrisPay miles using this app for everyday spend at our partner merchants. In FY2019/20, new privileges were added to the app, such as instant reward of KrisPay miles for spend at partner outlets, conversion of DBS rewards points to KrisFlyer miles and SIA Boarding Pass Privileges. More features such as in-app payment methods, partner rewards conversion and lifestyle features will be integrated into the app in the future. Click here for more information on the KrisPay mobile app. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 68 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES Customer engagement (continued) Singapore Airlines and SilkAir Scoot Upgrading of Kris, Our Chatbot Upgrading of M.A.R.V.I.E., Our Chatbot New Payment Methods Kris, our chatbot, answers commonly asked questions by our customers and is Scoot’s M.A.R.V.I.E. (Most Awesome Resourceful Virtual Intern Ever) was introduced and Removal of Payment accessible on Facebook Messenger via our Facebook page and the Singapore Airlines in 2018. It is the first chatbot by an airline in Asia that is able to support flight Processing Fees website. Over the years, Kris was upgraded to provide customised responses through transactions, in addition to responding to customer queries. Apart from its ability In line with Scoot’s aim of making travel pre-built dialogues, which include checking of flight statuses, subscribing to flight to assist with customer queries relating to flights, flight bookings and payments, attainable and accessible for all, Scoot alerts and checking of booking statuses. M.A.R.V.I.E. is able to resend flight itineraries and include add-ons to bookings. In removed payment processing fees FY2019/20, M.A.R.V.I.E. handled an average of 3,000 queries per week, with an globally for all bookings made on Scoot’s In FY2019/20, additional features were added to Kris to answer customer queries average query resolution rate of 70 per cent. direct channels from FY2019/20. In relating to delayed baggage status, KrisFlyer Spontaneous Escapes, as well as lounge eligibility and location. Moving forward, there are plans to increase the capabilities of addition to existing payment methods Kris for greater coverage on the Singapore Airlines website. Enhancing Scoot’s Mobile App in Vietnam, Scoot rolled out Google Pay, Apple Pay and Momo during the year in Enhancements to Scoot’s mobile app in FY2019/20 included functions to enable a more seamless flight booking experience. New review. Scoot also offered a range of 16 payment methods such as Google Pay and Apple Pay were also made available on the mobile app. A Vietnamese version of the app different payment methods across our was launched in July 2019. network in FY2019/20. Implementing More Self-service Options for Customers’ Convenience In FY2019/20, Scoot automated its refunds process by introducing a webbased form. During the year in review, Scoot also introduced a feature for customers to track their delayed baggage on the Scoot website. These initiatives resulted in an estimated reduction of 18 days in service time. Improving Operational Processes and Customer Response Times Using Digital Tools In FY2019/20, Scoot integrated its Introducing Online and Mobile Check-in customer case management system with As of 31 March 2020, customers on Scoot flights departing from Bangkok (Suvarnabhumi Airport), Chiang Mai, Gold Coast, Hat their in-flight iPads to enable Scoot’s Yai, Krabi, Perth, Phuket, and Sydney are able check in online for their flights from 72 hours to one hour before flight departure. cabin crew to record customer feedback Other destinations in which Scoot’s customers are able to check in online or via the mobile app include Berlin, Singapore, Seoul and directly into the system via the iPad. all points in India. In FY2019/20, Scoot was the first airline in Singapore to introduce mobile check-in for WeChat bookings. Information captured within the system is sent to the customer service team for review and used to guide Scoot’s customer service response and recovery. As a result of this initiative, Scoot saw a 30 per cent improvement in case handling time in FY2019/20. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 69 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES AN AWARD-WINNING EXPERIENCE Singapore Airlines is the world’s most awarded airline. These are some of the awards attained in FY2019/20: 2019 APRIL JUNE SEPTEMBER Travel Weekly Asia Readers’ Choice SPRING (Japan) Awards (Singapore) 11th JCSI (Japanese Customer Satisfaction Zaker (China) 3rd Premium Travel Awards Skytrax World Airline Awards 2019 Business Traveltip Magazine Best Airline (Asia Pacific) (3rd time) Index) 2019 survey (the United Kingdom) (Switzerland) Swiss Business Travel SIA ranked 1st in international airlines category Top 10 Consumers Preferred Airlines of Year Best Airline Service Excellence (5th time) Award 2019 (8th year) 2018-2019 Best Airline in Asia Best Airline for Long-haul flights (5th time) World Travel Awards 2019 (the United Business Traveller Middle East Award World’s Best Cabin Crew Kingdom) Condé Nast Traveller (India) India Readers’ Travel Awards 2019 Best Asian Airline Serving the Middle East World’s Best First Class Business Traveller (Asia Pacific) 2019 Asia’s Leading Airline 2019 (18th consecutive year) Favourite Airline World’s Best First Class Seat Best Airline (28 consecutive year) th Asia’s Leading Airline – First Class Airline with the Best Premium Economy Class Best First Class Lounge in Asia Best Asia-Pacific Airline Travel + Leisure (India) Robb Report China 12th Annual “Best of Best International Airline in the World TripAdvisor Travellers’ Choice 2019 Best Business Class Seat in Asia Best Airline First Class the Best” Awards Awards (the United States) Best Premium Economy Class in Asia Best Airline Premium Economy Class Best Airline (8th consecutive year) Business Traveller (China) Best Airline in the World (2 year)nd Best Airline Economy Class Best Airline in the World (14th year) Next Magazine (Hong Kong SAR, China) Condé Nast Traveler (the United States) Best Major Airline – Asia Best Asian Airline serving China Top Service Awards Best Frequent Flyer Programme 2019 Readers’ Choice Awards Best Airline – Asia Best Airline in the World (30 out of 32 years) Best Airline First Class Top Airline APEX Award (the United States) Best Economy – World Best Airline Business Class Hong Kong Economic Journal SME Five Star Global Airline 2020 Best Economy – Asia Partner Awards for Excellence 2019 NOVEMBER Airline Economics (Hong Kong) Distinguished Airline Asia Pacific Airline of the Year OCTOBER Prime Traveller Magazine (Russia) MAY Prime Traveller Awards JULY Danish Travel Awards (Denmark) Condé Nast Traveler China The Gold List Best Airline (2nd time) DECEMBER Best Intercontinental Airline Best Airline Handelszeitung (Switzerland) Telegraph Travel Awards Global Times Newspaper (China) City Traveller Magazine (China) (the United Kingdom) Best Airline 2019 SIA awarded as one of six most welcomed foreign Randstad Award (Singapore) The Best Airline in 2019 (3rd time) (Daily Telegraph & Sunday Telegraph airlines by Chinese Families Singapore Airlines awarded title of Singapore’s Travel + Leisure Magazine Newspapers) most attractive employer (4th time) (the United States) Business Traveller (based in the Best Long-haul Airline (6th time) New Voyage Magazine (China) United Kingdom) 2019 Changi Airline Awards World’s Best International Airline New Voyage Travel awards (24th consecutive year) Best Asian Airline Travel Magazine (Belgium) Annual Innovation Experience Airline Top 5 Airlines and Airline Groups by Passenger Best Carrier for Long-haul Airline Best Economy Class Carriage Business Traveller (Germany) Offline The BrandLaureate Awards (Malaysia) Best Cabin Staff Top 5 Airlines and Airline Groups by Cargo Best Airline for Business Travellers Worldwide Brand of the Year Award – Premium Airline APEX 2020 Regional Passenger Choice Carriage (19th time) Business Traveler USA 2019 Award (the United States) Top 5 Airlines by Absolute Growth Indonesia Travel and Tourism Award SmartTravelAsia.Com Best Overall Airline in the World (29th time) Five Star Global Official Airline (Best Seat 2019/20 (Hong Kong SAR, China) Travel Inside Magazine (Switzerland) Comfort and Best In-Flight Entertainment Indonesia’s Leading International Airline Favourite Airline Poll Results, 2019 for the Eastern Asia Region) Best Airline for Long-haul flights Rank No. 1 in Top 25 Airlines (Worldwide) Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 70 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES AN AWARD-WINNING EXPERIENCE (Continued) 2020 JANUARY FEBRUARY Forbes Korea Best Brand Awards 2020 Business Traveller 2019 (Russia) Best International Airline (7th consecutive year) Best Business Class on Long-haul Flights Wanderlust Travel Award (the United DestinAsian (Indonesia) Readers’ Choice Kingdom) Awards (15th time running) Top Worldwide Airline Best Airline – Overall (15th consecutive year) Best Airline Premium Class Telegraph ‘Ultras’ Travel Awards (the United Kingdom) Best Airline in Economy Class Best Business Class Best In-flight Entertainment DesignAir (the United Kingdom) Best Frequent Flyer Programme KrisFlyer Best Design Airline Skyway Service Award (Russia) Best Design Airline – Asia Best Business Class International Flights Fortune Magazine (the United States) Best Duty Free on Board Top 50 World’s Most Admired Companies (Ranked 28) Roy Morgan Research 2019 (Australia) Highest ranked non-United States company International Airline of the Year (6th time) in the list Hurun Report 2020 (China) “Best of the Best” ranking MARCH Best International First & Business Class Award TravelPlus 2019 (the United Kingdom) (9th consecutive year) Airline Amenity Bag Awards National Geographic Traveller (China) Kids’ Kit – Children under 6 One of the 10 “Golden Airlines of the Year 2019” Sustainable Kit – Singapore Airlines Children’s Amenities First Class Amenity Kit – Male First Class Amenity Kit – Female Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 71 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES OUR RESPONSE TO COVID-19 Information is accurate as of 30 June 2020. Caring for Our Customers It is difficult to imagine a world without travel. Even as border controls are tightened globally, we continue to remain connected with our customers and keep them updated on how we can support their travel plans. We do our utmost to bring our customers home to reunite them with their loved ones. Communicating With Our Customers Ensuring Singaporeans Return Home Safely • A cross-divisional team was established in March 2020 to look at the • Following a special arrangement with the Singapore authorities, Scoot various communications required to support our customers across all mounted a flight to Wuhan to fly 92 Singaporeans back to Singapore touchpoints. in January 2020. A second Scoot flight was deployed to Wuhan in February 2020 to deliver humanitarian assistance from the Singapore • A dedicated Covid-19 Information Centre was introduced in the Government, and to fly 174 Singaporeans and their family members Singapore Airlines website to assist our customers in understanding back to Singapore. The flight also brought some Chinese nationals back the various options available to them, as well as a list of Frequently to Wuhan. In April 2020, Scoot also mounted similar flights to Chennai Asked Questions (FAQs). The Covid-19 Assistance Request Form in India and Kuala Lumpur in Malaysia. enables our customers to submit Covid-19-related enquiries such as flight credits and refund requests easily. Useful links are also available • We supported the Singapore Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ (MFA) plans in the Covid-19 Information Centre, which provides information on for a special arrangement to fly Singaporeans and Singapore Permanent flight schedules, travel advisories and more. Residents home from London between 19 March and 31 March 2020. As part of this arrangement, a dedicated team was put together to • Proactive updates on all Covid-19-related developments are shared support this effort. Customers could register for seats that have been on our social media platforms to keep travellers up-to-date on the set aside to ensure that they could return home. Priority was given to latest information. Customers can subscribe to mobile app alerts or students who were studying overseas and they were offered a special visit the News Alerts section in the Singapore Airlines website for travel rate. updates on the Covid-19 situation. We also encourage all travellers to update their contact details via the Manage Booking section on our website, so that they can obtain real-time updates on their personal travel plans. Enhancing Health and Safety Measures • The well-being and safety of our customers and staff members remain Offering Greater Flexibility For Our Customers our top priority. Since the beginning of the Covid-19 outbreak, we have enhanced our cleaning procedures and implemented • Singapore Airlines and SilkAir: Our Global Travel Waiver Policy precautionary measures to keep our customers and staff members enables customers to seek a full refund or collect flight plus bonus safe. Details of measures implemented, including in-flight service flight credits for future travel up to 31 December 2021. Customers adjustments, can be found here. who hold tickets issued before 15 March 2020, and travel before 31 August 2020 are also fully protected by this policy. • Scoot: Scoot’s Covid-19 Travel Waiver Policy enables customers to either seek a full refund or obtain a 120 per cent refund in Scoot vouchers, valid for 12 months. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 72 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES Customer privacy 418-1 We recognise the importance of safeguarding the privacy of our customers’ personal data. A report by the Data Protection Excellence (DPEX) Centre states that in 2019, the number of organisations breaching Singapore’s Personal Data Protection Act (PDPA) and the total amount of fines in Singapore reached a record high. The study also found that among the personal data breach cases in Singapore, 80 per cent of the data leaks were due to a breach of protection obligations, and not due to cyber security attacks. Recognising that these events will result in greater concerns on customer data privacy, SIA remains committed to upholding the highest standards in customer data protection while delivering the best-in-class service to our customers. Compliance to the Personal Data Protection Act (PDPA) of Singapore is important to SIA as it cultivates confidence among customers who entrust us with their personal data. Customer data such as personal particulars and travel history are treated as strictly confidential. Complaints, queries, withdrawal of consent, requests for access, corrections and updates in relation to personal data are handled according to established internal organisational processes. These processes were developed in consultation with our Legal department to ensure strict compliance with the PDPA. Any customer personal data that is collected or accessed when servicing customers’ reservation and ticketing matters are also handled according to the guidelines laid out by the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and SIA’s Privacy Policy. Regular service audits are conducted to ensure that our customer service representatives comply with our customer data protection policies. To balance customer experience and customer data protection, our verification processes are regularly reviewed and enhanced based on customer feedback and complemented with consultations with the Legal department to ensure strict compliance with customer data protection regulations. In FY2019/20, SIA did not identify any substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy. substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy in FY2019/20 Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 73 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES Forging meaningful, stronger relationships with our stakeholders From the investing community to our partners, aviation communities and those we serve Where we weave Singapore’s social fabric with a global shared heritage We sustain our connections with the world Because we believe in flying the extra mile, with a higher purpose Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 74 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES supplieRs 103-1 103-2 103-3 Developing strong relationships with our suppliers is essential for SIA’s continued success, as much of our impact on our society and the environment occurs through our supply chain. All of our suppliers play a crucial role in charting the aviation industry’s path towards socio-economic and environmental sustainability. We recognise the importance of sustainable procurement and actively collaborate with our suppliers to further our sustainable development efforts. OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH Key Engagement Activities Key Policies, Processes and Procedures SIA’s Ambition Engagement Mode Frequency • Procurement Policies and Processes We treat suppliers with respect, emphasise fairness in our relationships and work together towards sustainable Audits and Assessments Regular • Suppliers’ Code of Conduct business practices. e-Procurement Portal Ad hoc • Supplier Management Framework Meetings (Dialogues, Discussions, Regular Project Milestone Meetings, Supporting the SDG Teleconferences, etc.) Trade Fairs, Forums Regular FY2019/20 in Numbers S$10.3 bil >12,500 total expenditure on supplier services suppliers globally Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 75 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES In FY2019/20, the total Our supply chain 102-9 expenditure for suppliers’ services engaged by SIA was We adopt a risk-based approach to ensure that our supply chain is sustainable and resilient. over S$10.3 billion, with most of this going towards aircraft Our Key Suppliers fleet and engines, aviation SIA has more than 12,500 suppliers worldwide. We strive to support the local communities in the destinations we operate in. Our supply chain can be broadly classified into six main categories: fuel, aviation maintenance and materials, ground handling and Technology in-flight catering. Our top 10 In-flight Catering Systems suppliers, listed in alphabetical order, are as follows: 1. Airbus Aviation 2. Boeing Commercial Airplanes Ground Maintenance Handling 3. Changi Airport Group (Singapore) and Materials Aviation Fuel 4. Chevron Singapore Pte Ltd 5. ExxonMobil Petroleum & Chemical BVBA 6. Rolls-Royce Holdings PLC 7. SATS Ltd 8. Shell Eastern Petroleum (Pte) Ltd 9. SIA Engineering Company Ltd 10. Singapore Petroleum Company Aircraft Fleet and Engines Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 76 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY We secure a sustainable future by strengthening our supply chain. Embedding Sustainability Within Our Procurement Process 308-1 414-1 We integrate environmental, social and governance considerations into our procurement process. We also manage supply chain risks and upkeep high sustainability performance standards through our Suppliers’ Code of Conduct. Invitation to Request for Information, Bidding and Submission Process Evaluation and Selection Award of Contract Proposal or Quotation 1 2 3 4 • Review of price and quality of products and services • Suppliers are required to comply with SIA’s Suppliers’ • Review of suppliers’ background and track record Code of Conduct, which forms part of the contract Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 77 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES Managing Our Supply Chain Risks Suppliers’ Code of Conduct 308-1 414-1 Through the introduction of SIA’s Suppliers’ Code of Conduct (SCOC), we aim to mitigate any social, economic and environmental risks by setting minimum standards of behaviour for our suppliers. The SCOC was developed in accordance with our business values to promote sustainable development. It is also based on the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. All suppliers are required to comply with the SCOC, which forms part of SIA’s contract with them. The SCOC is publicly available to all suppliers via our website. All contracts signed with suppliers include a clause referencing the SCOC. In the event a supplier is unable to include the SCOC in their contract, a review is carried out by the Sustainability Office and a waiver can only be approved by the Vice President Sustainability or his/her alternate. Through the introduction of the SCOC, SIA aims to have oversight of appointed suppliers’ conduct, and mitigate any potential impact they may have to the environment they operate in. 1 Compliance with Laws and Regulations • Accounting Practices • Intellectual Property 2 Ethics and Conflict of Interest • Anti-corruption • Confidentiality PR-10 3 Safety and Quality • Health and Safety • Competition Compliance • Disclosure • Financial Integrity • Relationship of Business Partners with Company • Quality of Products and Services Suppliers’ business operations, as well as all products and services supplied to Singapore Business dealings must be handled with integrity, transparency and honesty. No form of Health and safety protection policies and management systems must be in place Airlines must fully comply with the laws and regulations of the countries where suppliers’ fraud, corruption, bribery, extortion or other behaviour involving improper benefits will be by suppliers to provide a secure working environment. They must be designed to operations are based, as well as where goods and services are provided to SIA. tolerated. Any situation that has actual, perceived or potential conflict of interest must be promote the general health of employees and reduce work-related injury and illness. disclosed to Singapore Airlines. For example, protective equipment and tools must be provided and replaced or All financial and business records must be accurately maintained in accordance with maintained regularly. applicable laws and regulations, as well as generally accepted accounting principles. Any information used in the business relationship with Singapore Airlines that is non-public and proprietary must be protected against loss and infringement. Any form of disclosure or The safety of all products and services must be ensured through appropriate policies, Fair competition must be practised in accordance with local laws, and activity that use other than for officially stated purposes must first be authorised by Singapore Airlines. implementation and monitoring. restricts competition must be avoided. Commercial decisions, including prices, terms of sale, division of markets and allocation of customers, must be made independent of Any form of relationship with a competitor, distributor, supplier, travel agency or any other Policies and management systems must be developed to ensure that the quality of all understandings or agreements with competitors. entity with which Singapore Airlines has a business relationship must not interfere with products and services is as specified in the supply agreement. the provision of products and services to Singapore Airlines and should demostrate high standards of ethical business behaviour. 4 Environment PR-7 PR-8 • Compliance with Laws and Regulations PR-9 5 Labour Standards • Equal Opportunity PR-1 PR-2 PR-3 PR-4 • Minimum Age Child Labour/ PR-5 PR-6 6 Subcontractors and Other Service Providers 7 Communication, Documentation and Inspection Forced Labour • Engagement in Environmental Management Processes • Non-discrimination • Wage Standards • Compliance with • Employees Awareness of • Working Hours Code of Conduct Code of Conduct Local environmental laws and practices such as those pertaining to waste disposal, air • On-time Payment • Language Translation emissions and pollution must be complied with. Suppliers must endeavour to minimise Employees must not be subjected to discrimination based on race, national origin, ethnicity, the impact of their operations on the environment. religion, gender, age, marital status, sexual orientation, disability or any other reason. Environmental management is a key parameter that Singapore Airlines looks at when Subcontractors and service providers Employees must understand the • All employees must meet the local legal minimum labour age selecting its suppliers. must also adhere to the principles set out requirements of this Code of Conduct, • Forced, coerced, bonded, indentured, involuntary prison labour or otherwise must not in this Code of Conduct. Subcontractors which must be made available in the local be used and service providers must be paid language where necessary. • Employee working hours, including considerations for voluntary overtime work, and accurately and promptly. the granting of leave of any form, must be in accordance with applicable local and/or national laws • Salaries must not be less than standards specified by local laws Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 78 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES Managing Our Supply Chain Risks (CONTinued) SIA’s in-flight initiative to replace plastic polybags from our children’s toys with recyclable paper packaging. Promoting Best Practices with Our Suppliers Sustainable business practice involves maintaining responsible supply chains that minimise the environmental and social impact, as As part of our review of our sustainable procurement strategy, we established that all our printed items and paper products must well as risks in the communities they operate in. Recognising that quality, environmental, health and safety (QEHS) considerations be Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)-certified28. This is to ensure that the raw materials are responsibly sourced and are not from are critical to the aviation industry, SIA seeks to engage suppliers who adopt and promote good sustainable business practices. errant suppliers. SIA encourages and welcomes suppliers to submit environmentally-friendly proposals. Such proposals are favourably considered During the year in review, SIA and our supplier, Buzz Products, were awarded the 2019 TravelPlus Airline Amenity Awards during the product assessment and selection stage. (Sustainable Amenity Kits) for our Kids’ Kit which uses FSC-certified paper and eco-friendly soy-based ink. From May 2019, we also replaced plastic polybags from our Kids’ Kit packaging with recyclable paper packaging. 28 The Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)-certified is an international non-profit, multi-stakeholder organisation established in 1993 to promote responsible management of the world’s forests. FSC uses the power of the marketplace to protect forests for future generations. Its main tools for achieving this are standards-setting, independent certification and labelling of forest products. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 79 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES WORKING WITH OUR SUPPLIERS ON SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT With the farm located less than eight kilometres from Newark Singapore Airlines collaborates with our suppliers to integrate sustainability into our business. Liberty International Airport, the produce used for our in-flight Partnerships with Our Suppliers meals on our non-stop flights The start of a sustainable future for aviation begins with organisations that are willing to take the first step to explore and collaborate on new sustainable offerings. SIA strives to support such advancements from New York to Singapore no by supporting and sourcing from suppliers with strong sustainable value propositions. In FY2019/20, we intensified our efforts by collaborating with some of our suppliers on initiatives to provide socially and longer needs to be transported environmentally-friendly offerings. over a long distance. This not only allows us to reduce our indirect CASE STUDY greenhouse gas emissions but PROMOTING SUSTAINABLE FOOD SOURCING also enables our customers to enjoy fresher, high quality FOR SIA’S IN-FLIGHT DINING OFFERINGS ingredients. Back home, we work with our Introduced in 2017, our ‘From Farm to Plane’ concept seeks to promote environmental sustainability while supporting local farming communities. in-flight catering partner, SATS In FY2019/20, we made significant strides in our collaboration with AeroFarms, the world’s Ltd, to include more sustainable, largest indoor vertical farm of its kind based in the United States. A customised blend of fresh locally sourced ingredients in produce is grown indoors using a proprietary aeroponic technology for SIA’s non-stop flights our dining offerings for flights from New York (Newark Liberty International Airport) to Singapore from September 2019. departing Singapore. For instance, we source for fish from a local farm that employs best 95% practices in aquaculture and 12-16 animal husbandry across its value chain, and has been awarded the less water is used compared highest accreditation by Best to field farming and days short crop cycle Aquaculture Practices (BAP). 40% less than hydroponics 390 times more productivity per square foot29 Grown indoors, without sunlight, soil or pesticides 29 Greater productivity per square foot is measured against traditional field farming. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 80 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES WORKING WITH OUR SUPPLIERS ON SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (CONTINUED) CASE STUDY ENCOURAGING A CULTURE OF RECYCLING BY GIVING SECOND LIFE TO UNUSED BATIK TRIMMINGS Our KrisShop Cares concept store is a platform which aims to give back to the community and support those in need. It does so by featuring curated products and artworks from partner communities. The net proceeds from KrisShop Cares go to the respective partners to continue supporting their cause and artists. In FY2019/20, the KrisShop Cares initiative was expanded through a collaboration with SIA’s Procurement department. Unused batik trimmings from our cabin crews’ uniforms were consolidated and used to manufacture new products, which were sold on the KrisShop Cares concept store. This collaboration aims to give back to the community by engaging local social enterprises to manufacture products and reduce waste at the same time, by giving unused batik fabric trimmings a second life. In October 2019, KrisShop collaborated with SPD, a Singapore-based social enterprise that specialises in making handbound notebooks using cloth and leather materials. The partnership saw 207 batik notebooks produced using recycled batik trimmings from SIA’s signature batik print and sold on the KrisShop Cares concept store from March 2020. Moving forward, KrisShop seeks to continue its collaboration with SPD, and explore collaboration opportunities with more social enterprises and local vendors. batik notebooks produced using recycled batik trimmings Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 81 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES WORKING WITH OUR SUPPLIERS ON SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (CONTINUED) CASE STUDY ENHANCING OUR CUSTOMERS’ WELL-BEING BY INTRODUCING WHOLESOME AND NUTRITIOUS IN-FLIGHT MEALS SIA partnered with Singapore-based wellness brand COMO Shambhala in 2019 with a keen focus on enhancing the concept of wellness on board. In September 2019, SIA and COMO Shambhala unveiled a new health-focused in-flight menu, which takes into consideration seasonal and sustainable ingredients, as well as practical challenges such as food freshness and nutritional needs in the air. This menu was made available for First Class and Business Class customers on selected flights departing Singapore to Frankfurt, Hong Kong, London, Melbourne, Perth and Sydney. The dishes were also made available for pre-ordering through the Airline’s ‘Book the Cook’ service, which allows First Class, Business Class and Premium Economy Class customers to pre-order their main course before they board their flight. This has been a fascinating project for us and we have carefully curated a menu that reflects our COMO Shambhala brand ethos and approach to food — to inspire the palate with memorable flavours. We are certain that Singapore Airlines’ valued customers will enjoy this gastronomical well−being in the air.” DANIEL MORAN, VICE PRESIDENT CULINARY OF THE COMO GROUP Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 82 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES WORKING WITH OUR SUPPLIERS ON SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (CONTINUED) CASE STUDY REDUCING IN-FLIGHT FOOD AND BEVERAGE WASTE THROUGH THE ADOPTION OF DIGITAL TECHNOLOGIES According to IATA, the airline industry generated around 6.7 million tonnes of cabin waste in 2018 and between 20 per cent to 30 per cent of the total waste was untouched food and beverage30. As part of our sustainability journey in 2019, SIA embarked on an initiative with Lumitics, a Singapore-based food waste technology startup, to reduce catering waste from our flight operations. Their flagship product is Insight, a smart food waste tracker that leverages sensors and their proprietary image recognition technology to weigh and identify food waste. Insight provides kitchens and restaurants with essential data that enables businesses to reduce their food waste, cost and environmental footprint. Our ongoing collaboration with Lumitics aims to automate data collection and leverage Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning to better understand consumers’ consumption patterns so as to reduce catering waste. Through an improved monitoring system of customers’ consumption patterns and data analytics, SIA aims to better adjust the quantities of food items to minimise wastage without compromising on the customer experience. Over the past two years of working with the F&B and hospitality sector, we have helped businesses reduce 30 per cent to 40 per cent of their food waste, which comes to about three per cent to eight per cent savings in food cost. The airline sector will also have the advantage of weight reduction, leading to additional savings in fuel costs. This collaboration with SIA required Lumitics to tweak our original product — the Insight smart dustbin — into a new solution for the airline sector. Called Insight Lite, it tracks the number and type of unconsumed meals using image recognition technology. This data will allow SIA to better understand their customers’ food consumption patterns and improve meal planning, while simultaneously reducing food wastage and helping SIA to meet its sustainable development goals. RAYNER LOI, FOUNDER OF LUMITICS Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 83 30 IATA, “Cabin Waste Handbook” INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES WORKING WITH OUR SUPPLIERS ON SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (CONTINUED) CASE STUDY COLLABORATION WITH DANISH COMPANIES IN COPENHAGEN TO REINFORCE SIA’S SUSTAINABILITY MESSAGE Copenhagen station launched SIA’s first ever station-led sustainability-themed event on 5 November 2019, as they welcomed the Airbus A350 on the Cophenhagen-Singapore (CPH-SIN) route. As part of the event, sustainably-manufactured gifts were presented to customers on board the inaugural A350 flight. These include reusable tote bags and leather key chains that were repurposed from old leather seat covers from First Class and Business Class seats. SIA also collaborated with three Danish gourmet companies to serve sustainable, top-quality desserts for customers travelling on the route. • Award-winning “Vendsyssel” cheese Located in North Jutland, Sønderhaven is Denmark’s only dairy company that exclusively sources milk from its own cows for the production of cheese. By doing so, Sønderhaven is able to ensure the quality of the cheese produced while reducing emissions from the transportation of milk. • Award-winning Friis-Holm chocolates Friis-Holm is a Danish bean-to-bar chocolate manufacturer founded by Mikkel Friis-Holm Ottosen in 2007. In his business values, Mikkel seeks to uphold quality and ethics as part of the company’s business operations. To cultivate a healthier and more sustainable cocoa supply chain, Friis-Holm strives to source for cocoa beans in a responsible manner either by purchasing cocoa beans directly from growers or paying above market price or through Fairtrade buyers. • Skarø Skarø is a Danish ice-cream company that strives to produce ice-cream that is not only unique in taste but also superior in its nutritional qualities. As part of the company’s sustainable business practices, Skarø sources local ingredients such as milk, berries and other fruit to support local communities and reduce emissions from transportation. To further reduce the company’s emissions, Skarø purchases electricity from renewable sources such as wind or solar power for its day-to-day business. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 84 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES OUR RESPONSE TO COVID-19 Information is accurate as of 30 June 2020. Resilience of Our Supply Chain Covid-19 has had an unprecedented impact on the global supply chain and presents the greatest challenge in aviation history. We strive to maintain strong relationships with our suppliers and business partners to respond swiftly to our shared challenges. As disruptions continue, we recognise the role we must play to enable the continuous flow of essential goods around the world. We endeavour to maximise the use of our freighter fleet and schedule cargo-only passenger flights and ad hoc charter flights where opportunities arise. Cargo-only Passenger Flights • As the Covid-19 outbreak developed, SIA worked to maintain an effective airfreight network despite the substantial reduction in passenger flights. In addition to maximising the usage of its freighter fleet, it also operated cargo charter flights with SIA and Scoot passenger aircraft. SIA also introduced a scheduled cargo-only passenger flight network to alleviate the cargo capacity constraints. • Through close cooperation with other business units, regulatory approval was obtained for the carriage of cargo in the passenger cabin of some aircraft. Coupled with SIA’s staff and its ground handling partners’ emphasis on operational reliability and quality, these efforts helped to ensure the timely delivery of urgent shipments of medical relief supplies and personal protective equipment. • Among them were two Singapore-donated consignments, which were delivered to Beijing and Wuhan in Mainland China, in February 2020. SIA has also been transporting fresh food by air to Singapore and other parts of the world during the Covid-19 outbreak, playing its part in keeping airfreight supply lines for essential goods open during this critical time. Working with Our Aircraft Manufacturers • SIA engaged the aircraft manufacturers early in the Covid-19 outbreak to discuss adjustments to our delivery stream of existing aircraft orders. This will help to moderate capacity growth in the near term, while we remain committed to our longer-term fleet renewal programme. Anticipating Potential Supply Chain Disruptions • As countries around the world imposed mandatory lockdowns, SIA collaborated with our suppliers and partners to monitor the evolving situation and put in place measures to reduce the impact of supply chain disruptions. For instance, we explored sourcing from alternative suppliers and increased stock holdings of goods to meet our operational needs. We also monitored inventory levels closely and planned our resource requirements ahead of time. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 85 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES shareholders 103-1 103-2 103-3 We strive to generate and distribute sustainable economic value to our shareholders and stakeholders, while ensuring long-term value creation. OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH Key Engagement Activities SIA’s Ambition Supporting the SDGs Engagement Mode Frequency We seek to maximise returns for long-term profitability, with the aim of creating sustainable Analyst and Media Briefings Half-yearly shareholder value. Annual General Meeting Yearly Annual Report, Sustainability Report Yearly Financial Results Quarterly Investor Relations Channels Ad hoc Meetings (Post-results Briefings, Conferences, Roadshows, etc.) Regular Press Releases (Website, SGXnet, etc.) Ad hoc FY2019/20 in Numbers31 S$15,976 mil S$59 mil S$4,775 mil 1,185,128,325 Group revenue Group operating profit total value added for distribution total issued shares (excluding treasury shares) as at 31 March 2020 31 For more information, please refer to the FY2019/20 SIA Annual Report. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 86 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES OUR SHAREHOLDERS 102-5 Singapore Airlines strives to maximise returns for long-term profitability, with the aim of creating sustainable shareholder value. At SIA, we value dialogue with our shareholders and strive to Range of Number of Number of Information on Shareholdings (as at 9 June 2020) % % strengthen our relationship with Shareholdings Shareholders Shares the investing community. Our investors acknowledge that while Number of Issued Shares 2,977,543,505 1-99 297 0.43 9,749 0.00 traditional financial information is quick to recognise short-term 100-1,000 17,988 25.94 12,853,070 0.43 Number of Issued Shares (excluding Treasury Shares) 2,962,820,811 changes in profitability, it does not account for the investments 1,001 10,000 41,883 60.40 175,035,174 5.91 that were made to innovate Number/Percentage of Treasury Shares 14,722,694 (0.49%) and implement our long-term 10,001 1,000,000 9,143 13.19 267,707,411 9.04 strategies. Providing holistic and robust non-financial information Number/Percentage of Subsidiary Holdings* 0 (0%) 1,000,001 and above 26 0.04 2,507,215,407 84.62 bridges this disconnect and brings clarity to our investors on how SIA Class of Shares Ordinary shares Total 69,337 100.00 2,962,820,811 100.00 creates long-term value for them One special share held by and our stakeholders. the Minister for Finance Voting Rights (excluding Treasury Shares) 1 vote for 1 share * ‘Subsidiary holdings’ is defined in the Listing Manual to mean shares referred to in Sections 21(4), 21(4B), 21(6A) and 21(6C) of the Companies Act, Chapter 50 of Singapore. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 87 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES OUR SHAREHOLDERS (continued) Twenty Largest Shareholders (as at 9 June 2020) Substantial Shareholders (as shown in the Register of Substantial Shareholders) Twenty Largest Shareholders Number of Shares %^ Direct Interest Deemed Interest Total Interest Substantial Shareholder Number of Shares %^ Number of Shares % ^ Number of Shares %^ 1 Napier Investments Pte. Ltd. 985,959,900 33.27 2 Temasek Holdings (Private) Limited 657,306,600 22.18 Temasek Holdings (Private) Limited 657,306,600 22.18 994,679,09732 33.57 1,651,985,697 55.75 3 DBS Nominees Pte Ltd 276,634,932 9.34 Tembusu Capital Pte. Ltd. 986,754,90033 33.30 986,754,900 33.30 4 Citibank Nominees Singapore Pte Ltd 246,814,085 8.33 Napier Investments Pte. Ltd. 985,959,900 33.27 985,959,900 33.27 5 DBSN Services Pte. Ltd. 79,460,058 2.68 6 Raffles Nominees (Pte) Limited 56,871,339 1.92 Shareholdings Held By the Public Based on the information available to the Company as at 9 June 2020, 44.14 per cent of the issued ordinary shares of the Company are held by 7 HSBC (Singapore) Nominees Pte Ltd 54,451,675 1.84 the public. Therefore, Rule 723 of the Listing Manual issued by SGX-ST is complied with. 8 United Overseas Bank Nominees Private Limited 31,663,119 1.07 9 Morgan Stanley Asia (Singapore) Securities Pte Ltd 17,947,022 0.61 10 BPSS Nominees Singapore (Pte.) Ltd. 15,082,661 0.51 11 BNP Paribas Nominees Singapore Pte Ltd 12,600,834 0.43 12 Phillip Securities Pte Ltd 12,354,681 0.42 13 OCBC Nominees Singapore Pte Ltd 10,346,262 0.35 14 OCBC Securities Private Limited 9,511,308 0.32 15 UOB Kay Hian Private Limited 9,320,342 0.31 16 DB Nominees (Singapore) Pte Ltd 5,092,506 0.17 17 DBS Vickers Securities (Singapore) Pte Ltd 4,289,070 0.15 18 IFAST Financial Pte Ltd 4,020,862 0.14 19 Societe Generale Singapore Branch 3,395,379 0.11 20 Maybank Kim Eng Securities Pte. Ltd. 3,009,956 0.10 ^ Based on 2,962,820,810 ordinary shares issued as at 9 June 2020 (this is based on 2,977,543,504 shares issued as at 9 June 2020, excluding 14,722,694 Shares held in treasury as at 9 June 2020). Total 2,496,132,591 84.25 Figures are rounded down to the nearest 0.01 per cent, and any discrepancies in aggregated figures are due to rounding. 32 Temasek Holdings (Private) Limited is deemed to be interested in 994,679,097 shares in which its subsidiaries and associated companies have direct or deemed interests. 33 Tembusu Capital Pte. Ltd. is deemed to be interested in 986,754,900 shares in which its subsidiaries have direct or deemed interests. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 88 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES OUR TRANSFORMATION JOURNEY We leave no stone unturned There has been an unprecedented collapse in the demand Record-high Financial35 and Operating Results in 3Q FY2019/20, Pre-Covid-19 Outbreak in identifying opportunities to for air travel globally due to the Covid-19 outbreak. This especially affects airlines such as SIA, which are dependent strengthen the SIA Group with on international air travel and open borders. our Transformation Programme. In the near term, the Covid-19 outbreak is expected to continue weighing upon the global aviation industry. In 2017, SIA embarked on a three-year Transformation We expect air travel restrictions to be gradually relaxed, Programme34 to increase our competitiveness and but in a managed way, as countries continue to manage ensure that we are well-positioned to tackle the 45,506 mil 38,972 mil 85.6% 10.1 mil passengers S$4,470.6 mil the risk of imported Covid-19 cases. The effectiveness increasingly challenging operating environment. The record quarterly available record quarterly revenue record passenger load record quarterly record quarterly of collective efforts by governments around the world programme covered new revenue-generation initiatives, seat-kilometres (ASK) passenger-kilometres (RPK) factor for any third quarter passenger uplift total revenue to flatten the curve of the virus spread will also shape operational enhancements and organisational structure, timings for the opening of borders. reviewing opportunities to improve our processes to To address the current challenges faced by the make us more effective and efficient. We also looked at aviation industry, SIA has cut its scheduled capacity rebasing our cost structure so that we can be a lot more Operational Excellence Statistics in FY2019/20 (three-year) by approximately 94 per cent that had been originally competitive moving forward. scheduled for up to end-July. Today, SIA operates only a SIA had an unbroken operating track record and small number of its passenger aircraft to serve a limited historical financial position through past cyclical and network. SIA expects to operate a significantly reduced unexpected downturns, prior to the Covid-19 outbreak. capacity for the foreseeable future until global travel Our Transformation Programme successfully mobilised restrictions and border controls are progressively lifted, us to drive tangible results in terms of financial and and the demand for air travel begins to pick up once operational resilience. In the third quarter of FY2019/20, Net Promoter Score 270 awards Arrival On-time 18% 8.9% again. However, it is not clear when this will happen. we achieved five record-highs for available seat-km, trending upwards won to date Performance reduction in productivity improvement It is also not clear how the airline industry will recover, revenue passenger-km, passenger load factor, passenger trending upwards engineering-related delays in crew resource planning and which segments or markets will first see growth. The uplift, and total revenue. SIA Group’s portfolio strategy, which maintains presence in both full-service premium and low-fare segments, allows us the flexibility to match the right products to demand as 34 For more information on our Transformation Programme, please refer to pages it returns. Our extensive global network will also help 12 to 13 of the FY2019/20 SIA Annual Report. us to flexibly deploy capacity to meet the demand from 35 The SIA Group’s unaudited financial results for the third quarter and nine different markets as air travel returns. months ended 31 December 2019 were announced on 14 February 2020. For >900,000 >12 mil hours >800,000 hours 1,000 ideas 41% faster more information on the full-year financial results, please refer to pages 46 to of customer cases reduced of customer effort saved saved from process generated internally delivery to market due to the 61 of the FY2019/20 SIA Annual Report. through proactive service with revamped processes simplification from KrisLab use of Agile Methodology Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 89 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES OUR RESPONSE TO COVID-19 Information accurate as of 30 June 2020. Overcoming the Current Challenges Apart from actively taking steps to build up our liquidity, reduce capital expenditure and operating costs, we have also set up an Getting Ready For Recovery Managing Liquidity and Cash Requirements Raising Capital Through the Issuance of Rights Shares and Rights Mandatory internal task force to • Decisive capacity cuts across the network in response to a Convertible Bonds Establishing an Internal Task Force look into all aspects of collapse in global air travel demand Building Liquidity and Strengthening Balance Sheet the airline’s operations • We have set up an internal task force to look into all aspects during this time, and of the airline’s operations to ensure that we are ready to • Deferred non-essential expenditure and imposed tighter • The Rights Issue will bolster equity in SIA’s balance sheet. An additional S$6.2 billion through to ensure that we are ramp up our services when air travel eventually begins to controls on discretionary expenditure additional Mandatory Convertible Bonds (MCBs) will provide the Group with additional ready to ramp up our recover. We will continue to work closely with governments, • Cuts in Management salaries and Director fees, voluntary liquidity if the crisis prolongs, and to be tapped on only if required services when air travel aviation authorities and industry partners in a coordinated and compulsory no-pay leave schemes, as well as a hiring Ensuring Financial Flexibility to Capture Future Growth Opportunities eventually begins to manner to plan our recovery response and to ensure freeze recover. The way we resilience in our value chain • This will address our near-term operational and cashflow requirements, while providing for • Engagement with aircraft manufacturers to negotiate committed capital expenditure. As our strategic priorities continue to be in focus, this will respond to challenges A New Transformation Chapter, Post-Covid-19 adjustments to delivery schedules for existing aircraft orders position us for a quick response to ramp up once the crisis is over posed by the Covid-19 outbreak will shape our • The aviation industry will continue to be impacted by • Tapped on lines of credit maintained for contingency long-term sustainability changing trends and evolving customer expectations. situations and boost our capability As new global norms are shaped during the recovery process, we strive to adapt, build resilience and leverage opportunities • Continued to explore other sources of funding, including for sustainable value to strengthen our position as a global aviation leader secured financing and sale and leaseback transactions creation. • Short-term ◊ Ramp up efforts to increase productivity and effectiveness ◊ Upskill our employees to enhance human capital • Mediumto long-term ◊ Review of customer value drivers, zero-based review of product definition, service delivery and work processes to achieve leadership in product and service delivery ◊ Explore new revenue and business opportunities while leveraging our core strengths to ensure that SIA is prepared to be first off the blocks when the recovery eventually comes Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 90 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES INCLUSIVE WEALTH FOR ALL STAKEHOLDERS A future economy is one that Value Creation at SIA inspires inclusive growth for everyone. SIA recognises the role we play in furthering sustainable development locally and globally. 1 2 3 This starts with a shift towards inclusive wealth for all stakeholders, an aggregate value of our six capitals – financial, human, intellectual, manufactured, natural, as well as social and relationship capitals. The aviation sector is a key pillar of Singapore’s economy, supporting more than 12 per cent of the country’s gross domestic product (GDP) and over 375,000 jobs. We are at the heart of the aviation ecosystem, with Singapore Airlines, SilkAir and Scoot accounting for more than half of all passenger transits and cargo movements at Singapore Changi Airport. Capital Inputs Value Drivers Value Creation for Stakeholders Using all forms of Identifying key value Defining value creation capital in the company drivers, performance outcomes, performance to produce value measures and targets measures and targets Inputs Key Value Drivers (KPIs) Value Creation (Outcomes) • Financial Capital Financials For Shareholders • Human Capital SIA Group’s Return on Shareholders’ Funds, SIA Company’s Operating Profit Margin, Company’s Passenger Load Factor, • Social and Relationship Capital Achieving Economic Value Added Shareholders’ wealth Staff Productivity, Group and Company EBITDAR Margin • Intellectual Capital (EVA) by generating operating creation (based on Non-financials profit which meets the Cost of absolute and relative • Natural Capital *Brand Strength, Market Share, Aircraft Utilisation, Invested Capital over the long-term Total Shareholder *Workplace Safety, *Employee Engagement, *Succession and successful transformation Return+ (TSR)) • Manufactured Capital Planning, *Weak Audit Findings, Air Safety For Other Stakeholders Sustainable value creation for other stakeholders (employees, customers, suppliers, communities) * Sustainability-based Value Drivers. + Includes share price change and dividend yields. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 91 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES INCLUSIVE WEALTH FOR ALL STAKEHOLDERS (continued) Value added is a measure of wealth created for our stakeholders. The statement below shows the Group’s value added and its distribution by way of payments to employees, the government, and to those who have provided capital. It also indicates the portion retained in the business for future capital requirements. Statements of Value Added FY2018/19 FY2019/20 and Its Distribution ($ million) 102-7 202-1 Total Revenue 16,323.2 15,975.9 Less: Purchase of Goods and Services (11,049.4) (11,147.3) 5,273.8 4,828.6 Add: Interest Income 41.9 42.1 Surplus/(Loss) on Disposal of Aircraft, Spares and Spare Engines (5.8) 6.9 Dividends from Long-term Investments 3.1 3.2 Other Non-operating Items (47.4) (31.9) Share of Profits of Joint Venture Companies 26.5 49.3 Share of (Losses)/Profits of Associated Companies 22.2 (122.9) Total Value Added for Distribution 5,314.3 4,775.3 Applied as Follows: To Employees: Salaries and other Staff Cost To Government: 2,816.9 2,563.6 S$4,775.3 mil S$358.3 mil total value added for distribution value added for distribution Corporation Taxes 269.9 55.9 in FY2019/20 to suppliers of capital in To Suppliers of Capital: FY2019/20 Interim and Proposed Dividends 355.1 94.8 Finance Charges 116.1 220.9 Non-controlling Interests 38.9 42.6 Retained for Future Capital Requirements: Depreciation, Amortisation and Impairment Retained (loss)/profit 1,389.8 327.6 2,205.9 (408.4) S$2,563.6 mil value added for distribution to S$1,797.5 mil value retained for future employees in FY2019/20 capital requirements Total Value Added 5,314.3 4,775.3 Value Added Per Dollar Revenue ($) 0.33 0.30 Value Added Per Dollar Employment Cost ($) 1.89 1.86 S$55.9 mil value added for distribution to S$0.30 value added per dollar the government in FY2019/20 revenue in FY2019/20 Value Added Per Dollar Investment in Property, Plant and Equipment ($) 0.20 0.15 Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 92 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES SOciety Singapore Airlines aspires to be a purpose-led organisation that uses our business as a force for good. We believe in giving back to society and strengthening our relationships with the communities we serve in Singapore and around the world. We seek to touch the lives of people and contribute solutions to pressing global challenges through a range of programmes that include the promotion of education, sports and the arts, as well as environmental conservation. OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH Key Engagement Activities SIA’s Ambition Supporting the SDGs We practise good corporate citizenship, contributing to Engagement Mode Frequency and investing in the communities where we operate in. Annual Report, Sustainability Report Yearly Community Support Programmes (Corporate Donations, Ticket Regular Sponsorships, Volunteerism, etc.) Press Releases Ad hoc Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 93 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES Community projects in Singapore 413-1 SIA believes in fostering strong relationships not only with our customers and business partners, but also with the many communities we serve. Support is extended to community groups through corporate donations, ticket sponsorships and staff volunteerism, among others. We actively support initiatives which promote education and sports excellence, the arts, as well as environmental conservation. Community Arts Education Sports KrisFlyer and Make-A-Wish Singapore Growing Singapore’s Arts Scene Equipping Singapore’s Workforce with Future-ready Skills Recognising Sporting Excellence in KrisFlyer, the SIA Group’s frequent flyer programme, partners Make-A-Wish Singapore We believe that creative pursuits are the Singapore Education is a powerful tool for sustainable development. We believe in investing in to fulfil the wishes of children with life-threatening illnesses. KrisFlyer miles donated key to building a better world. With our our society’s future and nurturing the minds of tomorrow’s leaders. Together with We recognise the value of a strong sports by members go toward supporting flights on SIA and SilkAir for beneficiaries. longstanding commitment to help grow SIAEC, we committed a cash contribution of S$1 million to the NTUC Education and ecosystem in Singapore to forge bonds Singapore’s arts scene, SIA continued Training Fund (NETF). The NETF was set up in 1998 to help upgrade and reskill eligible Since the partnership began in 2017, KrisFlyer members donated generously to the within our community, build team spirit to sponsor the following organisations workers. programme, and over 30 million miles have been redeemed to fulfil the travel wishes and foster a greater sense of belonging. in FY2019/20: of the beneficiaries and their families. In FY2019/20, as part of the Make-A-Wish Scoot’s Learning Journey We continued to sponsor the following Singapore Christmas celebrations, SIA prepared gifts such as LEGO® sets and travel • National Arts Council (since 1994) organisations in FY2019/20: bags, to share the festive joy with beneficiaries. In FY2019/20, eight Scoot employee volunteers organised an experiential learning • Singapore Chinese Orchestra • Singapore National Olympic Council (since 2002) journey for students in collaboration with Glyph Asia, a social enterprise for children MINDS Partnership and youths from lower income households or challenging family environments. (since 1999): Ticket sponsorship for the Since 1992, SIA has been providing employment opportunities for the beneficiaries • Singapore Dance Theatre Twenty-five students attended the event, which aimed to raise awareness about the Singapore Sports Awards (Sportsman, of the Movement for the Intellectually Disabled of Singapore (MINDS) by engaging (since 1988) airline industry through talks by a Scoot pilot, cabin crew and ground staff. Sportswoman, Sportsboy and Sportsgirl them to pack and service our Economy Class earphones and headphones. Our partnership of the Year) • Singapore Lyric Opera (since 1991) Sharity Day 2019 impacts the lives of more than 340 trainees at MINDS, keeping them socially active and agile. • Singapore Sports School (since • Singapore Symphony Orchestra 2002): Ticket sponsorship for student Sharity Day 2019, an annual initiative by the Community Chest, seeks to foster Willing Hearts (since 1979) interaction among youths of different abilities. In FY2019/20, 19 Scoot employees athletes representing Singapore for In FY2019/20, Scoot employees volunteered at Willing Hearts, a charity in Singapore Our ticket sponsorships enable these volunteered as guides for over 100 students from mainstream and special needs competitions that operates a soup kitchen for beneficiaries. Over 5,000 meals were prepared with organisations to send our local talents schools, guiding them along the event activities. the help of 21 Scoot volunteers. overseas to perform and widen their horizons and invite international artistes Community Chest Fú Dài Event to perform in Singapore. Since 2015, SIA has been actively participating in the Community Chest Fú Dài event, helping to pack and share bags of food and household items with the less fortunate. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 94 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES Community projects around the world 413-1 Beyond Singapore, our overseas stations are equally passionate and committed in reaching out to their communities. As a global airline, we work with charities in support of various initiatives and causes. AUSTRALIA MAINLAND CHINA JAPAN JAPAN The Smith Supporting Celebrating 30 Years of Direct Service to Nagoya Fukuoka Children’s Hospital Family Mainland Since 2012, SIA has been China During In October 2019, SIA hosted a children’s social studies event for 30 local elementary school SIA staff have been visiting the Fukuoka Children’s Hospital to bring festive cheer to children and students to embrace new experiences with a global mindset. They were given an exclusive tour of their families since 2014. Our volunteers dressed up as Santa Claus accompanied by our cabin supporting The Smith Family, the Covid-19 our Boeing 787-10 aircraft and had fun role-playing with our cabin crew. From making in-flight crew and brought presents to distribute to more than 50 children. They also sang songs and a national independent Outbreak announcements to learning about international dining etiquette, the students had a fulfilling day interacted with the children and staff in the hospital during the festive season. The children also children’s charity helping To support the fight against of learning. had the opportunity to don the SIA cabin crew’s uniform – the Sarong Kebaya. disadvantaged Australians. We believe in providing the Covid-19 virus in Mainland In November 2019, a teachers’ forum was conducted to bring together the teaching fraternities disadvantaged children and China in early 2020, SIA of Nagoya and Singapore in the spirit of mutual learning and friendship. Over 50 teachers youths with the right support donated over 16,500 personal from schools across Nagoya, as well as six teachers and two guest speakers from Singapore and resources to achieve their protective equipment (PPE), participated in the forum. The theme of the forum was ‘Our Youth, Our Future’, and discussions full potential. As a national 3,500 hand sanitisers and were focused on pressing topics such as mental health, critical thinking and media literacy. sponsor of The Smith Family’s 80,000 wet wipes to charities Through group activities, teachers shared actionable ideas on how to help students thrive and ‘Learning for Life’ educational and airport partners in rise above these challenges, learnt first-hand about each country’s education system and built assistance programme, we Mainland China. SIA also friendships, kindling interest in future school visits and exchange programmes. provided financial support for provided complimentary 12 disadvantaged students freightage for the transport across Australia in 2019. of the medical supplies on our Support is also provided in flights. the form of air tickets to destinations that SIA serves for their fundraising efforts. Throughout the year, SIA staff volunteered for programmes >16,500 PPE donated such as the Christmas Toy and Book Appeal and online student mentoring programme, iTrack. S$192,000 raised since 2012 30 children’s lives touched >50 children‘s lives touched Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 95 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES Community projects around the world (continued) MEKONG SUB-REGION THE PHILIPPINES SOUTH KOREA Child’s Dream Foundation Bantay Bata 163 Jongno Community Welfare Center Since 2004, SIA has been supporting Bantay Bata 163, a welfare programme that aims to protect SilkAir supported Child’s Dream Foundation, a non-profit In December 2019, SIA employees in South Korea brought cheer to 45 underprivileged children disadvantaged and at-risk children. In FY2019/20, we extended our financial support to over 70 organisation committed to empowering marginalised children in the Jongno Community Welfare Center during the festive season. Our volunteers brought the elementary school students nationwide under the Bantay Edukasyon programme, which allowed and youths in the areas of education, employment and health. children out to watch a magic show and treated them to a delicious meal. them to participate in field trips and tree-planting activities. In FY2019/20, we sponsored air tickets for the charity’s fundraising and training activities in the region, such as Cebu, Chiang Mai, Siem Reap and Yangon. NEW ZEALAND Cancer Society of New Zealand Since 2009, SIA has been a proud sponsor of the CanterburyWest Coast Division of the Cancer Society of New Zealand, an organisation dedicated to improving community well-being by reducing the incidence and impact of cancer. Donations were used to support cancer research and care for those diagnosed with cancer. In recent years, we extended our support to the Cancer Society in other regions including Waikato-Bay of Plenty, Wellington and Otago-Southland. >s$36,000 raised in FY2019/20 45 children‘s lives touched NEW ZEALAND New Zealand Arts Foundation In 2019, SIA began supporting the New Zealand Arts Foundation, which seeks to recognise and reward artists who have an TAIWAN impact on New Zealand’s society. In FY2019/20, over S$21,000 Eden Social Welfare Foundation was raised to support six recipients and six mentors for their Springboard programme. Since 2018, SIA has been supporting Eden Social Welfare Foundation, a charitable trust founded to serve persons with disabilities as well as socially marginalised groups. In 2019, SIA helped to raise >s$21,000 raised in over S$42,000 through online donation drives for children with developmental delays. We also >70 students received FY2019/20 engaged children and parents from underprivileged migrant families through fun-filled activities financial support such as movie screenings as well as a virtual tour of Singapore. in FY2019/20 434 S$42,000 children’s raised in lives touched FY2019/20 since 2018 Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 96 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES Implementing solutions to reduce our environmental footprint Doing all we can to future-proof the wonders of travel For the adventurers of tomorrow and generations to come We sustain our connections with nature Because we believe in conserving our planet and the destinations we serve Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 97 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES Environment 103-1 103-2 103-3 The future of travel depends on the world’s approach towards environmental sustainability. We acknowledge that our business-as-usual practices are insufficient in ensuring the aviation industry’s sustainability in the long run. We remain committed to collaborating with our stakeholders to reduce our environmental impact. We also work with our stakeholders to implement innovative solutions to protect the environment. CLIMATE CHANGE WASTE NOISE OTHER POLLUTANTS WATER BIODIVERSITY OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH Key Policies, Processes and Procedures SIA’s Ambition Supporting the SDGs • Adopted IATA’s Four-Pillar Climate Strategy We remain committed to environmental sustainability and for our operations to be carried out responsibly in support of the industry’s climate goals. • ISO 14001:2015 Environmental Management System Targets Due Status (for Engineering Division and Flight Operations Division) Be plastic straw-free by FY2019/20 FY2019/20 Achieved Achieve a 15 per cent reduction in electricity consumption from our buildings* by FY2020/21, FY2020/21 On Track from base year FY2010/11 Achieve a 30 per cent reduction of waste generated from our buildings* by FY2020/21, FY2020/21 On Track from base year FY2010/11 * Locations covered include SIA’s four buildings (Airline House, SIA Supplies Centre, SIA Training Centre, TechSQ), SIAEC’s Engine Testing Facility and six hangars. Supporting the SDGs FY2019/20 in Numbers 228,317 TJ 11.13 LTK/AG 120 kWh/m2 16.3 mil tonnes CO2e 63,803 tonnes CO2 of energy consumed for all overall fuel productivity for fleet electricity intensity for SIA total Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions total estimated GHG emissions saved as a result of our SIA operations buildings and offices in Singapore fuel reduction and efficiency measures across our fleet 1,455 tonnes 0.7 tonnes 77 tonnes 388 tonnes 171,042 m3 of waste generated at SIA estimated staff canteen waste of waste recycled at SIA buildings of waste recycled from our flights total water withdrawal for SIA buildings and offices buildings in Singapore recycled onsite by eco-digester daily in Singapore in Singapore 18,568 m3 100% 100% 98,555 hectares 2,787 trees rainwater harvested at Airline of our fleet meets the 2004 ICAO of our fleet meets ICAO Chapter of lowland tropical forest covered by the replanted under the Harapan Rainforest Initiative, House, SIA’s headquarters in CAEP/6 or the stricter CAEP/8 4 noise standards ecosystem restoration concession under with 260 hectares of forest restored Singapore emissions standards for NOx the Harapan Rainforest Initiative Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 98 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES CLIMATE CHANGE We are experiencing the adverse effects of climate change, ranging from Minimising global warming could reduce the environmental impact, ensuring extreme weather events to a loss of sea ice. This is projected to intensify the sustainability of people, economies and ecosystems around the world. over the next decade if anthropogenic GHG emissions continue to rise. However, this would require rapid and far-reaching changes across multiple An Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change ( IPCC ) special report 36 industries and a globally coordinated approach to reduce GHG emissions by found that the impact on our climate will continue to worsen if we do not about 45 per cent from 2010 levels by 2030 and achieve net zero by 2050. At take action. SIA, we will do all we can to contribute to the industry’s climate goals and targets. 36 IPCC, “Global Warming of 1.5°C. Singapore’s Ministry of the Environment and Water Resources marked 2018 as the Year of Climate Action for the nation. In support of this, SIA submitted a Climate Action Pledge to signal our dedication towards environmental protection and sustainable operations, as we take action to recognise and anticipate climate-related risks. SIA’s Climate Action Pledge Singapore Airlines is dedicated to our long-term responsibility to protect the environment while providing air transportation services of the highest quality. We have in place various programmes to implement sustainable practices across our operations in a responsible manner to manage issues such as carbon emissions, noise, waste, as well as energy and water consumption. We pledge to continue to explore new sustainable practices in all areas of our operations. SIA adopts the aviation industry’s four-pillar strategy to address climate change and seeks opportunities to reduce the carbon footprint of our operations. We incorporate the five Rs (Refuse, Reduce, Reuse, Repurpose and Recycle) in our daily activities to improve our waste management practices and maximise efficient use of resources. We promote eco-friendly habits among our staff and stakeholders and raise awareness on the importance of taking action to reduce our impact on the environment. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 99 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES CLIMATE CHANGE (continued) Supporting IATA’s Climate Targets And Four-Pillar Strategy IATA’s Climate Targets PR-7 PR-8 PR-9 An average improvement in fuel efficiency of 1.5 per cent per year from 2009 to 2020 Despite contributing approximately two per cent A cap on net aviation CO2 emissions from 2020 (carbon-neutral growth) of global anthropogenic GHG emissions37, the A reduction in net aviation CO2 emissions of 50 per cent by 2050, relative to 2005 levels aviation industry recognises the pressing need to address the global challenge of climate change. IATA’s Four-Pillar Strategy According to IATA, the expansion of air travel worldwide, the proliferation of low-cost airlines and the growth of the global tourism industry are PILLAR 1 PILLAR 2 PILLAR 3 PILLAR 4 expected to the double air traffic between 2018 and 2037. This will lead to an increase in the aviation Improved technology, including the More efficient aircraft operations Infrastructure improvements, including A single global Market-based Measure (MBM), to industry’s contribution to global GHG emissions. deployment of Sustainable Aviation Fuel (SAF) modernised air traffic management systems fill the remaining emissions gap Underpinning the aviation industry’s commitment towards reducing emissions in the mediumto long-term is IATA’s Four-Pillar Strategy, which was SIA’s Commitments introduced in 2009. SIA adopted the Four-Pillar Strategy in our operations and we support IATA’s climate targets to reduce our carbon footprint. We are committed to our fleet renewal programme We improve fuel productivity through initiatives We partner with air navigation service providers We participate in a single global MBM in the form and operating a modern and fuel-efficient fleet such as implementing green operations and to find opportunities to reduce emissions from of the Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme that generates lower emissions and less noise. reducing fuel usage through aircraft weight fuel burn during all flight phases. for International Aviation (CORSIA) to address management and optimisation of flight routes. the growth in emissions in the aviation industry We invest in engineering improvement packages We collaborate with stakeholders in air traffic management to explore ways to improve airspace beyond 2020. for airframes and engines. This helps to reduce drag and improve engine efficiency. incremental efficiency. We believe that innovation and data analytics will pave the way for more We will also drive the adoption of sustainable significant improvements, and continue to engage aviation fuel in the industry. research institutions to explore such ideas. 37 IATA, “Fact Sheet on Climate Change & CORSIA”. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 100 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES CLIMATE CHANGE (continued) Climate-related Risks and Opportunities 102-11 PR-7 PR-8 PR-9 Governance and Risk Management The review of climate-related risk falls within the SIA’s Enterprise Risk Management framework, which is overseen by the Board Safety and Risk Committee (BSRC). Further details of the established risk governance and reporting structure can be found in the Governance section on pages 18 to 27 of this report. Additionally, climate-related risks and mitigation are also considered at various forums such as the Board Customer Experience, Technology and Sustainability Committee (CETSC), as well as the Sustainability Steering Committee (SSC), which involves Senior Management and the relevant business units. SIA identifies climate-related risks and opportunities through various channels, both internally and externally. Specifically, these reviews include the annual Group-wide Risk Management Review exercise involving stakeholder-driven risk assessment, as well as on-going discussions with industry and business partners. As both transition and physical risks could impact the financial, operational and strategic aspects of SIA’s operations, the review and mitigation is integral to shaping our long-term business strategy. Identification and Mitigation of Climate-related Risks As climate change issues continue to gain importance, various polices and measures are introduced to progressively drive the aviation industry transition towards a sustainable and low-carbon economy. SIA supports CORSIA as the only global MBM to achieve carbon-neutral growth beyond 2020. SIA recognises that climate change issues are constantly evolving, which brings about transition risks. The potential emergence of uncoordinated climate policies and mandates on SAF at the regional or national level may create market distortion and lead to increased compliance cost. To mitigate these risks, SIA works closely with CAAS, IATA and industry partners to ensure successful implementation of CORSIA and also to advocate policies that incentivise the large-scale adoption of SAF. In addition, we acknowledge that there are potential reputational risks tied to changing stakeholder expectations and consumer behaviour. In response to these challenges, we adopted IATA’s Four-Pillar Strategy and actively engage all stakeholders to reduce our GHG emissions and environmental footprint. Beyond transitional risks, climate change could also bring about acute and chronic physical risks. Acute physical risks such as the rise in the frequency, severity and uncertainty of extreme weather events could result in increased frequency of in-flight re-routings, delays and cancellations. Chronic physical risks such as rising global temperatures and sea levels will also have longer-term strategic and operational impact to the entire aviation industry. With these risks in mind, SIA continues to develop and update our crisis response and business continuity plans to minimise potential business disruptions. SIA actively participates in external multi-agency airport emergency exercises to validate existing crisis management response plans, capabilities, and the management of communications with external stakeholders. Additionally, the review of climate change scenarios potentially leading to operations disruptions are also being considered. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 101 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES MANAGEMENT OF ENERGY AND EMISSIONS 302-4 305-5 PR-7 PR-8 PR-9 GHG Accounting and Reporting IN THE AIR SIA adopts the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. Unless otherwise stated, we SIA adopted IATA’s Four-Pillar Strategy in our operations to reduce GHG emissions and supports the industry’s ambition towards carbon-neutral growth from 2020. account for GHG emissions for operations under the SIA Group and report our direct (Scope 1) and energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions. Fuel consumption from our flight operations contributes to Pillar 1: Improved technology, including the deployment of Sustainable Aviation Fuel (SAF) the bulk of our Scope 1 emissions. It also constitutes more than 95 per cent of our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions combined. Investing in Modern and Fuel-efficient Aircraft Our investment in modern and fuel-efficient aircraft helps to reduce our Scope 1 GHG emissions. In line with SIA’s fleet renewal programme, SIA has one of the youngest Scope Description Boundary operating passenger aircraft fleet in the world, comprising over 120 aircraft with an average age of five years and five months. We have been investing in more fuel-efficient aircraft such as the Airbus A350s and Boeing 787s, which are known for their advanced technology and high fuel-efficient Scope 1 Direct GHG emissions occur • Passenger and freighter performance. These newer-generation aircraft help to boost fuel efficiency by 26 per cent and 29 per cent for mediumand long-haul operations respectively over Direct GHG from sources that are owned aircraft previous-generation aircraft. This is made possible by our aircraft manufacturers through the use of new composite materials, advanced fuel-efficient engines and emissions or controlled by the SIA Group. modified winglets or sharklets to improve aerodynamics. Looking ahead, SIA will continue to take delivery of fuel-efficient aircraft. • Ground support vehicles These include emissions from and equipment consumption in owned or controlled vehicles and equipment. Average Fleet Age (years), as of 31 March 2020 FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 FY2018/19 FY2019/20 Scope 2 Indirect GHG emissions occur • Purchased electricity Singapore Airlines (Passenger Aircraft) 7.4 7.7 7.4 6.6 5.4 from the generation of purchased at SIA’s four buildings, Energy indirect electricity consumed by the SIA which include Airline GHG emissions Group. These emissions physically House (ALH), SIA Supplies Singapore Airlines 13.7 13.3 14.3 15.3 16.3 occur at the facility where Centre (SC), SIA Training (Freighter Aircraft) electricity is generated. Centre (STC), TechSQ (TSQ) and other offices SilkAir 4.0 4.3 4.6 4.8 6.2 Scoot 0.7 1.6 Scope 3 Other indirect GHG emissions • SIA will identify and 4.7 5.1 5.7 Other indirect that are a consequence of report our indirect SIA’s activities, but occur from (Scope 3) GHG emissions Tigerair 38 4.8 5.9 GHG emissions sources that are not owned or in future reporting controlled by SIA. periods when data is available Total Fleet, by Age Group (%) 25% Please refer to the Appendix on page 132 for definitions and methodologies. 203 <7 years aircraft 10% 7-13 years 65% >13 years 38 Scoot and Tigerair merged under the Scoot brand on 25 July 2017. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 102 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES MANAGEMENT OF ENERGY AND EMISSIONS (continued) Airbus A350-900 Boeing 787-10 The Airbus A350-900 is built with carbon-fibre reinforced plastic, making it lighter and more cost-efficient with reduced The Boeing 787-10 is the largest variant of the Dreamliner series. It is built with the latest technologies in aerodynamics with maintenance requirements. features such as raked wing tips and low drag empennages, with systems such as dimmable windows. 48 19 15 29 aircraft in aircraft in SIA’s fleet aircraft on order SIA’s fleet aircraft on order Rolls-Royce Trent 1000 TEN Rolls-Royce Trent XWB-84 The Airbus A350-900 The Boeing 787-10 is is the quietest Airbus the quietest Boeing aircraft in SIA’s fleet aircraft in SIA’s fleet 25% 25% more fuel-efficient more fuel-efficient than previous-generation than the aircraft that aircraft* it replaces * According to the Original Equipment Manufacturer’s website. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 103 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES MANAGEMENT OF ENERGY AND EMISSIONS (continued) CASE STUDY A JOURNEY TOWARDS SUSTAINABLE AVIATION WITH SUSTAINABLE AVIATION FUEL Exploring New Horizons in the Adoption of SAF Learning From International Industry Stakeholders, Working Towards the Commercialisation of SAF Leveraging the traction gained from the green package flights operated in 2017, a Singapore delegation with SIA sees SAF as a bridging solution between conventional jet fuel and electric commercial aircraft. Compared to conventional jet representatives from CAAS, Changi Airport Group, Economic Development Board (EDB) and SIA went on an SAF fuel, SAF can potentially reduce lifecycle GHG emissions by at least 80 per cent39. Since 2011, we have embarked on our journey study trip to Swedavia Airport in Stockholm and Geneva Airport in 2018. to adopt SAF where we actively engage stakeholders, increase our understanding on SAF and deploy SAF in overseas airports. Moving forward, our aim is to support greater use of SAF in Singapore, as well as the adoption of an integrated SAF supply chain Through this study trip, Singapore’s aviation industry stakeholders were able to gain valuable insights on the key at Changi Airport. policies and business environment conditions needed to accelerate the deployment of SAF. 2011 2017 2018 2020 Charting Our Flight Path Taking Off Into a World of Greener and Cleaner Flights Collaborating to Integrate the Use of SAF in Our Supply Chain Joining the Sustainable Aviation Implementing the World’s First Green Package Flights Entering into Partnership with Swedavia Fuel Users Group (SAFUG) In conjunction with SIA’s 70th anniversary in 2017, SIA operated In January 2020, SIA entered into a year-long partnership with Approximately SIA started as a member of a series of 12 green package flights, incorporating the Swedish airport operator Swedavia. As part of Swedavia’s SAF Incentive Scheme, we began to use a blend of jet fuel and SAF on 47 tonnes CO 2 SAFUG, which was established use of SAF, fuel-efficient aircraft and optimised air traffic our flights between Stockholm and Moscow. Supplied by Air BP GHG emissions to accelerate the development management (ATM) measures. This was done in collaboration and commercialisation of with the Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore (CAAS) and the Sweden and produced by Neste, this SAF is produced from used savings in FY2019/20 SAF. Through this platform, Ministry of the Environment and Water Resources (MEWR) cooking oil, which is blended with regular jet fuel and delivered stakeholders including airlines, over a three-month period on our non-stop San Franciscoto the aircraft via the Stockholm Arlanda Airport’s hydrant system. In addition, this trial with Swedavia original equipment manufacturers Singapore route. will equip SIA with a better understanding of the logistics around the procurement of renewable fuels, (OEMs) and verification bodies placing SIA in a better position to scale up the adoption of SAF in Singapore in future. These flights were powered by a combination of Hydro-processed Esters and Fatty can exchange knowledge, Acids (HEFA), a sustainable biofuel produced from used cooking oils and conventional About Swedavia’s SAF Incentive Scheme experiences and best practices, jet fuel. The use of this fuel has a life cycle potential reduction of 80 per cent GHG emissions Swedavia, which operates Stockholm Arlanda Airport, targets to achieve five per cent renewable fuel for equipping members with the latest as compared to traditional jet fuel. all jet fuels used at its airports by 2025. To achieve this target, Swedavia implemented the SAF Incentive developments on SAF. Beyond reducing GHG emissions, this initiative raised the awareness of SAF in Singapore Scheme, which subsidises 50 per cent of the premium between renewable fuel and jet fuel spot prices. SIA Since joining SAFUG in 2011, and provided valuable industry insights relating to the economics, logistical requirements is one of the first few airlines to embark on this incentive programme with Swedavia. SIA has been actively engaging and impact on engine performance. It also led to further engagements our stakeholders to explore the to implement a more efficient and integrated SAF supply chain in Singapore. feasibility of SAF deployment. These engagements paved the way for our first deployment of SAF in Approximately 320 tonnes CO2 May 2017. SAF is an important part of the airline industry’s goal of reducing its GHG emissions. This trial with Swedavia will provide us with valuable insights into the procurement, economics and logistical requirements of renewable fuels. This knowledge and experience will also allow us to GHG emissions savings in begin discussions and partnerships with other industry stakeholders around the world. 39 IATA, “Sustainable Aviation Fuels Fact Sheet”. FY2017/18 LEE WEN FEN, SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT CORPORATE PLANNING OF SINGAPORE AIRLINES Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 104 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES MANAGEMENT OF ENERGY AND EMISSIONS (continued) Pillar 2: More efficient aircraft operations CASE STUDY As part of our ongoing commitment to sustainability, SIA is constantly looking for opportunities to reduce our carbon emissions to mitigate the impact of climate change. This is done through various fuel productivity and savings initiatives, which are implemented TAILORED WATER UPLIFT PROGRAMME across our engineering, flight and ground operations. SIA also leverages digital technologies to identify and implement further fuel productivity initiatives. Engineering Operations The Tailored Water Uplift Programme involves the customisation of water uplift based on flight sector requirements. This reduces the amount of fuel used during our flight operations. During the initial stages of this programme, data on water usage was manually Measures for our engineering operations include the regular monitoring of aircraft performance levels and working with aircraft OEMs collected by our cabin crew for selected flights and assessed by the Engineering Division to analyse the potential of reducing water to manage aircraft weight, reduce fuel usage during flights and improve aircraft fuel efficiency. uplift. In FY2019/20, an additional feature was introduced in the electronic Cabin Crew Voyage Report (eCCVR) system to facilitate the collection of accurate data and close monitoring of water usage. This allows cabin crew to digitally record the amount of water in the tank at the start and end of each flight. Data collected by the eCCVR system is then automatically integrated into the Voyage Tailored water uplift Removing footrests on selected Utilising more fuel-efficient Report System (VRS), where it is compiled and analysed by our Engineering Division to identify opportunities for further reduction. based on flight sector of aircraft, resulting in a potential aircraft and engines for long-haul Today, this programme has been implemented for all flights operated by our Airbus A350-900 and Boeing 787-10 aircraft, as well fuel savings requirements weight reduction ranging from flights to reduce the amount of as selected Airbus A380-800 and Boeing 777-300ER aircraft. Approximately 5,900 tonnes of fuel was saved in FY2019/20. through a tailored potable 120kg to 300kg fuel burnt during a flight water programme Approximately 1,060 Approximately 210 Approximately tonnes of fuel savings tonnes of fuel savings 5,900 tonnes of fuel savings Modification of Boeing 787-10 Trent 1000 engine software to implement “slow taper climb” schedule Optimising Airbus A350 engines based on flight sectors served Approximately Approximately 160 tonnes of fuel savings 23,090 tonnes CO2 GHG emissions savings across engineering operations in FY2019/2040 40 Based on net calorific value and effective CO2 emissions factor from 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhous Gas Inventories, Volume 2: Energy, Table 1.2 and Table 1.4 respectively (IPCC, 2006). Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 105 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES MANAGEMENT OF ENERGY AND EMISSIONS (continued) Flight Operations Approximately Measures for our flight operations include initiatives aimed at optimising flight plans, routes and management. 31,500 tonnes CO2 GHG emissions savings across flight operations in FY2019/20 Implementing Operational Excellence Collaboration Across Divisions Engaging the Ecosystem • Reviewing route planning procedures to • Pilots following green operational procedures • Working closely with ATM experts to improve optimise route efficiency to enable more efficient flights airspace congestion • Monitoring fuel usage to ensure an optimal • Engaging crew through fleet meetings and • Participating in international forums and level of fuel to uplift e-learning tools to promote fuel-efficient discussions to identify more efficient routes practices such as Reduced Engine Taxi-In and and supporting research into ATM • Migrating to an enhanced flight planning Continuous Descent Approach system in FY2019/20 to plan optimised flight routes that balances fuel efficiency and other • Extending the fuel efficiency programme across operational constraints, such as weather divisions, sharing data and working closely to systems and airspace closures implement a more consolidated approach to optimising flight plans and routes CASE STUDY OUR PILOT’S CONTRIBUTION TO GREEN FLIGHT OPERATIONS SIA’s pilots play a significant role in contributing to sustainable operations by reducing the amount of fuel used during flights. Our Flight Operations Division developed green operational procedures, which pilots are encouraged to adopt to reduce fuel usage during flight operations. Some of these green operational procedures include shutting down one engine when taxiing and engaging idle reverse thrust during landing. In addition, to facilitate the implementation of green operational procedures, SIA adopted the use of digital applications to provide our pilots with historical and real-time information relating to fuel usage. This enables them to make more informed decisions with regard to fuel uplift. These efforts have reduced fuel burn by 10,000 tonnes in FY2019/20. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 106 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES MANAGEMENT OF ENERGY AND EMISSIONS (continued) Ground Operations Measures for our ground operations include reducing fuel usage during ground operations. Reducing Reliance on Aircraft Improving Aircraft Zero Fuel Weight Auxiliary Power Units (APU) (ZFW) Used to Plan Fuel Uplift • Deploying mobile ground power units and pre• ZFW is the total weight of the aircraft and all conditioned units during night stops and long its contents, excluding the total weight of the transits to reduce reliance on aircraft APUs usable fuel on board. Unusable fuel is included in the ZFW • In FY2019/20, these contributed to an estimated 910 tonnes of fuel savings, translating to • By improving ZFW accuracy, the correct estimated GHG emissions savings of 2,867 amount of fuel is uplifted, which reduces the tonnes CO2 overall weight of the aircraft. We implemented a range of measures to improve aircraft ZFW accuracy, the latest being the deployment of Adoption of Digital Technologies Across Our Operations the ZFW Monitoring Dashboard. It enables our SIA recognises that digital technologies are key enablers to facilitate emissions reduction across our engineering, flight and ground operations. We adopted data Airport Operations department to monitor the analytics and digital platforms to measure aircraft performance, as well as to identify and prioritise measures to better support our fuel efficiency strategies. ZFW more closely • In FY2019/20, these contributed to an estimated 1,800 tonnes of fuel savings, translating to estimated GHG emissions savings of 5,670 Approximately tonnes CO2 8,537 tonnes CO2 GHG emissions savings across ground operations Analytical Tools Operational Data Tail-centric Digital Solutions in FY2019/20 • Using fuel efficiency analytical tools to • Equipping pilots with up-to-date operational • As part of an ongoing initiative with Airbus, we evaluate, measure and identify more fuel data using iPads and applications, which adopted a suite of tail-centric digital solutions efficiency opportunities facilitate more fuel-efficient operations to optimise the monitoring of air-conditioning performance in all flight phases Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 107 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES MANAGEMENT OF ENERGY AND EMISSIONS (continued) CASE STUDY STATISTICAL CONTINGENCY FUEL TO OPTIMISE FUEL UPLIFT Approximately Contingency fuel refers to fuel required to account for unforeseen factors that could influence the consumption of fuel. Standard regulations and industry practices require a fixed percentage of 630 tonnes CO2 planned fuel to be used as contingency fuel for all flights. GHG emissions savings from In FY2019/20, SIA successfully developed the Statistical Contingency Fuel approach that adopts a data driven methodology to determine the amount of contingency fuel needed for each flight. the Statistical Contingency SIA implemented the use of Statistical Contingency Fuel on one of our aircraft fleet, which resulted in an estimated fuel savings of 200 tonnes. Moving forward, SIA plans to expand the use of this Fuel approach in FY2019/20 approach across our entire network, which is estimated to allow for a total fuel savings of about 4,000 tonnes annually. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 108 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES MANAGEMENT OF ENERGY AND EMISSIONS (continued) Pillar 3: Infrastructure improvements, including Pillar 4: A single global market-based measure (MBM) to fill the remaining emissions gap modernised air traffic management (ATM) systems The aviation industry has been experiencing an increase in CO2 emissions. ICAO SIA recognises that CORSIA plays an integral role in helping the aviation industry achieve its With global passenger numbers expected to reach eight billion by 2036 and predicts that without additional measures, emissions from the aviation industry could target in a cost-efficient manner. Singapore will voluntarily participate in CORSIA between 2021 ongoing capacity constraints, modern air traffic services will face considerable increase by more than 300 per cent42. As part of the ICAO’s Member States commitment and 2026 before the mandatory implementation of the scheme. SIA strives to support ongoing challenges that may lead to inefficiencies, resulting in billions of dollars in towards carbon-neutral growth from 2020, the Member States have adopted a global efforts by meeting the requirements under the CORSIA Monitoring, Reporting and Verification annual costs41. We seek to address these challenges through two approaches. MBM, known as CORSIA. CORSIA seeks to offset the share of CO2 emissions from system for CO2 emission. We began monitoring and reporting our CO2 emissions on an annual basis international flights exceeding their 2020 levels. The CORSIA scheme will be activated in January 2019. during a voluntary pilot period from 2021 and will become mandatory for all airlines The Covid-19 outbreak led to a drastic reduction in air traffic, which will likely result in lower from 2027. levels of emissions in 2020. As the CORSIA emissions baseline is determined based on the The implementation of CORSIA is applicable to international aviation emissions. It is emissions in 2019 and 2020, reviews are continuing among industry stakeholders to consider forecasted that CORSIA will mitigate approximately 2.5 billion tonnes CO2 emissions appropriate adjustments aimed at providing stakeholders with the certainty and confidence between 2021 and 2035, equivalent to an average of 165 million tonnes CO2 emissions required to ensure the successful implementation of CORSIA, whilst preserving the scheme’s annually. CORSIA’s approach compares the total annual GHG emissions from 2021 environmental benefits. onwards against a baseline of CO2 emissions, which will be determined by using the average CO2 emissions from international aviation under CORSIA in 2019 and 2020. Innovation and Data Partnerships with Analytics Stakeholders We believe that innovation and We recognise that close data analytics play a critical role in coordination among industry paving the way for more significant stakeholders such as airlines, improvements. We engaged airports, air navigation service research institutions to explore providers and governments, such ideas. is critical to enable airspace optimisation. SIA actively SIA aims to assist with the collaborates with stakeholders improvements in air route on ATM to explore ways to improve optimisation to cope with airspace incremental efficiency. escalating traffic growth, while striving to reduce fuel use and emissions. Image courtesy of Shawn Ang 41 IATA, “Airspace Optimisation”. 42 IATA, “CORSIA: final decisions before take-off”. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 109 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES MANAGEMENT OF ENERGY AND EMISSIONS (continued) Performance of SIA’s Flight Operations43 302-1 302-3 302-4 305-1 305-4 305-5 ON THE GROUND Buildings are a major driver of global energy demand, accounting for approximately 39 per cent of Fuel Fuel Direct (Scope 1) Direct (Scope 1) GHG energy-related global GHG emissions44. Of this, 28 per cent relates to operational GHG emissions associated Consumption Productivity GHG emissions Emissions Intensity (million AG) (LTK/AG) (‘000 tonnes CO2) (kgCO2/LTK) with energy used to operate the building or infrastructure. SIA aims to transition into a decarbonised built environment through our retrofit and renovation efforts, which will facilitate a reduction in resource usage 2,000 20 18,000 1.30 and improved performance. 1.17 1.16 1.20 Energy Reduction Initiatives 1,800 17.00 17.68 17.25 1.11 18 16.40 16,000 16.15 1.05 1.10 A large amount of energy consumption at our buildings and offices is due to the use of electricity for air1.05 1,600 conditioning systems, lightings and lifts. To manage the energy performance of our buildings, SIA reviews the 16 14,000 1.00 performance of major building equipment including the plans for refurbishment or upgrading on an annual basis. 0.93 0.93 13.62 0.89 0.88 0.89 1,400 13.18 14 0.90 In FY2019/20, we continued to implement energy reduction initiatives and achieved an estimated 800 MWh of 12,000 energy savings mainly through adjusting the operating parameters of our chiller plants and air-handling units 0.72 0.80 (AHU), and replacing lightings with more energy efficient light-emitting diode (LED) light fittings. 1,200 12 10.59 10.74 10.57 0.69 10.18 10,000 0.70 We remain committed to our efforts to refresh aged equipment and explore new technologies to enhance the 10.17 1,000 0.58 8.99 8.86 10 0.55 0.55 0.58 energy efficiency of our buildings. These include longer-term initiatives such as adopting smart lighting systems 8.48 0.53 0.60 8.06 8.15 8,000 in our offices, and upgrading our existing chiller plants and AHUs. 800 8 0.50 Recognising that innovation is key to unlocking the potential of future energy reduction opportunities, we 6,000 0.40 also leverage platforms such as the Singapore Airlines AppChallenge 2019 to ideate resource management 600 6 solutions. The Singapore Airlines AppChallenge 2019 is an international digital innovation forum that invites 4,000 0.30 startups and innovators around the world to pitch their ideas to address some of the challenges faced by the 400 4 aviation industry. 0.20 200 2 2,000 0.10 Adoption of Renewable Energy 1,476 1,492 1,502 1,748 1,729 13,922 14,069 14,163 16,488 16,301 In addition to our energy reduction initiatives, we started adopting the use of renewable energy. In FY2019/20, 0 0 SIA entered into a partnership with SembCorp Solar to install rooftop solar panels on three of our buildings – FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 FY2018/19 FY2019/20 FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 FY2018/19 FY2019/20 Airline House, SIA Training Centre and TechSQ. The solar panels are expected to be commissioned in the second Fuel SIA Passenger Fleet SilkAir Fleet Direct SIA Passenger Fleet SilkAir Fleet quarter of FY2020/21 and will generate a projected 5,382 MWh of renewable energy annually to support up Consumption (Scope 1) SIA Freighter Fleet Scoot Fleet GHG Emissions SIA Freighter Fleet Scoot Fleet to 18 per cent of our buildings’ electricity demand. The Covid-19 outbreak has impacted the SIA Group’s fleet environmental performance. Concerns about the spread of the Covid-19 virus, as well as Cleaner Ground Operations the border controls and entry restrictions imposed by countries globally, has significantly reduced the overall demand for air travel and passenger To manage GHG emissions from SIA’s ground operations, all diesel and petrol powered vehicles in our fleet are traffic. In response, we have implemented capacity cuts across our network, which contributed to a significant reduction in our operations. required to comply with the National Environmental Agency’s (NEA) requirements on motor vehicle emissions. In addition, our vehicles undergo regular inspections such as the Chassis Dynamometer Smoke Test annually to Due to the drop in demand for passenger carriage, the total fleet fuel consumption saw a decrease of 1.1 per cent from 1,748 million AG consumed ensure the smoke opacity limit meets local standards. Our employees are also reminded to adhere to anti-idling in FY2018/19, to 1,729 million AG in FY2019/20. This corresponds with the 1.1 per cent decrease in our Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions from engine regulations and switch off idle engines to conserve fuel and promote cleaner air. 16,488,318 tonnes CO2 in FY2018/19 to 16,301,082 tonnes CO2 in FY2019/20. The reduction in operational productivity and load factors as a result of reduced demand for passenger travel saw a decrease in fuel productivity and our Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions. In FY2019/20, we implemented various fuel reduction and efficiency measures across our aircraft fleet to reduce our GHG emissions. This enabled us to achieve an estimated GHG emissions savings of 63,803 tonnes CO2 in FY2019/20. Approximately 800 MWh energy savings from initiatives 43 Please refer to the Appendix on pages 130 and 132 for definitions and methodologies. across buildings and offices in 44 Global Alliance for Buildings and Construction & International Energy Agency, “Global Status Report 2018”. FY2019/20 Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 110 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES MANAGEMENT OF ENERGY AND EMISSIONS (continued) Performance of SIA’s Buildings and Offices45 302-1 302-3 302-4 305-2 305-4 305-5 Electricity Electricity Energy Indirect Energy Indirect (Scope 2) Consumption Intensity (Scope 2) GHG GHG Emissions Intensity (MWh) (kWh/m2) Emissions (tonnes CO2) (tonnes CO2/m2) 35,000 134 140 14,000 0.057 0.060 130 0.052 0.051 0.051 0.050 30,000 122 120 121 12,000 120 0.050 120 25,000 110 10,000 0.040 100 20,000 8,000 90 0.030 15,000 80 6,000 0.020 70 10,000 60 4,000 0.010 5,000 50 31,012 28,280 27,805 28,144 27,907 13,264 11,945 11,781 11,798 11,687 2,000 0.000 0 0 FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 FY2018/19 FY2019/20 FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 FY2018/19 FY2019/20 Energy Indirect Energy Indirect (Scope 2) Electricity Consumption Electricity Intensity (Scope 2) GHG Emissions GHG Emissions Intensity SIA’s electricity consumption data includes electricity consumed at SIA’s buildings and offices. In FY2019/20, the total electricity consumption at our buildings and offices 46 was 27,906.9 MWh, a 0.8 per cent decrease from our FY2018/19 levels. The electricity intensity has also improved by 0.8 per cent to 120.3 kWh/m2. Correspondingly, our energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions and intensity improved by 0.9 per cent from FY2018/19. This is indicative of the resource management initiatives implemented throughout the year to reduce our energy consumption and improve our energy efficiency. We are also on track to achieve our FY2020/21 target of a 15 per cent reduction of electricity consumption, from the base year FY2010/11 level of 59,553.7 MWh. This target takes into account the electricity consumption of 11 assets47 that SIA and SIAEC have operational control over. In FY2019/20, the total electricity consumption of these 11 assets was 47,107.4 MWh, a 20.9 per cent improvement from FY2010/11. 45 Please refer to the Appendix on page 130 for definitions and methodologies. 46 Locations include SIA’s four buildings (Airline House, SIA Supplies Centre, SIA Training Centre and TechSQ) and offices. 47 Locations include SIA’s four buildings (Airline House, SIA Supplies Centre, SIA Training Centre and TechSQ), SIAEC’s Engine Testing Facility and six hangars. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 111 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES MANAGEMENT OF ENERGY AND EMISSIONS (continued) Performance Summary Of Energy And Emissions48 302-1 302-3 305-1 305-2 305-4 Operating Statistics FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 FY2018/19 FY2019/20 SIA Group Passengers Carried (thousand) 22,865 23,096 24,192 36,095 35,800 Revenue Pax-km (million) 100,783.6 100,051.8 104,198.5 140,838.1 140,998.5 Available Seat-km (million) 127,484.3 127,748.6 129,492.6 169,606.6 171,211.2 Singapore Airlines (Passenger Fleet) Passengers Carried (thousand) 19,029 18,990 19,505 20,738 20,906 Revenue Pax-km (million) 94,267.4 92,913.8 95,855.0 102,571.9 104,134.6 Available Seat-km (million) 118,366.5 117,662.3 118,126.7 123,486.2 127,165.8 Singapore Airlines (Freighter Fleet) Cargo and Mail Carried (million kg) 1,170 1,248 1,301.2 1,298.3 1,205 Cargo Load (million tonne-km) 6,510.9 6,895.8 7,260.3 7,006.5 6,389.2 Gross Capacity (million tonne-km) 10,513.3 10,912.3 11,126.7 11,210.4 10,778.2 SilkAir Passengers Carried (thousand) 3,836 4,106 4,687 4,902 4,440 Revenue Pax-km (million) 6,516.2 7,138.0 8,343.5 8,940.3 8,195.4 Available Seat-km (million) 9,117.8 10,086.3 11,365.9 11,731.8 10,599.6 Scoot49 Passengers Carried (thousand) 10,455 10,454 Revenue Pax-km (million) 29,325.9 28,668.5 Available Seat-km (million) 34,388.6 33,445.8 48 Please refer to the Appendix on pages 130 and 132 for definitions and methodologies. 49 Energy and emissions data for Scoot is available from FY2018/19 due to the merger of Tigerair under the Scoot brand in July 2017. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 112 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES MANAGEMENT OF ENERGY AND EMISSIONS (continued) Flight Operations FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 FY2018/19 FY2019/20 SIA Group Fuel Consumption (million AG) 1,477.4 1,491.9 1,501.8 1,748.5 1,728 .7 Fuel Consumption (TJ) 214,201.4 219,884.1 223,877.9 230,836.5 228,215.1 Fuel Productivity (LTK/AG) 10.57 10.61 10.98 11.37 11.13 Direct (Scope 1) GHG Emissions (‘000 tonnes CO2) 13,921.9 14,069.1 14,162.8 16,488.4 16,301.1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG Emissions Intensity (kgCO2/LTK) 0.89 0.89 0.86 0.83 0.85 Singapore Airlines (Passenger Fleet) Fuel Consumption (million AG) 1,277.0 1,288.1 1,296.1 1,332.7 1,334.3 Fuel Productivity (LTK/AG) 10.17 10.18 10.59 10.74 10.57 Direct (Scope 1) GHG Emissions (‘000 tonnes CO2) 12,033 .0 12,146.8 12,222.9 12,567.6 12,582.6 Direct (Scope 1) GHG Emissions Intensity (kgCO2/LTK) 0.93 0.93 0.89 0.88 0.89 Singapore Airlines (Freighter Fleet) Fuel Consumption (million AG) 122.2 118.9 110.8 99.1 92.8 Fuel Productivity (LTK/AG) 16.40 17.00 17.68 17.25 16.15 Direct (Scope 1) GHG Emissions (‘000 tonnes CO2) 1,151.9 1,120.8 1,044.7 934.3 874.7 Direct (Scope 1) GHG Emissions Intensity (kgCO2/LTK) 0.58 0.55 0.53 0.55 0.58 SilkAir Fuel Consumption (million AG) 78.2 85.0 94.9 95.6 87.4 Fuel Productivity (LTK/AG) 8.06 8.15 8.48 8.99 8.86 Direct (Scope 1) GHG Emissions (‘000 tonnes CO2) 737 .0 801.5 895.2 901.7 824.2 Direct (Scope 1) GHG Emissions Intensity (kgCO2/LTK) 1.17 1.16 1.11 1.05 1.05 Scoot Fuel Consumption (million AG) 221.1 214.2 Fuel Productivity (LTK/AG) 13.62 13.18 Direct (Scope 1) GHG Emissions (‘000 tonnes CO2) 2,084.8 2,019.6 Direct (Scope 1) GHG Emissions Intensity (kgCO2/LTK) 0.69 0.72 Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 113 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES MANAGEMENT OF ENERGY AND EMISSIONS (continued) Buildings, Offices and Ground Operations FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 FY2018/19 FY2019/20 Buildings and Offices (Electricity) Electricity Consumption (GWh) 31 .0 28.3 27.8 28.1 27.9 Electrical Energy Consumption (TJ) 112 102 100 101 100 Electricity Intensity (kWh/m2) 133.73 121.95 119.90 121.36 120.34 Energy Indirect (Scope 2) GHG Emissions (tonnes CO2) 13,264 11,945 11,781 11,798 11,687 Energy Indirect (Scope 2) GHG Emissions Intensity (tonnes CO2/m2) 0.057 0.052 0.051 0.051 0.050 Ground Operations (Diesel) Diesel Consumption (litres) 5,594 4,991 2,533 5,216 10,014 Diesel Consumption (TJ) 0.20 0.18 0.09 0.19 0.36 Direct (Scope 1) GHG Emissions from Diesel (tonnes CO2e) 15 14 7 14 27 Ground Operations (Petrol) Petrol Consumption (litres) 11,939 14,036 18,411 22,142 20,870 Petrol Consumption (TJ) 0.39 0.46 0.60 0.73 0.68 Direct (Scope 1) GHG Emissions from Petrol (tonnes CO2e) 28 33 43 51 49 Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 114 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES MANAGEMENT OF ENERGY AND EMISSIONS (continued) Summary of Energy and Emissions Performance FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 FY2018/19 FY2019/20 Total Energy Consumption within SIA Energy Consumption from Flight Operations (TJ) 214,201 219,884 223,878 230,836 228,215 Energy Consumption from Buildings and Offices (TJ) 112 102 100 101 100 Energy Consumption from Ground Operations (TJ) 0.59 0.64 0.70 0.91 1.05 Total Energy Consumption within SIA (TJ) 214,314 219,987 223,979 230,939 228,317 Total Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions Direct (Scope 1) GHG Emissions from Flight Operations (tonnes CO2) 13,921,890 14,069,120 14,162,780 16,488,320 16,301,080 Direct (Scope 1) GHG Emissions from Ground Operations 43 46 50 66 76 (tonnes CO2e) Energy Indirect (Scope 2) GHG Emissions from Buildings and 13,264 11,945 11,781 11,798 11,687 Offices (tonnes CO2e) Total Direct (Scope 1) GHG Emissions (tonnes CO2e) 13,921,933 14,069,166 14,162,830 16,488,386 16,301,156 Total Energy Indirect (Scope 2) GHG Emissions (tonnes CO2e) 13,264 11,945 11,781 11,798 11,687 Total Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions (tonnes CO2e) 13,935,197 14,081,112 14,174,610 16,500,183 16,312,843 Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 115 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES WASTE 306-1 306-2 PR-7 PR-8 PR-9 The world is facing a mounting waste issue. Waste generation is expected to IN THE AIR drastically outpace population growth by 2050. Against a backdrop of rapid The sustainable management of aircraft cabin waste comprises two primary waste-streams: cleaning waste and catering waste. urbanisation and consumerism, global annual waste generation is expected to increase to over three billion tonnes over the next 30 years, up from around two billion tonnes today50. SIA recognises that sustainable waste management is Aircraft Cabin Waste crucial and requires urgent action. In August 2019, Singapore launched the inaugural Zero Waste Masterplan, which maps out the country’s key strategies to build a sustainable, resource-efficient and climate-resilient nation. This includes reducing the amount of waste sent to Singapore’s landfill and encouraging the adoption of sustainable production and consumption practices. As part of our commitment to minimise our environmental footprint through a prudent waste hierarchy, we practise the five Rs – Refuse, Reduce, Reuse, Repurpose and Recycle – across our operations. SIA adopts a four-pronged approach as Refuse part of our waste management: Refusing the use of single-use disposables such as • Reducing waste generation through plastics and straws the adoption of digital technologies and introducing waste and materials reduction initiatives across Reduce our operations Reducing the use of materials and waste generated • Reducing waste disposal through recycling, reusing and repurposing of materials Reuse • Implementing operational Minimising disposables and replacing cabin items with more improvements to reduce waste reusable and sustainable alternatives generation and disposal Cleaning Waste Catering Waste • Building partnerships with like-minded Cleaning waste includes amenity kits, earphones, lavatory Catering waste is generated by in-flight meals and beverages industry partners to explore new waste, magazines, newspapers, plastic bottles, textiles, distributed on board the flight. These include food and beverages collaboration opportunities as well as litter left behind by passengers. (both part-consumed and untouched), as well as packaging which Repurpose are returned to the galley carts, static bins and/or compactor boxes. Repurposing and upcycling of materials that have lost their functionality A study by IATA estimated that the aviation industry generated 6.1 million tonnes of cabin waste in 2018 and this figure is expected Recycle to double in the next decade51. An average of 352.7kg of waste is generated per flight, with an average passenger generating 1.4kg Making a conscious effort to recycle waste such as electronics worth of cabin waste per flight52. To put this in perspective, the average person on Earth generates 0.7kg of waste per day53. and plastics purposefully SIA does not collect, store or dispose of cabin waste. These activities are performed by contracted cleaners and caterers and are subjected to the relevant national waste management controls. Nonetheless, SIA remains committed to play our part to reduce and manage cabin waste in a more sustainable manner. SIA is working with our caterers worldwide to explore various initiatives and conduct waste audits to gain a better understanding of the make-up of our waste. This allows us to step up our efforts in segregating and recycling of waste, promoting circular economy concepts where possible. 50 World Bank, “What a Waste 2.0: A Global Snapshot of Solid Waste Management to 2050”. 51 IATA, “Cabin Waste Handbook”. 52 IATA, “Aircraft Cabin Waste Project Report”. 53 World Bank, “What a Waste 2.0: A Global Snapshot of Solid Waste Management to 2050”. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 116 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES WASTE (Continued) Reducing In-flight Food Waste Today, over 23.4 per cent of cabin waste comprises unconsumed food and beverages54. With food waste emerging as a key global issue, SIA explored various methods to reduce food wastage in our in-flight operations. In FY2019/20, we leveraged customer surveys, data analytics and staff feedback to better understand our customers’ preferences and worked with our caterers to explore adjustments in our food offerings to reduce food wastage. We will continue to leverage digital technologies to allow us to adjust the quantities of food items. This will allow us to minimise food wastage without compromising on the in-flight experience. Refusing the Use of In-flight Plastic The world produces about 300 million tonnes of plastic waste every year. Almost half of all plastic produced is designed to be used once. About 60 per cent of plastic produced ends up in landfills or the natural environment55. Coupled with the increased visibility of the impact of plastic on the marine environment, plastic waste has become a growing concern for our stakeholders. In FY2019/20, SIA implemented several initiatives to reduce the use of single-use plastics and replace plastic materials with alternative sustainable materials. Approximately 820,000 3.8 mil plastic straws saved each year pieces of swizzle sticks replaced 250km of plastics saved as a result of replacement of plastics polybags with wooden ones (equivalent to the length of 3,416 A380 aircraft) 54 IATA, “Cabin Waste Handbook”. 55 UN Environment, “Banning single-use plastic: Lessons and experiences from countries”. SIA replaced plastic polybags (left) for children’s toys to recyclable paper packaging (right) Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 117 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES WASTE (Continued) Reducing the Use of Paper In-flight Reducing the Use of Cabin Items Paper is the second largest source of waste, accounting for approximately 17 per cent of global waste Cleaning waste accounts for approximately 20 per cent of in-flight cabin waste by weight57. To reduce this, SIA started offering its in-flight amenity kits on composition56. To reduce the amount of paper used on board SIA’s flights, SIA implemented several request to Premium Economy Class and Economy Class customers in FY2019/20, instead of distributing them to all passengers. Moving forward, SIA plans to initiatives in FY2019/20. expand this initiative to other amenities such as slippers, socks and eyeshades for our Business Class customers. SIA made several modifications to the Economy Class earphones in FY2019/20. The modifications include the removal of the spare earbuds and loose adaptor, as well as modification of the earphone jack to a flexi dual pin design. With these modifications, customers can reuse these earphones during their subsequent flights or for their own personal electronic devices. Digitalisation of e-Library Feature in the Reports and Records SingaporeAir Mobile App 1 Removing spare earbuds Approximately three million pieces of paper Increasing the number of publications on our saved annually as a result of the adoption of the e-Library in the SingaporeAir mobile app and BEST app for in-flight operations. encouraging passengers to download their reading materials before the flight to reduce the amount of 2 Removing the loose adaptor newspapers and magazines uplifted. Moving forward, other initiatives that SIA will be embarking on include the replacement of paper menus with digital alternatives. FSC-certified paper is also used in our serviettes, packaging, toilet paper and toilet rolls. 3 Modifying the earphone jack to a flexi dual pin design 56 World Bank, “What a Waste 2.0: A Global Snapshot of Solid Waste Management to 2050. 57 IATA, “Cabin Waste Handbook”. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 118 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES WASTE (Continued) ON THE GROUND The amount of waste disposed of in Singapore has increased seven-fold over the last 40 years. Assuming this rate continues, Reducing Paper Usage and Single-use Plastics at SilverKris Lounges Singapore’s only landfill, Semakau Landfill, will run out of space by 2035. Singapore has limited land for new incineration plants or To encourage more sustainable consumer practices among our customers, SIA implemented various measures to reduce landfills. Thus, the need to develop a more sustainable waste management approach is increasingly pressing. single-use plastics and paper usage at our SilverKris Lounges. The Singapore Government declared 2019 as the Year of Zero Waste and unveiled Singapore’s inaugural Zero Waste Masterplan, In FY2019/20, we digitalised many processes to reduce paper usage and improve our work processes. Some of the digitalisation which maps out the country’s key strategies to build a sustainable, resource-efficient and climate-resilient nation. As part of the initiatives include: Masterplan, Singapore’s zero waste aspirations include reducing waste sent to Semakau Landfill each day by 30 per cent and increasing our overall recycling rate to 70 per cent by 203058. • Digitalising the process for handling lost baggage and reducing the use of hardcopy forms. This enables our customers to receive updated information on their baggage recovery conveniently SIA strives to align our approach with Singapore’s waste management strategies. In FY2019/20, SIA explored various waste reducing and recycling initiatives to minimise waste from three main waste streams: food waste, electrical and electronic waste • Developing of Kristal, a mobile app, to reduce the use of physical manuals, enabling SilverKris Lounge staff to readily access (e-waste) and plastics. information and response effectively to our customers We will progressively replace plastic straws and single-use plastic bottles with more eco-friendly alternatives. We will also continue Recycling Canteen Waste and Reducing the Use of Styrofoam-based Foodware at Airline House our efforts to review the use of non-recyclable materials in our SilverKris Lounges worldwide. A recent study done by NEA found that the amount of food waste generated has grown by almost 30 per cent59 over the past 10 years and is expected to increase further with a growing population. In 2018, food waste made up approximately 20 per cent of the total amount of waste disposed of in Singapore. However, only 17 per cent of food waste was recycled. Recycling Electronic Waste at our Offices Although e-waste makes up less than one per cent of the total waste generated in Singapore, it usually contains hazardous To reduce our canteen’s food and material waste footprint, SIA introduced the concept of an eco-friendly canteen at Airline substances such as mercury and cadmium that may be potentially harmful to human health and the environment if not properly House in FY2017/18. As part of this concept, SIA installed an eco-digester at the bin centre, which has the ability to convert disposed. However, e-waste also contains valuable resources such as precious metals and working components, which can be approximately 600kg to 800kg worth of canteen food waste and 80kg of non-food waste (including disposable foodware and extracted and reused. general waste) to Refuse Derived Fuels (RDF) everyday. The eco-digester uses heat and an enzymatic process to digest canteen waste into RDF on site. RDF is a renewable fuel source that can be used in thermal power plants to generate electricity and To encourage a culture of recycling e-waste, SIA implemented an initiative called “Let’s Erase e-Waste”. Since its introduction in produces lesser GHG emissions compared to traditional fossil fuels. In addition to the reduction of canteen waste disposed, SIA 2016, our employees collected and recycled more than 7,000kg of e-waste through Cimelia Resource Recovery Pte Ltd. This is an also reduced GHG emissions from the transportation of canteen waste for incineration and the burning of incineration waste. ongoing initiative which has developed an awareness among employees on the proper treatment and disposal of e-waste through various educational programmes and the introduction of e-waste recycling bins at our Singapore offices. Other initiatives implemented as part of this concept include switching our foodware from styrofoam to paper-based ones for 25 stalls, placing 22 new recycling bins to encourage a culture of recycling, organising roadshows and displaying posters on canteen tables to encourage our staff to sort their cans and bottles for recycling before disposing their food waste. Approximately 0.7 tonnes of canteen waste treated Approximately 2,504kg in the eco-digester daily of e-waste collected and recycled in FY2019/20 58 Ministry of Environment & Water Resources, “Singapore’s Zero Waste Masterplan”. 59 National Environment Agency, “Food Waste Management”. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 119 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES WASTE (Continued) Performance of SIA’s Buildings60 As a testament to SIA’s prudent waste management initiatives, total waste generated by our buildings61 decreased by 43.8 per cent from 2,587 tonnes in FY2018/19 to 1,455 tonnes in FY2019/20. We also began monitoring the total amount of waste recycled at our buildings. In FY2019/20, we recycled a total of 76.9 tonnes of waste, which includes paper, plastics, ferrous metals and glass materials. Total Waste Generated at Buildings Total Waste Recycled at Buildings in FY2019/20, by Location and Waste Type (tonnes) (tonnes) 2,755 3,341 2,979 2,587 1,455 Paper Plastic Ferrous Glass Total 3,500 Metal 59 235 3,000 49 Airline House and 228 62.08 5.03 3.25 0.03 70.40 Hangars 1, 2, 3 61 240 242 216 54 2,500 251 225 SIA Supplies Centre 0.48 0.00 0.03 0.03 0.54 215 2,000 SIA Training Centre 5.28 0.03 0.05 0.00 5.36 1,500 50 196 116 1,000 TechSQ 0.56 0.02 0.03 0.00 0.61 500 Total Waste Recycled 68.40 5.08 3.37 0.06 76.91 2 ,227 2,819 2,474 2,067 1,093 (tonnes) 0 FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 FY2018/19 FY2019/20 Airline House and Hangars 1, 2, 3 SIA Supplies Centre SIA Training Centre TechSQ SIA is on track to achieve our FY2020/21 target of a 30 per cent reduction of waste generation, from the base year FY2010/11 level of 5,787 tonnes. This target takes into account the waste data of 11 assets62, which SIA and SIAEC have operational control over. In FY2019/20, the total waste generated by these 11 assets was 2,058 tonnes, a 64.4 per cent improvement from FY2010/11. 60 Please refer to the Appendix on page 133 for definitions and methodologies. 61 Locations covered include SIA’s four buildings (Airline House, SIA Supplies Centre, SIA Training Centre, and TechSQ) and Hangars 1, 2 and 3, which are under SIAEC’s operational control. Data for Hangars 1, 2 and 3 are included as data could not be segregated. 62 Locations covered include SIA’s four buildings (Airline House, SIA Supplies Centre, SIA Training Centre, and TechSQ), SIAEC’s Engine Testing Facility and six hangars. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 120 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES WASTE (continued) Performance Summary of Waste Generated, Diverted and Disposed of63 306-3 306-4 306-5 Buildings FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 FY2018/19 FY2019/20 Total Waste Generated (tonnes) Non-hazardous Waste Airline House and Hangars 1, 2, 3 2,227 2,819 2,474 2,067 1,093 SIA Supplies Centre 225 228 216 215 116 SIA Training Centre 242 235 240 251 196 TechSQ 61 59 49 54 50 Total Waste Generated (tonnes) 2,755 3,341 2,979 2,587 1,455 Total Waste Diverted from Disposal (tonnes) Non-hazardous Waste Recycling64 Airline House and Hangars 1, 2, 3 70.4 SIA Supplies Centre 0.5 SIA Training Centre 5.4 TechSQ 0.6 Total Waste Diverted from Disposal (tonnes) 76.9 63 Please refer to the Appendix on page 133 for definitions and methodologies. 64 Data on recycled waste for buildings is available from FY2019/20. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 121 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES WASTE (Continued) Performance Summary of Waste Generated, Diverted and Disposed of 306-3 306-4 306-5 Buildings FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 FY2018/19 FY2019/20 Total Waste Directed to Disposal (tonnes) Non-hazardous Waste Waste-to-Energy (WTE) Incineration Airline House and Hangars 1, 2, 3 1,023 SIA Supplies Centre 115 SIA Training Centre 191 TechSQ 49 Total Waste Directed to Disposal (tonnes) 1,378 Flight Operations65 Total Waste Diverted from Disposal (tonnes) Non-hazardous Waste Recycling66 Magazines 270 268 267 Newspapers 326 239 121 Total Waste Diverted from Disposal (tonnes) 596 507 388 65 Data on total waste generation for flight operations is presently unavailable. 66 Data on recycled waste for flight operations was available from FY2017/18. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 122 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES Noise PR-7 PR-8 PR-9 other pollutants PR-7 PR-8 PR-9 The roar of an aircraft engine is a familiar sound amidst the hustle and In addition to GHG emissions, the combustion of jet fuel also results in other bustle of a metropolis. To some, it brings fond memories of the start of an air emissions such as nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulphur oxides (SOx), carbon adventure. To others, it is an exciting holler to the remarkable feat of mankind’s monoxide (CO), unburned hydrocarbons (HC), smoke, particulate matter (PM) engineering. However, excessive noise can also be detrimental to the physical and other trace compounds that affect the local air quality. Over the years, and mental health of people and wildlife, both on land and in the skies. This is improved engine designs have gradually reduced emissions of NOx and CO why managing noise pollution is important to SIA as it enables peaceful skies, and have almost eliminated emissions of HC and smoke68. quieter flights and a more tranquil experience for our customers. ICAO sets the international standards for NOx, CO2, hydrocarbons and exhaust levels from aircraft engine emissions under ICAO Annex 16, Volume III. This standard is applicable to new aircraft designs as of 2020, as well as new deliveries of current Aircraft engines are a major source of noise pollution, especially during the landing and take-off cycle where it can exceed 140 in-production aircraft types from 2023. SIA supports the new CO2 standard set by ICAO, to meet the aviation industry’s long-term decibels (dB). It is also one of the main causes of adverse community reactions during airport operations67. While inherent to the commitment to reduce GHG emissions. nature of the industry, SIA is continually exploring ways to reduce our noise pollution and the impact on local communities situated near the airports. SIA seeks to minimise our NOx footprint through compliance with ICAO’s emissions standards for NOx. The NOx standard, endorsed in 2004, is applicable to new engines manufactured from 2008 and requires certification to CAEP/6 standards. ICAO’s international standards for aircraft noise was adopted in 1971. Since then, standards have been progressively made more A subsequent NOx standard, endorsed in 2010, is applicable to new engines manufactured from 2014 and requires certification stringent. In 2006, ICAO introduced stricter noise standard, the ICAO Annex 16, Volume 1, Chapter 4 Standards as part of its to CAEP/8 standards. As of FY2019/20, the SIA Group’s fleet meets the 2004 ICAO CAEP/6 Emissions Standards for NOx. SIA’s Balanced Approach to Aircraft Noise Management, to reduce noise at source. The continual improvements in noise certification Airbus A350s and Boeing 787s meet the CAEP/8 standards. standards ensure that aircraft manufacturers will continue to incorporate the latest noise reduction technology into aircraft designs and airlines will prioritise procuring aircraft which meets the industry standard. SIA seeks to minimise our noise pollution through compliance with ICAO noise standards, investments in newer and quieter aircraft, continuous improvements to existing fleets and adopting appropriate noise abatement procedures in the airport vicinity. As of FY2019/20, 100 per cent of SIA’s aircraft fleet meets the latest ICAO Chapter 4 noise standard. SIA has also ordered 20 67 ICAO, “Aircraft Noise”. Boeing 777-9s, which will have up to 15 dB noise levels below Stage 4 Aircraft Noise Standards margin. 68 IATA, “Local Air Quality”. 100% of our aircraft fleet meets ICAO 100% of our aircraft fleet meets the 2004 ICAO CAEP/6 or the stricter CAEP/8 emissions Chapter 4 noise standards standards for NOx Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 123 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES water PR-7 PR-8 PR-9 We recognise that the world is facing a water crisis, exacerbated by rapid population growth and the effects of climate change. Today, over two billion people live in countries experiencing high water stress69. In addition, over two billion people lack safely managed drinking water70. Within Singapore, access to a reliable water source has been an ongoing challenge since our founding days. Cognizant of this problem, water is not just a resource we take for granted at SIA. It is a basic human right we seek to safeguard for our future generations. SIA’s Approach to Water Conservation 303-1 303-2 The majority of water usage in SIA’s buildings relates to the use of water for air-conditioning and sanitary appliances. As such, most of our water management initiatives relates to the reduction of water usage through water-saving devices and the harvesting of rainwater. Water used at SIA’s buildings are mainly provided by the Public Utilities Board (PUB) of Singapore. No industrial effluents are generated from our commercial activities and all waste water from sanitary and washing are discharged to government-operated water reclamation plants for treatment. Surface water is channelled to open drains and processed at the Government Water Treatment Plant. In line with MEWR’s Clean Water Policy, SIA strives towards continual improvement of water management and more efficient usage of water across our buildings. In FY2019/20, SIA implemented several water conservation and improvement initiatives which include: • Harvesting rainwater for flushing purposes and watering of external landscape. Rainwater harvested is equivalent to 46 per cent of total non-potable water demand for Airline House. SIA is also exploring the implementation of this initiative for the SIA Training Centre • Exploring the harvesting of ground water to potentially replace approximately 42 per cent of Airline House’s non-potable water demand • Exploring the recycling of condensate water from air-conditioning units for cooling towers to reduce water withdrawal Approximately • Installing water saving taps and foam soap dispensers in our washrooms • Displaying educational posters provided by PUB in shower rooms and public hand wash areas in the canteen to encourage water conservation • Conducting regular water audits and submission of water efficiency management plan to the PUB annually • Partnering a leading waste management contractor for wastewater treatment for the aircraft maintenance 1,350m 3 rain water conserved per month as a result activities in our hangars of rain water harvesting efforts SIA will progressively replace the current sanitary wares to sensor types in our upcoming toilet renovations to minimise water wastage. The project is expected to begin in 2021. 69 United Nations, “Water Scarcity”. 70 World Health Organisation, “Water Supply, Sanitation and Hygiene Monitoring”. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 124 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES water (continued) Performance of SIA’s Buildings and Offices71 Performance Summary of Water72 303-3 Water Water Intensity Withdrawal (m3) (m3/m2) Buildings and Offices FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 FY2018/19 FY2019/20 200,000 0.70 0.68 Water Withdrawal, 0.66 by Source 0.64 0.60 0.60 0.55 Tap Water (m3) 116,497 114,822 102,664 123,171 131,614 20,859 21,734 150,000 19,779 15,111 0.50 18,568 27,112 17,888 Rain Water (m3) 27,112 19,844 15,026 17,888 18,568 21,027 19,844 0.40 15,026 100,000 NEWater (m3) 21,734 15,111 21,027 19,779 20,859 0.30 0.20 Total Water Withdrawal (m3) 165,343 149,777 138,717 160,838 171,042 50,000 0.10 Water Intensity 116,497 114,822 102,664 123,171 131,614 0 0 FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 FY2018/19 FY2019/20 Water Intensity (m3/m2) 0.66 0.60 0.55 0.64 0.68 Tap Water Rain Water NEWater Water Intensity Water withdrawn from our buildings and offices increased by 6.3 per cent from 160,838 m3 in FY2018/19 to 171,042 m3 in FY2019/20. Water intensity figures also saw an increase by 6.3 per cent from 0.64m3/m2 in FY2018/19 to 0.68m3/m2 in FY2019/20. The increase in water consumption and water intensity was due to an increase in maintenance activities by SIAEC at Hangar 1. 71 Please refer to the Appendix on pages 133 for definitions and methodologies. 72 Locations covered include SIA’s four buildings (Airline House, SIA Training Centre, SIA Supplies Centre and TechSQ) and Hangars 1, 2 and 3, which are under SIAEC’s operational control. Data for Hangar 1, 2 and 3 are included as data could not be segregated. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 125 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES Biodiversity 304-3 PR-8 Forest Restoration Agroforestry Programme Forests cover approximately four billion In 2019, the severe dry season in Indonesia resulted in longstanding As both biodiversity and community livelihoods protection are integral to ecosystem restoration activities, hectares or 31 per cent of the world’s land forest fires, which escalated to a state of emergency in six provinces, agroforestry has been implemented within Hutan Harapan to meet a variety of needs. This 10-year area. They play a huge role in regulating the including South Sumatra and Jambi, where Hutan Harapan is situated. agroforestry plan has been the mainstay of Hutan Harapan’s work with the Batin Sembilan indigenous atmospheric water-cycle and in combating The raging forest fires lasted from July to October 2019, affecting a total people and other groups surrounding Hutan Harapan. Such land use farming practice involves the deliberate of 12,700 hectares of land in Hutan Harapan. integration of trees, agricultural crops and/or animals on the same land management unit. climate change. Forests are home to more than 80 per cent of the Earth’s terrestrial In the restoration phase, the Hutan Harapan team swiftly embarked on several initiatives to support the restoration of forests and habitats. Rubber tree-based agroforestry was implemented in Hutan Harapan, where rubber exists as the main crop planted alongside fast growing intercrops. Another tree crop planted is agarwood, which has high cultural value biodiversity. Around 1.6 billion people depend Various technologies such as geographical information systems, and is one of the most expensive woods in the world. Agarwood is also known for its medicinal properties and on them for their livelihood. Yet, deforestation drones and cyber-trackers were deployed to assess the damage. The commercial applications such as the conversion of its resin into essential oils. continues to occur at an alarming rate of data derived from these platforms helped to determine the type of rehabilitation and restoration techniques required. Agroforestry has been a leading agricultural practice due to its positive environmental, economic and social approximately 10 million hectares per year impacts. Through the integration of agricultural and forestry systems, Hutan Harapan seeks to achieve the Replantation efforts have already begun in the south-eastern part of following objectives: between 2015 and 202073. Today, the United Hutan Harapan, particularly the 260 hectares of forests in Sungei Jerat, • Protect the environment by maintaining biodiversity and environmental services such as carbon sequestration Nations estimates that over a million animal which was one of the most severely fire-damaged areas. A variety of and plant species are threatened with multipurpose trees were planted, including agarwood, durian, jelutung, • Improve soil quality and land productivity jengkol, and rubber. Natural wood trees such as bulian and meranti will extinction74, largely driven by anthropogenic be planted in the future. With a forward-looking strategy, a nursery has • Protect livelihood security of the local communities environmental degradation and destruction. been established to supply the seedlings needed for replantation. • Increase production of raw materials for commercial purposes To help the Batin Sembilan indigenous peoples resume their nomadic and semi-nomadic lifestyles as soon as possible, a team from Batin Sembilan has joined hands with the Hutan Harapan staff to secure the burnt areas The Harapan Rainforest Initiative and bolster the forest restoration strategy. SIA recognises that preserving our connection with nature is key to sustainable development. We must collaborate with our stakeholders to 2,787 protect, restore, and revitalise nature. Since 2010, we have been involved in forest conservation by being the exclusive airline partner for the large-scale green initiative in Hutan Harapan, aimed at protecting one of the world’s most threatened and biodiverse ecosystems. trees replanted under the Harapan The Harapan Rainforest Initiative, also known as Hutan Harapan, Rainforest Initiative, with 260 is an ecosystem restoration concession covering more than 98,555 hectares of forest restored hectares of lowland tropical rainforest in Sumatra, Indonesia. The area is rich in biodiversity and remains an important habitat for over 1,350 documented animal species, including the critically endangered Sumatran 3,718 tiger and Sumatran elephant, as categorised by the IUCN Red List. This initiative is driven by a consortium of three organisations, namely Burung Indonesia, the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (RSPB) and BirdLife International (BLI). With strong support from the Government of Indonesia, the Harapan Rainforest Initiative was able to trees planted as part of the continually expand its biodiversity efforts and support the indigenous agroforestry plan in communities, among other initiatives. Some of the key developments and Image courtesy of BirdLife International FY2019/20 Image courtesy of BirdLife International outcomes from Hutan Harapan in FY2019/20 are highlighted in this section. 73 FAO and UNEP, “The State of the World’s Forests 2020: Forests, biodiversity and people”. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 74 PBES, “Summary for policymakers of the global assessment report on biodiversity and ecosystem services of the Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services”. 126 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES Biodiversity (continued) Sustainable Rubber Biodiversity Education In FY2019/20, several initiatives were carried out at Hutan Harpan to Public awareness and education are important elements of ecosystem restoration in Hutan Harapan. In September 2019, the Hutan Harapan team supported a community outreach facilitate sustainable harvesting of rubber to achieve zero net deforestation programme for a group of junior and senior high school students from AI Azhar Jambi. As part of this outreach programme, the students interacted with the local Batin Sembilan children while benefiting local businesses. This includes the direct sourcing of and learnt more about the Harapan Hutan ecosystem restoration activities. This initiative not only increased the student’s understanding of the livelihoods and circumstances of the Batin sustainably produced natural rubber by Halcyon Agri’s local processor Sembilan children, but also resulted in them appreciating the environment and having a better understanding of the consequences of encroachment and forest fires. in Jambi from the communities living in and around Hutan Harapan. Communities are provided guidance on how rubber is priced daily and trained on improving the quality, or dry rubber content, of tapped rubber. This not only improved productivity of the local rubber plantations, but also boosted the morale of the local farmers significantly. As a result, local farmers increased their monthly delivery of rubber from two tonnes to four tonnes in FY2019/20. Moving forward, the Hutan Harapan team seeks to conduct more capacity-building progammes relating to sustainable rubber cultivation and help the locals improve the quality and yield of rubber produced. 25 local farmers trained on sustainable rubber cultivation and tapping in FY2019/20 Sustainable Honey The sialang tree is a majestic and iconic tree that grows in lowland tropical rainforests in South East Asia. Growing as tall as 80 metres, it is one of the tallest tree species in the forest. These trees are home to the Asian giant honey bees, with a single tree housing as many as 50 bee hives. Local communities depend on the collection of sialang honey as a source of income. Traditional harvesting methods have not always been sustainable because fire was often used to drive bees out of their hives for harvest. This resulted in long periods of hive regeneration that led to honey scarcity. In a bid to achieve sustainable procurement, 15 local honey handlers received 75 sustainable hive harvest training from the Honey Farmer’s group located in Riau, with the support of Hutan Harapan. In FY2019/20, the Hutan Harapan team facilitated an increase in the quality of honey by introducing processing standards in the local supply chain. Looking forward, the local team continuously strives to improve students participated in the honey supply chain so that it betters communities and protects the the outreach programme in environment. FY2019/20 Image courtesy of BirdLife International Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 127 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES Biodiversity (continued) Buckingham Palace Declaration Wildlife crime is a billion-dollar business CASE STUDY and is ranked the fourth most lucrative illegal trade after drugs, counterfeit DOING OUR PART TO PREVENT ILLEGAL and human trafficking. Over the years, WILDLIFE TRAFFICKING increasing transport connectivity across the world has led to the rapid expansion of wildlife trade globally, threatening On 28 May 2019, SIA collaborated with CAG to organise a half-day workshop to the survival of many wildlife species. educate our employees on llegal Wildlife Trafficking (IWT). This workshop was Recognising this, the United for Wildlife attended by over 40 attendees from SIA, CAG, other airlines and stakeholders. Transport Taskforce was established in The session focused on four key modules, known as the Four ROUTES (Reducing 2014 to facilitate the transport sector Opportunities for Unlawful Transport of Endangered Species), and was led by Ms examining its role in the illegal wildlife Renee Yee from TRAFFIC75, Southeast Asia. The four modules covered wildlife trade and to break the illegal wildlife trafficking, wildlife trafficking in airlines, ways in which wildlife can be smuggled trade chains. On 15 March 2016, the through airports and responsive measures in the occasion of a suspected incidence of United for Wildlife Transport Taskforce wildlife smuggling. member organisations signed up to As a result of this workshop, attendees learnt more about illegal wildlife trafficking recommendations developed over 12 and the risks it can pose to the aviation industry, as shown in the post-workshop months, with the first ever signing of a evaluation responses. declaration at Buckingham Palace. The Buckingham Palace Declaration is Participants’ Knowledge on IWT Preand Post-workshop a landmark agreement committed to Percentage of take real steps to shut down the routes Participants exploited by traffickers of the illegal (%) wildlife trade moving their products. 100 97 95 100 90 The declaration takes steps to remove the vulnerabilities in transportation and 80 +38 customs to tackle the criminals currently exploiting them. The Declaration contains +53 11 commitments to raise standards 60 +78 across the transportation industry with 59 +88 a focus on information sharing, staff 40 training, technological improvements, 37 and resource sharing with companies and organisations around the world. 20 22 Today, with more than 100 signatories, of 7 which more than 50 are airlines including 0 Participants are Participants are Participants are Participants are Singapore Airlines and SilkAir, we have aware that wildlife aware of how aware of how to aware of who to pledged to do our part to combat illegal trafficking poses a traffickers try to identify wildlife contact when try spot wildlife trade through the signing of the risk to the aviation move wildlife through traffickers wildlife trafficking industry an airport activities Buckingham Palace Declaration. A suitcase depicting how illegal wildlife products are trafficked Pre-workshop Post-workshop Percentage change 75 TRAFFIC is a non-governmental organisation working globally on trade in wild animals and plants in the context of both biodiversity conservation and sustainable development. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 128 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES List Of Key Abbreviations And Acronyms AAMP Airline Alcohol Management Programme COP Communication on Progress IOSA IATA Operational Safety Audit RDF Refuse Derived Fuels AAPA Association of Asia Pacific Airlines COQM Corporate Operational Quality (Safety) Manual IPCC Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change RM Risk Management AATP Airport Alcohol Testing Programme COQMR Corporate Operational Quality Management Review ISO International Organisation for Standardisation RSPB Royal Society for the Protection of Birds AC Audit Committee CORSIA Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for kg kilogrammes SAF Sustainable Aviation Fuel ACSP Air Carrier Security Program International Aviation kWh Kilowatt-hour SAFUG Sustainable Aviation Fuel Users Group AESU Air Transport Executive Staff Union CPR Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation L Litre SAG Safety Action Groups AG American Gallon CQM Cargo Quality Manual LOSA Line Operations Safety Audit SC SIA Supplies Centre AGM Annual General Meeting CSI Cabin Safety Instructions LTK Load tonne-kilometre SCDF Singapore Civil Defence Force ALH Airline House CSM Cargo Safety Manual m2 Square metre SDG Sustainable Development Goals ALPA-S Air Line Pilots Association Singapore CSO Cabin Operation Safety m3 Cubic metre SEMS Security Management System ANR Air Navigation Regulations CSR Corporate Social Responsibility MBM Market-Based Measure SEPM Safety and Emergency Procedures Manual AOC Air Operator Certificate CTC Company Training Committee MC Management Committee SESM Security Management System Manual APP Arson Prevention Plan eCCVR Electronic Cabin Crew Voyage Report MEWR Ministry of the Environment and Water SFA Singapore Food Agency ASC Air Safety Committee EDB Economic Development Board (Singapore) Resources (Singapore) SGX Singapore Exchange ASK Available seat-kilometres ERP Emergency Response Plan MINDS Movement for the Intellectually Disabled of SGXNet Singapore Exchange Net ATM Air Traffic Management ESG Environmental, Social, Governance Singapore SIAEC Singapore Airlines Engineering Company BCIRC Board Compensation and Industrial Relations ETF Engine Testing Facility MOM Ministry of Manpower (Singapore) SIAMCM SIA Maintenance Control Manual Committee EXCO Board Executive Committee MRV Monitoring, Reporting and Verification SIAOCC SIA Operations Control Centre BEST Beyond Excellence Service through Technology FDAP Flight Data Analysis Programme MSF Ministry of Social and Family Development SIASU Singapore Airlines Staff Union BLI BirdLife International FEP Fire Emergency Plan (Singapore) SID Singapore Institute of Directors BSRC Board Safety and Risk Committee FOQM Flight Operations Quality Manual MSG Monosodium Glutamate SMS Safety Management System CA Customer Affairs FRM Fatigue Risk Management MWh Megawatt-hour SO Sustainability Office CAAS Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore FSM Fire Safety Manager NC Board Nominating Committee SOx Sulphur oxides CAG Changi Airport Group FSPM Flight Security Procedures Manual NEA National Environment Agency (Singapore) SSC Sustainability Steering Committee CAM Crew Administration Manual GHG Greenhouse gas NETF NTUC Education and Training Fund SSO Social Service Office CCM Cabin Crew Division Manual GRCMC SIA Group Risk and Compliance Management NOx Nitrogen oxides SSQ Safety, Security and Quality CCSM Cabin Crew Safety Manual Committee OCS Organisational Climate Survey SSQ GSM Ground Safety Manual CCSMSM Cabin Crew Safety Management System Manual GRI Global Reporting Initiative OEM Original Equipment Manufacturer SSQ QM Quality Manual CERT Company Emergency Response Team GRIP Ground Ramp Incident Prevention OHSMS Occupational Health and Safety Management SSW Safety and Security Week GSM Ground Services Manual System CETSC Customer Experience, Technology and SSWC Sustainability Strategic Working Committee Sustainability Committee GSQM Ground Services Quality Manual OSHE Occupational Safety, Health and Environment Committee STC SIA Training Centre CFSM Corporate Flight Safety Management and« ha Hectare TJ Terajoules Procedures Manual PM Particulate matter HACCP Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points TLC The LOSA Collaborative CMG Crisis Management Group PPE Personal Protective Equipment HC Hydrocarbons TSQ TechSQ CMM Crisis Management Manual PSM Premises Security Manual HEFA Hydro-processed Esters and Fatty Acids UN United Nations CO2 Carbon dioxide PUB Public Utilities Board IATA International Air Transport Association UNEP United Nations Environment Programme CO2e Carbon dioxide equivalent QAR Quick Access Recorders ICAO International Civil Aviation Organisation VRS Voyage Report System CO Carbon monoxide QMS Quality Management System IFE In-flight Entertainment WHO World Health Organisation RCMC Risk and Compliance Management Committee ILO International Labour Organisation Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 129 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES DEFINITIONS AND METHODOLOGIES General Operating Statistics Revenue passenger-km: Number of passengers carried multiplied by distance flown (in km) Mode of Throughout this Sustainability Report, “Singapore Airlines”, “SIA”, “we”, “us” and “our” are Passenger generally used to make reference to Singapore Airlines Limited (the Company) and its Narration employees, unless otherwise stated. The term “Parent Airline Company” refers to “Singapore Operations Available seat-km: Number of available seats multiplied by distance flown (in km) Airlines”, unless the context otherwise requires. “SIA Group” is used to make reference to Passenger load factor: Revenue passenger-km expressed as a percentage of available seat-km Singapore Airlines Limited and its subsidiaries and employees, unless otherwise stated. The companies in which Singapore Airlines Limited directly and indirectly owns investments Passenger yield: are separate legal entities. More information on the SIA Group, including its corporate Passenger revenue from scheduled services divided by revenue passenger-km structure and subsidiary information, can be found in the FY2019/20 SIA Annual Report. Revenue per available seat-km: Passenger revenue from scheduled services divided by available seat-km Passenger unit cost: Passenger operating expenditure divided by available seat-km Reporting All sustainability data and information presented in our report primarily relates to three of Cargo load: Cargo and mail load carried (in tonnes) multiplied by distance flown (in km) our reportable businesses – Singapore Airlines, SilkAir and Scoot – unless otherwise stated. Scope The sustainability data and information relating to SIA Engineering Company (SIAEC) is Cargo Gross capacity: Cargo capacity production (in tonnes) multiplied by distance flown (in km) disclosed separately in SIAEC’s Sustainability Report published annually by our subsidiary. Operations Cargo load factor: Cargo and mail load (in tonne-km) expressed as a percentage of gross capacity (in tonne-km) More information on our reportable businesses can be found in the FY2019/20 SIA Annual Report. Cargo yield: Cargo and mail revenue from scheduled services divided by cargo load (in tonne-km) More information on the boundary for key social and environmental data can be found on pages 131 and 132 to 133 respectively. Cargo unit cost: Cargo operating expenditure divided by gross capacity (in tonne-km) Overall load: Passenger, cargo and mail load carried (in tonnes) multiplied by distance flown (in km) Overall Operations Overall capacity: Passenger and cargo capacity production (in tonnes) multiplied by distance flown (in km) Future-looking Aside from statements of historical fact, this Sustainability Report contains statements that are future-looking in nature relating to SIA’s sustainability management approach. These are Statements identified by terms and phrases such as “aim”, “ambition”, “anticipate”, “believe”, “continue”, Overall load factor: Overall load (in tonne-km) expressed as a percentage of overall capacity (in tonne-km) “expect”, “goal”, “maintain”, “objective”, “plan”, “seek” and “target” and could also be expressed by way of future or conditional verbs such as “could”, “should”, “would”. These statements Overall yield: Passenger, cargo and mail flown revenue from scheduled services divided by overall load (in tonne-km) are based on assumptions and expectations at the time of publication, and are subject to Overall unit cost: Operating expenditure divided by overall capacity risks and uncertainties determined by factors beyond the control of SIA. As we operate in a continually changing environment, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 130 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES DEFINITIONS AND METHODOLOGIES (continued) Employees Safety Employee ● Employee: An individual who is in an employment relationship with the organisation. All employee data relates Aircraft ● Incident: An occurrence, other than an accident, associated with the operation of an aircraft, which affects or could affect the safety of operation. to the financial year’s headcount as at 31 March. Incident ● Serious incident: An incident involving circumstances indicating that there was a high probability of an accident and ● Worker who is a non-employee: An individual whose work, or workplace, is controlled by the organisation. This associated with the operation of an aircraft which, in the case of a manned aircraft, takes place between the time any Sustainability Report has scoped to include key contractors only (cleaners, maintenance, landscaping, warehouse person boards the aircraft with the intention of flight until such time as all such persons have disembarked. operations), unless otherwise stated. These definitions are based on ICAO Annex 13, Aircraft Accident and Incident Investigation. Employee Breakdown of employees by function and level, in line with our human resources system. Throughout this Sustainability Report, this includes a breakdown by function (i.e. Ground Staff, Cabin Crew and Pilots) and level for Ground Staff (i.e. Hazard Any source or any situation with the potential to cause bodily injury or ill health in the workplace. Category Associates, Executives, Managers and above). This definition is based on the International Labour Organisation (ILO) Guidelines on Occupational Safety and Health Management Systems. New Hires ● New hires: Employees who joined the organisation during the financial year. Man Hours Total scheduled number of hours worked by employees during the year in review, as at 31 March. and Turnover ● New hire rate: Number of new hires over number of employees, expressed as a percentage. This can be computed by Worked the respective demographic cuts (e.g. new hire rate for employees <30 yo is computed by number of new hires (<30 yo) over number of employees (<30 yo), expressed as a percentage). ● Turnover: Employees who left the organisation during the financial year. ● Turnover rate: Number of turnover over number of employees, expressed as a percentage. This can be computed by the Work-related Death arising from an injury or ill health sustained while performing work that is controlled by the organisation or that is being performed in a workplace controlled by the organisation. Data reported relates to employees and workers who are respective demographic cuts (e.g. turnover rate for males is computed by number of turnover (males) over number of Fatality non-employees (scoped to key contractors only). employees (males), expressed as a percentage). Work-related Negative impact on health arising from exposure to hazards at work. Data reported relates to employees and workers who Parental Leave granted to male and female employees on the grounds of the birth of a child. are non-employees (scoped to key contractors only). ● Return to work rate: Number of employees who returned to work after parental leave ended, over number of employees Injury and Ill Leave ● Recordable work-related injury: A work-related injury that results in any of the following: death, hospitalisation for at who took parental leave, expressed as a percentage. Health least 24 hours, more than three days of medical leave from work (whether consecutive or not). Likewise for cabin crew, we ● Retention rate: Number of employees who returned to work after parental leave ended and who were still employed 12 record a work-related injury should our cabin crew be issued medical leave for four days or more (whether consecutive or not) months after their return to work, over number of employees who took parental leave, expressed as a percentage. for the related or same injury. ● Recordable high consequence work-related injury: A work-related injury that results in a fatality or in an injury from which the individual cannot, does not, or is not expected to recover fully to pre-injury health status within six months. This definition is based on GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018. Training Day A day used for staff learning and development. ● Recordable work-related ill health: A work-related ill health (including diseases, illnesses and disorders) that is ● Average training days: Number of training days attended by employees, divided by number of employees. This can contracted. be computed by the respective demographic cuts (e.g. average number of training days for cabin crew is computed by The coverage is based on the occupational diseases under Singapore’s Workplace Safety and Health Act or Work Injury Compensation Act. number of training days attended by cabin crew over the number of cabin crew, expressed as a percentage). The respective rates are calculated per million man hours worked. Work-related Incident types reported include the following main categories: caught in between objects; cut or stabbed by objects; exposure to electric current; exposure to extreme temperatures; over-exertion or strenuous movements; slips, trips and Injury Types falls; strike against objects; struck by falling objects; struck by moving objects. This is based on Singapore’s Ministry of Manpower major and minor injury incident types. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 131 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES DEFINITIONS AND METHODOLOGIES (continued) Environment Energy Total energy consumption, within the stated organisational boundary below. Greenhouse ● Electricity indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions: Indirect GHG emissions from the generation of purchased electricity consumed by SIA’s buildings (total gross floor area) and offices (total leased area) aforementioned, expressed in kilograms Consumption ● Fuel consumption: Total fuel consumed within the organisation, expressed in American gallons (AG), joules or multiples. Gas (GHG) of carbon dioxide (kgCO2) or multiples. It excludes purchased electricity at Scoot’s offices due to the unavailability of data. Unless otherwise stated, this relates to jet fuel consumption of SIA’s passenger and freighter aircraft fleet; diesel or petrol Within the consumption of ground support vehicles and equipment*. Emissions These emissions physically occur at the facilities where electricity is generated. Organisation ● Electricity consumption: Total electricity consumed within the organisation, expressed in watt-hours, joules or multiples. (continued) A location-based method was adopted to reflect the average emissions intensity of the national grid on which energy Unless otherwise stated, this relates to the purchased electricity consumption of SIA’s four buildings – Airline House consumption occurs. For consistency, the grid emissions factor (GEF) used for the reporting year was sourced from the latest (ALH), SIA Supplies Centre (SC), SIA Training Centre (STC), TechSQ (TSQ), and offices*. published factor at time of publication from the Singapore Energy Statistics (SES), the Energy Market Authority’s (EMA) *For this FY2019/20 SIA Sustainability Report, we refined our reporting boundary to focus on three of our reportable businesses – annual publication on energy statistics in Singapore. Singapore Airlines, SilkAir and Scoot – unless otherwise stated. The sustainability data and information relating to SIAEC is disclosed separately in SIAEC’s Sustainability Report published annually by our subsidiary. Data and information have been restated accordingly for past reporting cycles (FY2015/16, FY2016/17, FY2017/18 and FY2018/19). Emission SIA’s Reporting Emissions Unit References Source Year Factor Greenhouse Gas that contributes to the greenhouse effect by absorbing infrared radiation. Electricity Generation FY2015/16 0.4277 kgCO2/kWh EMA, Singapore GEF 2014 (Singapore grid) Gas (GHG) The GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard was adopted. SIA accounts for GHG emissions using the FY2016/17 0.4224 kgCO2 /kWh EMA, Singapore GEF 2015 operational control criteria and reports its direct (Scope 1) and electricity indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions. Emissions ● Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions: Direct GHG emissions occur from sources that are owned or controlled by SIA, expressed in FY2017/18 0.4237 kgCO2 /kWh EMA, Singapore GEF 2016 kilograms of carbon dioxide (kgCO2), kilograms of carbon dioxide equivalents (kgCO2e), or multiples. These include emissions from fuel consumption in owned or controlled vehicles aforementioned. Emissions factors used are as follows: FY2018/19 0.4192 kgCO2 /kWh EMA, Singapore GEF 2017 FY2019/20 0.4188 kgCO2 /kWh EMA, Singapore GEF 2018 Emissions Emissions Unit References Source Factor EMA’s methodologies for the compilation of the GEF are based on the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) Methodological Tool. The GEF measures the average CO2 Jet Fuel 3.15 tonnes CO2/tonne of ● 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas emissions emitted per unit net electricity generated. It is calculated using the Average Operating Margin (OM) method, the (mobile) jet fuel Inventories generation-weighted average CO2 emissions per unit of net electricity generation of all generating power plants serving the electricity grid (Source: EMA). Motor 70.92 tonnes CO2e / TJ ● 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories ● Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions: Other indirect GHG emissions that are a consequence of SIA’s activities, but Gasoline ● 2014 IPCC Fifth Assessment Report (AR5) occur from sources that are not owned or controlled by SIA. This is presently not reported. SIA will be identifying and (mobile) may be reporting on its indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions in future reporting periods. Diesel Oil 75.24 tonnes CO2e / TJ ● 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories (mobile) ● 2014 IPCC Fifth Assessment Report (AR5) Intensity Intensity ratios define resource consumption or emissions in the context of a specific metric. The 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories provide methodologies for estimating national Ratios ● Flight operations: Fuel productivity is expressed in load tonne-kilometre per American gallon (LTK/AG). Direct (Scope 1) inventories of anthropogenic GHG emissions by sources. GHG emissions intensity is expressed in kilograms of carbon dioxide per load tonne-kilometre (kgCO2/LTK) or multiples. For jet fuel, CO2 was included in the GHG calculation. Direct GHG emissions were calculated using the net calorific value and ● Buildings and offices: Electricity intensity is expressed in kilowatt-hours per square metre (kWh/m2) or multiples. default emissions factor from the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories. The emissions factor of Electricity indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions intensity is expressed in kilograms of carbon dioxide per square metre 3.15 tonnes CO2/tonne of jet fuel is also the internationally recognised constant representing the amount of CO2 produced (kgCO2/m2) or multiples. Water intensity is expressed in cubic metres per square metres (m3/ m2). from combustion of a tonne of aviation fuel. For motor gasoline and diesel oil, CO2, methane (CH4) and nitrous oxide (N2O) were included in the GHG calculation. Direct GHG emissions were calculated using default emissions factors from the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories and the respective global warming potential (GWP) on a 100-year time horizon from the 2014 IPCC Fifth Assessment Report. Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 132 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES DEFINITIONS AND METHODOLOGIES (continued) Environment Water Total water drawn for the organisation’s use, expressed in cubic metre (m3) or multiples, within the stated organisational Waste ● Waste: Anything that the holder discards, intends to discard, or is required to discard, expressed in kilograms (kg) or multiples, boundary below*. within the stated organisational boundary Withdrawal ● Third-party Water: Defined as water drawn from a third-party. In Singapore, water is sourced from the Public Utilities This definition is based on the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Board (PUB). Data is broken down by tap water and NEWater. Movements of Hazardous Wastes and Their Disposal, 1989. ● Surface Water: Defined as water that occurs naturally on the Earth’s surface. This includes rain water harvested. ● Waste Directed to Disposal: Any operation which is not recovery, even where the operation has, as a secondary consequence, the recovery of energy. It is the end-of-life management of discarded products, materials, and resources in a sink or through a chemical or thermal transformation that makes these products, materials, and resources unavailable for further use (e.g. incineration with or without Category Source Details Boundary* energy recovery, landfilling). This definition is based on the European Union (EU), Waste Framework Directive, 2008. Third-party (1) Tap Water Singapore’s national tap water supply SIA’s four buildings (ALH, SC, ● Waste Diverted from Disposal: Any operation wherein products, components of products, or materials that have become waste Water comprises a mix of four sources – (i) water STC, TSQ) and offices are prepared to fulfil a purpose in place of new products, components, or materials that would otherwise have been used for that from local catchment, (ii) imported water, (iii) ● Includes SIAEC’s water purpose (e.g. reuse, recycling). desalinated water and (iv) NEWater* withdrawal at Hangar 1, as This definition is based on the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary *During dry periods, NEWater is added to Singapore’s data could not be segregated Movements of Hazardous Wastes and Their Disposal, 1989. reservoirs to blend with raw water. The raw water from ● Excludes water withdrawal the reservoir is treated at the waterworks before it is at Scoot’s offices due to the supplied to consumers as tap water. unavailability of data Category Operation Details Boundary* Waste Waste-to -energy In Singapore, licensed waste contractors SIA’s four buildings (ALH, SC, STC, TSQ) Directed (WTE) transport incinerable waste to the ● Includes SIAEC’s waste disposal from to Incineration WTE plants for incineration. Heat from Hangars 1, 2 and 3, as data could not be Disposal combustion generates superheated segregated steam in boilers, and the steam drives (2) NEWater NEWater is high-grade reclaimed water SIA’s building (STC) ● Excludes waste disposal at Scoot’s turbo generators to produce electricity. produced from treated used water that is offices due to data unavailability Ferrous scrap metal contained in the ash further purified using advanced membrane is recovered and recycled. Ash is sent for ● Excludes waste disposal from SIA’s technologies and ultra-violet disinfection. disposal at the offshore Semakau Landfill. offices and cabin waste from passenger As it is ultra-clean, it is mainly used for aircraft fleet due to unavailability airconditioning cooling purposes at SIA’s of data buildings. NEWater is delivered to SIA via a dedicated pipe network. Waste Recycling Recycling is the reprocessing of products or SIA’s four buildings (ALH, SC, STC TSQ) and Diverted components of products that have become cabin waste from flight operations Surface (3) Rain Water Collection and storing of rain water from SIA’s building (ALH) From waste, to make new materials. At our buildings, ● Includes SIAEC’s waste disposal from Water Harvested surfaces on which rain falls. Disposal recyclables are broken down by paper, plastic, Hangars 1, 2 and 3, as data could not be ferrous metal and glass. For cabin waste from segregated passenger fleets, recyclables are broken down by newspapers, and magazines. These definitions are based on GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018. *For this FY2019/20 SIA Sustainability Report, we refined our reporting boundary to focus on three of our reportable businesses – Singapore Airlines, SilkAir and Scoot – unless otherwise stated. The sustainability data and information relating to SIAEC is disclosed separately in SIAEC’s Sustainability Report published annually by our subsidiary. Data and information have been restated accordingly for past reporting cycles (FY2015/16, FY2016/17, FY2017/18 and FY2018/19). *For this FY2019/20 SIA Sustainability Report, we refined our reporting boundary to focus on three of our reportable businesses – Singapore Airlines, SilkAir and Scoot – unless otherwise stated. The sustainability data and information relating to SIAEC is disclosed separately in SIAEC’s Sustainability Report published annually by our subsidiary. Data and information have been restated accordingly for past reporting cycles (FY2015/16, FY2016/17, FY2017/18 and FY2018/19). Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 133 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES GRI CONTENT INDEX The GRI Content Index has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. It summarises the GRI Standards Disclosures we have selected for reporting and directs readers to the appropriate references in this Sustainability Report and other publicly available resources published by SIA. The full GRI Standards is available on the GRI website. References: AR: FY2019/20 SIA Annual Report SR: FY2019/20 SIA Sustainability Report GENERAL DISCLOSURES GRI Standards Disclosures Response and/or Reference(s) Identified Omission(s) GRI Standards Disclosures Response and/or Reference(s) Identified Omission(s) and Reason(s) for and Reason(s) for Omission(s) Omission(s) Organisational Profile Governance (Continued) 102-1 Name of the organisation Singapore Airlines Limited 102-26 Role of the highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy SR: 13, 19 AR: 66, 69-71 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services SR: 3-7 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes SR: 22-23 AR: 81-84 102-3 Location of headquarters SR: Back Cover 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics SR: 13 102-4 Location of operations SR: 5 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting SR: 13-14 102-5 Ownership and legal form AR: 120, 152, 214-215 102-33 Communicating critical concerns AR: 84-85 102-6 Markets served SR: 5 102-35 Remuneration policies AR: 72-80 102-7 Scale of the organisation SR: 5, 7, 30 AR: 109-119,140-144 102-36 Process for determining remuneration AR: 72-80 102-8 Information on employees and other workers SR: 29-35 Stakeholder Engagement 102-9 Supply chain SR: 76-84 102-40 List of stakeholder groups SR: 15 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain SR: 6, 10-12, 85 AR: 8-15, 112-117 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements SR: 38 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach SR: 22-24, 54, 101 AR: 64-65, 81-84 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders SR: 14-15 102-12 External initiatives SR: 2, 15 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement SR: 10-12, 18, 28, 47, 61, 75, 86, 93, 100, 126-128 102-13 Membership of associations SR: 4 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised SR: 10-12, 14-15, 24 Strategy Reporting Practice 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker SR: 1, 13 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements SR: 3 AR: 168-176, 207 Ethics and Integrity 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries SR: 14, 130-133 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior SR: 2, 25-27 102-47 List of material topics SR: 15 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics SR: 27 102-48 Restatement of information SR: 132-133 102-49 Changes in reporting SR: 132-133 Governance 102-50 Reporting period SR: 3 102-18 Governance structure SR: 13, 19, 22, 48 AR: 69-71 102-51 Date of most recent report SR: 3 102-19 Delegating authority SR: 13 AR: 66, 71 102-52 Reporting cycle SR: 3 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics SR: 13 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report SR: Back Cover 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committee SR: 19 AR: 66-71, 86-91 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards SR: 2 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body SR: 19 AR: 67-68 102-55 GRI content index SR: 134-146 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body SR: 20 AR: 70 102-56 External assurance SR: 3 102-25 Conflicts of interest SR: 19 Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 134 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES GRI CONTENT INDEX TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES GRI Standards Disclosures Response and/or Reference(s) Identified Omission(s) GRI Standards Disclosures Response and/or Reference(s) Identified Omission(s) and Reason(s) for and Reason(s) for Omission(s) Omission(s) Material topic: Governance Material topic: Employees (Continued) GRI 103 (2016): Management Approach GRI 402 (2016): Labor/Management Relations 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary SR: 18-27 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes SR: 39 103-2 The management approach and its components SR: 18-27 GRI 404 (2016): Training and Education 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach SR: 18-27 404-2 Programmes for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programmes SR: 39, 41-44 GRI 205 (2016): Anti-corruption GRI 405 (2016): Diversity and Equal Opportunity 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures SR: 26 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees SR: 29-35 AR: 87-91 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken SR: 26 GRI 307 (2016): Environmental Compliance Material topic: Safety 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations SR: 27 GRI 103 (2016): Management Approach GRI 416 (2016): Customer Health and Safety 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary SR: 47-60 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety 103-2 The management approach and its components SR: 47-60 impacts of products and services SR: 27 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach SR: 47-60 GRI 403 (2018): Occupational Health and Safety Material topic: Employees 403-1 Occupational health and safety management systems SR: 48-50 GRI 103 (2016): Management Approach 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation SR: 54-55 403-3 Occupational health services SR: 54, 56 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary SR: 28-46 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational 103-2 The management approach and its components SR: 28-46 health and safety SR: 48-50, 53-54, 58 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach SR: 28-46 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety SR: 51-55, 58 GRI 202 (2016): Market Presence 403-6 Promotion of worker health SR: 56 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community SR: 29 directly linked by business relationships SR: 48-54 GRI 401 (2016): Employment 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management system SR: 49 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover SR: 29, 34-35 403-9 Work-related injuries SR: 56 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided 403-10 Work-related ill-health SR: 57 to temporary or part time employees SR: 40 GRI 416 (2016): Customer Health and Safety 401-3 Parental leave SR: 40 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories SR: 49 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services SR: 27 Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 135 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES GRI CONTENT INDEX TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES GRI Standards Disclosures Response and/or Reference(s) Identified Omission(s) GRI Standards Disclosures Response and/or Reference(s) Identified Omission(s) and Reason(s) for and Reason(s) for Omission(s) Omission(s) Material topic: Customer Focus Material topic: Environment GRI 103 (2016): Management Approach GRI 103 (2016): Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary SR: 61-73 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary SR: 98-128 103-2 The management approach and its components SR: 61-73 103-2 The management approach and its components SR: 98-128 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach SR: 61-73 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach SR: 98-128 GRI 418 (2016): Customer Privacy GRI 302 (2016): Energy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation SR: 110-111, 113-115, 132 and losses of customer data SR: 73 302-3 Energy intensity SR: 110-115, 132 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption SR: 102-115, 132 Material topic: Suppliers GRI 303 (2018): Water and Effluents 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource SR: 124-125, 132 GRI 103 (2016): Management Approach 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts SR: 124, 132 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary SR: 75-85 303-3 Water withdrawal SR: 125, 132 103-2 The management approach and its components SR: 75-85 GRI 304 (2016): Biodiversity 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach SR: 75-85 304-3 Habitats protected or restored SR: 126-127 GRI 308 (2016): Supplier Environmental Assessment GRI 305 (2016): Emissions 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria SR: 77-78 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions SR: 110, 113-115, 132 GRI 414 (2016): Supplier Social Assessment 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions SR: 111, 114-115, 132 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria SR: 77-78 305-4 GHG emissions intensity SR: 110-115, 132 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions SR: 102-115, 132 Material topic: Shareholders GRI 306 (2020): Waste 306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-related impacts SR: 116-122 GRI 103 (2016): Management Approach 306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts SR: 116-122 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary SR: 86-92 306-3 Waste generated SR: 120-121 103-2 The management approach and its components SR: 86-92 306-4 Waste diverted from disposal SR: 120-122 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach SR: 86-92 306-5 Waste directed to disposal SR: 120-122 GRI 201 (2016): Economic Performance GRI 307 (2016): Environmental Compliance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed SR: 92 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations SR: 27 Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20 136 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONNECTING LIVES CONNECTING COMMUNITIES CONNECTING THE FUTURE APPENDICES Singapore Airlines Sustainability Report FY2019/20
