2019 Social impact report Table of contents * This is an interactive  table of contents. 1. CEO statement of support ....... 03 Click on a topic to 2. Building a better future............. 04 navigate to that page. 3. Our mission............................... 05 Click the Milliman brandmark on the left to return to the table of contents. 4. The 10 Principles ...................... 06 Our approach............................ 09 5. Our work.............................. 10 Our people........................... 12 Our world............................. 13 Transformative initiatives......... 15 6. 2 CEO statement of support 1. Creating social Since Milliman began in 1947 as a privately Our Work: Through our work, we’re managed, employee-driven firm, our people addressing many of the goals that aim to have driven change through innovative improve and protect health and financial wellwork aimed at addressing society’s most being and support sustainable communities. change together challenging problems. The work we do for our clients makes a difference every day. Microinsurance and In February 2019, we elevated our commitment retirement savings strategies improve by signing on to the United Nations Global financial security for families. And innovative Compact to make public our firm’s strategic partnerships address gender equity, healthcare alignment with the UN’s 10 Principles on access, and climate change. human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. Our People: We believe in creating a challenging and fulfilling workplace that This report highlights our firm’s first year enables employees to learn and advance their of progress as a signatory of the UN Global careers. We offer training, mentoring, and Compact, the world’s largest corporate leadership programs. Teams have formed citizenship initiative. This milestone and globally to promote environmental stewardship report re-affirm my ongoing support of the and advance diversity and inclusion. 10 principles. Our World: Our employee-directed Giving Our firm is also committed to advancement Fund addresses poverty and inequities in of the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals, education. Through scholarship programs, which aim to unite global stakeholders to end we’re assisting under-represented people in extreme poverty, fight inequality and injustice, our profession. Each of our offices globally and protect our planet by 2030. contribute time and money to a variety of causes in their local communities across a In particular, we’re focused on #3 Good Health spectrum of goals. and Well-Being, #4 Quality Education, and #8 Decent Work and Economic Growth. We’ve made great strides in our first year. True and lasting change requires large-scale vision. I’m confident that we’re prepared to make it happen, because we’re in this together. Best regards, Steve White President and CEO 3 Building a better future 2. Our passion to build a better future Health and financial well-being have no borders. That’s why we’re committed through our work and our partnerships to addressing global challenges in education, health, and economic development. Our employees are driving innovation in microinsurance, solving retirement security challenges, and using the power of analytics to assess risks and trends of natural disasters. We’re also breaking barriers by creating opportunities for under-represented people in our industry. And we’re engaged in global education programs that offer training and hope for a more secure future. 4 Our mission 3. Our mission “To serve our clients to protect the health and financial well-being of people everywhere.” 5 4. In 2019, Milliman amplified its commitment to all individuals globally. This commitment The 10 Principles to social responsibility by signing on to the aligns with Milliman’s Mission statement that United Nations Global Compact, incorporating guides all our work and is published throughout its 10 Principles into our firm’s strategies, our employee handbook and Milliman’s policies, policies, and procedures—affirming a which are available on our intranet site. culture of integrity. Corporate sustainability starts with a company’s value system and a Our operations are governed by a series of principles-based approach to doing business— policies and processes that ensure that work is and at a minimum, meeting fundamental high quality and provided in an ethical manner. responsibilities in the areas of human rights, In addition, a series of specialized committees labor, environment, and anti-corruption. oversee various business areas, including a Quality Assurance Committee, a Corporate Social Responsibility Committee, and a Global The 10 Principles Milliman has four ways that we ensure all Compliance Committee. employees are aware and compliant with our standards: The Global Compliance Committee is responsible for ensuring that all laws, rules, → All policies, including those regarding regulations, and Milliman policies are of the UN Global human rights, labor practices, followed on a global basis. Our compliance environmental standards, and antiprogram is designed with key elements as corruption are reviewed by each employee outlined by the Department of Justice and the prior to their employment. U.S. Sentencing Guidelines. These elements Compact include policy oversight, training, monitoring, → Further education and training are made and reporting. The initial steps of the program available through Milliman’s e-learning are through a global risk assessment that platform, Milliman University. identifies the regulatory risks associated with Milliman’s services. → A peer review process is in place to assess risks, compliance, business The Global Compliance Committee reviews this effectiveness, and ethics for each line of risk assessment on an annual basis and oversees business within Milliman. compliance with all Milliman’s policies. Potential violations should be reported to the → The Chief Compliance Officer and Global Global Compliance Committee and investigated Compliance Committee provide requisite based on the nature of the potential violation. reporting on an annual basis to the board The chief compliance officer is the chairperson of directors. of this committee. The committee reports to the board annually on its activities and potential violations of law or policy. If needed, the chief compliance officer has direct access to all Human Rights executives, officers, and/or directors and can immediately report potential issues. Principle 1 Training and acknowledgment Businesses should support and respect the Our goal is to ensure that each employee is protection of internationally proclaimed aware of his or her obligations. Training on human rights. the Corporate Social Responsibility Program is available on Milliman University. This Principle 2 includes training in specific topic areas, such Make sure that they are not complicit in human as anti-discrimination and anti-bribery. Each rights abuses. new employee is required to acknowledge certain Milliman policies upon hire. Each new Milliman is committed to supporting and employee receives training in specific areas upholding the provision of basic human rights and access to all corporate policies. 6 Auditing standards Labor national origin, political ideology, race, coworker’s family, supervisor, or visitor. The 10 Principles sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, To ensure awareness of our policies, Milliman policies are reviewed and status as an individual with a disability, all employees are required to complete affirmed on an annual basis. Changes or additions to policies are made on an Principle 3 or veteran status, and we prohibit periodic anti-harassment training. Businesses should uphold the freedom of discrimination against any individual or as-needed basis. The Global Compliance association and the effective recognition of any other characteristic protected by law. Milliman’s Grievance Procedure outlines department monitors policies for the right to collective bargaining. both an informal and a formal process effectiveness and compliance. Focus An active diversity and inclusion that employees may initiate, and should areas are determined through the risk committee made up of leaders throughout any employee witness such prohibited assessment completed by the Global Principle 4 Milliman drives efforts in our firm to behavior, they are required to report the Compliance Committee. The compliance The elimination of all forms of forced and increase awareness and build a more behavior through the various methods department audits these annual focus compulsory labor. diverse workplace. outlined in Milliman’s Whistleblower and areas and reports findings to the Global Non-Retaliation Policy. Compliance Committee. Principle 5 The Milliman Board of Directors Handling policy violations The effective abolition of child labor. recently approved expanded wording Employee health and safety to our values to more strongly Our employees are our greatest asset and Potential violations may be reported communicate our commitment to in a number of ways as outlined in the Principle 6 diversity by stating that “Milliman is their safety and well-being is a primary The elimination of discrimination in concern. Each office provides safe working Whistleblower and Anti-Retaliation Policy committed to embracing diversity and respect of employment and occupation. conditions that are conducive to creating detailed in the Employee Handbook. Once providing all of our people opportunities high quality work. Each office is required to a violation is reported, a senior employee to achieve their full potential.” develop a disaster plan that includes a focus performs an investigation. If a violation Child labor/slavery on employee safety in case of emergencies. of law or policy is confirmed, action will Milliman’s board also approved offering Slavery, human trafficking, and child be based on the nature and severity of those who attend annual employee forums labor are fundamental violations of a Career management the violation. Disciplinary action may for our lines of business the option to person’s rights and freedoms. Milliman include termination of employment and/or display the pronouns they identify with We believe we make our company is totally opposed to such abuses in its reporting to law enforcement agencies if on their nametags—e.g. “they, them;” stronger by encouraging employees to direct operations, its indirect operations, the violation is severe. “she, her;” “he, him.” It’s part of our grow and build new skills. We advocate and its supply chain as a whole. Milliman commitment to a culture of respect career development from short-term, will not use or allow the use of forced Annual report to board or compulsory labor, slavery, servitude, and inclusion and sends a clear sign of project-driven goals to long-term, careersolidarity and support to all employees. oriented goals. We believe we’ll increase The Corporate Social Responsibility human trafficking, or child labor in the job satisfaction by cultivating the next Committee reports annually to the board course of its business. It’s our policy that We’re promoting awareness about generation of leaders early on. Our on areas that include the effectiveness these practices are strictly prohibited in equality and diversity in the workplace Professional Development Committee of the program and on global employee any Milliman office. We’re confident in through Milliman University, our identifies and explores opportunities to participation. the steps we take to ensure that slavery, online training platform. It hosts antihelp employees advance professionally human trafficking, and child labor do not harassment training and classes about and develop consulting skills that The Global Compliance Committee take place in any part of our business, but cross-cultural considerations, unconscious supplement their technical expertise. reports annually to the board on the we remain alert for possible occurrences. We’re committed to driving high bias, understanding gender identity, and committee’s and the compliance group’s creating a more inclusive workplace. • In 2016, Milliman launched its first activities. This report includes information standards across all supply chains. We formal mentorship program. The program on the risk assessment, policy review, maintain a zero-tolerance policy and any Milliman’s Unlawful Harassment Policy matches senior leaders with junior training, monitoring activity, and potential vendor found violating this policy will be states that all employees are responsible for employees for a nine-month guided violations. If a severe issue arises, the chief terminated immediately. ensuring that our workplace is free from program. The program is highly sought compliance officer may report to the board all forms of unlawful discrimination and after, with hundreds of participants in at any time. Discrimination harassment. All employees are required each cycle. Past participants cite benefits With the full support of our board of to avoid any action or conduct that could as diverse as learning new skills to United Nations sanctions be viewed as harassment, including breaking down social barriers. directors and executive staff, we’re Milliman is committed to complying unwelcome sexual advances, offensive committed to protecting the rights of all with the United Nations Security Council conversations or comments, requests for • In 2017, Milliman launched Milliman applicants and employees. We recruit, Sanctions (whenever these apply to its sexual acts or favors, or other verbal or University, an online learning system. train, promote, and consider qualified operations), and will not sell products physical conduct of a harassing nature. Milliman University helps employees applications for employment in all or services to individuals, companies, or Employees must also avoid any action or develop career paths, identify key skill positions without regard to age, ancestry, entities in the nation states on the UN conduct that could be viewed as violent or learning opportunities, and participate in citizenship status, color, creed, familial Sanction lists. threatening behavior toward a coworker, online training. status, genetic information, marital status, 7 • In 2018, Milliman launched the Milliman To encourage environmentally friendly Fraud The 10 Principles Leadership Academy, a comprehensive commuting options, many offices provide We’re committed to legal and ethical program that builds and enhances subsidies for using public transportation. behavior throughout the organization as leadership skills in high achieving For example, the Seattle office provides stated in The Milliman Code. Internally, Milliman leaders. Its structure enables each employee the opportunity to this is maintained through a series of participants to learn and demonstrate purchase a transportation pass at a policies, including our Anti-Bribery proven foundational leadership principles. dramatically reduced rate. This pass Policy and our Whistleblower and Noncovers the full fare for regional buses, Retaliation Policy. Milliman also acts to trains, water taxis, and light rail. prevent fraud from outside the company. Environment Several of our offices are located in Leadership in Energy and Environmental Our Milliman Information Security Policy and various policies relating to the protection of data require all employees Design (LEED) Certified buildings. Principle 7 to take steps to ensure that threats from Businesses should support a precautionary outside the company are detected and approach to environmental challenges. prevented where possible. Principle 8 Anti-corruption Money laundering Undertake initiatives to promote greater As a service provider, Milliman is unlikely environmental responsibility. Principle 10 to be involved with money laundering; Businesses should work against corruption in however, it is our policy to prohibit money all its forms, including extortion and bribery. laundering in all areas. We do our best to Principle 9 detect and prevent any work or support Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-bribery provided to any individual or entity engaged in money laundering. Milliman’s Anti-Bribery Policy prohibits all types of bribery or the appearance Commitment to our environment All U.S. employees submit to a background of bribery to public officials and private As a service provider, Milliman doesn’t check, which includes screening entities. Our employees are educated have the same carbon footprint as against the Office of the Inspector on this policy through our outreach and a manufacturing company. Even so, General exclusion lists prior to starting training program. We monitor activities we encourage sustainable processes, employment and each month thereafter. on a global basis through a series of primarily in the areas of recycling Prior to providing services to any financial audits by internal and external and energy conservation. Examples potential client, an entity undergoes a auditors. Milliman’s Audit Committee throughout the firm include sustainability thorough background check. For global oversees the audit process and the initiatives that range from reminders to entities, this includes a screening through Global Compliance Committee oversees turn off computers at night to the use of WorldCheck. On a continuous basis, all compliance with the policy. energy-efficient lighting. employees maintain close contact with their clients. If employees notice any Milliman recycles paper, aluminum, and Conflicts of interest suspicious behavior, they’re required to plastic in coordination with programs report it through the Whistleblower and Milliman is committed to a conflictin the local marketplace. Most often, Non-Retaliation Policy. free environment. As a privately held recycling bins for glass, plastic, and company, we retain our independence. aluminum are placed in common areas, On a global basis, several business units Conflicts are managed through a series of while we locate paper recycling bins at are legally required to implement antiprocedures, starting with a conflict check each workstation or office and adjacent money laundering programs. These robust prior to entering into any client work to copy machines and printers. It is our programs are tailored for the types of and continuing with conflict reporting policy that we consider environmental services provided and the clients who and management throughout the project. impacts when making decisions about receive the services. Each program is Milliman’s policy requires any employee process design or vendor selection. reviewed on a periodic basis, and any who becomes aware of a conflict or Where possible, we choose the process suspicious activity must be reported. potential conflict to report it in a timely with the least environmental impact. We Employees who are subject to these antimanner. Conflicts will be analyzed also support sustainable procurement money laundering programs are trained to and addressed either through conflict initiatives. identify and detect money laundering. mitigation or disclosure. 8 Our approach 5. Our approach A spirit of social responsibility has permeated Milliman’s DNA since its founding in 1947. Three pillars represent our commitment: Our Work Our World Our innovative work and pioneering We’re creating a better future for people technology are helping revolutionize the everywhere by contributing to our financing and delivery of healthcare, the communities through volunteer activities and management of risk across complex systems financial donations. and organizations, and the development of retirement planning and financial risk management solutions. Three themes guide our efforts: → Good health and well-being Promote access to public and mental Our People health services. → Quality education We nurture and celebrate employees through Support underserved populations in the activities that promote diversity and inclusion. STEM categories. We’re committed to increasing underrepresented people in our industry through → Community investment scholarship programs and sponsorships of the Focus on creating employment International Association of Black Actuaries opportunities and environmentally and the Organization of Latino Actuaries. friendly and sustainable practices. Education and mentoring programs, including Milliman University and the Milliman Mentorship Program, help employees grow in their careers. 9 Our work Our approach Calculating time in Washington state and nationally, the Alliance published results in 2019 at a medical businesses expand options for affordable, reliable, and sustainable coverage. In our view, the cost of group level. sustainability starts with insurability. Disaster aid is a poor substitute for the risk guidance Raising patients’ health IQ and financial “first responder” of insurance. unnecessary Milliman supports Choosing Wisely’s We’re performing an actuarial redesign of health treatment mission to promote conversations with the National Flood Insurance Program’s patients, healthcare providers, and other rates—modernizing and improving the healthcare stakeholders about avoiding granularity of its rating elements. The new Many tests, treatments, and procedures that wasteful or unnecessary medical tests, plan aims to better communicate risk signals are considered healthcare waste can expose treatments, and procedures. so that homeowners can make better financial patients to undue physical, emotional, or decisions and reduce their uninsured and financial harm. The Health Waste Calculator combines underinsured losses in future disasters. Milliman’s actuarial expertise and Milliman developed the MedInsight® Health understanding of healthcare analytics with Concurrently, we are helping emerging Waste Calculator, an evidence-based tool that sound evidence from physician professional private flood insurers launch and expand their allows insurance companies, at-risk providers, societies to decrease waste in healthcare coverage across the United States, providing and self-insured employers to highlight spending and patients’ exposure to harm. consumers more options and closing the inefficient and unnecessary medical services. insurance protection gap. The Virginia Center on Health Innovation and the Washington Health Alliance analyze data from their states’ all-payer claims databases Building climate We also have a deep understanding of other catastrophic perils—wildfires, hurricanes, resiliency earthquakes, and severe winter storms. We using the Health Waste Calculator. understand the “risk chain” and perspectives ranging from global capital investors and In a groundbreaking study released in 2018, Climate patterns are changing, sea levels are reinsurers to a homeowner assessing coverage the Washington Health Alliance used the rising, and weather is becoming more chaotic and price to insure a single household. Waste Calculator to analyze insurance claims in the world’s most populated areas. from 1.3 million Washington State residents. And we understand how those perspectives The study revealed that more than 600,000 People live, work, and continue to settle in may change with a shifting climate. patients in Washington State underwent areas impacted by extreme flood-producing treatment they didn’t need, at an estimated storms and other disasters that may be Milliman’s objective, independent, qualitycost of $282 million. amplified by climate trends. The influence of focused approach is educating governments, climate change is taking a toll—disrupting investors, technology firms, consumers, and In the latest report released in October 2019, economies and costing people their homes other stakeholders as they make crucial Milliman’s Health Waste Calculator analyzed and livelihoods. decisions in a world of increasingly severe health claim data for more than 4 million catastrophic events. individuals and 9.5 million services for 47 tests and treatments identified as being overused. Acting to combat climate change It’s how we’re accomplishing our goal to and its impacts address climate change and create more The Alliance found that waste declined In response, our consultants are working with sustainable institutions and communities. by 10% for the commercially-insured and federal, state and local governments to design for the Medicaid-insured, the decline was and implement balanced, yet innovative more than double that—24%. For the first solutions. And we’re helping insurance 10 Our approach Addressing the MicroInsurance challenge of Centre at Milliman retirement security Sustaining health and financial wellbeing for low-income populations People globally are unprepared for retirement and some face the prospect of A death in the family, crop failure, or a health outliving their income. crisis are devastating events that can deplete savings, create debt, and prevent families from It’s a challenge we’re working on. We investing in education. help employers create retirement plans and develop strategies that reduce risk and Without a safety net, people find it impossible maximize employees’ retirement savings to sustain good health and financial security. opportunities. Our advanced actuarial Microinsurance offers protection that reduces tools are helping financial advisors have the risk of poverty and promotes sustainable conversations with their clients about risk economic growth. and rewards, so they can make more informed decisions. When the MicroInsurance Centre formed in 2000, it had an audacious goal: Provide 3 In the United States, we’ve joined forces billion low-income people globally with access with other financial services firms to create to valuable microinsurance products. awareness for the looming retirement income crisis—64% of American households face In 2017, Milliman and the MicroInsurance the prospect of outliving their income. Too Centre joined forces to expand the reach of many Americans are approaching retirement insurance to high-risk people worldwide. Both without protected income other than Social firms share the same mission of protecting Security. People are living longer, and market the health and financial well-being of people volatility and rising healthcare costs are only a everywhere. few of the factors that are increasing their risk. Financially stronger families translate As a founding member of the nonprofit to greater gender equality. Insurance Alliance for Lifetime Income, we support the and microfinancing help people start development of insights, tools, and resources businesses, build stronger communities, that consumers and financial advisors can use and increase resilience against climate change to measure retirement readiness. and other risks. The MicroInsurance Centre at Milliman’s Gauging retirement security (MIC@M) work includes microinsurance The Retirement Income Security Evaluation product development, training, research, (RISE) Score™ helps people gauge whether and advocacy. Combining connections they’re on track to meet their retirement and expertise, the MIC@M partners income goals and predict how well their with commercial insurers, foundations, savings will cover basic living expenses. development agencies, regulators, nongovernmental organizations, and others to The Alliance is dedicated to shifting develop valuable risk management solutions the retirement planning mindset from for low-income clients globally. focusing solely on accumulated savings to one that includes protected income other Since founding the MicroInsurance Centre in than Social Security. To learn more, visit 2000, Michael J. McCord and his team have allianceforlifetimeincome.org. implemented microinsurance projects in more than 70 countries. 11 Our people Our approach Supporting a On these sites, employees share photos from events, such as International Women’s Day Milliman Mentoring Program We’re developing the next generation of leaders diverse workplace or service projects, and discuss articles and through a mentoring program we launched in current events. Occasionally these discussions 2016. We’ve matched more than 350 successful influence changes, including wording on an mentorship pairs since the program began. In our workplace and in our world, we’re employee survey and adding a gender-neutral Participants meet with their mentors monthly working to build a culture of equality by prefix to our HR software. to work towards professional goals and develop embracing the power of diverse perspectives new relationships and perspectives. More and cultural backgrounds. We’re also promoting awareness about than 150 employees participated in the mentor equality and diversity in the workplace program in 2019, with that number expected to An active diversity and inclusion committee through Milliman University, our online double in 2020. made up of leaders throughout Milliman drives training platform. It hosts classes about crossefforts in our firm to increase awareness and cultural considerations, unconscious bias, understanding gender identity, and creating a Milliman University build a more diverse workplace. more inclusive workplace. We’re committed to building a culture of The Milliman Board of Directors recently learning. Employees can access more than 290 approved expanded wording to our values to The best ideas result from diversity in online courses that address topics from sales more strongly communicate our commitment thought and open collaboration. We recognize and communications skills to software training to diversity by stating that “Milliman is that inclusive cultures create innovative and development. Seven categories include committed to embracing diversity and environments and are not only better places to business acumen, compliance, leadership providing all of our people opportunities to work, but places that work better. development, professional ethics and values, achieve their full potential.” and relationship management. Creating a culture of learning Milliman’s board also approved offering Milliman University also hosts the firm’s and curiosity those who attend annual employee forums anti-harassment training and courses We believe that when people are learning and about social responsibility policies, crossfor our lines of business the option to display challenged in their careers, everyone wins. cultural considerations, unconscious bias, the pronouns they identify with on their That’s why we developed Milliman University understanding gender identity, and creating a nametags—e.g. “they, them;” “she, her;” “he, and a suite of professional development more inclusive workplace. him.” It’s part of our commitment to a culture programs that help employees build new skills of respect and inclusion and sends a clear sign and knowledge. of solidarity and support to all employees. We also have Communities of Practice on a Milliman Leadership Academy multitude of topics where employees can have A pilot program in 2018 set the stage for our discussions and opt in to share information. official launch of the Milliman Leadership Social responsibility and diversity and inclusion Academy. The comprehensive 10-month are among the most active topics. Both are in program builds and enhances skills in the top 10 largest communities, with CSR the high-achieving Milliman leaders. In 2019, 37 third largest, and diversity and inclusion the professionals across the firm learned from fifth largest out of 56 communities. outside experts and other leaders at Milliman to develop advanced skills they could use to drive immediate business results. 12 Our world Our approach Creating Milliman Opportunity Scholarship Opportunity Scholarships assist students Organization of Latino Actuaries Fewer than 1% of credentialed actuaries opportunities from ethnic groups and races that are underrepresented in the fields of actuarial science, are Latino even though Latinos represent 17% of the total U.S. population. We’re data science, computer science, economics, working to change these numbers. Through Milliman is committed to providing educational programming, mathematics, statistics, data our sponsorship, we’re connecting with opportunities in our industry with scholarships analytics, or finance. Recipients must have Organization of Latino Actuaries members to that encourage academic achievements in demonstrated academic excellence and plan to share job opportunities and offer networking actuarial and computer science, mathematics, pursue a career in actuarial science or related opportunities. In 2019, Milliman hosted finance, and business. Our scholarship program fields. In 2019, 16 students from colleges and five students and recent graduates at its also supports under-represented people in these universities across the United States, Australia, Indianapolis office for Latinx Actuarial professions. Besides the monetary awards, and South Africa received $5,000 scholarships. Development Day. It was the first of what will we follow up with recipients to offer career be an annual event. Students learned about the information and internships with the goal of International Association of actuarial profession, career opportunities, and providing employment. job search tips. Black Actuaries The Actuary of Tomorrow – Scholarships are available to black students International Association of of African descent originating from the United Stuart A. Robertson Scholarship Black Actuaries States, Canada, the Caribbean, and African This scholarship honors our co-founder nations. Recipients must be studying actuarial Through our IABA sponsorship, Milliman Stuart Robertson’s dedication to excellence science or courses that will help them pursue consultants have volunteered at an annual and influence on the professional lives of an actuarial career. Milliman sponsors one actuarial bootcamp where students take on an many colleagues. This scholarship recognizes $5,000 scholarship each year. actuarial project and present their results. academic achievements of undergraduate students pursuing a career in actuarial science. Ada Developers Academy Now in its 14th year, the scholarship has provided funding for 21 students. Building diversity in Milliman’s Life Technology Solutions and MedInsight practices have partnered with Ada our professions Developers Academy to provide internships to The Wendell Milliman Ada students. Its mission is to “diversify tech Scholarship Fund by providing women and people of nonbinary This scholarship is awarded annually to We’re acting to increase the number undergender the skills, experience, and community qualified children of Milliman employees represented people in our professions. It begins support to become professional software worldwide. Students must be attending with opportunity. developers who contribute to changing the an accredited twoor four-year public or world with software.” private college or university full-time at the We’ve enhanced our firm’s value undergraduate level. They must major or statement to make our commitment to Ada provides an intense software development intend to major in mathematics, computer employee diversity clearer. And we’ve program with six months of full-time science, business, finance, economics, created a number of opportunities to expand classroom training followed by a five-month actuarial science, or health sciences. In 2019, diversity in our professions of actuarial paid internship. The program is provided at no 20 students received scholarships. and computer science, as well as economics, cost to students and funded from donations. programming, mathematics, statistics, data analytics, and finance. Diverse perspectives and cultures bring unique solutions and invite diversity of thought. And 13 that’s a good thing for everyone. Closing the Sharing our spirit we brought in outside speakers to focus In Seattle, our headquarters participates Our approach on the topic of allyship from various local in a Day of Service with Operation Sack actuarial gap of global giving LGBTQ advocacy groups such as Entre Hermanos, Camp Ten Trees, and the QLaw Lunch (OSL), a local nonprofit that brings nutritious food to those who struggle LGBT Bar Association of Washington. with hunger. OSL does this through the in Ghana and A plastic fishing expedition, a baking creation and delivery of no-cost meals and by advocating and supporting an equitable competition, and a children’s clothing Honoring the environment Nigeria giveaway are just a handful of hundreds of employees’ efforts to make an impact in In the spirit of “think globally, act locally,” food system for all. OSL volunteers repurpose rescued food that would have practices globally took action in their otherwise gone to waste. their local communities. When Milliman learned of a need for communities and offices. In Amsterdam, more credentialed actuaries in Ghana, it employees cleaned plastic out of the Each year, the Indianapolis office adopts organized a test preparation project to aid International Women’s Day canals as part of the Plastic Whale project. eight to 10 families through family liaisons aspiring actuaries. Our practices around the world celebrated at several local elementary schools. These Offices around the globe took on PlasticInternational Women’s Day on March 8 by liaisons match volunteers to families Free July, with efforts to reduce or A lack of credentialed actuaries had leading inspirational discussions around in great need. Indianapolis employees eliminate waste through education and forced businesses to outsource actuarial women’s issues. Activities included a tea purchase coats, clothes, shoes, toys, elimination of single-use plastics and work to foreign actuaries. New insurance with guest speakers in London, a “Balance along with food for families to prepare disposable cups and utensils in many of regulations have been driving a push to for Better” photo campaign in Seattle, a their Christmas dinners. Everything is our breakrooms. develop more actuaries in Ghana. surprise breakfast in Madrid, a personal wrapped, tagged, and hand-delivered by safety class in New Delhi, and a STEM Milliman staff the week before Christmas. A firmwide Going Greener campaign The tutoring project started in Accra, outreach event in Chicago. encouraged employees to “think before Ghana in 2018 and was offered in Lagos, you print,” and we reduced the number of Nigeria in 2019. Milliman consultants volunteered as tutors in the program. Helping young people in need print publications and materials we were printing and shipping globally. The Dublin office held its own Great Milliman worked with the Nigerian Irish Bake Off for the second year in a Actuarial Society (NAS) to offer a Society row. They captured the spirit of the wildly Serving at-risk people of Actuaries Probability exam tutorial to popular baking show of the same name. Many offices focus on homelessness 20 students. Two Milliman consultants The contest raised funds for Laura Lynn, and other local needs of underserved traveled to Lagos to teach an eight-day a charity that provides care and support people in their communities. In New session. Another consultant supported the to children with terminal illnesses. Delhi, employees volunteer regularly at students remotely via an online classroom. Employees brought in baked goods and shelters and schools that serve abandoned Several of the students sat for their exams paid to sample the treats, and a panel of seniors, children, and people with mental in September, while others continue to two professional judges tasted them. health issues. In 2019, the New Delhi prepare and study. office expanded its already considerable In Seattle, corporate marketing outreach efforts in severely underserved In Ghana, four consultants taught SOA communication team members cooked and and impoverished areas. They distributed Financial Probability and Financial served a meal for homeless at-risk youth at clothing and provided information on Mathematics classes to more than 50 YouthCare’s Orion Center. healthcare, hygiene, and the importance students who were preparing for exams. of education. Other consultants offered support online The Hartford office partners with a charity In London, Milliman professionals after the classes. called We are the Children, collecting toys supported Scope, a disability equality for children who are in need or are in charity, by contributing to its annual In Ghana, the German development custody of the state. Staff members can charity dinner. The gala dinner was held agency Deutsche Gesellschaft für donate toys directly or donate money to at the Guildhall. Scope was founded in Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) the staff “shopper” who puts together 1952 to help provide disabled children with provided funding for tutors’ travel packages for delivery to the charity. equal access to education. It now aims to expenses, and the Actuarial Society of create a fairer society for both disabled Ghana (ASG) provided classroom space and in-country coordination. In Nigeria, Pride month and non-disabled people. Disabled people often struggle to live independently NAS provided in-country coordination June was Pride month worldwide and the and are almost twice as likely to be and worked with local insurer Leadway London, Seattle, Milwaukee, and Chicago unemployed as non-disabled people. Assurance to provide the classroom space. offices held educational and celebratory events to show solidarity with the LGBTQ community. At our Seattle headquarters, 14 6. Our philanthropy Opportunity International – Transformative initiatives Opportunity Zone Milliman is partnering with Opportunity Milliman Giving Fund International (OI) to fuel the economic Our giving is largely directed by our transformation of thousands of parents and employees, who bring the same passion, children living in poverty. In 2019, Milliman strategic thinking, and entrepreneurial spirit to awarded a grant of $250,000, renewable for up philanthropy as they do to our clients. Through to three years to fund an Opportunity Zone volunteering and financial gifts, employees program in Mityana, Uganda. and alumni support global signature projects that contribute to healthcare, education, and The program combines two high-impact economic development. The Milliman Giving education and rural finance programs to create Fund was established in 2018 to support a zone where more jobs, higher incomes for Transformative firmwide charitable efforts that bring parents, and quality education for children transformational results. accelerate the pace in which families and communities can build a better future. The Actuarial Foundation – initiatives Math Motivators OI will offer substantial new loan funding for small businesses and schools from its Milliman partners with The Actuarial partner bank, the Opportunity Bank of Foundation to support Math Motivators—a Uganda. The project also includes volunteer free tutoring program that closes the math opportunities for Milliman employees with achievement gap. The program pairs specific marketing, financial, IT, and risk lower-income middle school and high school management skills. students with actuaries and college students majoring in actuarial science, mathematics, Since 1971, OI has provided business loans and or math education. training to more than 15 million families to help them escape extreme poverty. OI’s mission In 2018, the Milliman Giving Fund made a and work aligns with both Milliman’s mission $750,000 grant to fund Math Motivators’ and themes, specifically in community and expansion across the United States over a economic development. three-year period. This project meets our goal of assisting underserved populations in STEM studies. In addition to financial contributions, Milliman employees volunteer in Seattle, Chicago, Hartford, New York City, Milwaukee, Minneapolis/St. Paul, and Portland, Maine. The program operated in 22 schools in nine cities in the 2018-19 school year, and it’s on track to expand to additional cities in 2020. 15 Corporate Social About Milliman Responsibility Since 1947, we have combined technical expertise with business acumen to create Statement and elegant solutions for our clients. Policies Today, we are helping organizations take on some of the world’s most critical and complex issues, including retirement funding and Social responsibility is embedded in healthcare financing, risk management and everything we do—how we work with clients, regulatory compliance, data analytics and hire and develop our people, and interact with business transformation. our communities. Learn more, visit us at milliman.com. Our corporate social responsibility statement and policies set a standard for ethical and sustainable business practices, innovation that transforms communities, philanthropic pursuits, and diversity and inclusion. For more information about our social impact activities, contact us at csr@milliman.com and visit milliman.com/social-impact. 16
