SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 www.edelmann-group.com CONTENT ABOUT THIS REPORT 3 LOCAL COMMUNITIES ENGAGEMENT STATEMENT FROM OUR CEO 4 AND DONATIONS – GLOBAL IMPACT 37 EDELMANN GROUP AT A GLANCE 5 HUNGARY – OUR BENCHMARK PLANT FOR THE SUPPORT OF LOCAL COMMUNITIES 38 FACTS AND FIGURES 2019 6 EDELMANN FOUNDATION 39 OUR GLOBAL PRESENCE 7 EDELMANN SPONSORSHIP 40 OUR PRODUCT PORTFOLIO 8 ENVIRONMENT CORE MARKETS 9 OUR RAW MATERIALS 42 ENVIRONMENTAL AWARDS 10 CIRCULAR ECONOMY 43 MISSION, VISION AND VALUES 11 CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT 44 ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE 12 PET LAMINATION ALTERNATIVE STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 13 SOLUTIONS 45 CSR TIMELINE 14 LESS IS MORE 46 MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT 16 CARTONBOARD – OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 17 OUR KEY RAW MATERIAL 47 GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE 18 OTHER RAW MATERIALS CONSUMPTION 48 EDELMANN GROUP AND SDGs 19 SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT 49 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT 50 OUR EMPLOYEES 21 ENERGY CONSUMPTION 51 WOMEN EMPOWERMENT 22 ENERGY REDUCTION INITIATIVES 52 AS A FEMALE IN A MALE DOMAIN 23 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 53 APPRENTICESHIP 24 CLIMATE CHANGE 54 OUR APPRENTICES 25 SMALL-SCALE INITIATIVES WITH BIG IMPACT 55 EMPLOYEE TRAINING AND TALENT DEVELOPMENT 26 CO₂ COMPENSATION 56 GROUP ENGAGEMENT 27 WATER CONSUMPTION AND BIODIVERSITY 57 OUR CORE SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC PRINCIPLES 28 WASTE MANAGEMENT 58 LABOUR PRACTICES 30 HEALTH IS AMONG THE TOP PRIORITIES 32 CSR MEMBERSHIPS 59 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH GRI INDEX 60 AND SAFETY (OHS) 33 FURTHER INFORMATION AND CONTACTS 64 OHS KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 35 OHS IMPROVEMENTS 36 2 ABOUT THIS REPORT The Edelmann Group Sustainability Report 2019 aims to performance indicators mentioned in the report refer to communicate our efforts and progress in respect to the all Edelmann sites if no additional remarks are made. three key pillars of sustainability: Environmental, Social and Economic. All corresponding topics are addressed The report follows the standards developed by the Global through Policies – Actions – Results. Reporting Initiative (GRI). This sustainability report was prepared in accordance with the GRI standards: Core The target readers of this report are our stakeholders, option. Edelmann Group reports on its sustainability including customers, suppliers, shareholders, employees, performance annually based on a calendar year. Hence, business partners as well as local communities. Research the report covers the time period of January 1st, 2019 institutions and industry players are also encouraged to – December 31st ,2019. The preceding report for the learn more about sustainability at Edelmann Group by calendar year 2018 is available on our website. the means of this report. In order to ensure the highest quality and reliability of the data, all Edelmann plants were involved in the process of data collection, later on centrally consolidated in the headquarters. Therefore, all statements and key 3 STATEMENT FROM OUR CEO Dear Readers, As a family business founded in 1913, we have realized membership in 2019, and it will remain so in the future. the full responsibility for our activities since the early days. Many things have changed over the years, A giant leap in our development was also visible and including our global footprint, industry development, recognized in the industry, as the Edelmann Group and technological advancement, but one stays the same was granted the Luxe Pack in Green Award by and the – our firm commitment to the principles of sustainable “Environmental Company of the Year” by Druck & Medien growth. With that, we are glad to share our efforts and Awards [Print & Media Awards]. It is an honour to become results of 2019 by the means of this Sustainability Report. a global reference in sustainable packaging solutions. Indeed, the reporting year has been a remarkable Being a global player, Edelmann Group makes a joint milestone for us featuring significant progress on the effort across its network worldwide to work on the pillars Edelmann Group Sustainability Program 2022. Numerous of sustainability, leveraging best practices within the successful initiatives were accomplished addressing the Group. We are convinced that our present actions secure topics of energy efficiency and GHG emissions, supplier the future we are responsible for. assessment, health and safety, women empowerment and supporting local communities, to name a few. Our On behalf of the entire Edelmann team, I wish you an efforts were rewarded and confirmed with independent interesting and inspiring read. sustainability assessments, such as Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Climate Change with a notable ARanking Sincerely, bringing us to the Leadership tier and an improved EcoVadis result maintaining the Silver level. We are also Dr. Frank Hornung proud to reaffirm our commitment to the ten principles Chief Executive Officer, Edelmann Group of the UN Global Compact, where we have maintained our “Our present actions secure the future we are responsible for” 4 EDELMANN GROUP AT A GLANCE Edelmann Group is an international family business, international network is supporting its global presence. operating in the packaging sector, delivering solutions Edelmann Group is a leader in innovation, working with with sustainable value to their customers in healthcare, the newest technologies to provide reliable and safe beauty care and consumer brands markets. The packaging packaging solutions and cutting-edge structural and solutions offered by Edelmann are mainly folding boxes graphic design. Our products demonstrate measurable and leaflets. transparency and follows rigorous “High Q Packaging” guidelines which promise comparable standards across The company was founded in 1913 in Heidenheim, all plants. Thereon, Edelmann’s expertise has been Germany, where it is still headquartered. Edelmann distinguished within the industry for many decades up Group is represented by 20 sites in 9 different until today. countries, distributed in four continents. Therefore, over 3,000 employees guarantee that Edelmann’s strong 5 FACTS AND FIGURES 2019 > 300 million ¤ in sales 20 production sites in 9 countries > 3,000 employees > 4.3 billion folding cartons and rigid boxes > 1.2 billion leaflets 100% 95% 95% With India onboard, we have reached 100% coverage of reported locations 6% 2016 2017 2018 2019 26% 48% Of senior management are females Of energy consumption is sourced See details on page 22 from renewable sources See details on page 51 100% 1.7 Evaluated Level 1 suppliers Global Lost Time Injury Rate See details on page 50 See details on page 35 Discover our targets 2022 and current results in the respective chapters of this report 6 OUR GLOBAL PRESENCE 7 OUR PRODUCT PORTFOLIO FOLDING CARTONS RIGID BOXES LEAFLETS Individual packaging WET LABELS, VIAL CARDS solutions Sharp edges Inserts and outserts & SYSTEM PACKAGING Individual finishings Co-Packing Folding & assembling Coding systems capabilities Security features Booklets 8 CORE MARKETS HEALTH CARE BEAUTY CARE CONSUMER BRANDS Edelmann Group has been a leading Edelmann thrives with the challenges At Edelmann, significant brand packaging partner to pharmaceutical of developing and producing packaging design solutions for the companies for many years. It is top complex folding carton designs specific requirements of personal priority to nurture the trust-based in cooperation with some of the care, food and drink segment relationship with customers and to world‘s most famous cosmetic are developed and designed. The responsibly handle all products. The brands. Unconventional print and company is committed to support company constantly develops and embellishmeant are welcomed to international customers with manufactures packaging and leaflets create exquisite packaging to meet innovative concepts. Edelmann which are precisely aligned with the customer‘s needs. stands out by creating both efficient the relevant requirement of ethical developments for the mass market medical products, OTC, diagnostic or as well as highly refined products for generics. premium brands. 9 ENVIRONMENTAL AWARDS Our efforts for environmental improvements were wellIndeed, sustainability was the key topic of last year, recognized in the industry in 2019 with the Luxe Pack proactively promoted at the trade fairs to spread the in Green Award and “Environmental Company of the word about our work and encourage our customers to Year Award” by Druck & Medien Awards [Print and Media pursue more sustainable choices. Awards]. Both awards are company awards, not related to specific products. The Green award features the development of PET lamination alternatives and “Less is more” project – read more on pages 45-46. The Environmental Company of the Year was granted based on all initiatives and results achieved so far in relation to energy efficiency, emissions, waste management, and water management. It is an honour and responsibility to be highlighted as the industry leader. Luxe Pack in Green Award Environmental Company of the Year, Druck & Medien Awards [Print and Media Awards] 10 MISSION, VISION AND VALUES OUR VISION: We are the global point of reference for OUR MISSION: We are passionate about creating packaging solutions, delivering superior packaging solutions that sustainable value to our customers, always have the customer in mind. our people, and our shareholders. OUR VALUES: I NNOVATION We develop ideas and create solutions to address specific challenges or improvements for our customers and our own company. M OTIVATION a fun atmosphere at our workplace helps us to be less stressed, more productive and ultimately, happier. P ASSION We are dedicated to creating outstanding packaging solutions and we are enthusiastic about coming up with improved solutions for our customers. A MBITION it is this energy that drives us to accomplish great things. C OLLABORATION/TEAMWORK We collaborate across all functions, segments and countries. We are committed to common goals based on open and honest communication, while showing concern and support for each other. T RUST We follow through with what we agreed to do and always act in a compliant and trustful manner. 11 ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE Carl Edelmann GmbH & Co. KG Edelmann Bitterfeld GmbH Edelmann Leaflet Solutions GmbH Plant Leverkusen Edelmann Leaflet Solutions GmbH Plant Lindau Edelmann Norderstedt GmbH Edelmann Pharmadruck GmbH Edelmann Wuppertal GmbH Edelmann Brazil Embalagens Ltda. Edelmann GmbH Family ownership Advisory Board Edelmann Holding Edelmann (Beijing) Co., Ltd. GmbH & Co. KG Edelmann France S.A.S Edelmann Packaging India (P) Ltd. M.K. PrintPack (P) Ltd. Edelmann Packaging Mexico S.A. de C.V. (2 plants) Edelmann Poland Sp. z o.o. Edelmann Hungary Packging Zrt. Edelmann USA, Inc. California Edelmann GmbH is a family-owned business and belongs to the Edelmann Holding GmbH & Co. KG. The company is led by the Advisory board together with the Chief Executive Officer Dr. Frank Hornung and the Chief Transformation Officer Jörg Weidenfeld through the Executive Management which is still situated in Heidenheim, Germany. 12 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Direct communication with our stakeholders and addressing their interests allows our strengthened collaboration. Hence, our key stakeholders are involved in strategic decision-making on a continuous basis. We see this as an important part of our prosperous development with the valuable support of our employees, management team, family business owners, customers, suppliers, local communities, and investors. Below are our key stakeholders that we focus on without compromising the relevance of the rest of the stakeholder groups mentioned above: EMPLOYEES & MANAGEMENT FAMILY BUSINESS OWNERS Our committed employees are among the most valuable Since its foundation, Edelmann Group has been a familyresources that allow growth and development of owned business and remains so up until these days. It is Edelmann Group. We are 3,000 heads – and hearts. of very high importance for us to keep the family values We make sure that our employees feel fulfilled, safe and principles and pass it on to the next generations. and valued, bearing a sense of belonging to a big Therefore, an active involvement of the owners adds family of Edelmann Group. Communication process this stakeholder group to the key list. We make sure happens through regular internal meetings whether that the family takes a role in the decision-making it is within a department or cross-disciplinary team, Board and follows on current changes, contributing regular career development discussions, trainings, with their impact. Hence, regular visits and meetings company events and annual leadership conference. are held to ensure that the owners participate in the development and growth of Edelmann Group. CUSTOMERS SUPPLIERS Our customers drive innovation and success at Our valued suppliers are not just supporting us with Edelmann Group and can rely on us around the world, the manufacturing. Instead, they are our key strategic as we are where our customers are. Our technical partners, helping us to achieve better results, keep the know-how, over a hundred-year experience and know-how and drive innovation through our mutual common passion for packaging can meet the very product development. Therefore, our close collaboration special demands of our customers around the keeps our strong relationships with the key suppliers globe. Regular communication with the customers is and allows to follow a clear focus. The communication enabled through topic-specific workshops, individual channels are very diverse from managing our daily product consultations, joint product developments, work to regular meetings, workshops, company visits, follow-up meetings as well as frequent both-way Supplier Fair and joint projects dedicated to new visits to discuss some of the current issues. developments and potential improvements. 13 CSR TIMELINE Sustainable development has always been at the core of our strategy since the early days of our history. Many improvements have been made since then in relation to resource efficiency, health and safety, employee wellbeing, as well as sustainable innovation. The continuous improvement of all key indicators is the goal we pursue steadfastly. Therefore, we are proud of our long-standing track record of CSR engagement which has brought consistent development over time and yet to bring further opportunities for a long-term healthy growth of Edelmann Group. 1975Surface finishing switches from solvent-based to 1991 All the cooling systems become closed systems. 1981 water-based varnishes. A system of leftover ink utilization is commissioned. Reduction of pollutants in production. Computer programs calculate the precise amount of ink required for each job. Disposable pallets are 1977 A system for transporting cartonboard waste from returned to cartonboard suppliers for reuse. A new the punching and waste stripping sections to the mixing plant for gravure inks reduces the amount bailing press is commissioned. of leftover ink produced. Fire protection insulators from asbestos are removed and disposed of. 1983 Calculation bases for determining ink quantities using spectrophotometers, specimen printing 1992 A desilverisation system for fixing baths used in equipment and analytical balances are developed. film development is commissioned. The exhaust air purification system in the gravure printing section 1987 In areas with little natural light, fluorescent lights is commissioned. Additional warehouse for storing with electronic ballasts are installed. Ventilation flammable liquids (as per German ordinance on and heating systems are controlled by PC-based flammable liquids) is built. Offset ink is delivered management system. in 200-litre drums, from which it is pumped pneumatically to the ink-mixing department. 1988 Dies for punching machines are dressed in water1800 m² corrugated eternity roof containing based adhesives, replacing spray-type adhesives asbestos fibers is removed and disposed of. with propellants. 1993 The TÜV environmental seal is introduced. Calendar 1989 The lightning systems in the production areas varnishes are switched to dispersion basis without are equipped with daylight detection control. solvents (CE-Gloss). Transformers and capacitor oils containing PBCs are replaced. A wastewater treatment system 1994 A control system switches off demand-dependent for rinsing water from the varnishing units is electric power consumers to avoid power commissioned in the offset shop. Three additional surges. Hall heating is fed by heat recovery from press containers are installed for even more compressed air generation effective selection of leftover card waste. A waste and recyclable material collection system is introduced. Process water is heated by means of heat recovery from the compressed air generation process. 14 1996 Disposal channels and options are highlighted in a 2009 New acquisition of latest indoor concerning Disposal Manual. The building heating is switched ventilation and air conditioning mechanism. Heat to gas. The burners are controlled by oxygen. A recovery in compressed-air system is optimized. filtration system for leftover inks is commissioned. Hydraulic lifts are powered by biodegradable 2010 Installation of photovoltaics on the roof of the hydraulic oils. The first environmental report is factory in Heidenheim. published. 2013 Installation of a combined heat and power plant. 1999 Processes to produce pharmaceutical packaging Successful testimonial of an alternative energy are introduced to the OB section. management system. 2000 A fully automated ink-mixing system for offset 2014 Combined heat and power plant is implemented. inks is introduced. Installation of the LED lightning in the gluing department. New air compressor with installed 2001 Plates are exposed almost entirely using CTPheat recovery. systems. 2015 The new more energy-efficient factory on the site 2003 The automatic transport system FTS is introduced. in Hungary was built. Realization of the Energy Audit DIN EN 16247-1 in all German sites. 2004 Logistics and transport workflows are optimized by setting up a central warehouse. The entire 2016 Introduction of the Code of Conduct. Implementation roof area in the Weilheim factory is insulated. of Corporate Social Responsibility. Membership in UN Global Compact. 2005 The Disposal Manual is introduced. 2017 Receiving silver status on the rating platform 2006 Natural gas vehicles are introduced for in-plant EcoVadis. Replacement of the old heating pumps transport and city journeys. All processes and through a more efficient version. Human Rights workflows are risk-assessed. Policy is introduced. 2008 The ESC office and technology building is built 2018 Updated Supplier Code of Conduct. Development based on the latest ecological consideration. The of alternative PET lamination solutions. Anoise level on the pharmaceuticals production Rating on CDP Climate Change. 2 company-level hall is reduced by installing noise-absorbent Environmental Awards. mats. The factories in France, Heidenheim and Weilheim are FSC-certified. 15 MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT Materiality assessment matrix defines the key topics, The assigned level of importance depends on the potential and therefore the key focus areas. As the interest of impact of our business internally and externally. For our stakeholders towards CSR is consistently rising, it is example, since water is not heavily used in the production of very high importance to adapt to their expectations process, it is not within the topics of key importance. As it without compromising on our strategy goals. Therefore, it can be seen from the matrix, the top relevance for both takes a continuous dialogue with the interested parties, Edelmann Group and its stakeholders is assigned towards especially our customers and suppliers, to identify the economic value, raw materials, customer and supplier relevant material issues. Edelmann Group’s materiality engagement, product quality and legal compliance. assessment is divided into economic, environmental, social, and others. The relevance scale is divided into medium, high and very high importance. MEDIUM HIGH VERY HIGH ECONOMIC 1 15 1. Economic value 2. Anti-corruption VERY HIGH 10 16 3. Fair competition SOCIAL 4. Employees and training 18 19 5. Occupational health and safety 6. Labour practices 7. Labour principles, including non-discrimination, IMPORTANCE TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS equality and freedom of association 5 4 8. Child and forced labour 3 8 17 9. Support of local communities HIGH ENVIRONMENTAL 7 10. Raw materials 11. Energy efficiency 12. Carbon emissions and climate change 13. Water 14. Waste management 2 14 6 9 OTHERS 15. Customer engagement MEDIUM 13 16. Supplier engagement 11 12 17. Responsible procurement 18. Product quality 19. Legal compliance IMPORTANCE TO THE ORGANISATION 16 OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH Following from the materiality assessment, our reduction. Economically, the topics of anti-corruption, sustainability approach serves as a leading tool for risk fair competition and sustainable profitability are key. assessment, improvements and overall guidance on CSR development. Standing on the three pillars, the process follows Policies Actions Results approach. Policies not only include The strategy is based on a circular approach. The three our internal regulations and guidelines, but also legal pillars of CSR coming from the materiality assessment compliance. Actions are our initiatives and projects that form the basis of the cycle, showing our focus areas. All address materiality topics. Finally, results are based three dimensions are of high importance and considered on well-defined key performance indicators tracked equally throughout the process. Socially, we focus on annually. The structure is in line with the Edelmann Group developing our employees further, training, labour Sustainability Program 2022 that is further described practices, health and safety, diversity and equality, local in each section of the report for the respective topics, communities and the key human rights. Environmentally, underlying our guiding policies, goals, initiatives and most of our efforts address energy efficiency, raw latest KPIs. materials, emissions and climate change, as well as waste SOCIAL Policies Results Actions ENVIRONMENTAL ECONOMIC 17 GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Our CSR management is centralized in the headquarters in Heidenheim, leading the rest of the sites and providing guidance on CSR issues. All Edelmann Group sites have a dedicated team, which consists of a general managers, health and safety, HR, environmental and supply chain representatives, who work together, while specializing in their own field to share the best of their knowledge. These five areas have been identified based on the materiality assessment with the goal to address all relevant issues through continuous support of corresponding colleagues. All teams report annually to the headquarters. Health & Safety HR & Human Rights Environment Supply Chain Local communities CENTRALIZED CSR MANAGEMENT Heidenheim Headquarters German plants Hungary Poland France Mexico Brazil China USA India 18 EDELMANN GROUP AND SDGs Sustainable development goals (SDGs) represent a call for action by the governments, corporations and individuals to protect the planet, reduce inequalities and ensure peace and prosperity around the world. The seventeen goals address the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, unanimously adopted by all UN Member States in 2015 during the UN Summit. Companies are expected to contribute with their input, and so does Edelmann Group. While all SDGs bear extremely high importance, we choose to focus on three goals to address the 2030 Agenda. Goal 3: Good health and well-being Our care starts with our own employees, as we are responsible for more than 3,000 people around the world. Therefore, ensuring their health and safety, decent work conditions as well as access to healthcare support is our highest priority internally. Our product lines, such as “CEeasy” contribute to address the needs of elderly population in their ability to use packaging with no limitations. Additionally, we invest in multiple charity organizations that hold a significant impact on prevention and treatment of diseases along with supporting research. Goal 12: Responsible consumption and production As we are a packaging manufacturing company, it is our responsibility to develop new ways of using the resources efficiently. It refers to the production processes, raw materials used and innovative product development. We focus on energy efficiency, waste reduction, sustainable sourcing and emissions reduction along with promoting lightweight, environmentally friendly materials. Goal 17: Partnerships for the goals Our key strategic partners are our customers and suppliers. Together, we can tackle challenges of today through continuous collaboration. Our partnerships are mainly related to the new product development with innovative use of raw material, smart structural design solutions and advanced technology. While the demand is coming from our customers, key strategic suppliers are ready to support us with their knowledge and capabilities. 19 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY www.edelmann-group.com 20 OUR EMPLOYEES With more than 3,000 employees, Edelmann secures Edelmann’s freshmen gain an opportunity to learn from its global footprint with more than a half of employees senior colleagues, while employees with a long track located in Europe and the rest distributed across Americas record may benefit from the fresh ideas and out of the and Asia Pacific. With that, Edelmann Group is full of box thinking that we usually observe from our younger different cultures outlining our diversity. employees. To demonstrate a healthy balance between employees AVERAGE EMPLOYEE who are leaving and joining, we choose to disclose TURNOVER RATE the average employee turnover rate, that comprises 15% the average value of all Edelmann sites. The rate has 11,2% 11% remained at the same level and is still well below the 10% manufacturing industry average of 16%. 7% In our efforts to address the key social issues, we value 5% diversity and equality as a global family business. The split into females and males has slightly changed due 0% to the first-time inclusion of the Indian and the new 2017 2018 2019 Mexican plants. The reason for a higher percentage for males is the nature of work itself, as the main share goes NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES to the production, where some tasks may require more physical strength and flexibility, such as late evening 500 shifts. Moreover, there are country-specific variations 400 152 that have to be considered, as we are operating in India where the family duties may vary, and the prevailing 300 116 workforce is represented by men. 200 80 343 100 206 Diversity at Edelmann Group is also transparent through 156 the age distribution with all three groups being 0 2017 2018 2019 sufficiently present. We value young talents as much as experienced professionals, and we believe that only the Males Females balance of both contributes to the best results. SPLIT BY REGION MALES/FEMALES DISTRIBUTION AGE DISTRIBUTION 18% 17% 31% 27% 23% 59% 69% 56% Europe Americas Asia Pacific Males Females Under 30 30-50 Above 50 21 WOMEN EMPOWERMENT As a male-dominant sector, we take the responsibility to empower women, attract more female talents and develop them. Therefore, we have implemented several initiatives during the reporting year to support our efforts. As a proud member of the UN Global Compact, this is also among the ways to support Principle 6 “The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation”. Women in senior management WOMEN IN SENIOR MANAGEMENT We define senior management as a coordinating/ (GROUP) managing position in middle management having at least 100% 1 subordinate. A higher level is the top management that 23% 24% 26% 80% belongs to a different tier of analysis. The year 2019 has brought an increase in percentage value for women in 60% senior management on a Group level from 24% to 26%. 40% 77% 76% 74% We are aiming to implement more measures to maintain 20% this healthy balance. 0% 2017 2018 2019 Males Females Women empowerment in Poland Our best practice belongs to the Polish plant, where the KPI has remained on the same high level in 2019, steadily WOMEN IN SENIOR MANAGEMENT outperforming the national indicator by 5%. The split (POLAND) into males and females is close to reach a 50/50 balance, 100% significantly exceeding the Group level and national 80% 36% 44% 44% average already today. The roles of female colleagues vary from production preparation and quality management to 60% accounting and purchasing. 40% 64% 56% 56% 20% We are eager to develop this initiative further and track 0% our performance. Having a best practice example will 2017 2018 2019 facilitate the implementation in the other plants with Males Females further focus on Europe. Girls’ Day in the headquarters Eight girls from 11 to 14 years old took part in the Girls Day held in our HQ in Heidenheim on March 28th, 2019. The program was aimed at promoting jobs in the printing industry for the female target group at the age when they may become interested in following this professional path in the future. The schedule was built around the production tour and a workshop, where the girls could mix the inks on their own or glue the folding boxes together with our expert employees. 22 AS A FEMALE IN A MALE DOMAIN Jana Katzer decided to become a packaging technologist after her secondary school graduation. Her motives are understandable: „I always wanted to learn a technical job“. She is in her first year of training and she is passing through all the specialist departments of folding carton production at Edelmann headquarters. In the manufacturing of folding cartons, the packaging technologist is responsible for a huge number of processing steps. These include, for example, creasing, punching, embossing and gluing the packaging products with the aid of computer-controlled machines. Jana can also demonstrate her creativity when it comes to developing new and individual folding boxes. To this day this profession is still a male domain. Jana is the only female in her apprenticeship year and thinks that‘s a pity: „I see absolutely no disadvantage in being a woman in this profession. After all, I can do everything that my trainee colleagues can do. And if I need to lift something, there‘s a forklift.“ At the Edelmann Group, training is purely productionfocused. This means that there is no training workshop, but instead a supervisor who looks after the trainee in each specialist department. The trainees are therefore involved in the production process from the early days and learn about the diverse tasks. Numerous production technologies are experienced during the running operations, and the apprentices take responsibility for their own actions. This means that they do not produce „practice samples“ – what they produce together with the skilled personnel is what actually being delivered to the customer. „This feeling is just great when you see what you have done, and that it has a practical use and doesn‘t just end up in waste“ – says Jana. 23 APPRENTICESHIP Apprenticeship is an excellent way to attract the best talents at the early stage and nurture the young professionals with knowledge and experience. Apprenticeship refers to the long-term employment that lasts on average for 3 years. For some of the students, we work in collaboration with academic institutions, such as the Cooperative State University Baden-Württemberg (Duale Hochschule Baden-Württemberg). Thereby, every year students are spending the working part of their dual studies with us, while they are learning the academic side at the university. Some students are later resumed as full-time employees. Additionally, we provide opportunities to trainees who spend 3 to 6 months at Edelmann either as part of their studies or as an additional professional experience. A total of 46 apprentices were enrolled at Edelmann: 50% in their first year, 37% in the second year and the remaining 13% in the third consecutive year of apprenticeship. Eight apprentices are part of the Dual Studies Program in our headquarters in Heidenheim. Overall, the locations in scope are Heidenheim, Weilheim, Wuppertal, Lindau, Leverkusen, and Bitterfeld. APPRENTICES 2019 25 20 15 23 10 17 5 6 0 1st training year 2nd training year 3rd training year APPRENTICESHIP 2019 | SPLIT BY MAJOR 15 10 13 5 11 8 6 4 4 0 Industrial clerk Printing Media designer Packaging Machine operator Dual studies technologist technologist 24 OUR APPRENTICES We value every talent and invest sufficient time and efforts in the development of our apprentices. Let’s hear what they say about their time with us: As a trainee, I pass through all departments and thus gain a comprehensive insight into all areas of the company. At Edelmann you learn very early on to deal with responsibility. As I am the end user of our products, it is always exciting to discover the finished folding box in the store. If you participated in the production process for this and then can finally buy the product yourself, it is a proud feeling to be part of the Edelmann Group. Tessina Gassner, Industrial clerk The most interesting project so far was the design of a brochure for the trainee workshop. We could design and create the complete brochure ourselves from the first draft to the final printing. I really like the supervision of the trainees you always feel well-advised and welcome. My supervisors put a lot of time and passion into their work. Besides extreme professional competence, both also convinced me with their personal and human side. Tim Miller, Digital and Printing Media Designer It is very exciting to experience the development from the first idea of a packaging to the final product together as a team. The planning of a product in sales has been my most exciting task at the Edelmann Group to date. The sum of countless influencing factors in production had to be considered here, which involved intensive preparation. Michele Maisl, Dual Studies Business Administration As part of my work, I already set up the machine completely on my own for the first time, overcoming very challenging constraints. The head of my department inspires me, as he is able to manage the stress level and solve any problem in the best way. Michael Migas, Machine Operator 25 EMPLOYEE TRAINING AND TALENT DEVELOPMENT As we strive to secure high competence, we invest in continuous training and development of our employees. The responsibility lies within or Human Resources department along with the responsible managers, depending on the topic. Trainings are held for both production and administrative employees. TRAINING DEVELOPMENT QUESTS For every new employee across all Edelmann sites, a To address talent development in an innovative way, training session is mandatory for health and safety, we have partnered with Development Quests during business ethics and conduct, and data privacy. Along the reporting year to run a pilot program with 2 of with a dedicated session for each topic, newly arrived our employees. Development Quests is the essence of employees get acquainted with the mission, vision, and rethinking talent development through gamification values, Code of Ethics and Conduct as well as internal elements, personalised journeys and real challenges company policies. pushing the participants forward in both their career As for the existing employees, they receive an updated success and personal strengths. training on these issues every year. Safety instructions are of highest importance to the production, and therefore, We have seen a very positive development with 2 of our they are continuously improved, while every production employees who completed their own journeys over a worker is obliged to attend regular sessions. We use period of several months with full support and guidance training confirmations which need to be signed to keep from a personal DQ Coach. a track on the current status. The safety instructions are also available on our Intranet for easier access any time. “My Journey with Development Quests has been eyeopening, full of challenges and rewarding at the same We managed to maintain the same level of training hours time. The biggest value of the Journey was the way in 2019. Around 40% are dedicated to Health & Safety, it pushed my boundaries and made me accomplish 10% to business ethics and conduct, 10% to data privacy challenges I would unlikely tackle on my own – just like and the remaining 40% is for the development of our it encouraged a self-analysis that’s been hard to even employees – special skills training, language courses and start in a daily routine everyone has. Weekly Check-ins, talent development. For example, 20 Edelmann employees customized Quests and a very flexible approach would worldwide have attended a 3-day negotiation training be just a few of many other tools supporting you. Going that will contribute to the success of their different roles. on a DQ Journey requires great commitment, openness to the Coach and courage as well – yet it’s so worth it to face yourself outside the comfort zone and see what development it brings, both as a professional and as an individual.” – says Elina Iamsia, our CSR Coordinator and DQ participant. TRAINING HOURS PER EMPLOYEE 15,0 10,0 14,3 14 12,7 5,0 0,0 2017 2018 2019 26 GROUP ENGAGEMENT Being a global company operating worldwide also brings some challenges, such as efficient communication across all sites. To tackle this topic and bring the Group’s engagement to the next level, we have maintained the Leadership Conference and Company Awards in 2019. Leadership Conference 2019 The Leadership Conference was intended for all plant spent together. Sustainability was also among the topics managers of Edelmann Group as well as the central discussed during the conference, as it is among the key department leaders. All sites participated in the points of our strategic development. conference, held on the 22nd – 24th of January, 2019. The conference was a three-day event with diverse Edelmann Awards 2019 topics being covered. The speakers and discussion leaders were both internal and external depending We have implemented the internal Award program in on the scope of the topic. The opening featured the 2019, following the practice of 2018. The idea behind review of 2018, general outlook for 2019 and an update it was to reward best-performing sites on a range of on the latest Group initiatives. Other topics were indicators. Among other winners, Safety Award went to related to innovation, marketing, technology, strategy, the US plant, Efficiency Star was awarded to the Polish procurement and supply chain as well as multiple site, and Cooperation Award was taken by the Central workshops, interactive sessions, and evening programs Procurement department in Heidenheim. took place. This way, the event was also designed to bring the team closer with these three full days 27 OUR CORE SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC PRINCIPLES Our key social and economic principles are documented in our core policies, such as the Code of Ethics and Conduct and the Human Rights Policy. All employees, including new and current, are trained on the main topics annually to ensure the same level of knowledge across all Edelmann sites. This practice is of very high importance to address the key issues of business ethics, fair business practices, and human rights. With this, we support the corresponding SDGs and the principles set by the UN Global Compact, where Edelmann Group has been a proud member since 2016. Anti-corruption Discrimination All our employees are aware of the need to be careful Being a global company also means eliminating any sort about accepting and offering any kind of benefits that of inequalities and discrimination. Based on International might pose a threat of binding dependence. Excessive Labour Organization’s guidelines, discrimination may advantages coming to/from our suppliers, customers, or occur on the grounds of race, colour, sex, religion, political business partners must be reported, and are subject to opinion, social origin, or age, to name a few. Edelmann disciplinary actions. If there is uncertainty regarding the Group supports the presence and implementation of value or nature of the gifts, offers, or invitations, our actions to prevent discrimination, addressing a basic employees are advised to contact senior management expectation of socially responsible conduct. and request a written consent, if needed. Since most of Edelmann sites are operating within socially favourable As a foundation, anti-discrimination training is part countries, the risk of corruption is assessed to be of the onboarding program and the annual training relatively low. For the reporting year 2019, no incidents agenda. The corporate mechanism in place is referred to were registered. as a whistleblowing procedure. Edelmann employees are expected to treat co-workers, customers and suppliers with dignity and respect. In case of misconduct, employees Fair competition are encouraged to report to the Employee Council, where As commonly known, anti-competitive behaviour all requests can be submitted anonymously through the may potentially cause unhealthy price changes, affect internal post service. Ensuring confidentiality is a key to consumer choices and overall market situation. Hence, an efficient whistleblowing system in place, therefore, Edelmann Group follows the rules of fair competition considering that our Employee Councils represent and takes precautions related to price arrangements, diverse workforce, the most appropriate further action supplier relations, investment strategies, customer is guaranteed without compromising anonymity of the relations and corresponding information exchange. claim. If not seen suitable, an employee may also report to No legal procedures related to the violations of legal a direct manager or any senior representative to take the actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and situation further. We always make sure that all concerns monopoly practices have been registered under national are thoroughly investigated, and preventive measures or international laws. are taken, if necessary. No discrimination incidents were reported during the year 2019. Money laundering Money laundering refers to the use of funds that directly Freedom of association and collective bargaining or indirectly originated from criminal activities and were All Edelmann employees are free to join unions of their later introduced into the business cycle. Edelmann Group choice as well as appoint their representatives who would strictly prohibits any form of money laundering with communicate their interests in the most efficient way. The criminal charges and disciplinary interventions being company then works with corresponding representatives used as the means to respond to a potential case. No to develop further solutions as a joint effort. The right incidents were registered during the reporting year. of freedom of association and collective bargaining is clearly stated in Edelmann‘s Human Rights Policy, which has been created to address the main social principles of the UN Global Compact. The right is executed through the Employee Councils described in further details in this report – read more on page 30. 28 Child and forced labour We refer to child labor as a subject to ILO Conventions 138 ‘Minimum Age Convention’ and ILO Convention 182 ‘Worst Forms of Child Labour Convention’. Child labor refers to an abuse, which is not to be confused with ‘children working’ or with ‘young person’s working’, which may not be abuses as stipulated in ILO Convention 138. According to the latest ILO Report on child labor, 152 million were in child labour with 73 million being exposed to hazardous conditions. We are strictly against it and strictly prohibit any form of child or forced labour. Within Edelmann Group, awareness is created through the Human Rights Policy, covering child and forced labour. No incidents were registered during the reporting year neither within Edelmann sites, nor in relation to our suppliers’ business activities. Data privacy With the lead of our Data Protection Officer, we ensure that personal data is processed and stored securely and does not exceed the required scope. All new employees are informed in detail on the elements of personal data being used at Edelmann Group. All employees sign their agreement to store their personal data with the right to refuse data processing for the selected categories. An updated agreement is collected from all employees annually in a digital form. Additionally, all employees have access to Frequently Asked Questions regarding data privacy via our Intranet. The year 2019 featured the development of policies and guidelines aimed at the coverage of subcontractors and external parties as well as an extensive update of the privacy guidelines and directory of procedures related to the data protection. All the work has been done and validated in cooperation with an external expert. Four-eyes principle In our efforts to address a successful implementation of business ethics across Edelmann plants and our work with the suppliers and business partners, the four-eyes principle has been established and functioned since 2017. It means that at least 2 independent colleagues have to double check and prove the following items: supplier approval, payment details of new suppliers and customers, significant capital expenditures and approvals of a certain value depending on the investment group, contracts and agreements, sensitive transactions and invoicing. The principle was well-maintained throughout 2019 covering the following departments: General Management, Procurement, Sales, Finance, Accounting, Controlling. 29 LABOUR PRACTICES Fair compensation Employee council Fair compensation and working conditions are of high Every plant has its own Employee Council established. importance to the Edelmann Group. Working hours are While it is required by law in some locations, the rest set according to the domestic laws in force or to industrial are involved voluntarily. The committee speaks for the standards. Therefore, at all German plants, employee employees’ rights and communicates their will to the clock-in/clock-out IDs are used to keep track on the hours management. They also have a co-determination right, worked. Hence, it is ensured that hours on record are when it gets to the approval of employees coming in or adequate. Every employee is informed of and has the leaving the company. As they represent the interest of the right to know the terms and conditions of employment. In employees, they also decide about weekend hours and each employee’s personal contract, the probation period work safety of the employees. If any problems or requests and the length of the notice period are determined. are coming up on behalf of the employees, they are keen Differences in salary and remuneration between women on finding compromises and fair solutions. The bound and men are deprecated in our company. A salary scale is assembled of 7 members from different departments with respective categories is implemented to ensure fair with weekly meetings in place. In Heidenheim, the compensation. Different salary levels are defined, and Employee Council was implemented more than 50 years depending on one’s education, task and years working for ago. The members are working in different departments the company, one is categorized, and fair compensation such as sales, controlling, logistics and CAD. Therefore, a is guaranteed. broad coverage is ensured, and the influence comes from a fair sample of the workforce. Founded in 2018, the German Employee Council continued STANDARD ENTRY LEVEL WAGE TO LOCAL its operations. It is a selected delegation of members MINIMUM WAGE (in %) of the Employee Councils from all German plants. They 150% 144% 139% have joint meetings to harmonize their approaches and 137% exchange their experiences. Having this new institution, the communication between the Employee Council and 100% the management can reach the next level. Two meetings were held during 2019. 50% At our international sites, Employee Councils are organized according to the local law requirements or their own will 0% based on the current needs. They work independently 2017 2018 2019 and guarantee a fair representation of their colleagues. 30 Benefits and work-life balance Parental leave The benefits given to our employees vary between the We value the importance of family and support different plants. Normally, healthcare, disability, retirement possibilities of parental leave for both parents. A total of provision and life insurance are offered. While these are 65 employees took parental leave in 2019 with 53 already the most common employee benefits, every plant is open returned or planning to return. Depending on a particular for suggestions, and new ideas are welcome to improve country and plant, there are variations on approaches, the work atmosphere and employees’ well-being. It but one principle is common for all – individual approach. is very common to offer sports club memberships at Therefore, the length of the parental leave and the time discounted rates, different store offers and events. to come back to work is decided based on employees’ Numerous possibilities were available globally during circumstances and local regulations. 2019. Notably, 51% of the employees who took parental leave Since we are a family-owned business, the benefits for in 2019 were men. We are proud of this equal proportion and the incorporation of the employees’ families are very of men and women taking parental break, and we target important to us. This concern is shown in celebrating to continue this trend further. a summer party for all employees and their families in Bitterfeld. In this relaxed environment, it is a great chance to get to know the colleagues and their families and PARENTAL LEAVE 2019 strengthen the team spirit. By having the families inside 80 the company and discussing not only work-related topics, a healthy work-life balance is assured. Similarly, at our 60 Polish site, a large grill party is organized for employees 40 32 40 35 and their families around Christmas time. It is a regular get-together with many employees attending. In the US, 20 on Christmas time, meals for all employees are provided 26 30 33 to gather all employees together and reflect on the past 0 year. A reward program for safety is also established in 2017 2018 2019 our American plant to highlight the importance of work Males Females safety. Having access to food tickets and coupons for local services at many plants are available with leisure activities being also supported. 31 HEALTH IS AMONG THE TOP PRIORITIES Healthy employees – healthy business. We believe that supporting our employees’ health pays off in their well-being, performance and overall satisfaction. Therefore, we choose to commit to a health management that goes beyond convenient care. To know more about Health and Safety at Edelmann Group, follow pages 33-36. Employee health check-ups To ensure the well-being of our employees, regular health We have observed a very positive outcome from our pilot checks and examinations are carried out by an external program in Heidenheim with the health survey and the medical officer. Although there are country-specific implementation of common health-related suggestions, differences, the common practice is for employees therefore the best practice will be spread further under the age of 45, a health check is done every 4 years globally. and for employees older than 45 years, a health check is operated every 3 years. Before new employees are Sports engagement starting to work at Edelmann Group, they also undergo examination by the doctor to ensure a healthy start and A team of Edelmann also registered to run a half implement any supportive and/or preventive measures in marathon in 2019. To prepare for this event, they were relation to their eyesight, hearing, posture or any special part of a special training for long trail running (Lauf working conditions required. gehts!). By sharing the joy of running, a great team spirit is experienced, and additional health benefits are achieved. Ten employees in total took the opportunity to Hearing our employees’ wishes participate. We have implemented health-related initiatives during In Heidenheim, every year a skiing trip is organized the reporting year based on the health survey completed internally. A fun outdoor atmosphere facilitates team in 2018. Following the suggestions of our employees, building and combines health benefits with fostering a as of January 2019, 3 yoga courses held during lunch motivational team spirit. Thereby the work atmosphere break in Heidenheim took place. Each course lasts three is expected to improve for future joint work. months on average, and the total participants for 2019 were 44. This opportunity is not only a motivation for In Poland, the Edelmann run team was established for the employees to care for their bodies, but also an a variety of marathons. For example, six employees improvement to their overall mental and physical health. participated in the Independence Run in 2019. Additionally, to address a common concern of back pain, a special back training in cooperation with an instructor from the local sports club (Heidenheimer Sport-Bund) was implemented and started in January 2019. 32 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY (OHS) We are committed to a safe, injury-free workplace. Within Edelmann Group, this material topic refers to regulations, policies, legislation and actions taken to ensure well-being of our employees and a safe work environment. Each Edelmann site has a responsible health and safety manager, while the Global Head of OHS is located in our headquarters, proactively managing the responsible team worldwide. Monthly OHS reports with KPIs are delivered to the Global Head of OHS for centralized data collection and monitoring. No fatal injuries were registered during the reporting year. Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts is managed directly by the responsible team through the OHS system in place, hazards assessments and employee trainings. Edelmann Health and Safety Policy developed in 2018 communicates our commitment towards the issue. OHS management system Hazards assessment All Edelmann Group plants have a corresponding Either required by law or voluntarily implemented, our OHS management system implemented. As the local plants perform an independent hazards assessment regulations and national standards vary from country annually or every two years, executed by a third-party to country, each site adjusts its practices to follow organization. The goal is to identify potential risks in legislation combined with their own initiatives on OHS relation to substances, noise, dust, machines and work improvements. Examples of regulating bodies across processes as well as develop preventive measures and/or Edelmann Group are Arbeitssicherheitsausschuss (ASA) for require immediate or potential future actions. Therefore, German sites, Comissão Interna de Prevenção de Acidentes hazards assessment reports are classified into: (CIPA) in Brazil or Centralny Instytut Ochrony Pracy Państwowy Instytut Badawczy (CIOP-PIB) in Poland. The » Work activity; core goal is to prevent work-related accidents and advise » Hazard cause; on mandatory practices along with recommendations » Protective measure; to promote preventive measures against injuries and » Risk category; diseases. 100% of our employees are covered by the » Improvement measure implemented OHS system, including subcontractors. (obligatory or recommended) General preventive measures, such as production shoes, earplugs, special uniform are implemented across all Audits from the reporting year have not revealed any sites. high-risk activities, while all recommendations will be implemented in within the course of the next 2 years, We follow sector-specific guidelines, classified as including several preventive measures. In addition to manufacturing, that allows us to recognize potential the assessment provided by an independent third-party risks linked to the industry. All plants function by the audit, an internal procedure is in place to ensure that combination of their internal OHS employees and external all new substances are safe to the employees. Hence, audit organizations to support them in risk assessment. It any development or introduction of a new substance is is very common to have an external advisor who follows thoroughly checked to make sure that it does not pose the implementation of required actions. Monthly safety any risk for our employees. meetings are held internally to discuss current topics and monitor the progress. 33 Employee safety training Training is the fundamental measure to ensure health Detailed instructions and guidelines are available for and safety of our employees. Appointed OHS managers each category, describing the material, process or are responsible for development, implementation and activity, followed by the explanation of safety signs monitoring of the training procedure, sharing the best and preventive measures. All training sessions are practices among each other. While our administration documented and require a signature of a supervisor and workers are trained annually on safe work practices the employee in question. The regular procedures were and protection measures in case of visiting productions completed in 2019. floors, the main focus is on ensuring a safe workplace Employee engagement for production employees who deal with potentially risky work activities, processes and substances. The full All safety guidelines are available through Edelmann’s training program is obligatory for all new employees, Intranet that can be accessed by any employee. As an while the existing workers are trained annually and improvement to this efficient communication measure, upon demand, i.e. if new substances or machines were all instructions were also printed and spread over introduced. Overall, the trainings are divided into: production floors in 2019 for easier access that does not require Intranet use. Our employees participate » General briefings in development and modification of the existing OHS (why it is important, how it is managed); system by either directly communicating their message » Tool usage instructions (e.g. forklifts); to the responsible manager or through a labour union » Substance instructions (e.g. flammable liquids) representative, such as in France and Hungary. the USA » Different work activity instructions plant implements an employee suggestion program, (e.g. stacking, lifting and carrying items) facilitating communication process. All Edelmann » Fire safety; employees have the right to remove themselves from » Procedure in case of emergency; work situations that they assume could cause them or » Procedure in case of an injury; their colleagues injury or any kind of danger. » General health and safety instructions (e.g. production safety shoes, recommendations on sitting posture for admin employees) 34 OHS KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Our long-term goal is to reach zero accidents, while the goal 2022 is ≤1 in Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR) as a global average per 100,000 working hours. Therefore, in order to keep an accurate track record, the following data is collected every month: total number of injuries, injuries of <3 days lost, injuries of >3 days lost and injury causes. Monthly data collection is then followed by the annual review. The year 2019 has brought tremendous improvements in relation TOTAL INJURIES to all KPIs, including total injuries and more importantly, LTIR. 100 The improved figures result from intensive work throughout the 84 83 80 year with bigger and smaller initiatives described on page 36. 66 One of the most remarkable advancements was accomplished 60 in our headquarters in Heidenheim, where the total injuries 40 went from 27 to 14. Several plants reached 0 accidents in 2019, namely Lindau, Leverkusen, Hungary and China. For that reason, 20 they are not included in the chart. 0 2017 2018 2019 With the LTIR of 1.7 achieved in 2019, we have approached the goal 2022 even closer, and the overall progress is on a good way. GLOBAL LTIR PER 100,000 WORKING HOURS 3 2,6 2 1,7 1 not measured 0 2017 2018 2019 INJURIES PER PLANT 16 14 12 10 10 8 6 4 7 4 7 2 4 4 4 4 4 3 2 2 2 1 0 1 t t di DE la d an pl nc e DE US Braz tD DE lD a im n pl an ld A il E E In Po d w Fr a er ed ei m r ta he ol ne fe rs t ei up de ex Bi No lh pe n ic ex tt rd W He i o ico e W M M < 3 days lost > 3 days lost 35 OHS IMPROVEMENTS Multiple Health and Safety measures were implemented throughout 2019, already delivering the first positive results. Below we share some of the 2019 highlights. Heidenheim France » Coloured markings were arranged on all steps on the » Additional safety signs were installed on the production production floors to prevent accidental injuries caused floor by falling down while, for example, approaching the working station Poland » Replacement of emergency lighting with LED and Weilheim automatic central control » Potential mechanical hazards were identified during » Modernization of evacuation signs addition of the audit; therefore, preventive measures were taken lighting points, replacement of parts of loudspeakers by retrofitting the gluing machine » Verification of the location of fire extinguishers and » A missing marking of the fire extinguisher was restored additional marking of their proper use » The industrial truck was repaired to avoid uncontrolled » Operators of printing machines were trained on the shifts into the 2nd gear knowledge of fire protection rules with practical » Potential dangers in the use of certain auxiliary and exercises for using fire extinguisher and extinguishing operating materials and several hazardous substances » Update of hazards at work positions in 4 departments were found. Therefore, all colleagues from die-cutting at 13 positions and gluing departments were trained to minimize the » The principle of removing and inserting the tank by hazard impact. a team of three employees was introduced into the guidelines for the maintenance of printing machines Wuppertal with a WashStar tank. » The principle of documented familiarization with the » 23 small-scale improvements » Replacement of standard knives to safety knives to user manual and OHS instructions of the device before starting its repair for the first time was introduced In prevent cuts » Optimization of outdoor lighting to secure safe work in the Maintenance Department the evening/night shifts » Installation of protective boards in the die-cutting area India to protect against cuts » Safety shoes, cut-resistant gloves & protective eyeglasses were provided to the employees for the first China time » Earplugs were located at the entrance of the plant, » Secondary emergency exit was constructed in the easily attainable by the workers canteen » Warning signs and operation guidelines were installed » Fire alarm system was modified on the wall of the chemical storeroom Mexico plants » First aid courses were carried out for all production employees » Practical course in case of fires was held » Safety signs and visual aids were implemented on the production floor 36 LOCAL COMMUNITIES ENGAGEMENT AND DONATIONS – GLOBAL IMPACT The local communities where Edelmann Group is operating are of high importance to us. It is both a privilege and an obligation to give back to the society. The main goal is to socially engage with long-term impact. These projects are organised by the plants themselves only in cooperation with the local authorities to acquire, maintain and improve a good relationship with our local institutions. All donations, monetary and non-monetary are provided only to ethical and legal institutions, and we dissociate from any kind of bribery. Other than that, all plants have freedom of choice regarding what kind of organisations they want to promote and in which way. No negative incidents were registered during the reporting period, including the rights of indigenous people. China Lindau Our plant in Beijing sponsored the printing support for 2 Lindau plant made donations to the Lindau Children’s events in 2019. One of them is the Annual Mad Dog Charity Festival as well as to the Children‘s Festival Weißensberg festival raising money for orphaned children around in 2019. Additionally, flyers and feedback sheets are Beijing. The second event is the German Ball arranged sponsored by the plant for the support of “2019 Trainees’ annually by the German Chamber raising funds for various Day Lindau”. charity groups in China. We are proud to support these kind initiatives with our printing expertise. Heidenheim Following our annual practice in the headquarters, a Brazil Kids’ Day was organized for the six children of 8-9 years 5% of the working force in Brazil are students, and we old coming from a local school. They had a plant tour, are happy to support them financially to maintain the learnt about the printing process through an interactive possibility for a prosperous professional career and a educational video and glued a few folding boxes on their good life quality. own. This way, we can encourage the creativity of the little ones and promote the printing industry from an early age. India Our plant in Chandigarh, India engages in numerous charities and sponsorships. Among them is the donation USA for community kitchens to support the everyday routine of The plant in Ontario donated money to the local Boys and the locals. Local temples are also financially supported by Girls club to support the development of their activities. the Indian site to allow development and improving the Additionally, as in the previous years, we hosted tour quality of conditions. Additionally, in 2019, sponsorship groups from local schools to expose students to the types was allocated to the 51st annual Himachal Pradesh Police of work that we do and types of job opportunities that Sports Meet. As for the sports promotion, local cricket students can expect from the printing industry. tournaments are supported. Poland Every year, including 2019, our Polish plant organizes a picnic to celebrate the Children’s Day and share the good moments together in a local community. 37 HUNGARY – OUR BENCHMARK PLANT FOR THE SUPPORT OF LOCAL COMMUNITIES Recognizing the great efforts our Hungarian plant is undertaking to support the local communities, we would like to share the highlights of 2019. Among them is the gratitude and acknowledgement from the city government as one of the biggest taxpayers of Zalaegerszeg, in recognition of decisive role in the dynamic development of the town, thanks to the support of further development and operation of the town, and for patronizing cultural, educational and sports life. Blood donation Other initiatives 39 employees have participated in the blood donation Numerous other acts of kindness included regular support 2019. of the S.O.S. children’s village, University students from Zalaegerszeg, Church renovation, Animal Protection Association (Animal shelter), General Vascular Surgery Charity run for premature babies Center, National Judo Student Olympics 2019, Sports and Every year in May, including 2019, employees have the Cultural Association, Local government Heart Medicine chance to participate in the Charity Run for Premature and Anesthesia for Your Safety program. Infants as one of their social activities. The race is organized by the Ambulance of Prematurity and the Charity for the intensive Care of Children. The race is done in teams which have to conquer a trail run over 56 km. The joy of running is combined with raising money for the Premature Babies Foundation. Many ways to do good A new washing machine was donated to one of the local kindergartens, Lakhegy, who needed it – a small action with big impact proving once again that any effort for a good reason can make a difference. Additionally, to support the local high school, the plant also bought a TV for educational purposes. Even more meaningful was the support of Zalaegerszeg Ambulance Station where rescue equipment was provided and allowed greater support of severely injured and sick locals. “Thank you” gift from the kindergarten kids 38 EDELMANN FOUNDATION In 2007, the shareholding family of Edelmann established the “Edelmann Stiftung” – a foundation based in Heidenheim. The purpose of this charity foundation is to generate resources to support art and culture, sport, help for young people and the elderly, public welfare, science and research as well as the protection and maintenance of historic monuments. The foundation has since then financially supported more than 100 facilities and projects with approximately EUR 250.000 – primarily in Edelmann´s hometown of Heidenheim and the local area. In 2019 the Edelmann Foundation made donations to more than 20 initiatives. The major beneficiaries include “Zukunftsakademie Heidenheim” (Academy of future youth and enthusiasm in Heidenheim), “Kinderschutzbund Heidenheim e.V.” (Child protection association in Heidenheim) and “Opernfestspiele Heidenheim” (Open air Opera Festival Heidenheim). Open air Opera Festival 2019. Both photos by Oliver Vogel. 39 EDELMANN SPONSORSHIP The Edelmann Sponsorship engages in sports and educational support of the local area centralized around Heidenheim. Among the beneficiaries are the internationally league playing baseball team and fencing equipe of Heidenheim as well as the German second league playing soccer team 1. FC Heidenheim. We are also proactively reinforcing multiple projects with schools and universities to strongly support the educational purpose apart from the sports engagement. We are committed to provide all possible resources to the local area and nurture the development of our hometown. It is our responsibility to extend the positive impact beyond the walls of our own plants. That is why we choose to sponsor associations that promote health, culture and education. The entire Edelmann Group is honoured to be part of this supporting movement that we will further develop in the future. 1.FC HEIDENHEIM SOCCER TEAM Photo: 1. FC Heidenheim HEIDEKÖPFE HEIDENHEIM BASEBALL TEAM HEIDENHEIMER SPORTBUND 1846 E.V. FENCING TEAM Fencing Days 2020. Photo by Maximilian Rist. 40 ENVIRONMENT www.edelmann-group.com OUR RAW MATERIALS INKS AND VARNISHES More than 60% of the inks and varnishes purchased for production facilities are waterbased, excluding the use of strong chemicals. We are committed to the use of inks, varnishes FINISHINGS and related products certified as free of conflict minerals and toxic heavy metals. The special Our main goal is to ensure that decorative focus of 2019 was to eliminate the usage finishings do not limit the recyclability of our of mineral oil-based inks, where we have products. Therefore, we are in continuous successfully launched multiple projects with research and development of innovative our customers to facilitate the transition. solutions. The year 2019 marks the internal development of PET lamination alternatives that maintain the glossy effect and allow us to build a strong environmental portfolio. BOARD / PAPER We promote mono material packaging, therefore aiming to minimize all composite We work exclusively with the material solutions. cartonboard/paper as the main raw material that comprises up to 95% of the finished product. Cartonboard is a renewable and recyclable material that allows us to maximize the environmental performance of our solutions. We rely on our key suppliers to ensure the wood comes from controlled sources, including FSC, where 100% of our board suppliers can ensure availability, while 90% of our plants are certified. GLUE The glue is used to ensure folding box sealing and closing. We use standard glues which enter a smooth recycling process. 42 CIRCULAR ECONOMY Our commitment to the principles of circular SOURCING: thanks to the support of our key board suppliers, we rely economy is at the core of our environmental on certified environmental declarations to evaluate the impact from strategy. It is our approach in the evaluation the forest to the sheets. of our customers’ product portfolios, assessment of the alternative solutions and PRODUCTION: product-specific production steps are included based a general guideline of our thinking – holistic on plant-specific machines and circular. The lifecycle approach enables TRANSPORT: from the supplier to the plant and from the plant to the us to take good care of the scarce resources, customer minimize waste and ensure recyclability. While we have the internal capabilities to END CONSUMER: although this is an important part of the cycle, it is run the lifecycle assessments, we also offer outside our responsibility and influence certified calculations via CO₂ compensation END OF PRODUCT LIFE: depending on the recycling method, we are projects – read more on page 56. able to estimate the end of life impact SOURCING END OF PRODUCT LIFE PRODUCTION END CONSUMER TRANSPORT 43 CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT Following the lifecycle model described above, we took a The main focus of the workshops and our joint work with proactive approach to evaluate our customers’ portfolio the customers was centered around the following scope: and organize individual workshops with them to discuss all ideas and alternative suggestions. We followed the » Building a customer-specific sustainability same process with the selected customers. roadmap » Responding to the EU legislation of paper-based packaging » Select product ranges » Fresh versus recycled fibers » Perform lifecycle assessments » Lower board grammage and board alternatives ANALYZE » Suggest alternative solutions » Transport optimization » Customer-specific case studies » Product construction optimization » Finishings alternatives with the focus on PET lamination » Full-day workshop » Inks with the focus of elimination of mineral » Present all solutions & share oil-based inks SHARE feedback » Recyclability and influencing factors » Select “top” alternatives » FSC certification » Set up a follow-up action plan FOLLOW UP & » Continue joint work on the selected top runner solutions 3 full-day workshops » Perform required tests and with the key customers IMPLEMENT validation » Implement the most feasible solutions To enable the consolidation of all required knowledge, 5 small-scale workshops with the educational purpose for our customers we have established a working team that consists of colleagues from Commercial Development, Procurement, Key Account Management and Corporate Social Responsibility. 36 lifecycle assessments We have recognized that this proactive approach has completed for our customers brought a lot of benefits to strengthen the partnership with our customers. It was a great chance not only to present our solutions, but also share our sustainability journey and efforts across the Group that were very 244 hours much appreciated. invested in the preparation, development and execution 44 PET LAMINATION ALTERNATIVE SOLUTIONS One of the key environmental pillars of the Edelmann While some of the solutions are internal and unique, such Group is recyclability, meaning that it is our top priority to as calendar varnish to replace transparent lamination, make sure that our packaging can be recycled after usage. we have also partnered with our suppliers to explore Therefore, one of the main focus areas of development further possibilities available on the market. All solutions in 2019 was around the alternative solutions of PET were tested and validated at our facility, compiling an lamination on a folding box, which is known as a huge extensive analysis, including technical specifications, barrier in the recycling process. As the need for the environmental benefits and visual impact. The solutions glossy effects is very high among our customers, it is our were presented in our 8 customer workshops in 2019. Our responsibility to tackle the challenge. research and implementation will continue in 2020. A combination of PET lamination and cartonboard creates a so-called composite material. We closely follow all the legislative developments, including the Extended Producers’ Responsibility (EPR) and Essential Requirements Review, where composite material is clearly at risk. Therefore, among the environmental benefits and customer demand, legislation serves as an additional driver for the development of new solutions. 4 in-house solutions 3 in-house solutions 5 external solutions for metallic PET lamination for transparent PET lamination for metallic PET lamination 45 LESS IS MORE With the intention to develop solutions that aim at a minimum use of materials, we have launched a project “Less is more” – our initiative to optimize the construction of a folding box coming along with the environmental benefit of using less raw material, cartonboard. With the success of the pilot project where a creme jar was studied, we are capable of transferring this best practice to any other product, bearing in mind the necessary and sometimes restrictive features which cannot be eliminated for the sake of protection and safety of the core product. In total, 5 different construction optimizations were applied and tested, granting a possibility to move from 9 units on one printing sheet up to 36. That means it is possible to save up to 75% of the total material consumption. The initiative is customizable, as we fully understand that this type of solutions must be tailored to the needs of the customer. During the customer sustainability workshops in 2019, “Less is more” solutions were already presented, and a dedicated follow-up has started. 46 CARTONBOARD – OUR KEY RAW MATERIAL We are proud to support the responsible choice of TOTAL PAPER AND CARTONBOARD CONSUMPTION VS cartonboard as our key raw material – renewable INTENSITY INDICATOR and recyclable. The total consumption mainly 100.626 20 refers to cartonboard with an exception of Leaflet 100.000 89.950 89.408 Solutions located in Lindau and Leverkusen, where 80.000 15 paper consumption stands for more than 90% of 60.000 the total due to the nature of leaflet business. While 10 the total consumption has increased in 2019 mainly 40.000 5 due to the first-time inclusion of the Indian and the 20.000 new Mexican plants, the intensity value based on 0 0 a million of manufacturing units has remained the 2017 2018 2019 same – that means that we are still able to maintain Total paper and cartonboard consumption in tons the adequate use of resources with the growing Per million of manufacturing units production capacity. Driven by the customer demand, the share of recycled cartonboard has slightly increased from RECYCLED PAPER AND CARTONBOARD CONSUMPTION 25% to 26% in 2019. As we see recycled and fresh 30.000 40% fibers as part of one interlinked cycle, the existing 26.039 22.454 22.396 balance is proven to support a healthy fiber lifecycle. 30% 20.000 The year 2019 has shown a positive trend in the 20% increasing customer demand for FSCor PEFC10.000 10% certified materials. We have seen an increase, both in absolute and percentage values, where a reliable 0 0% proof is seen that our educational work with the 2017 2018 2019 customers is paying off. Even if the customers do Total recycled paper and cartonboard consumption in tons not request certified board for their products, we % of total consumption in tons still ensure that all wood is coming from controlled sources together with our board suppliers holding necessary certifications. CERTIFIED PAPER AND CARTONBOARD CONSUMPTION As of 2019, 90% of Edelmann plants are certified 30.000 40% with FSC Chain of Custody. 24.037 22.402 19.644 30% 20.000 20% 10.000 10% 0 0% 2017 2018 2019 Total certified paper and cartonboard consumption in tons % of total consumption in tons 47 OTHER RAW MATERIALS CONSUMPTION Apart from paper and cartonboard, inks and varnishes Harmonization of inks are used to print and decorate our products. Most inks Another initiative of 2019 was to harmonize our inks and varnishes are water-based (61%), excluding the use portfolio based on the types of inks and suppliers used of strong chemicals. We are committed to the use of inks, by the different plants. As a result, we have already seen varnishes and related products certified as free of conflict a positive trend in less ink waste, less ink cans needed minerals and toxic heavy metals. Therefore, following our thanks to the process optimization and easier handling regular practice, we have collected corresponding proof and disposal. Considering that our total production has of compliance, such as CONEG and section 1502 “Conflict increased, a decrease in the ink consumption signals a minerals” of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform Act, more efficient use of these raw materials as a result of provided by our major suppliers in 2019. Additionally, the harmonization project coordinated by our central as of 2019 we have collected the data on the glue procurement department in close collaboration with the consumption, as it is also one of the key materials used key suppliers. to seal the finished goods. One of the main topics in relation to these material INK BY TYPE groups was the mineral oil-based inks. Driven by the 8% 2% environmental concerns, we have launched a project to 9% facilitate a transition to non-mineral oil-based inks that we can offer already today without compromising the visual aspects. We are glad to report that the campaign 20% was launched with our key customers for a full transfer 61% eliminating mineral oil-based inks. The transfers were started by the end of 2019 and will be completed in the beginning of 2020. The estimated impact is more than 20 tons that will be transferred to non-mineral oil-based Water-based inks at the first stage of the project. Surely, we continue Vegetable oil-based to educate our customers through the sustainability UV Mineral oil-based workshops, and we target to use zero mineral oil-based Recycled inks by 2022, providing that our customers fully support the initiative. INK, VARNISH AND GLUE CONSUMPTION IN TONS 1.235 1.280 1.038 455 238 292 283 Ink consumption in tons Varnish consumption in tons Glue consumption in tons 2017 2018 2019 48 SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT Procurement is among the key functions that ensure our strong sustainability performance, as it provides guidance on the critical part of the value chain – sourcing of raw materials. As a guiding tool, we firmly follow our global Sustainable Procurement Policy that outlines the targets, commitments, actions and KPIs. The execution is led by the Head of Procurement located in the headquarters together with the local procurement teams per plant. All initiatives are centrally coordinated, and best practices are shared across the Group, including our close collaboration with the key suppliers, many of whom serve us globally. BOARD STANDARD SIZES INITIATIVE UPDATED SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT A dedicated project was launched in 2019 with the target Our Supplier Code of Conduct was updated during to optimize the different board sheet sizes. The current the reporting year. With the fast development of our total number of different sizes is 1800, as we tailor our sustainability commitments, we have seen the need to orders depending on the nature of the production jobs. extend the expectations from our suppliers and make Such a high number of different sizes is causing significant sure they share the same values and outlook. overdeliveries coming from the minimum order quantities that we have to follow. As a consequence, more waste is The updated Code of Conduct includes clauses on the generated from the unused material in stock. economic and general principles, such as anti-corruption, fair competition, money laundering, and data privacy, The initiative has the potential to decrease the to name a few. We have also significantly extended the total number of sheet sizes up to 350 and 10% less social responsibility and environmental expectations to overdeliveries as a result of harmonization process. match our sustainability agenda. When the project is completed, a single warehouse with As the update of the Supplier Code of Conduct was the consignment stock will be established serving the 7 extensive, we have collected the new signatures from German plants and the other European plants depending the key existing suppliers as well as the new suppliers on their needs. With this, we will be committed to 100% to confirm their commitment. We view our suppliers as full truck loads from our board suppliers. strategic partners who would assist us in strengthening our sustainable procurement practices through a continuous dialogue and collaboration. 20 clauses 85% in total were included in the updated of the existing key suppliers have CoC, covering economic, social and committed to the updated CoC environmental pillars over 85% 100% of sourcing is done locally with as high of the newly joined suppliers have as 60% in Americas and Asia committed to the updated CoC 49 SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT Edelmann Group has a long-standing relationship with its key suppliers, based on trust, transparency, and mutual interest towards a better future. In order to develop appropriate procedures that consider the order volumes, nature of the product/service and serving footprint, we follow a 3-level structure for our suppliers. Level 1 refers to the raw materials which are directly part of the finished goods, e.g. board, inks, varnishes and so forth. Level 2 includes the raw materials and services which are either directly in contact with the finished goods or have the potential to affect the quality and safety of the products. Level 3 refers to the administrative goods and services, having no link to our core products. For that reason, Level 1 and Level 2 are seen as critical, and Level 3 as basic, non-critical. EXISTING SUPPLIERS NEW APPROVAL PROCESS OF THE NEW SUPPLIERS Our internal supplier evaluation is implemented on the With the intention to maximize transparency and plant level, except global suppliers which are monitored credibility as well as to standardize supplier approval centrally in Global Procurement. The annual process process globally, we have established a new process includes the evaluation of 8 different pillars, including of digital supplier approval, split into different sustainability, where supporting evidence is assessed workflows for different supplier levels. As a rule, all such as the Sustainability Report, EcoVadis ranking, CDP standard details have to be provided along with a ranking along with our joint work, i.e. whether any self-assessment questionnaire, signed Supplier Code of projects were launched, how well-informed we stayed Conduct, confidentiality declaration, and the terms and throughout the year on the latest developments of conditions of purchase. Self-assessment includes, among the suppliers, especially with the focus on social and quality-related standards, all relevant questions on the environmental improvements. Under sustainability pillar, sustainability performance that have to be validated with criteria are listed with the corresponding weight. Each the corresponding certifications, reports or any other form criterion is assessed on the scale from 0 to 7. of proof. Level 1 and Level 2 suppliers are assessed by the authorized colleagues from the quality department in the Our priority is to focus on Level 1 and Level 2 suppliers, first place, followed by the evaluation by the procurement however, we have also started with the evaluation of department – upon positive confirmations from both, Level 3 suppliers, although they are not related to our the supplier can be added to the pool. Level 3 suppliers manufacturing process and/or finished goods. are only approved by the Procurement department, as no risk is involved. EVALUATION OF EXISTING SUPPLIERS 100% 100% 92% 95% 88% 80% 82% 80% 60% 40% 30% 20% 0% 100% Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2017 2018 2019 of Level 2 new suppliers were evaluated; the new platform will be in use as of 2020 100% of Level 1 new suppliers were evaluated, 30% of which with the new approval platform 50 ENERGY CONSUMPTION Energy efficiency is part of our Environmental Concept, committing to energy preservation initiatives. The scope includes our plants, tools, processes, equipment and everyday work practices. Each site employs a responsible manager who takes care of environmental development, including energy management. The Global Head of Environmental management is located in Heidenheim. Purchasing electricity generated from renewable sources, namely hydropower, still remains the most notable energy-related initiative for all 7 German plants. The power source has been verified by the German Federal Environmental agency. ENERGY CONSUMPTION OVERVIEW TOTAL NATURAL GAS CONSUMPTION VS INTENSITY INDICATOR The total energy consumption consists of electricity 20.000 4 consumption, district heating used in Poland 15.243 14.868 (936 MWh in 2019 – not included in the charts) and 15.000 13.683 3 natural gas for the rest of the sites. The natural gas consumption has decreased by 8% against 2018 and 10.000 2 by 10.2% against the base year 2017, accompanied by 5.000 1 the decrease of the intensity value from 2.8 in 2017 to 2.1 in 2019. 0 0 2017 2018 2019 The absolute total of electricity consumption has Total natural gas consumption (MWh) increased due to the first-time inclusion of the Indian Per million of manufacturing units and the new Mexican plants. However, looking at the intensity figure, we have remained at the same level as in 2018, maintaining a 3% improvement against TOTAL ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION VS INTENSITY INDICATOR the base year 2017. 50.000 10 41.766 Looking at the targets 2022, we are on a good way 36.981 38.188 40.000 8 to achieve our goals. The reason for a decrease in 30.000 6 renewable energy consumption is the reporting of the new locations in total consumption, while the sites 20.000 4 that use renewable electricity haven’t changed. 10.000 2 0 0 2017 2018 2019 Total electricity consumption (MWh) Per million of manufacturing units TARGETS VS RESULTS 100% 80% 80% 60% 54% 48% 40% 20% 7,14% 8,70% 10% 0% Total energy consumption intensity Renewable energy reduction per million of manufacturing units 2018 2019 Target 2022 51 ENERGY REDUCTION INITIATIVES GLOBAL PROJECTS BITTERFELD Some of our initiatives are implemented at the Group Significant optimizations were completed for the level. Examples from 2019 include: ventilation and heating systems, to name a few: LED lighting » Lowering the temperature in one of the We continue to implement LED lighting in our plants. Our production halls during summertime and use plants in Bitterfeld, Heidenheim (pharma production the heat generated by the machines instead; hall), Wuppertal and Brazil have successfully completed » The maximum flow temperature of the heaters the switch. was changed to a lower degree; » Automatic control of the heating pumps, so Energy efficiency of electronic devices that only 1 pump is working, while the reserve As of 2019, the consideration of energy efficiency is pump is turned off; prioritized in the selection of electronic devices, such as » The running schedule of the heaters in the of laptops, monitors, phones, etc. It has been implemented fices and changing rooms was adjusted from as a company policy. 24/7 to nighttime and weekend reductions; » Hot water schedule was adjusted from 24/7 to New forklifts a 5-hour shutdown on Sundays We have switched to a new forklift supplier, having purchased more than 100 forklifts globally for our The implemented measures in Bitterfeld already led to the plants. The new ones have fixed loading hours and first positive results: 74,5 MWh (8%) reduction in natural switch off automatically when they don’t need to be gas consumption and 267 MWh (12%) electricity savings charged anymore. in 2019. WEILHEIM HUNGARY The new heating control system is able to react sensitively Accomplished in 2016, an energy-efficient technology to climatic changes by heating or cooling more or less was developed for our Hungarian plant in collaboration in real time. As a result, heating and air conditioning with the experts from heating, ventilation, sanitation do not run permanently, but only need-based instead. and electrical installation. Latest technologies were Significant improvement was seen in 2019 with 461 implemented to address energy efficiency as part of our MWh (37,1%) reduction in natural gas consumption and environmental agenda. We continue to see the benefits 167 MWh (8,8%) in electricity use. with the natural gas consumption having decreased by a whopping 39% (436 MWh) in 2019 compared against 2018. LEVERKUSEN Smaller actions can also make an impact. With that, our INDIA plant in Leverkusen has implemented small measures, such as switching off compressed air systems during the The introduction of the automatic mode of operating weekend and turning the lights off in the unused areas cooling towers has enabled energy savings from an average during the night shifts. consumption of 75 MWh/month in 2018 to 62,5 MWh/ month in 2019 that equals to 17% saving improvement. 52 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS We fully realize the responsibility of company activities in relation to the climate change, therefore it is among the key pillars of our environmental agenda. Our commitment starts with the Environmental Policy and directly managed by a team of responsible environmental managers, led by the central function based in our headquarters, Heidenheim. We report on Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 GHG emissions. We have set a target to reduce our total Scope 1 and Scope 2 (location-based) emissions by 10% in intensity value per manufacturing unit by 2022. We have approached closer to accomplish the target during the reporting year, reaching 5,2% reduction against the base year 2017. TOTAL SCOPE 1 GHG EMISSIONS (in tons of CO₂e)VS INTENSITY INDICATOR 4.000 0,8 Scope 1 direct GHG emissions: arising from stationary 3.088 3.182 2.928 combustion, our Scope 1 emissions come from the use of 3.000 0,6 natural gas. Thanks to the initiatives during the reporting 2.000 0,4 year, not only the absolute value has decreased by 8%, but 1.000 0,2 also the intensity value went down. The emissions were 0 0 calculated based on the calculation guidance developed 2017 2018 2019 by Greenhouse Gas Protocol – in conformance with GHG Protocol standards. Read more about our initiatives on page Total Scope 1 GHG emissions 52. Per million of manufacturing units Scope 2 indirect GHG emissions: these emissions refer TOTAL SCOPE 2 GHG EMISSIONS LOCATION-BASED to the generation of purchased energy, i.e. purchased AND MARKET-BASED (in tons of CO₂e) electricity. We report based on both location-based and market-based approach. Country-specific GHG indices 25.000 20.737 17.109 17.527 were used for location-based method and residual mixes 20.000 15.000 12.888 for market-based emission levels. As all German plants 8.659 8.491 10.000 run on renewable electricity, their value for market-based 5.000 approach is respectively 0, allowing us to keep the market0 based emissions at a relatively low level. Since our target is 2017 2018 2019 to run 80% of our plants on renewable electricity, we are Total Scope 2 GHG emissions location-based expecting to minimize our Scope 2 market-based emissions Total Scope 2 GHG emissions market-based by 2022 – read more on page 51. Scope 3 other indirect emissions: indirect emissions arise TOTAL SCOPE 3 GHG EMISSIONS (in tons of CO₂e) VS INTENSITY INDICATOR from the activities happening outside the company itself, but still belonging to the value chain. In the year 2017, 80.000 69.809 15 62.967 we only reported on the emissions generated by waste 60.000 10 and water, which is the reason for such a low value on 40.000 the chart. As of 2018, we have included further reporting 20.000 5 categories: purchased goods, capital goods, upstream and 1.281 0 0 downstream transportation, employee commuting and 2017 2018 2019 end of life treatment of sold products. While the absolute emission levels have increased by 10,8% due to the firstTotal Scope 3 GHG emissions time inclusion of the Indian and the new Mexican plants, Per million of manufacturing units the intensity figure per million of manufacturing units has decreased by 4%. 53 CLIMATE CHANGE Enough sufficient evidence exists showing the impact of businesses on the development of global warming. Edelmann CDP takes Group SCORE theREPORT initiativeCLIMATEto reduce CHANGE its GHG emissions 2019 with clear targets, timeline and action plan. Our commitment transparent through the membership isEdelmann The CDPofScore Carbon Disclosure companies to Project (CDP), where Edelmann Group reports annually Report allows understand their score and indicate which on climate change. The reporting, later on require categories assessedattention inexternally order to reach and independently, includes risks and opportunities Region Europe higher levels. This enables companies to in relation to climate change, governance structure, progress towards environmental energy stewardship consumption, GHG emissions and reduction initiatives, Country through benchmarking and comparison with where all areGermany reported on the Group level globally. Weimprove aretheir pleased to be recognized with Arating in 2019, bringing Edelmann Questionnaire Group Generalto the Leadership tier. peers, in order climate governance. Investors CDP to continuously SCORE REPORT CLIMATE CHANGE 2019 will additionally receive a copy of the CDP Score Report upon request. For further feedback please contact your Activity Group account manager of your key CDP contact. Print & publishing services CATEGORY SCORES Your CDP Average performance score ABC C Print & publishing Global Europe services Average UNDERSTANDING YOUR SCORE REPORT Edelmann received a Awhich is in the Leadership band. This is higher than the Europe regional average of C, and higher than the Print & publishing services sector average of B-. Leadership (A/A-): Implementing current best practices Management (B/B-): Taking coordinated action on climate issues Awareness (C/C-): Knowledge of impacts on, and of, climate issues Disclosure (D/D-): Transparent about climate issues ACTIVITY GROUP PERFORMANCE Print & publishing services If a company scored C or below, they will not have been scored for management or leadership points (the d line represents this). Please download the ‘CDP Scoring Introduction’ for more information. ItYour is company remarkableis amongst 13% see anthatimprovement reached Leadership levelfrom toof companies C toof Ain A sample A-listin such a short period of time, proving once again how crucial companies past years have been for the Group in from your Activity Group the ouryoursustainability Activity Group: journey, especially its environmental part. Our rating 2019 is outperforming the industry averageThere as arewell as the no A-List companies in European and global average performance. While most of the CDP indicators, such as risk management yourand Activity reduction global A List Group. View the fullinitiatives, are within A-B range, we still have room for improvement in our energy reporting and emissions – it is our strong focus for the next year. Additionally, we were granted with A rating for CDP Supplier Engagement, being included in the A list of 2019. Scenario analysis No, but we anticipate doing so in the next two years Each category score in the bar chart represents the progression within each scoring level. The Introduction and Verifica categories have not been included for category score breakdown as they are not scored at Management and Leadershi Scoring categories are groupings of questions and are subgroups of the 2019 questionnaire. Weightings are applied to reflect the relative importance of each category to progress climate stewardship. The weighting applied to each categor across sectors to highlight the areas most important to environmental stewardship in specific sectors. To find out more category weightings for each sector, please download the ‘CDP Scoring Categories and Weighting’ documents. *Please note, if your company has not been presented with questions C2.5 and C2.6 then the category score for Busine and Financial Planning will be displayed as zero. Please check your submitted response for further information. 54 SMALL-SCALE INITIATIVES WITH BIG IMPACT We believe that smaller actions can also become significant and create a meaningful positive impact. Having said that, we are in continuous search to improve our everyday work practices and find alternative solutions with the benefit to the environment. Below are some of the examples implemented in 2019. Environmentally friendly Avoiding single-use plastics Changing waste contractors in cleaning solutions We follow the latest regulations very Poland Edelmann Group is now a user closely, including the single-use Our plant in Poland has analyzed of cleaning solutions supplied by plastics Directive. In response to that where they can optimize their Tana-Chemie (Werner & Mertz and as a responsible choice, we have transportation schemes. As a result, Group), known for their green cancelled the use of all single-use we found out that the 2 waste care PROFESSIONAL products. The plastics in the office area, such as contractors can be switched to ingredients of these cleaning solutions plastic cutlery, one-time use coffee alternative service providers. Not are classified as safe for people and cups and sweets packed in single-use only the response time has improved, environment, avoiding the use of plastics. but also the transportation distances dangerous and banned substances. have been decreased. Considering Additionally, Tana-Chemie only uses The impact was especially visible the fact that the waste is picked up 100% post-consumer plastic for the in our headquarters, where a lot of several times a week, this change bottle packaging this highlights external visitors such as our suppliers will definitely deliver a higher the importance of circularity for all and customers arrive daily. The environmental impact than initially components of the products. process was implemented with either expected. seeking for sustainable alternatives We have switched to the green to specific products, or in most cases, complete elimination. New warehouse in the USA cleaning solutions used in the office space in our headquarters in We have also applied this practice By the end of 2019, the US plant has 2019, while further switch in other to the giveaways that we regularly finalized preparations to switch to locations is planned for 2020. provide to our business partners a new warehouse for the finished and customers. The new giveaway goods that significantly decreases “We are amazed how a negative package does not include any singletransportation distance to the environmental impact can be use plastics to support the initiative warehouse – almost three times less. minimized with the changes that may and make more responsible choices. As a result, we are able to combine seem to be so small, but so significant agility with better environmental when we consider the entire product performance. lifecycle” – says our CEO, Dr. Frank Hornung. 55 CO₂ COMPENSATION Edelmann Group is among a few packaging manufacturers who can support customers in providing a full carbon footprint of the products, ranges or specific orders via CO₂ Compensation Program. We use an external calculation tool certified by The Climate Initiative of the Printing and Media Industries Federations. The calculation includes the whole chain from the production of cartonboard to the final product, covering all transportation, specific machines used and commuting of employees. Once the customers receive a detailed overview, they may choose to invest in CO₂ neutral projects, thereby compensating their own carbon footprint. For this purpose, we collaborate with certified organisation regulating the ongoing projects. The CO₂ calculator follows a reliable accounting model designed for the needs of the printing industry. All key differences are carefully taken into account, such as different sorts of cartonboard having varying carbon footprint depending on the quality and suppliers. The calculator complies with the methods for Lifecycle assessments and Carbon Balance Calculations – DIN/ISO 14040, 14044 and 14067, as well as DIN/ISO 16759, all of which are well-recognized in the industry and beyond. Investments in various CO₂-neutral projects are possible via the program depending on the compensation value. Examples include a project in Mut District, Turkey, where 11 wind turbines generate enough clean energy for 50,000 local households or an initiative in Mali, West Africa, where efficient cook stoves require less fuel consumption and prevent deforestation. As a result, less carbon dioxide is released, protecting the local area and supporting the health of the locals. Our customers are always encouraged to participate and compensate their carbon footprint. The ongoing projects contribute to an average of 100,000 tons of CO₂ savings, and Edelmann Group is proud to be part of this network. 131 tons of CO₂e were compensated during 2019 5 million folding boxes in scope 56 WATER CONSUMPTION AND BIODIVERSITY Water as a vital natural resource is addressed in our environmental roadmap and starts with the commitment to the Water Policy developed in 2018. Both water management and biodiversity are regulated by our environmental managers in cooperation with the respective service providers. Water The nature of Edelmann’s business operations does not TOTAL WATER CONSUMPTION AND WASTE WATER IN M³ require an extensive use of water. Most of the total 120.000 water consumption comes to sanitary usage, entering 100.614 the municipal sewage system afterwards. The resource 100.000 is also utilized for humidification to meet the storage 80.000 70.086 74.649 66.518 conditions for cartonboard and as an additional benefit, 60.000 55.752 keep the humidity level sufficient enough to support the 52.849 health of production employees. Only 10% of the total 40.000 consumption is process water. For that reason, we do not 20.000 assign intensity indicators for water. 0 The reason for a significantly higher consumption in 2019 2017 2018 2019 is the first-time inclusion of the Indian and the new Total water consumption in m³ Total waste water in m³ Mexican plant in the reporting. However, many plants individually performed very well in reduction initiatives and decreased their consumption by: 11% in Heidenheim, Biodiversity 2% in Bitterfeld and 24% in Weilheim. With our respect to the importance of biodiversity, it does not belong to the material topics, as Edelmann No water bodies were affected by the operations of Group does not own, lease or manage any operational Edelmann Group during the reporting year, therefore sites which are within or adjacent to protected areas or bearing no impact upon nationally or internationally areas of high biodiversity value. Consequently, Edelmann protected water areas and related habitat. Group does not put any risk upon any endangered species of flora and fauna at any time, including the period of the Water initiatives reporting year. Although water is not the key resource used in the Additionally, Edelmann Group has not received any fines manufacturing process, we still strive for continuous or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with improvement in everyday work practices, such as taps environmental laws and regulations during the reporting with sensors and minor improvements in the production year for all environmental indicators, such as water, processes and machines. With that, our plant in Brazil energy, biodiversity, waste, and emissions. has completed the technical improvements on the gluing line that will contribute to improved results in the next reporting year. Similarly, the old plant in Mexico adjusted the control systems supplying water to the two machines that helps to avoid even minimum water spills and supply just the right amount of water. Additionally, as we have seen with the reporting of the Indian plant in 2019, the high water consumption was addressed in several water-saving projects launched in 2019, where an average reduction of as high as 25% was already seen in the beginning of 2020 and will be fully reported next year. 57 WASTE MANAGEMENT As a strong supporter of circular economy, Edelmann Group takes responsible care for the generated waste and its disposal. All production waste is handled by the corresponding waste disposal contractors, while our internal environmental managers ensure that the system in place corresponds to the local regulations. Although countryspecific infrastructure represents a diverse range of approaches, recycling remains the leading method for most of the waste categories. For example, 100% of board and paper is recycled by our suppliers to produce degraded board qualities, and 100% of printing plates are returned to the supplier for further processing. TYPE OF WASTE CLASSIFICATION 2017 (IN TONS) 2018 (IN TONS) 2019 (IN TONS) Paper / cartonboard Non-hazardous 23,249 23,339 26,749 Plastics Non-hazardous 269 234 989 Metals Non-hazardous 124 117 295 Compost Non-hazardous 4 4 26 Industrial waste Hazardous 199 174 275 Waste from the Hazardous 77 76 3,126 photographic industry Wood, wooden pallets Non-hazardous 54 56 156 Printing plates Non-hazardous 111 Others Non-hazardous 646 363 469 TOTAL 24,622 24,364 32,196 Summary of 2019 Significant increases in the reporting year are caused by the inclusion of the following plants: India, new Mexican plant as well as Leverkusen, Weilheim and China, for which the waste data was not available before. Looking at the total waste compared against the intensity value, it is visible that we have remained on the same level. The leading waste category remains paper and cartonboard. No hazardous waste was imported or exported by or on behalf of Edelmann Group based on the terms of the Basel Convention (Annex I, II, III, and VIII). There were no significant spills during the reporting year. Initiatives In our efforts to improve the overall waste management performance, measures were implemented during the reporting year. The most remarkable development TOTAL WASTE IN TONS VS INTENSITY INDICATOR took place in France, where the plant reorganized the 40.000 10 collection and waste disposal system. Close collaboration 32.196 with the waste contractor resulted in better waste sorting 30.000 8 and separation, therefore, more waste containers were 24.622 24.364 6 installed outside and picked up more regularly by the 20.000 waste contractor based on the waste type. 4 10.000 Additionally, we have launched a program in Heidenheim 2 with the target to use up the board stock that would 0 0 otherwise go to waste, as the storage time is limited 2017 2018 2019 due to the quality reasons. With that, before placing Total waste in tons Per million of manufacturing units an order for the new material, the existing stock was carefully checked and used up whenever possible. With that, we have decreased the cartonboard waste by more than 500 tons in Heidenheim. 58 CSR MEMBERSHIPS EcoVadis is among the leading sustainability ratings, UN Global Compact encourages businesses worldwide covering reporting on environment, business ethics, to follow sustainable and socially responsible policies, labour and human rights and sustainable procurement. and to report on their implementation. Edelmann Edelmann Group currently holds a Silver medal in Group commits to the ten principles through annual recognition of sustainability achievements. We have communication on progress. We have been a member improved our scoring from 55 to 61 in 2019. since 2016. CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) is an organisation aiming to make environmental reporting and risk Sedex is the largest platform for sharing responsible management a business norm. Edelmann Group reports sourcing data. Our sites in Heidenheim, Weilheim, on climate change annually. We have tremendously Norderstedt, Mexico, India, Hungary, Brazil and China are improved our result, reaching ARating and achieving Sedex members, reporting either through SMETA audits or the Leadership level. self-assessment questionnaires. 59 GRI INDEX Page number GRI Standard and UNGC reference GRI 102 General 102-1 Name of the organization 3 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 5, 8, 9 102-3 Location of headquarters 5 102-4 Location of operations 7 102-5 Ownership and legal form 12 102-6 Markets served 9 102-7 Scale of the organization 6 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 21, 24 102-9 Supply chain 49, 50 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 102-12 External initiatives 59 102-13 Membership of associations 59 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour 11 102-18 Governance structure 18 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 13 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 28 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 13 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 13, 44, 50 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 16 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 3, 16 102-47 List of material topics 16 102-48 Restatements of information 102-49 Changes in reporting 6 102-50 Reporting period 3 102-51 Date of most recent report 3 102-52 Reporting cycle 3 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 64 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 3 102-55 GRI content index 60-63 GRI 103 MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary At the beginning of each chapter 103-2 The management approach and its components At the beginning of each chapter 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach At the beginning of each chapter 60 GRI 200 Economic 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 6 202-1 Rations of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage 30 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community 21 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 37-40 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 49 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 28 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 26, 28 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 28 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices 28 GRI 300 Environmental 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 47-48 301-2 Recycled input materials used 47 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 51 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 52 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource 57 303-5 Water consumption 57 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 57 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity 57 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 53 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 53 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 53 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 52, 55, 56 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 57 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 58 306-3 Significant spills 58 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste 58 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff 57 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 57 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 49-50 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken N/A 61 GRI 400 social 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 21 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees 31 401-3 Parental leave 31 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 30 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 33-34 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation 33-34 403-3 Occupational health services 32 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational health and safety 34 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 26, 34 403-6 Promotion of worker health 32 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly linked by business relationships 33-34 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management system 33 403-9 Work-related injuries 35 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 26 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 26 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 26 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 21-23 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 30 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 28 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk N/A 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labour N/A 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour N/A 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people 37 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments N/A 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 26, 28-29 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 37-40 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities N/A 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 49-50 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken N/A 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories 43-46 62 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services N/A UN GLOBAL COMPACT REFERENCE Principle 1 28-31 Principle 2 26, 29-31 Principle 3 28 Principle 4 29-30 Principle 5 28 Principle 6 21-23, 28, 30 Principle 7 19,43,51,54 Principle 8 44-46, 48, 52, 55, 56-58 Principle 9 10, 44-46, 52 Principle 10 26, 28-29 63 FURTHER INFORMATION AND CONTACTS Further information on sustainability at Edelmann Group is available at: www.edelmann-group.com Project Management and Point of Contact for Content-related Questions: Elina Iamsia CSR Coordinator , Edelmann GmbH Steinheimer Straße 45 89518 Heidenheim, Germany Phone: +49 7321 340 310 E-Mail: elina.iamsia@edelmann-group.com Website: https://www.edelmann-group.com Text: Elina Iamsia, Edelmann Group Design: Madlen Goal, Edelmann Group www.edelmann-group.com
