Contents We are DPDgroup Page 4 DrivingChangeTM in a nutshell Page 8 Employer of choice Page 16 Carbon neutral commitment Page 22 Smart urban delivery Page 28 Closer communities Page 36 Innovative entrepreneurship Page 44 2 3 Our vision 2019 was another challenging year for parcel operators with strengthened competition, driver shortages, increasing last mile delivery costs, and more stringent urban operating rules to fight congestion and pollution in dense urban areas. Conscious of our responsibility towards the planet and its people, we continued to roll out our Corporate Social Responsibility programme DrivingChangeTM, that supports our core business priorities and society's evolving needs. A great shift is taking place. A global community demanding climate action and cleaner air. At DPDgroup, we recognise we are part of the problem. But we are also in a unique position to help. For the planet, we have pursued our sector-leading carbon neutral commitment since 2012 by implementing low carbon technologies on the road and in our facilities. In particular, we are decreasing our footprint and neutralising the remaining emissions by investing in emission free energy production projects. In 2019, DPDgroup deployed more than 100 smart urban delivery solutions throughout Europe, in cities such as London, Dublin, and Hamburg including urban facilities with customer-centric features and low-emission delivery methods. We are making ambitious investments in solutions for the future. For example, Chronopost in France has made deliveries in Paris with 100% lowemission vehicles since mid 2019, a first in our sector in Europe. Our delivery experts play a key role for cities and their citizens. Through our fleet and our depots, we decided to measure air quality levels (PM 2.5) in real time, street by street providing a free, comprehensive picture of air pollution levels for city authorities and DPD consignees. We chose to do this because we know that information inspires action. This report forms our annual Communication on Progress, in line with La Poste’s CSR strategy, our shareholder. We confirm our commitment to the Sustainable Development Goals, which nurture our sustainability strategy. We are DPDgroup In 2020, our operating environment became more challenging due to the global Covid-19 pandemic. More than ever, on behalf of DPDgroup, I express my continued support for the UN Global Compact and renew our ongoing com­mitment to the initiative and its principles. Boris Winkelmann Executive Vice President 4 5 DPDgroup Who we are at a glance Activity in volume: Present through our 46,000 own operations in DPDgroup combines innovative technology and local knowledge to provide a flexible and user-friendly service for both shippers and shoppers. With its industry-leaPickup points 23 European ding Predict service, DPDgroup is setting a new standard countries for convenience by keeping customers closely informed about their delivery. 55% +9% With 77,000 delivery experts and a network of more than Growth in BtoC in 46,000 Pickup points, DPDgroup delivers 5.3 million parEurope (in volume) cels each day – 1.3 billion parcels per year – through its DPD, Chronopost, SEUR and BRT brands. The largest in BtoB DPDgroup is the parcel delivery network of GeoPost, parcel delivery which posted sales of €7.8 billion in 2019. GeoPost is a network and holding company owned by Le Groupe La Poste. in Europe 77,000 45% +13.5% delivery experts intra-european volume growth Our commercial brands in 2018 in BtoC +1,000 hubs & depots Parcels 5.3 million 7.8 billion delivered to over carbon neutral parcels delivered per day euros revenue (6.7% growth revenue vs 2018) 230 countries A NEW EUROPEAN RECORD OF 9.3 million 1.3 billion parcels delivered carbon neutral parcels on Cyber Monday (2 december 2019) delivered in 2019 6 7 DrivingChangeTM in a nutshell Key figures Ambitions SDG of our business units have implemented 100% our Code of Business Conduct. Employer 84% of our staff have permanent contracts. Providing a mindful, of choice in training per employee between 2017 and 2019. respectful and ethical +37% (14.3 hours vs 10.4). workplace. 29% women in the workforce. -14% CO2 emissions reduction per parcel in 2019 (vs 2013). Carbon neutral 100% of our transport and energy consumption offset in 2019 Making every parcel we commitment (the equivalent of 1 046 184 t CO2e). deliver carbon neutral. N°1 in the voluntary carbon offset sector, in the CEP sector. 4.55 Average age of fleet vs 4.96 in 2018. of our pick-up and delivery fleet is at least compliant with the Smart urban 82% Euro 5 standard vs 75% in 2018. Contribute to sustainable delivery urban centres. of Pickup points in Europe in 2019 vs 2018 +9% (from 42,000 to 46,000). 100% of business units conducted Closer Communities initiatives. To further increase our Closer 27,007 employees involved. employees’ and partners’ communities 3 local foundations (SEUR in Spain, DPD Germany, DPD Poland). involvement in community initiatives. 312 organisations supported. 61 entrepreneurs supported. Implement innovative Innovative 14 initiatives from 9 European business units. entrepreneurship programmes entrepreneurship to foster innovation and Social entrepreneurs from the Ashoka network empowered by 16 DPDgroup since 2011. intrapreneurship. 8 9 DPDgroup An international group with local commitments Belgium Lithuania DPD Belgium is now operating city deliveries in DPD Lithuania delivered Christmas presents to Mechelen and Brussels with electrical vehicles. children in need for the 6th year in a row. Croatia Netherlands DPD Croatia is acting to expand access to sports in For the third year running, DPD Netherlands its local communities by supporting local clubs. organised the DPD Open Squash, gathering the world's best squash players at its new hub in Eindhoven. Czech Republic DPD Czech Republic was the only Logistics and Transport company to win the Top Responsible Poland Company award for 2019. DPD Poland joined the DKMS Foundation to help organise a “Donor Day” to recruit potential stem Estonia cells donors for patients with blood cancers. DPD Estonia was awarded the VEF Index Gold Level for CSR by the Responsible Business Forum. Portugal DPD Portugal supported the Christmas Angels France initiative by delivering Christmas parcels for underprivileged children. Chronopost has served 100% of Paris with low-emissions vehicles since October 2019. DPD France supports “Everyone Against cancer” Slovakia and took part in the “Chef’s Hat Tour” delivering DPD Slovakia is the first company in the country to gastronomic meals in hospitals. deploy electric vans specifically designed for urban areas. Germany DPD Germany invested in electrical vehicles, Slovenia making a new step towards 100% low-emission DPD Slovenia is engaged in reducing CO2 emissions deliveries in Hamburg. by delivering 20% of parcels in Lubljiana’s urban zone by bicycle. Hungary DPD Hungary took part in the One Table Love 2019 Spain initiative by delivering presents for children and SEUR is in the top 100 Best Ideas of Actualidad equipment to hospitals. Económica for its urban hubs. Ireland Switzerland DPD Ireland opened its first electric depot in Dublin DPD Switzerland won the Golden Headset Award in with 15 electric delivery routes covering the city the “Employee focus” category. centre area. United Kingdom Latvia DPD UK won the Green Apple Award for best DPD Latvia reached the Silver level in the local environmental practices thanks to its achievements Corporate Sustainability Index for its CSR efforts. in reducing CO2 emissions. 10 11 2020-2030, the decade of action: Ten years to achieve sustainable development DPDgroup’s SDG commitments There are just ten years left to fulfil the UN’s 2030 vision for a fair, sustaiOur DrivingChangeTM strategy is based on our company’s strong values and culture of integrity. As a committed nable world, in the face of deepening social inequality, climate change and biomember of the UN Global Compact (UNGC), we have joined responsible businesses worldwide in defining exacdiversity loss. Reaching the scale and impact required to achieve the 17 Sustaitly how we can best support specific SDGs. This starts with integrating the SDGs into our business. Together with our business units and the UNGC team, we prioritised the goals and targets that are most relevant to our nable Development Goals (SDGs) will require a major collaborative effort and business and on which we can deliver the greatest impact. In this way, we selected the four goals that we can rapid innovation. DPDgroup is committed to supporting the SDGs on which we stand best support through DrivingChangeTM. to make the greatest difference, as we strive to create value for our stakeholders. The four SDGs supported by DPDgroup: Promoting inclusive, sustainable ecoWith the second largest parcel deliveUrgent action is needed to combat Collaboration is central to enabling nomic growth and decent work for ry network in Europe, we have a real climate change and its social and ecoevery country to achieve the UN’s all is central to our business success. opportunity to contribute to safe, renomic impacts. With a core business SDGs. This means strengthening exisAs an employer of 77,000 people in silient and sustainable cities by redureliant on transport, DPDgroup has a ting partnerships and creating new Why? Europe, DPDgroup has a responsicing our impact on air quality, helping major role to play in the low carbon partnerships for collective action. bility to create safe, productive emto increase citizens’ wellbeing. transition, as part of global efforts to Businesses, including DPDgroup, can ployment. keep temperatures from exceeding make an important contribution. 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels. ... we aim to support high quality jobs, ... we aim to improve the experience ... we aim to include plans to prevent ... we aim to work with multiple In the innovation and entrepreneurship. We of living in cities by helping to proclimate change within every aspect partners, private and public, sharing seek to prioritise equal opportunities mote clean air. of our work. our knowledge, skills and expertise next and pay, and ensure that all workers’ to create a positive impact and help rights are respected in the workplace, fulfil the SDGs. decade... particularly the most vulnerable. ... doing this by empowering our ... doing this by reducing the impact of ... doing this by reducing our carbon ... doing this by stepping up our inemployees, promoting inclusion and our last-mile delivery fleet in urban emissions per parcel by 30% by 2025 volvement in community initiatives, diversity, keeping our people and centres and offering greater deliveand ensuring that 100% of our deliveworking with NGOs across Europe, sub-contractors safe, and leveraging ry choices to optimise distances traries are carbon neutral. Involving our partnering with start-ups to scale We are... innovative entrepreneurship for velled and lower the impact of polluemployees, partners and customers, up innovative solutions and engaging social good. tants. We will also monitor air quality through education and communicamultiple stakeholders to address key and collaborate with city authorities tions campaigns will be vital to our topics, such as air quality. to support clean air strategies. success. 12 13 Our CSR DrivingChangeTM programme Governance Paving the way to a more sustainable business, DrivingChangeTM is DPDgroup’s CSR proDPDgroup launched its Corporate Social ResponsibiThe role of central CSR team is to define key direcgramme – a programme inherent to who we are and how we do business. DrivingChangeTM lity strategy, DrivingChange™ in 2016, reflecting the tions, provide expertise and tools, and help countries high standards and sector-leading ambitions of Le connect and share practices. focuses on four priorities where we feel we can make the most meaningful difference Groupe La Poste. Our governance and close links with within parcel delivery and beyond: by reducing and neutralising our carbon footprint; In a decentralised organisation, each of the 19 BuLa Poste on CSR topics allow us to ensure that our providing smarter and more efficient urban delivery solutions; driving innovation incommitments are consistent with those of the group. siness Units taking part in Driving Change adapt CSR side and out; and building meaningful connections in the communities where we work. action plans and initiatives for each pillar of the strateAt the heart of these four priorities stands being an Employer of Choice. Providing a DPDgroup’s most senior decision-makers help define gy to local needs. our CSR strategy and oversee its implementation, mindful, respectful and ethical workplace for all employees and partners forms the supported by a robust governance structure designed foundation of our business and an ambition to which we all contribute in our daily work. to enable the management of environmental, social, and ethical topics throughout our business. European European Marketing Operational Board & Communications Board Carbon neutral Smart Approves all key initiatives or CSR topics are frequently commitment Urban Delivery strategies. The Executive Vice discussed and approved. President Marketing, DPDgroup’s CSR director is a Being dedicated to making Improving everyday urban Communications and CSR member of the Committee. every parcel we deliver life by giving greater delivery heads CSR within the Board. carbon neutral, for all our choices, while reducing our customers, at no extra cost. impact on the road. Employer La Poste of Choice CSR Committee Central CSR CSR Monthly team Network Expertise meetings with La 19 Corporate It holds the Poste’s various Best Social Closer Innovative departments and day-to-day responsibility for practices Responsibility Communities entrepreneurship subsidiaries. defining and delegates from implementing Test our European One of its aims is Bringing people together Sharing our expertise and & learn business units. to ensure that the the strategy, and to support and strengthen entrepreneurial spirit to help commitments coordinating They are our closest communities. local entreprise thrive. made between with our responsible for the business units CSR reporting Corporate Social CSR reporting the operational and subsidiaries Responsibility implementation are consistent. network. of the strategy. DPDgroup’s CSR director is a member of the Committee. 3 CSR European meetings per year Providing a mindful, respectful and ethical workplace for all our employees and partners. 14 15 Employer of choice Providing a mindful, respectful and ethical workplace for all our employees and partners As a Europe-wide organisation, we have a responsibility to enable our employees to fulfil their potential and contribute to the success of our business. We help to ensure all our How ? employees live our values and act with ethics and integrity. “As a responsible and Providing a mindful, respectful and attractive employer, the ethical workplace for all employees and subcontractors. employer of choice instils Ambition 2019 Key figures a climate where people feel safe, respected, On our journey to being an employer of of our business units have choice, we focus on two fundamental pillars recognised, engaged and Providing a mindful, respectful and ethical workplace. 100% implemented our Code of Business Conduct. of our business: supported to develop their talents : taking care 84% of our staff have permanent contracts. of our people and talent management are crucial.” increase in training per employee +37% between 2017 and 2019 (14.3 hours vs 10.4). Our Our people ethics Marie-Hélène Michon 29% women in the workforce. Executive Vice-President in charge of HR and Corporate Administration Promoting decent work for all is central to our business success. As large employer, we have a responsibility to create a safe, secure and equal work environment. We seek to ensure that all workers’ rights are respected in the workplace, particularly the most vulnerable. 16 17 Taking care of our workforce Attracting Ensuring good Health and safety Providing Taking care employees who human resources is key safety training of our employees’ wellbeing share our values governance Health and safety is fundamenDelivering high quality safety training is integral to We listen to our employees and take action to address tal for the parcel delivery sector, promoting employee health and safety and ensuring their concerns. In 2018, 73% of DPDgroup employees Talent management sits at the While we have a central human with workers undertaking tasks our workers have the skills and knowledge they need from 18 European countries responded to our emheart of being an employer of resources (HR) team, local HR including heavy lifting and driving, to perform their work safely. In 2019, we provided ployee satisfaction survey. 72% were satisfied with choice. We seek to attract and reteams are relatively autonomous which carry inherent challenmore than 48,800 hours of employee health and their working environment and 73% understood tain loyal, committed employees and have the capacity to respond ges. At DPDgroup, keeping our safety training, a significant increase on 2018 (a how their work contributed to company goals. We by offering the best training, deeffectively to local needs. Twice a employees safe is a top priority, +300% rise, up from 11,893 hours). More than 24,500 continued to promote work-life balance, and share velopment and career progression year, all our business units meet and an ongoing effort. We mainemployees participated in at least one training session, knowledge on best practice among our HR teams. opportunities. As a responsible to discuss operational HR topics tain strict safety standards and with training hours per employee rising to 14.29 hours We are also integrating feedback from depots and company, we seek to recruit emand share best practices. In 2019, make sure our people are able in 2019, up from 10.42 hours in 2017. Our commitment road logistics teams. In order to facilitate drivers’ jobs ployees who share our values and 22 business units shared 64 initiato conduct their work safely. We to enabling our employees to develop their skills led and prevent overtime and fatigue, we are rethinking ambitions. We are committed to tives to attract and retain drivers, continuously provide more traito the implementation of our Learn, Improve and the role of drivers: moving from a model where they promoting employee health and many relating to the 5 top operaning to employees and seek to Share Expertise programme, a user-friendly platform are required to both sort and deliver parcels, to one safety, and prioritise our people’s tional priority topics: training, opefurther engage our subcontracproviding e-learning courses. where the two roles are clearly separated. wellbeing. We recognise and rational processes, bonus system tors. Since 2017, employee days reward dedication and perfor& incentives, communication & lost to work-related incidents or mance, inspiring employees to briefing and onboarding process. illness have decreased from 0.5% give their best while achieving to 0.37% and from 3.38% to 3.2% high levels of productivity. of total work day done respectively. Absenteeism rate at Group level Breakdown by reason 4 Case study Case study 3,5 3,38% DPD UK: Acting to prevent Chronopost strives to be an 3,22% 3 3,20% Absenteism rate ‘near miss’ incidents employer of choice related to: 2,5 illness Understanding why incidents nearly occur is vital to To help achieve employee satisfaction, maintain safe 2 work accident preventing real accidents and maintaining a culture working conditions, limit turnover and deliver high of workplace safety. In 2019, DPD UK launched an quality customer service, Chronopost launched a 1,5 initiative to gain a more in-depth view of ‘near miss’ comprehensive employee training plan in 2019: It deincidents, providing a simple online form for all malivered training to 1,855 new drivers in 2019, (target 1 nagers to report near misses as they occur. Within the of 2,300 by the end of 2020), and gave all drivers a 0,50% 0,49% first eight months, managers had reported 472 ‘near safety manual. Chronopost has also set itself the tar0,5 0,37% misses’, with one manager purchasing two defibrilget of improving working conditions in 20 depots by 0 lators and delivering training to enable first aiders to the end of 2020. 2017 2018 2019 react in an emergency. 18 19 A fair and inclusive Empowering employer DPDgroup aims to be a fair and inclusive employer across the business for employees and subcontractors. our employees Protecting human rights The DNA Programme We seek to protect the human rights of everyone working for DPDgroup, To enable our employees to deliver high quality service, we implement an respecting the International Labour Organization’s Fundamental Prinaward-winning ‘DNA’ employee empowerment programme. We support ciples and Rights at Work, and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and each business unit in engaging employees and sub-contractors to meet Human Rights. Our commitment has been strengthened by our global local needs, driven by robust leadership and an inspiring vision. In the past agreement on human rights and freedom of association with the UNI 10 years since this initiative was launched, we have implemented DNA in Global Union since 2017. 13 countries, with more countries scheduled for 2020. Case study Case study Promoting inclusion and diversity DPD Czech DPD Switzerland Republic: Towards Understanding Building To attract and retain employees 77,000 people work for DPDgroup across Europe, including employees greater inclusion our mission momentum who share DPDgroup’s values, DPD and sub-contractors. In 2019, 84% of our direct employees had permanent contracts, up from 78% in 2017. We continue to foster a more diof couriers and Each business forms a deep unThe various DNA programmes Switzerland created a ‘Conquer Swiss Hearts’ programme in 2019. verse, inclusive workforce, prioritising gender balance and people with subcontractors derstanding of the group’s miscontinue to make progress, with The business integrated clearly disabilities. 29% of our jobs were held by women in 2019, with this prosion, vision and values through a our business units demonstrating defined values into its recruitportion rising to 50% among certain groups, including technicians and dedicated communications camsignificant interest and commitTo attract new couriers and ment process and encouraged employees. Meanwhile, the number of disabled employees at DPDgroup paign, with everyone encouraged ment. Our European Works Counsubcontractors, DPD Czech employees to support the comhas increased by 11.5% in two years, up from 530 in 2017 to 591 in 2019. to help achieve shared goals. Our cil is also giving its full support to Republic launched the ‘Ride with pany’s vision through dedicated us’ initiative, a package of 30 acpeople integrate what they learn the programme, promoting comteam-building exercises. tivities that focuses on attracting into their daily work, supported pany-wide progress. In 2019 and retaining couriers with an inby training, clear systems and proclusive, welcoming approach. The cesses. first campaign resulted in more 84% than 400 applications in 4 weeks, of our direct employees while courier turnover decreased Engaging our people to support employee from 40 to 25%. This project was had permanent contracts presented with a company Quality retention & Management Award in January 2020. 29% To address the sector-wide challenge of high staff turnover levels, all our business units are taking action to improve driver retention rates, Case study working closely with employees and subcontractors to keep them safe of our jobs are held by women and engaged. In 2019, staff turnover rates dropped to 15% (18% in 2018). Lithuania and Baltics To empower its employees to +11.5% achieve delivery excellence, DPD Lithuania and Baltics is focusing on (in the last two years) outstanding customer experience, disabled employees shareholder value, environmental responsibility, employee performance and efficient partnerships. 20 21 Carbon neutral commitment Being dedicated to making every parcel we deliver carbon neutral, for all our customers, at no extra cost Transport accounts for a quarter of the European Union’s greenhouse gas emissions – and this figure is increasing. According to the European Green Deal, a 90% reduction in transport How ? “We have integrated our carbon emissions will be needed by 2050 to achieve climate neutrality. Aware of the major carbon neutral commitment into our impact associated with its business model, DPDgroup is committed to ensuring every parcel We are reducing our impact on climate culture by setting ourselves it delivers is carbon neutral, at no extra cost for our customers. We aim to reduce by 30% change and have been carbon neutral since 2012 by taking a three-step approach: the objective of becoming our CO2 emissions per parcel by 2025. the UK’s leader in sustainable delivery, and setting a target of We measure 600 electric vehicles delivering Ambitions 2019 Key figures our carbon footprint with externally audited the last mile by the end of methods and tools. 2020. In 2019 we continued 1. To reduce our CO2e emissions per parcel by 30% by 2025.¹ -14% CO2 emissions reduction per parcel in 2019 (vs 2013). We reduce to implement operational and technological innovations, our CO2 emissions per parcel. including route optimisation of our transport and energy To maintain our leadership 100% consumption offset in 2019 processes to increase delivery 2. by continuing to ensure that 100% of our deliveries are carbon neutral. (the equivalent of 1 046 184 t CO2e). We offset the remaining transport and energy stops per route, making a further positive impact on N°1 in the voluntary carbon offset sector, in the CEP sector. consumption emissions. emissions.” Dwain McDonald CEO DPD UK Urgent action is needed to combat climate change and its social and economic impacts. With a core business reliant on transport, DPDgroup has a major role to play in the low carbon transition, as part of global efforts to keep temperatures from exceeding 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels. 22 1. compared to 2013 23 Since we launched our carbon neutral commitment in 2012, we have delivered 7.7 billion carbon neutral parcels. Parcel volumes are rising sharply, prompted by an Every day, DPDgroup’s delivery experts deliver more than increase in e-commerce, which has grown by almost 5 millions parcels per day across our 19 subsidiaries part 12% in Europe since 2017. This trend is, in turn, impacting of our DrivingChangeTM programme. In order to reach this carbon emissions. In order to make every parcel carbon ambitious carbon neutral commitment, we measure our neutral, all Business Units engaged in the DrivingChangeTM We We impact, reduce it as much as possible, and offset the reProgramme have established a reduction plan to minimise maining emissions. We provide carbon neutrality certifitheir CO2 emissions by taking action to optimise their measure cates on request, allowing our customers to promote carbon-neutral transport to their own customers. reduce transport operations. An estimated 3.4 million parcels will be delivered through our low-emission fleet. Measuring our own impact Our carbon reduction goal Improving our fleet through transport To measure DPDgroup’s carbon emissions, we use an internal reporting To achieve our objective of reducing our CO₂e emissions per parcel by 30 % innovation tool, ‘RESPIRE’, to collect energy consumption data related to transport, by 2025 (compared to 2013), we are promoting a consistent approach depots and hubs at the 19 subsidiaries fully owned by DPDgroup. The group-wide, focusing on two levers of action to lower both our direct We improve our fleet by addrestool aligns with international standards such as ISO 14064, the European and indirect carbon emissions. We are improving our fleet through transsing and improving our whole standard EN 16258, the French standard BEGES and our internal protocol, port innovation, and giving Business Units access to funds to finance the range of transportation options. and data is externally audited annually to ensure its accuracy. This allows transition via our Carbon Fund. To lower the carbon footprint of us to have a deep understanding of our carbon impact throughout our our long haul journeys for insOverall, DPDgroup has reduced its carbon emissions per parcel by 13.9 % value chain. tance, we have committed to only since 2013. In 2019, we have seen a slight increase of 1.4 % in carbon operate long distance vehicles emissions per parcel compared to 2018. This was caused by significant with an average age of less than Transport emissions represent: increases in two business units, one of which is due to changes in the “Transport companies reporting methodology used, and in the precision of data reported. five years by 2025. For our last mile operations, we increasingly have a responsibility However, while three other business units have seen slight increases use light and electric commeror no movement in their emissions per parcel, the majority of business to act in a sustainable units reduced them in 2019, with 14 business units out of 19 lowering the cial vehicles to collect and deliver parcels to our customers. Using Total CO2e emissions 92.2% manner, measure and continuously amount of emissions per parcel, including 5 by 10% or more. electric vehicles and cargo bikes in city centres helps us achieve zero of DPDgroup of the group’s 1 emission deliveries and prevent reduce their impact GHG2 emissions (kgCO2e per parcel) total CO₂e traffic congestion. We are also emissions on the environment, using natural gas vehicles and proby innovating and 0,925 viding our drivers with fuel-efficient driving training. 5.5 % Buildings optimising their 0,85 0.9 % Business vehicles processes.” 0.8 % On-site freight By 2025 0.3% Paper and packaging Dominique Mamcarz 5,000 0,75 low-emission CSR Director of DPDgroup vehicles in operation Enabling customers to measure their carbon footprint 0,7 By 2025, we expect to have a 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 low-emission delivery fleet of Since 2016, DPDgroup provides customers with a Carbon Report, 5,000 vehicles in operation representing 10% of the fleet by inallowing them to measure the impact of each parcel, taking into account its exact route. This enables individuals and businesses to build a better Science-based targets vesting in more reliable and afforunderstanding of their carbon footprint. It also responds to the needs of dable new technologies, and using DPDgroup’s growing base of environmentally conscious customers. The While we remain committed to achieving our existing carbon reduction smaller but more numerous uranalysis is performed for every parcel that enters the group’s transport goal, reaching the Science-Based Target Initiative's reduction level is ban depots to reduce the average network, and the tool has been independently checked by SGS¹ to confirm challenging considering the significant growth rate of the parcel delidistance of our delivery routes. its accuracy and compliance with the European standards. very industry. We will continue to ensure improvements with regard to We have reached almost a fifth of our carbon impact, and reassess the ambition of our targets frequently, our objective in 2019, with a total as our business and industry evolve. of 900 low-emission vehicles. 24 1. SGS: Sustainable Development Goals 2. GHG: Greenhouse Gas 25 Our Carbon Fund In order to help subsidiaries invest in carbon reduction initiatives such as alternative vehicles, sustainability training and building energy management, DPDgroup created in 2017 a Carbon Fund To help achieve carbon neutrality, we offset all our re­ We aiming at supporting innovation and carbon reduction investments of the business units each year. maining CO2 emissions. This includes both direct emisThe scheme is still proving successful in 2019: 16 business units have submitted projects, and it has helped sions generated by our transport operations and energy finance 3 urban depots, 30 low-emission vehicles, 83 charging points for electric vehicles, and close to 500 LED lights. These initiatives will save approximately 355 tonnes of CO2e annually. offset consumption and indirect emissions from outsourced transport. In 2019, we delivered 1.3 billion carbon neutral parcels. Case study DPDgroup, #1 on the voluntary carbon Supporting wind DPD Poland makes offset market in the CEP sector energy in India progress on carbon emissions with We have developed our new three-year offsetting programme in Hindi Wind in India is one of the inipartnership with carbon neutrality expert CO2logic, focusing on retiatives supported by our offsetting electric bikes and newables, clean energy and circular economy projects. Each project is programme. Hindi Wind is helping solar energy selected on the basis of its social and environmental benefits, and verified to run 802 wind turbines annualby the rigorous Verified Carbon Standard (VCS) to guarantee accurate ly, generating 809,473 MWh of measures of CO2e savings. Our project portfolio will offset 100% of our clean electricity for nearly 704,000 With the support of DPD’s Carbon residual CO2 parcel delivery emissions while promoting sustainable enerpeople and saving 754,619 tonnes Fund, DPD Poland implemented gy and improving quality of life for local communities. For example, we of CO2e. The electricity produced is ten city bike scooters and installed are supporting wind energy projects in India and helping to fund a project channelled to India’s national grid, solar panels at two depots. The in Brazil producing clean energy from landfill gas. Our carbon offsetting reducing the country’s reliance on scooters will enable couriers and activity is voluntary, not tax-exempt and we do not have equity investfossil fuels. In addition, the project delivery employees to make more Case study ments in the projects we support. has sought to improve the lives efficient, timely deliveries, avoiof people living near its plants. ding delays connected to limited SEUR continues In 2019, it helped to empower parking availability. Using a carefully loaded backpack, they will to optimise fleet around 190 women to become be able to deliver 50,000 parcels efficiency more economically independent, promoted the importance of edu“DPDgroup’s offsetting programme is very clear, supporting annually, saving 4 tonnes of CO2e. certified offsetting projects linked to clean energy in cation among 400 children, proThe solar panels could help to save In 2019, SEUR’s long distance vided free learning materials to a 30.3 tonnes of CO2 annually. countries linked to DPDgroup business locations. As of transport fleet introduced an further 350 pupils and launched LNG¹ trailer to help reduce har­ today, this offsetting programme is fully aligned with the a library programme benefitting mful emissions and continued to best practice. For 2020, we will work on enhancing carbon 800 pupils. Case study invest in megatrucks, optimising management standards and help DPDgroup to better Using cargo bikes the configuration of the trucks to communicate about its strong carbon commitments that improve parcel efficiency. The LNG to revolutionise trailer is set to be used between cannot be restricted to offsetting but actually cover all the last mile delivery Spain and Portugal, transporting 3 carbon management pillars: calculate, reduce and offset.” an estimated 200,000 parcels in London while avoiding 23 tonnes of CO2e Mathieu Cribellier per year. Harnessing natural gas Project Director, To help achieve zero emission deas fuel also creates significant CO2logic liveries in central London, DPDfuel savings compared to diesel, group’s Carbon Fund has provided benefitting both the carrier and funding to purchase ten electric SEUR. With its two new units, cargo bikes, rolled out in three of SEUR has reached a total of the capital’s most central urban 7 megatrucks. Looking ahead, depots: Westminster, Shoreditch the business aims to reach 30 and Hyde Park. This investment megatrailers by 2025. will help save 6 tonnes of CO2e annually. 26 1. LNG: Liquefied Natural Gas 27 Smart Urban Delivery Improving everyday urban life by giving greater delivery choices, while reducing our impact on the road. Some 40 million people in the European Union's 115 largest cities are exposed to poor air quality, exceeding the World Health Organization's guidelines. As one of the largest parcel How ? delivery companies in Europe, DPDgroup has an important role to play in limiting its impacts “We are opening a on air quality and improving wellbeing and convenience for people everywhere it operates. We reduce the impact of our last-mile new chapter for our delivery fleet. industry on social and environmental We act for responsibility. Delivering Ambitions 2019 Key figures greater delivery choices to improve everyday life. in Paris with 100% low-emission vans 1. Being a reliable stakeholder for city 4.55 Average age of fleet vs 4.96 in 2018 marks the first step in authorities. of our pick-up and delivery We use fleet is at least compliant urban depots to optimise implementing clean Contributing to 82% with the Euro 5 standard distances travelled. delivery throughout 2. sustainable urban centers. vs 75% in 2018 France.” increase in Pickup points in We take action +9% Europe in 2019 vs 2018 (from 42,000 to 46,000) to monitor air quality and reduce pollutants from our fleet. Martin Piechowski Chairman Chronopost With the second largest parcel delivery network in Europe, we have a real opportunity to contribute to safe, resilient and sustainable cities by reducing our impact on air quality, helping to increase citizens’ wellbeing. 28 29 DPDgroup deli­vers more than 5 million parcels across Eu­rope on a daily basis. We strive to lead the sector in inno­vating towards smart, sustainable urban delivery solutions, tailoring our services to the needs of each city and helping to improve quality of life, including the reduction of our Urban Optimising transport emissions and sharing air quality information By understanding our consumers’ evolving expectations, with citizens. We seek to anticipate local legislation by and in light of the growing demand for flexible, sustainable Logistics urban continuously optimising our operations. In addition, we are services, we are innovating to adapt our delivery services taking action to improve the environmental impact of the to meet people’s needs. For example, to optimise our serSolutions 50,000 vehicles we operate through 18 countries, helping to reduce carbon emissions and pollutants. deliveries vice offering, we have improved and expanded our existing Predict and Pickup services throughout Europe. Responding proactively to in 22 European cities,¹ the desire for more sustainable e-commerce is clear. In 2019, for the first time, Using our Predict service, customers can select a oneservice, Chronospost adopted the green notification in September consumers’ sustainability we identified major common trends, including the hour delivery slot at a time that 2019. It will also be deployed in expectations growing popularity of parcel shops, and more customers seeking sustainable deliveries. Importantly, suits them, receive updates and reschedule as necessary. By did Germany and SEUR in 2020. Our Pickup network offers shoppers who are concerned about the environimproving our ‘first time’ delivery With regular e-shoppers accounting for 85% of online customers the opportunity to ment and willing to pay more for sustainable services rate, we have improved our purchases in Europe, understanding their needs and collect their parcels from 46,000 (‘eco-selective shoppers’) represent a growing market efficiency and reduced our CO2 collection points in 19 countries, behaviours is critical to the continent’s e-commerce segment. There is therefore an opportunity for the emissions per parcel by an average with nearly 95% of collections market. Among the insights disclosed by the e-shopentire e-commerce industry to embrace an ecological of 4%.2 within 15 minutes of recipients’ pers Barometer conducted each year by DPDgroup mindset and propose greener, cleaner services. In 2019, DPD UK launched the homes. We are continuously Green Notification, an automatic developing our network to message for Predict customers, increase the level of flexibility we letting them know their parcel offer to customers. Chronopost’s The opportunity for more sustainable e-commerce: will be delivered by a lownew Chronocity shop in Paris, emission vehicle, as well as its for instance, is a shared space type (such as electric or LNG allowing customers to prepare With the issue of climate change vehicles, or cargo bikes). In their parcels, collect them, and gaining importance among the response to the demand for a try clothes on, for example. public, consumers around the more innovative and sustainable world are becoming increasingly environmentally aware and adapting their purchasing decisions. KEY FIGURES This trend includes the e-com15% 17% merce sector, where eco-selecof European of European e-shoppers e-shoppers tive e-shoppers demonstrate their France Germany Spain concern for the environmental impact of their consumption both Chronopost delivers 2,200 parcels In Madrid, we cover through the products they choose The The 100% are delivered in Hamburg 50,000 km and the expectation they have for companies to be responsible. epicurean eco-selective of central Paris with daily using an optimal mix of alternative vehicles. annually using low-emission low-emission fleet vehicles. e-shopper e-shopper since October 2019. 70% Highly demanding in terms of Concerned about the of European regular delivery and returns: environment, prepared to pay a Ireland United Kingdom Brazil and Singapore e-shoppers consider that premium for more sustainable brands and companies must be 85% services, seeking flexibility and Our Dublin urban depot uses DPD UK aims for DPDgroup’s out-of-home delivery network also uses 350 environmentally responsible. of epicurean e-buyers believe multiple delivery options. 100% 10% Pickup points in Singapore and that companies must be renewable electricity. of its fleet to be electric by 2021 environmentally responsible. 52% 780 in Sao Paulo. of eco-selective e-shoppers are willing to pay a premium for products that respect the environment. 30 1. https://www.dpd.com/group/en/expertise/e-shoppers-in-europe/ 2. Compared to a classic delivery on last-mile operation. 31 Our urban depots DPDgroup prioritises the reduction of two major air polDPDgroup is adapting its logistics to promote smart With a keen focus on improving the environmental lutants, particulate matter (PM) and nitrogen oxide (NOx), and responsible urban deliveries. To implement this, footprint of our depots, we are exploring clean energy which are particularly damaging to people’s health. Expowe are locating our urban depots ever closer to options, with our Dublin urban depot now using 100% sure to these inhalable pollutants can cause headaches, consumers, while tailoring our approach to individual renewable energy. We also aim to offer high levels respiratory and cardiovascular illnesses, or even lung canReducing cities. We aim to locate our urban depots within or of flexibility and innovative services for customers, cer. As these pollutants are mainly emitted by transport, we near to city centres, close to areas where we expeincluding lockers available 24 hours a day in Tallinn, are working hard to limit those emitted by our fleet in orpollution rience a high volumes of parcels for delivery. These Estonia, and a network of 45 urban depots with onder to improve air quality in our delivery locations. We are urban spaces might range from small storage sursite dressing rooms in Poland, allowing instant returns therefore replacing our diesel and petrol delivery vehicles faces to fully mechanised infrastructures according of clothing if necessary. to the locations available in city centres. By the end of 2019, DPDgroup had 110 urban depots in 13 countries, enabling delivery by foot, cargo bike locally with alternatives such as electric vehicles, biogas vehicles or bicycles, to reduce pollution and improve quality of life. or electric vehicle. Warsaw Urban Depot A new approach to analysing Improving our Location Innovative Services DPDgroup’s pollutants delivery fleet 9 urban depots service > Fitting room 6.8 tonnes in Warsaw > Table for parcel On-site dressing of CO2 avoided room: try on packaging purchases and return > Label printer per year In 2019, DPDgroup commissioned The relatively high proportion of As air pollution continues to be if necessary > Convenient an independent analysis of the NOx emissions identified is due a major focus for cities across pick-up options pollutants emitted by its fleet by to diesel vehicles comprising the Europe, it is vital that we conticlimate experts EcoAct. Using a majority (99%) of DPDgroup’s nuously improve the efficiency of thorough methodology to assess fleet. Solutions to reduce air polour fleets. DPDgroup’s extensive 20,000 km DPDgroup’s emissions, EcoAct lution include reducing vehicle pick-up and delivery fleet accounts Distance covered by low-emission considered factors including speed on motorways, optimising for the majority of its carbon vehicles per year speed, load and age of vehicles to loading efficiency and replacing impact in urban areas. To help estimate the pollution associated diesel vehicles with natural gas or reduce congestion and pollution in with the company's operations. electric vehicles, DPDgroup’s main city centres, we deploy light compriority. mercial and low-emission vehicles for last mile operations, including Alternative fleet natural gas or electric vehicles and 21 cargo bikes. To reduce the impact cargo bikes and electric vehicles Total emissions of pollutants of conventional vehicles, we use in 2019: the Euro Standard, a 6-grade scale established to measure the level of pollution emitted by vehicles in Case study 1.8 travelled 1,075 106 Europe, with Euro 6 awarded to the least polluting vehicles. 82% DPD Estonia offers billion in 2019 of our fleet now meets Euro 5 or tonnes tonnes multiple delivery kms of NOx of PM 6 Standards, up from 75% in 2018. locations In 2019, we launched new smart urban delivery initiatives across Europe. Since October, 100% of Customers in Tallinn, Estonia, can Chronopost’s Paris deliveries benefit from multiple delivery have been made with low-emisoptions. These include 36 locker sion vehicles, helping to tailpipe systems placed in convenient loand CO2 emissions by 87%, and cations and open 24/7, four robot 139 electric vehicles have been towers, enabling automatic sordeployed in the United Kingdom. ting and giving of the parcels to customers, and ten self-driving robots. With this innovative mix of smart urban delivery solutions, DPD Estonia is saving 288 tonnes of CO2 annually 50% of which comes exclusively from the use of lockers. 32 2 & 3. Compared to a classic delivery on last-mile operation. 33 With air quality rising up the public health agenda, it is vital for transport companies to innovate to reduce their Acting local for Monitoring air Air Quality impact on the quality of air we breathe. At DPDgroup, we have a significant opportunity to support cities’ clean air the benefit of cities quality in Lisbon Monitoring initiatives by understanding and reducing the pollutants and citizens Programme emitted by our fleet. We are doing this through collaboraDPD Portugal partnered with the tion with various partners. city of Lisbon on its European In order to help improve quality of Green Capital 2020 Commitment. life and health in cities, we aim to Thanks to data measured by Polplay a key role in tracking air qualutrack using 73 mobile sensors lity. For this purpose, we are maand 19 fixed sensors in the city on A unique partnership king the results of our air quality our fleet and at our Pickup points, monitoring programme available for tracking fine to cities and citizens through webLisbon’s authorities were able to design their new low-emission particles based interfaces. zone in the heart of the city. In this Providing air quality information way, they pinpointed air quality DPDgroup has set up a unique hotspots, and now plan to launch on a very precise scale will enable partnership with Pollutrack, enabling a service to enable consumers to the first air quality measurement city officials to leverage the data as they plan initiatives and regulaview air quality levels. system of this scale and precision. Pollutrack is the first mobile tracking tions to reduce pollutants, and alThe pollution PM2.5 hotspots low citizens to know the air quality “Gaining access to air system for fine particles (PM2.5). highlighted by Pollutrack enabled Designed and tested in Paris during level on their doorstep or at the objective decision-making to the quality information COP21, it initially helped to provide address of their choice, and adjust benefit of Lisbon citizens and the is very useful for our a clear picture of the diverse and their activity accordingly. quality of air they breathe. changing levels of air pollution in city, enabling us to Paris. DPDgroup is the first company identify and address to have committed to implementing Pollutrack Fine Particles PM2.5 hotspots in Lisbon – June 2019 sensors on its fleet across Europe. hotspots and understand where and when the air is cleanest. Taking action to “This partnership is a triple win for DPDgroup Our collaboration measure air quality and Pollutrack in achieving deployment across with DPDgroup will Europe, for decision-makers, who gain access to inform our ongoing Through our air quality monitoring programme, already deployed in comprehensive air pollution data to address air efforts to improve air Paris, Lisbon and Madrid, we are quality, and for DPDgroup customers and the general quality and promote measuring fine particles (PM2.5) in real time by fitting our delivery public. Thanks to this partnership, Paris now has the public health.” vehicles, urban depots and Pickup world’s greatest air monitoring capacity at breathing points with Pollutrack laser sensors. These sensors collect data every level, which is set benefit both cities and citizens.” Miguel Gaspar Deputy Mayor of Lisbon, 12 seconds, street by street and at Portugal breathing level. The resulting ‘air Eric Poincelet quality diagnosis’ delivers an insight Co-founder of Pollutrack into urban air quality levels in the areas where we operate, displayed on high resolution maps. We plan to expand the programme to 20 European cities by 2021, starting with Rotterdam and Dublin, and leverage the results to adapt our strategy to reduce pollutants. 34 35 Closer Communities Bringing people together to support and build the communities to which we are closest To make a positive contribution to society, DPDgroup leverages its resources, expertise and closeness to local communities to support them the best we can. By partnering with nonHow ? profit organisations in each of the countries where we operate, we better respond to “By allowing everyone consumer expectations and increase employee satisfaction. We encourage employees to We support communities in two ways: to be fully involved in volunteer and act with us for a better world, helping us reach 72% in employee satisfaction, according to a survey of DPDgroup employees in 18 countries. our approach to the Solidarity transport organisations and causes Providing our delivery and logistics expertise we support, we wish to to local projects. Ambition 2019 Key figures enable our employees to embrace our common To further increase our employees’ and partners’ involvement in community 100% of business units conducted Closer Communities initiatives. Employee commitment Sharing our time, passion and skills. values of proximity and sharing, values that will initiatives. be all the more important 27,007 employees involved. after the current health crisis for the world of 3 local foundations (SEUR in Spain, DPD Germany, DPD Poland). tomorrow.” Amélie Ranaivojaona 312 organisations supported. CSR Manager, DPD France Collaboration is central to enabling every country to achieve the UN’s SDGs. This means strengthening existing partnerships with all players, including the public sector and non-profit organisations, and creating new partnerships for collective action. 36 *compared to 2013 37 interview Closer Communities DPD Germany’s support to the How can employees get Programme Frank Vergien DPD Foundation involved with the Foundation? DPD Germany is committed to acting Employees can get involved in many Board Member of DPD as a responsible corporate citizen and – different ways. They can make a With delivery operations across Europe, Germany Foundation making a positive social impact beyond voluntary monthly donation, opting DPDgroup interacts with local communities its core business. The DPD Foundation to give the amount of cents behind focuses on three main areas. Firstly the decimal point of their net salary or every day, enabling us to understand local the DPD Aid Fund helps employees, an amount of their choice. At present, challenges and support worthy causes. transport operators and delivery almost 6,000 employees are involved To make a positive contribution to the personnel facing an emergency situation. in this «Rest Cent» initiative. In addition, communities to which we are closest, we Secondly, apprentices at DPD Germany there are regular fund-raising campaigns deploy our fleet for charity and community are actively involved as sponsors and for example a raffle or a bake sale at support efforts, and invite DPDgroup in contact with children in need from many depots and locations. The proceeds employees to propose projects that are Africa, Asia and Latin America. And thirdly, then go to the Foundation. close to their hearts. Our people get the DPD Foundation supports charitable involved in a wide range of volunteering and non-for-profit projects run by the Plan International organisation and other The DPD Foundation is also activities, sharing their time, skills and partners. For example, we are currently knowledge to make a difference in the involved in Rwanda why supporting a project in Rwanda which community. We also partner with NGOs, promotes early childhood education and Rwanda in particular? foundations and local communities to helps children create brighter futures. ensure we support a diverse, inclusive mix The DPD Foundation seeks to improve of initiatives, providing logistics support educational opportunities and quality of and building long-term partnerships to Why was the DPD Aid Fund set life for children in Rwanda, where people amplify our impact on an ongoing basis. up? have faced major challenges since the 1990s genocide. Anyone can suddenly find themselves in We began by supporting the a financial emergency whether it is due establishment of four centres for early to illness, natural disasters, an accident or childhood education for around 2,000 family circumstances. We wanted to help children up to the age of six. DPD employees, transport operators, The DPD Foundation is now supporting delivery staff, sorting hall contractors the three-year children’s aid project and their dependants in the event of “Good education for children” to help personal misfortune. improve education for 11,000 children in The Fund provides fast and flexible 20 schools and 25 kindergartens in the financial assistance, and in five years, has regions of Bugesera and Nyaruguru. helped 51 members of the DPD family. 38 39 Solidarity We use our delivery expertise to support communities transport where we operate, providing both emergency relief and delivering vital supplies to vulnerable groups. Switzerland Slovakia Latvia Supporting Delivering Providing valuable Lithuania refugees parcels for support to animal with clothing seriously shelters Making children’s dreams donations ill children come true Vital supplies donated to 5 shelters €1,800 of transport costs provided 100 parcels distributed In Latvia, we collected donations for animal shelters 3,048 gifts for underprivileged children through a ‘Warm the paws’ campaign to help Asylum seekers arriving in Lesbos often face harsh DPD Slovakia partnered with the Angel Wings Founanimals survive the cold winter months. Promoting Together with NGO Vaikų svajonės (Children’s Dreams), living conditions. DPD Switzerland partnered with dation to support seriously ill children and their famithis initiative, DPD Latvia invited employees and which collaborates with social workers to support emergency relief organisation Lighthouse Relief to lies by delivering parcels of food, medicine, clothing local communities to donate food, toys and children in underprivileged families, DPD Lithuania has transport donated clothes to refugees on the island’s and toys. The Foundation provides financial, emotioaccessories, animal beds, cat litter boxes and sand, delivered Christmas gifts to disadvantaged children northern shore, helping people to maintain dignified nal and material support, together with rehabilitation and delivered them to shelters across the country. for six years. In 2019, DPD Lithuania delivered more conditions in the first days after arrival. DPD Switzerstays, to help improve quality of life for these children than 3,000 gifts to children across the country. land donated half of the transport costs and sponsoand their families. red the clothing collection campaign. Hungary Portugal Helping children in hospital at Christmas Delivering Christmas gifts to underprivileged children Deliveries to 9 hospitals in Hungary 2,355 parcels delivered DPD Hungary joined forces with the One Table Love Initiative in Hungary as a donor and delivery partner, DPD Portugal continued its support of the Salvation transporting toys, clothing and more to children in Army, delivering Christmas gifts to underprivileged nine hospitals both in Budapest and rural areas. In parchildren. People were invited to donate gifts via the ticular, DPD Hungary donated €2,800 worth of donaAngel Tree Programme, with all gifts sent to a DPD tions to the Children’s Surgery of St. John’s Hospital Pickup point, before being collected and delivered to and Bethesda Hospital. the Salvation Army. 40 41 Closer Communities We share our time, passion and skills to support communities where we operate, Programme leveraging our experience to create a positive impact locally. Netherlands Supporting the training of two assistance dogs Belgium €40,000 donation Croatia Dogs can provide assistance, comfort and company Helping to fund vital AED kits for people living with physical or mental disabilities. DPD Netherlands donated €40,000 to Foundation AsDonation to support medical outside schools sistance Dogs in the Netherlands to support the training of two assistance dogs, enabling the organisation care for children Second year of support to schools to teach them up to 70 different skills, as they prepare DPD Belgium donated €300 to the Heartsaver, a cha€4,000 donation the dogs for life supporting people with a variety of rity which aims to install automated external defibrilillness and conditions. DPD Croatia made a donation of €4,000 to a network lators (AEDs) outside schools to help save people’s of associations, Naša djeca, helping seriously ill childlives in the event of cardiac arrests. Access to AEDs ren gain access to the best medical care, including is vital in the first moments after a heart attack, and through providing accommodation, and donating with schools occupying a central position in the commedical equipment and technology. munity, they are a key focus for AED kits. France France Changing children’s lives through sport Fighting child cancer France 160 participating employees 3 million steps to raise €10,000 In 2019, Chronopost launched the Chrono United Tour, Running to fight cancer DPDgroup headquarters invited employees to get sponsoring regional races enabling employees to raise involved in a ‘steps challenge’ to raise funds for the €4,250 raised by 30 employees €5 for each kilometer run. Employees raised €10,000 child cancer charity ‘Larger than Life’. The 3 million for the Premiers de Cordée Association, which ofcollective steps have helped raise €10,000, that will 30 DPD France employees ran or walked the ‘Course fers free sports activities to children in hospital, and help fund innovative treatments for children suffering des Héros’ charity race to raise funds for the RoseUp raises awareness of the importance of empowering with cancer in France. Association, which helps, informs and defends the disabled children to take part in sport. Additionally, rights of women affected by cancer. Employees chose employees in Angers raised €1,000 to fund speciato take part in the 2.6 or 10km race, raising €4,250 to lised equipment to help children recover from illness. help the association support women fighting cancer. 42 43 Innovative entrepreneurship Sharing our expertise and entrepreneurial spirit to help local enterprise thrive Entrepreneurship and innovation sit at the heart of DPDgroup. We innovate to meet customers’ needs, leveraging our creativity to respond to the rise of e-commerce. To create How ? shared value in our communities, we support and empower local entrepreneurs. “Our goal is to streamline We support entrepreneurship in three ways: our innovation processes with our CSR priorities. We stimulate These innovations enable Ambition 2019 Key figures employee innovation. us to add value for our clients.” Implement innovative entrepreneurship programmes to foster innovation and 61 entrepreneurs supported. We empower social entrepreneurs. Łukasz ZEMBOWICZ intrapreneurship. Sales and Marketing Director 14 initiatives from We help and Board Member, DPDPoland 9 European business. innovative entrepreneurs in the communities where we operate. Social entrepreneurs from the 16 Ashoka network empowered by DPDgroup since 2011. Promoting innovation is at the heart of DPDgroup and central to finding sustainable solutions. In the next decade, we aim to support entrepreneurship everywhere we operate and help scale up impactful innovations. 44 *compared to 2013 45 We encourage employee innovation Employee innovation program Harnessing our people’s talents and expertise is centomer service. The 2019 winning project was protral to strengthening our business. Through our Inposed by DPD Ireland, with an idea to improve digital trapreneurship programme, we invite employees customer communication. The team will lead the deacross the company to build upon their innovative velopment of this project, with the support of DPDideas by submitting a business case. An internal jury group experts and corporate funding. UPDATES then selects the winning projects. In 2019, 52 teams from 12 business units presented 23 proposals, spanning sustainability, service innovation, HR and cusDPD Ireland DPD Baltics Innovation categories 2019 Winner: 2018 Winner: 2019 Intrapreneurship campaign results Improving customer Buy world enables innovative communication cross-border deliveries Customer relationship CSR oriented DPD Ireland has developed an idea With 10% of e-shoppers unable to access e-commerce product deto improve its communication to liveries in their country, the ‘Buy world’ project is a parcel-forwarcustomers by sending a notificading solution developed by DPD Baltics employees for consumers tion and an automated video propurchasing goods via foreign websites. It provides them with the viding the precise location of the address of a consolidation centre in the closest country to use as 3 4 delivered parcels (a safe place or a delivery address. DPDgroup then organises cross-border transneighbour’s home, for example) port, enabling them to bypass parcel delivery restrictions in their Process improvement 3 using satellite technology. For own country and shop online with greater flexibility. Supported and customers, this allows increased funded by DPDgroup, the winning team will finalise its project, ready 3 HR-oriented confidence in the delivery, and for initial implementation in Latvia in 2020. helps avoid the need to call customer services. The project has been awarded DPD Poland €30,000 in funding from DPDgroup and will receive the support 10 of experts within DPD Ireland. The Innovative project, which is set to be imonline tool development plemented in 2020, reflects the group’s strategy to build customer In 2018, DPDPoland developed an online tool to help clients optiNew markets/services loyalty by continuously improving mise their packaging according to their needs. Among other things, its services. In addition, it will help this tool helps minimise and optimise packaging for less waste and to reduce queries to our customer a better use of space. We are continuously enlarging the range of and logistics teams, enabling us to packaging available to introduce reused or recycled materials. further boost our efficiency. 46 47 We empower 2019 is the ninth year of our partnership with Ashoka, the world’s largest global social network of social entrepreneurs. Together, we have supported numerous entrepreentrepreneurs neurs solving social challenges with innovative ideas to create positive change. Sponsoring Ashoka’s entrepreneurs To help support future changemakers, Ashoka identiOur partnership has evolved from DPDgroup supporfies the world’s most promising social entrepreneurs, ting five Ashoka Fellows in 2011 to launching a Eulearns from innovation trends and inspires people ropean ‘co-creation’ competition and ‘Changemaker worldwide to create change. DPDgroup shares this days’ in Paris in 2014 to anchoring our joint efforts ambition and supports Ashoka’s efforts, while idenwithin DPDgroup’s core social and environmental tifying potential opportunities to involve employees objectives, amplifying our impact and supporting our or leverage entrepreneurs’ innovations to benefit the future growth. communities where we operate. SPEAK: Promoting EasyPeasy: multilingual Empowering Palliative care inclusion and parents to educate for children equality their children Language barriers can prevent Children’s success at school is 2019 Ashoka fellow Ricardo Martimigrants from integrating within dependent on the early support no is helping to create Spain’s first local communities. SPEAK, deand encouragement they receive national system of home-based 2011-2014 2014-2016 2017-2019 veloped by 2018 Ashoka Fellow from parents. But many parents palliative care for children with Hugo Menina, promotes inclusion lack the time and resources to terminal illnesses. It seeks to help and equality through language support their children in the best these children live full and happy and cultural exchanges between way. 2018 Ashoka Fellow Jen lives, remaining at home for as Start Reorganisation Alignment migrants and local residents. SeLexmond’s EasyPeasy technology long as possible, while relieving of the partnership of the partnership of the partnership lected in Portugal in 2018 and rehelps to empower parents in the families’ suffering. To date, 800 around 3 key actions with DrivingChange cognised by the Portuguese goUK to bridge this gap by sending children and their families have 5 Ashoka entrepreneurs are vernment, the project is active in fun, educational ideas directly to benefitted from this dignified, supported by DPDgroup. • Support of 3 innovative • A stronger alignement with Portugal, Spain, Germany and Itatheir smartphones. It has reached 24-hour service from Madrid’s social entrepreneurs. the key topics of ly, and has reached 13,900 people some 30,800 households, helps Niño Jesús Hospital, with 65% of DrivingChange. in ten cities. Some 5,700 people to improve children’s cognitive the children supported passing • Launch of a Co-Creation have participated in SPEAK events, performance after just ten weeks away in their homes. More than European competition to • A better European dynamic while more than 6,100 people have and is particularly active in disad300 doctors and nurses have enable partnerships between with the participation of key attended language sharing groups. vantaged communities. DPDgroup taken part in training offered by social entrepreneurs and countries (e.g. France, DPDgroup employees have also embraces this technology as an Ricardo’s foundation, which has businesses, receiving 338 Switzerland, Spain, Germany, taken part, reflecting our global effective means of enabling pa62 partnerships with NGOs, buproposals from 34 countries. Poland). commitment to inclusion and dirents to brighten their children’s sinesses, hospitals and schools. • Organisation of • A greater involvement of versity. lives through education. Changemaker Days in Paris, DPDgroup employees in the two-day events gathering partnership to develop a more than 550 innovation culture of innovation and players and changemakers. social commitment. 48 49 We support innovative entrepreneurs in We support our local communities, helping them to develop their ideas through initiatives that external reflect our three innovation priorities. This includes funding support, skills training entrepreneurship and providing free or discounted shipping services. DPDgroup’s three innovation pillars Digital transformation Smart urban High technology and ecommerce logistics markets Poland Spain Germany Developing technologies that give Technology and vehicles that alStrong innovation to support full control to consumers, inclulow us to better respond to our DPDgroup’s new markets, such Start-up contest Improving delivery Preventing food ding on-demand deliveries, and customers’ needs, while addresas the delivery of fresh and frozen real-time notifications. sing sustainability challenges. food. efficiency with big waste with SirPlus Students in Poland won DPD Poland’s start-up competition with a data Some 20 million tonnes of food mobile app that enables easily acare wasted annually in Germany, cessible services between consuThe growth of e-commerce has Estonia the equivalent of 500,000 trucmers and electronic appliance prompted major changes in the kloads. To help prevent food repair shops through voicemail transport sector, with significant waste and support those in need variability in parcel volumes from Parcel delivery with services. These young innovators, one day to the next. Managing of food, 2018 Ashoka fellow Rafrom Ostrów Wielkopolski, a techStarship robots nical college, beat five finalists to this rapidly evolving daily reality phael Fellmer developed SirPlus, a supermarket for surplus food. present their game-changing idea. to meet customers’ expectations SirPlus collects in-date food from DPD Estonia’s innovative robot They received more than 2,000 requires precision forecasting and supermarkets and food distribuparcel delivery service, launched in euros in funding, took part in a effective resource planning. Devetors and sells it at lower prices to 2018, offers customers high techtrade fair in Paris and will also beloped by big data expert PiperLab consumers, while providing charinology, flexible and convenient nefit from access to a co-working for DPDgroup’s SEUR business in ties with free food. DPD Germany deliveries. Customers in Tallinn space. Spain, the PiperLab Forecast Tool supports SirPlus with vital logistics can opt for deliveries via Starship helps 350 SEUR employees to support, helping the organisation robot through a dedicated delivebetter manage the flow of custo reach more people, including ry app developed with robot-matomer orders by forecasting the through home deliveries. We also ker Starship Technologies. In 2019, resources needed for any given help raise awareness of the orga308 parcels were delivered by date or time frame. It also shows nisation’s work and vision by sponthese robots, which can carry parhistorical trends. The tool’s reliasoring events. Saving food helps cels from stores or hubs directly to bility has improved the efficiency to reduce pressure on natural recustomers within a 3km radius in of SEUR’s delivery services, and sources, land and water, and lower 5-30 minutes. The service will be resulted in SEUR winning multiple carbon emissions. optimised and expanded to better logistics prizes. serve customers’ needs. 50 51 Ethics Code of Conduct Good ethics sit at the core of our business. As stakeholders increasingly seek radical Our Code of Business Conduct is the backbone of all transparency and high levels of ethical performance, we continue to integrate corporate of our activities. It is based on globally defined rights responsibility into the way we work, going beyond our commercial goals to be a force for and best practice, as ratified by the Conventions of the International Labour Organization, and must be good in society. We evolve our policies in line with internationally recognised standards interpreted by each business unit in accordance with We seek to ensure compliance with our Code of Buand ever more rigorous guidelines and regulations. national law. Compliance with the Code is mandatory siness Conduct through DPDgroup’s governance for all employees and external service providers, and system. Responsibility for governance rests with our is a key component of decision-making and stakeholsenior leadership, with an Anti-Corruption Officer der engagement. As part of our regular reviews, we and a Competition Compliance Officer overseeing updated the guide in 2017 to ensure its alignment with our global fair competition and anti-corruption prothe recent French Sapin II Law, and in particular the grammes. An Ethics Officer manages issues that ocCare about topic of anti-corruption. In 2019, following a critical cur within individual business units. Employees can Solidarity the person, review, we decided to update it to include more sireport breaches of the Code by contacting the offices not just tuational examples. This new version will be published of the above officers or by using our anonymous the parcel early 2020. whistle-blowing system. 5 Respect Anti-corruption International Personal Recognise trade compliance data protection & respond Values to each customer’s DPDgroup prohibits all forms of DPDgroup, as all of the actors in To comply with the European 4 need corruption in our interactions with the transport industry, is subject Union General Data Protection ReDPDgroup’s stance stakeholders, in line with our Code to international obligations such gulation (GDPR), which came into on ethics provides of Business Conduct and our comas sanctions decided by the UN, force in May 2018, we have implea global framework mitment to the Principles of the the European Union, and national mented a major data protection Transparency for the whole group, and is based on commitments UN Global Compact. Being a subsidiary of Le Groupe La Poste, we authorities. DPDgroup therefore takes a strict approach to trade initiative across DPDgroup, integrating data protection changes 5 core values. have integrated its three key princompliance, and supports all buthroughout the organisation’s Ethical business ciples governing anticorruption siness units in complying with all processes and culture. In 2019, we practice is also Think plan: Zero Tolerance, Everyone relevant restrictions and econoimplemented our action plan, unreflected in the Concerned and Everyone Vigilant. mic sanctions laws and reguladerpinned by strong governance 4 commitments ahead & tions related to embargoes. Witmechanisms. We are maintaining of the group’s act fast Beyond this, in 2019, we developed hin this framework, DPDgroup has a global overview of the group’s service culture. to reassure our new anti-corruption proimplemented a compliance prodata developments, while each gramme. Fully compliant with the Accountability gramme to ensure that we trade European business unit has apSapin II Law introduced in France, with legitimate partners, which pointed a GDPR point of contact. this rigorous programme is based includes the application of our To help our European businesses Create on a thorough and comprehensive global sanctions policy, a defined remain compliant with GDPR, we a smile risk-mapping exercise, for which Open every business unit completed compliance framework and the have developed tools to evaluate mindedness with every implementation of the GeoCheck all new projects from a data persan anti-corruption questionnaire. customer screening tool. pective. To support our continued contact This has helped us to identify and progress on GDPR compliance, we measure all the risks connected conducted an audit of our previous to our activities. Together with an two years’ efforts in 2019, and expert third party, we developed a created a committee to oversee strategy and roadmap to prevent ongoing efforts. The committee and address any instances of cormeets regularly, follows regulatoruption within the group. ry updates and directs the group’s data protection strategy. 52 53 About this report This is DPDgroup’s fourth Corporate Social Responsibility report, published in June 2020. This report covers 19 business units across Europe, all under full ownership of DPDgroup. These businesses represent 89% of the Group's revenue. We are working on a progressive inclusion of other business units fully owned or under our financial control within the DrivingChangeTM programme. Unless otherwise stated, this report only includes information related to 2019. DPDgroup operates under the following brand names: DPD, Chronopost, SEUR and BRT. The information in this report has been gathered through reporting tools, documented information and internal and external stakeholder interviews. We would like to thank all those who contributed to this report. Please direct questions on this report or topics related to our corporate social responsibility programme to drivingchange@dpdgroup.com Discover our CSR webpage on: www.dpd.com/group/en/sustainability 54 55 Parcel delivery network of 26, rue Guynemer 92130 Issy Les Moulineaux, France drivingchange@dpdgroup.com | dpdgroup.com | @DPDgroup_news
