2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Way LEADING THE Corporate Social Responsibility 1. About this Report 3 8. Respecting the Environment 28 8.1. Valneva’s Environmental Approach 28 2. Message from the Management 4 8.2. Valneva's Approach to Safety at Work 32 3. Business Model 5 9. Other CSR Information 34 9.1. Well-being at Work 34 4. Valneva’s CSR Approach 6 9.2. Animal Welfare 35 4.1. A Four-Pillar Strategy 7 4.2. The United Nations Global Compact 8 10. Frameworks used to Draw up this Report 36 5. Protecting Lives 9 10.1. European Directives 36 5.1. Maintaining vaccine confidence 9 10.2 TheFrench Order No. 2017-1180 of July 19, 2017 36 5.2. Supporting Healthcare-Oriented Charities around the World 10 10.3 The French Decree No. 2017-1265 of August 9, 2017 36 5.3. High Level of Expertise in R&D 11 5.4. Ensuring patient safety 14 11. Methodological Note 37 5.5. Responsible Manufacturing 14 11.1. Methodological note on Group CSR data reporting 37 6. Acting Ethically 15 11.2. Group structure of consolidated operations 37 6.1. Complying to the Highest Standard 15 37 11.3. Data collection method 6.2. Mitigate Cyber Security Risk 16 38 11.4. Future Improvements 6.3. Combatting Tax Evasion 17 12. Definitions 39 7. Developing our People 18 39 12.1. Employment indicators 7.1. Attract and retain talented people 18 12.2. Environmental indicators 39 7.2. Promotion of Diversity and Guarantee 40 12.3. Social indicators of Non-Discrimination 24 7.3. Having the right level of expectation in terms of performance and competencies 13. Independent Third Party to respond to the market demand 26 Auditor’s Report 41 Corporate Social Responsibility About this Report 1. About this Report The 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report offers Valneva’s CSR strategy remains centered upon four pillars, an in-depth account of Valneva’s CSR activities over the past which are reflected in the organization of this report: year and the Company’s CSR priorities going forward. Protecting Lives, Acting Ethically, Developing our People, and Respecting the Environment. Last year, the format of the report evolved in accordance with French Decree n° 2017-1265 of August 9, 2017. While The scope of reporting adopted in 2018 and utilized in 2019 Valneva was not required to issue a CSR report under the covers sites in the UK (Livingston and London-Fleet), new law, the Company decided to voluntarily continue its Sweden (Solna), Austria (Vienna), Canada reporting for 2018. In 2019, the Group having crossed the (Montréal-Kirkland), the U.S. (Washington, D.C.-Gaithersburg) threshold of 500 employees, it is subject to the obligation to and France (Nantes-Saint-Herblain and Lyon), or 100% of the publish non-financial information. Thus, the present report Group’s total headcount in 2019. describes not only the risks faced by the Company in its Valneva’s environmental impact data come from its two pursuit of sustainable growth, but also shows the counter production sites and two R&D sites. Together, these four measures put in place and Valneva’s future plans to minimize sites represent 96% of the Group’s total headcount in 2019. these challenges. The environmental impact of Valneva’s commercial offices is not integrated into the scope of this Report. Note: For the purposes of this Report, unless otherwise stated, Valneva SE, together with its subsidiaries, are referred to as the Company, the Group or Valneva. 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Message from the Management 2. Message from the Management Corporate Social Responsibility is critical to Valneva as we Valneva’s growth would not have been possible without the strive to advance vaccines for better lives. Our daily activities commitment and talents of its greatest asset: the Company’s are guided by a concern for protecting lives, conducting workforce. In order to support its employees, Valneva fosters business ethically, developing our workforce and preserving a working atmosphere where all are encouraged to pursue the environment. The risks inherent to this work are carefully continued development. No matter where our employees are considered at all levels of the organization, where we located, we are proud to offer a positive workplace collectively endeavor to mitigate risk as we drive for environment across our offices in Europe and North America. continued growth. Valneva is also acutely aware of the need to preserve the Epidemic emergencies persist around the world, highlighting environment and to use natural resources responsibly. Valneva’s important role as a specialty vaccine company Sustainable growth is an important aspect of our CSR providing protection against diseases with major unmet approach and informs our work around the globe. From the medical needs. Since the Company’s creation in 2013, production line to our support functions, reducing our carbon Valneva has worked to protect the global population from footprint, lowering the consumption of energy and raw dangerous illnesses such as Japanese encephalitis, cholera, materials and limiting the creation of waste are goals that we Lyme disease and the chikungunya virus. We continue to work actively to achieve. invest in research & development, in an effort to bring us As Valneva expands its global reach, we pride ourselves on closer a world in which no one dies or suffers from a taking these four factors into account, growing responsibly vaccine-preventable disease. To further that vision, Valneva and in harmony with our CSR values. also dedicates resources to charitable organizations whose daily work supports access to healthcare in their local communities. Thomas LINGELBACH, President and Chief Executive Officer Doing business in an ethical manner is part of Valneva’s DNA. Franck GRIMAUD, President and Chief Business Officer Both within the Company and with partners, we aim to be an exemplary business in terms of reporting, compliance and David LAWRENCE, Chief Financial Officer transparency. From the R&D stage into product marketing Wolfgang BENDER, Chief Medical Officer and beyond, Valneva strives to be a compliance leader for Frédéric JACOTOT, General Counsel & Corporate Secretary companies of similar size in its sector. 4 Corporate Social Responsibility Business Model 3. Business Model Our resources Our business Human Resources Valneva is a specialty vaccine Talented individuals lie at company providing prevention the heart of Valneva’s success against diseases with major unmet medical needs. Valneva’s portfolio includes two commercial vaccines Financial Resources for travelers: IXIARO®/JESPECT® We focus on generating indicated for the prevention long-term value through of Japanese encephalitis and increasing R&D investment DUKORAL® indicated for the prevention of cholera and, in some countries, prevention of diarrhea Scientific Expertise caused by ETEC. The Company has Our collective knowledge various vaccines in development and skills allow for new including a unique vaccine against and ever-evolving products Lyme disease. Our vision is to contribute to Natural Resources a world in which no one dies or With water and energy, suffers from a vaccine-preventable we transform raw biological disease. material into essential vaccines Intellectual Property Discoveries and breakthroughs made in-house keep us on the cutting-edge Our CSR goals We strive to create value by: Industrial Resources protecting lives through Our infrastructure keeps our vaccination and the promotion business moving forward of access to healthcare acting ethically in both R&D and our daily business Stakeholder Relations developing our people Relationships among employees, with the medical community, for future success patient advocacy groups and local respecting the environment communities inform our work upon which we all depend 5 Corporate Social Responsibility Business Model Our results Research & Development Product Sales Revenues Clinical programs include: – Lyme disease €129.5M in 2019 – Chikungunya vaccines candidates Protecting Lives Over €40,000 donated 1 to support research, awareness and healthcare initiatives around the world, including the Baan Dek Foundation and the Encephalitis Society 2 R&D Investment €37.9M in 2019 3 Ethics 13 comprehensive policies Commercialization to govern our activities Two commercial vaccines against: – Japanese encephalitis People – Cholera/ETEC Manufacturing ~ 500 employees of 31 different nationalities Sites in Scotland and Sweden Quality Control function on Environment manufacturing sites & in Vienna Constant reduction of CO2 emissions every year since 2016 6 Corporate Social Responsibility Valneva’s CSR Approach 4. Valneva’s CSR Approach 4.1. A Four-Pillar Strategy The Company’s commitment to responsible and sustainable The third pillar focuses on the Group’s employees or, more business spans four key focus areas, which form the specifically, on Developing Our People. foundation of its CSR approach. Finally, Valneva’s fourth pillar is dedicated to Respecting the Valneva devotes particular attention to its first pillar, Protecting Environment through the prevention of pollution, effective Lives, which is a main driver of the Company’s work. waste management and the control of the Group’s energy consumption. The second pillar covers Acting Ethically, both in R&D and in business. These four pillars are in line with the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals. Table of risks and opportunities Corresponding Sustainable Pillar Risks and opportunities Development Goals (SDGs) Maintain vaccine confidence Support healthcare-oriented charities around the world Maintain a high level of expertise in R&D Ensure patient safety Protecting Responsible manufacturing Lives Comply to the highest standard Acting Mitigate cybersecurity risk Ethically Attract and retain talented people Promote diversity and guarantee non-discrimination Have appropriate levels of expectation to respond to Developing market demand our People Climate change and our infrastructure Maintain safe manufacturing and R&D environments Respecting the Environment 7 Corporate Social Responsibility Valneva’s CSR Approach 4.2. The United Nations Global Compact In line with its CSR approach, Valneva has sustained its support of the United Nations Global Compact and incorporates its ten principles into the Company’s strategies, policies and procedures. The 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact Principle 10: Businesses Principle 1: Businesses should 10 should work against 1 support and respect the proteccorruption in all its forms, tion of internationally proclaimed including extortion and human rights, within the scope of bribery. ion Hu their influence; and upt m an rr Principle 2: make sure that they 2 An are not complicit in human rights tits abuses. Co gh Ri Principle 3: Businesses should Principle 7: Businesses should 3 uphold the freedom of 7 support a precautionary association and the effective approach to environmental recognition of the right to challenges; Env collective bargaining; Principle 8: undertake Principle 4: the elimination of all 8 initiatives to promote greater ir o bo r 4 forms of forced and compulsory environmental responsibility; nm en La labor; and t Principle 5: the effective abolition Principle 9: encourage the 5 of child labor; and 9 development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Principle 6: the elimination of technologies. 6 discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. As part of the Group’s participation in the UN Global Compact, a version of this Report will be submitted as Valneva’s official Communication on Progress and will be available on the UNGC website. 8 Corporate Social Responsibility Protecting Lives 5. Protecting Lives Valneva is engaged in the development of vaccines against diseases with major unmet medical needs, with the aim of protecting the lives of people around the world. The Company provides vaccines to consumers across the globe and ensuring access to healthcare and patient safety are Valneva’s most important goals. 5.1. Maintaining vaccine confidence Valneva is a specialty vaccine company focused on ■ regular engagement with regulatory authorities using prevention against diseases with major unmet medical needs. scientific and data-driven discussions to support brand In order to effectively address these critical global health labels, bolstered by the support of KOLs; issues, the Company must receive marketing authorization ■ close interaction and participation in regulatory agency, from healthcare authorities in various countries around the scientific advice committee and similar meetings, to world. This allows Valneva to provide potential protective update the authorities on our projects as well as measures to the greatest possible number of people. remained well-informed on the type of data to be The Company’s new products must be acceptable not only requested by these stakeholders; to regulatory bodies, but also to health care professionals ■ experienced local commercial teams with in-depth (HCPs), patients and the general public before going to knowledge of the needs of their local market; and market. In pursuit of their acceptance, Valneva strives to ■ a broader commercial structure with the capacity to ensure that these decisive stakeholders recognize the risks create robust market access plans that help prepare and public health burden represented by certain diseases stakeholders ahead of any new product launch. and that these challenges could be reduced drastically through vaccination. To measure the effectiveness of the activities Maintaining a base level of confidence in vaccines as a undertaken by Valneva to mitigate the risk of potential solution to these problems is a critical component commercial exposure, the Company ensures that its of this work. The Company addresses the risk of waning commercial teams are strong and highly-skilled, with vaccine confidence through various means and with the help 9% of staff dedicated to this function in 2019 of multiple actors, both within and outside of Valneva. (compared to 8.6% 2018). In addition to rigorous safety testing, which is further discussed in the Section entitled “Maintaining a high level of In addition, Valneva uses its position to highlight the expertise in R&D”, Valneva’s methods of maintaining vaccine importance of vaccination and foster confidence on a large confidence include: scale. One such example is the Company’s participation in ■ open dialogue with Key Opinion Leaders (KOLs) to the World Health Organization’s World Immunization Week ensure that Valneva’s products and strategy address awareness campaign in April 2019. the disease burden and risks faced by patients; 9 Corporate Social Responsibility Protecting Lives 5.2. Supporting Healthcare-Oriented Charities around the World In addition to Valneva’s core business, which is inherently Support of the Encephalitis Society connected to global health, the Company supports access to healthcare and awareness initiatives both within and outside For three years, Valneva has also been a supporter of the of our direct areas of expertise. Through corporate Encephalitis Society, the UK-registered brain inflammation partnerships, social media campaigns and joint events with charity that envision a world aware of encephalitis, its charities around the world, Valneva aims to further protect consequences and the support available. lives via corporate giving. The organization’s aim is to improve the quality of life of all people affected directly and indirectly by encephalitis, through direct support programs, awareness campaigns for The Baan Dek Foundation: Valneva’s this often-ignored disease and research promotion and chosen charitable partner collaboration. Since 2016, Valneva has been an official sponsor of the Baan Valneva worked directly with the Encephalitis Society Dek Foundation, a Thai charity which aims to foster children’s throughout 2019, providing not only financial support for its health, safety and education in Chiang Mai and Bangkok. various awareness-building and research initiatives, but also sharing information on encephalitis and providing increased visibility to the foundation. Highlights include: ■ In February, Valneva used social media to push the World Encephalitis Day (WED) campaign out to a broad, global audience, directly contributing 19.6 million to the 50 million people reached in 189 different countries on WED2019; ■ In May, Valneva hosted the chief executive of the Encephalitis Society for a presentation on the disease, the organization and the partnership which was simulcast to employees around the world; ■ In October, the Company shared a petition on behalf of the Society with our staff; ■ In November, Valneva was co-finalists in the Excellence In 2019, Valneva decided to expand its involvement with in Collaboration and Partnership category at the 2019 Baan Dek through an increased financial commitment Pharmaceutical Market Excellence Awards (PMEAs); (doubling the previous amount of its annual donation) and by ■ In December, Valneva helped sponsor the Encephalitis making an official visit to charitable organization in March. Conference 2019, held at the Royal College of The time spent on the ground, enmeshed in Baan Dek’s daily Physicians in London. work, allowed Valneva representatives to give back to the Foundation as individuals and gain a deeper understanding of the needs that they work to address. Local Community Engagement This knowledge translated into new collaborations and In addition to corporate-level sponsorships of charities like projects during 2019, including: these – whose missions align perfectly with Valneva’s – the Company also encourages social engagement at the local ■ welcoming a Baan Dek representative to our offices in level on all sites. Employees are empowered to organize and Scotland for a site visit and presentation of the participate in charity events, as well as volunteering in and Foundation and our work together; holding fundraisers that benefit their communities. ■ a one-time donation of outdated mobile devices from Valneva Scotland, to support Baan Dek’s Digital Superheroes life-skills education initiative; In 2019, Valneva donated over €40,000 to ■ exchanging knowledge about our work during our visit health-related charitable organizations around the to Thailand and Baan Dek’s visit to Valneva; and world, including Baan Dek, the Encephalitis Society and local organizations in the communities where we ■ increased focus on Baan Dek’s Dao Ethical Gifts work. In addition to this monetary support, donations program, culminating in our annual Christmas e-card of goods to the needy were also made across the and staff present. Company. 10 Corporate Social Responsibility Protecting Lives Access to Healthcare in Lowand will underwrite a partnership effort to accelerate regulatory approval of Valneva’s single-dose chikungunya vaccine for Middle-Income Countries (LMICs) use in regions where outbreaks occur and support WHO In July 2019, Valneva and the Coalition for Epidemic prequalification to facilitate broader access in lower and Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) announced a new middle income countries. partnering agreement. With support from the European Valneva will also maintain a stockpile of the vaccine Union’s (EU’s) Horizon 2020 programme, CEPI will provide candidate and work to transfer the manufacturing of the Valneva up to US$ 23.4 million for vaccine manufacturing drug product to partners for lower and middle income and late-stage clinical development of a single-dose, countries — where outbreaks of chikungunya have occurred live-attenuated vaccine (VLA1553) against chikungunya. In — to improve access to the vaccine for at-risk populations. line with CEPI’s commitment to equitable access, the funding 5.3. High Level of Expertise in R&D Valneva’s products are based on novel technologies and years before any vaccine candidate can be brought to target complex areas of significant unmet medical need. market. Therefore, good planning and strategic guidance are Therefore, even after very promising early results have been essential to successful development. As such, Valneva works obtained for a product candidate, it may be discovered in to mitigate the risk that one of its R&D projects cannot later clinical trials that the product is not as effective as the progress to market. To do so, the Company continuously Company strives for its products to be. The risk of project examines its research practices, has an internal committee failure is thus inherent to the work undertaken by Valneva dedicated to maintaining the highest research standards and and all other companies in its industry. receives additional scientific guidance through its Scientific Advisory Board, which was created in 2019. The Company has to align and carry out several different activities, including multiple clinical trials, over a number of How do Clinical Trials Work? Preclinical Research Clinical Research Registration Follow Up Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Phase 4 Laboratory Monitor safety & Monitor safety & Monitor If treatment Ensure Tests immunogenicity immunogenicity additional deemed safety safety data effective Approved Determine Confirm protocols dosage tolerance Confirm efficacy & optimal dose efficacy Explore new indications Healthy Animals Patients Patients Patients Volunteers 11 Corporate Social Responsibility Protecting Lives Valneva’s RDOC: Continuously Reviewing Valneva’s SAB: Expert Guidance for R&D R&D Progress Advancement Valneva’s Research & Development Operational Committee To ensure the quality of decision-making in the R&D field, (“RDOC”) guides the conduct of clinical trials for the Valneva created its Scientific Advisory Board (SAB) in July Company’s vaccine candidates. The RDOC meets every 2019. This SAB is a panel of distinguished academic and month to perform a thorough review of Valneva’s product industry professionals who provide Valneva with further pipeline and ensure that the research to be carried out by the guidance and expert advice on R&D strategies. The SAB’s clinical teams corresponds to a clear medical need. purview also covers program execution considerations in the framework of innovation, market dynamics and trends. To complement the scientific review from Valneva’s internal experts, the Company also refers to external experts to Former Valneva Supervisory Board members Dr. Ralf confirm that the approaches it adopts for its clinical trials are Clemens, MD, Ph.D. (Chairperson) and Dr. Alain Munoz, MD, the most appropriate and effective. These reviews are Ph.D. are core members of the SAB. In November 2019, they coupled with rigorous project planning and regular alignment were joined by Drs. Norman W. Baylor and George R. Siber. meetings to ensure that the development process is both Finally, in December 2019, the SAB was completed with the well thought-out and progresses steadily, based on a sound additions of Drs. Stanley A. Plotkin and Anna Durbin. scientific foundation and with the appropriate resources. Collectively, the SAB boasts specific expertise in the following areas of particular relevance to Valneva’s current and future pipeline: In 2019, 33% of Valneva’s workforce was dedicated to ■ Vaccinology R&D, compared to 18% in 2018. Additionally, €37.9 million of Company revenues were reinvested into ■ Microbiology and immunology R&D in 2019, compared to €25.3 million in 2018. ■ Infectious diseases ■ Flaviviruses (a specific family of viruses primarily found These investments in our growing R&D function underscores in mosquitoes and ticks, many of which can also infect Valneva’s dedication to excellence in this crucial area of our humans) business. 12 Corporate Social Responsibility Protecting Lives 5.4. Ensuring patient safety Once Valneva has successfully developed a product and regulations. Healthcare professionals and vaccine users have received marketing approval from the necessary health direct access, by phone and email, to Valneva’s Medical authorities, the Company must ensure ongoing monitoring of Information professionals who provide timely and accurate patient safety. This responsibility to ensure the quality and information on the Group’s products. safety of its products is paramount to Valneva, who In countries where Valneva’s products are distributed by continues to monitor its products to ensure that any third parties, individually adapted pharmacovigilance potential impacts to the safety profile are detected and agreements exist to ensure the proper processing of all assessed. safety-related information. PV audit plans are also used to Valneva’s Pharmacovigilance (PV) department oversees all verify that Valneva’s partners operate according to both the activities related to product safety monitoring around the terms set up in these agreements and current safety globe, ensuring the appropriate flow and management of regulations, in line with the PV processes used for products safety-related information according to applicable distributed in-house. Valneva's Pharmacovigilance (PV) System The Flow of Safety Information Healthcare Distributors Professionals/Consumers/Competent Valneva Authorities Staff medinfo@valneva.com Global Valneva Customer Service Local PV/Medical Information Service Provider Nordics, Canada, France safety@valneva.com (Corporate PV Team + SCRATCH, Valneva’s PV service provider in Germany) Compentent Authorities Valneva’s Pharmacovigilance department maintains a Global PV audits and inspections, Valneva has proved to have a Safety Database for its licensed products and submits robust PV system in place. Furthermore, a set of KPIs has individual case safety reports to national authorities. On a been established to monitor compliance on a quarterly basis. quarterly basis, signal detection reports are compiled for the Company’s licensed products, IXIARO®/JESPECT® and DUKORAL®, for identification of any peculiarities or unusual The primary PV KPI is the rate of submission of trends. These reports are then shared with the Product individual case safety reports (serious as well as Safety Review Board, Valneva’s internal decision making non-serious) to the authorities, with an objective of body for safety-related matters. On a regular basis (every 95% of submissions in time. A rate of 100% was met in three years for both IXIARO®/JESPECT® and DUKORAL®), both 2019 and 2018. Periodic Safety Update Reports (PSURs) are compiled and submitted to the relevant authorities. The primary aim of Valneva as Marketing Authorization Holder and Manufacturer is to ensure patient safety. During 13 Corporate Social Responsibility Protecting Lives 5.5. Responsible Manufacturing Valneva’s manufacturing network includes in-house ■ Quality Assurance involves the systematic and operations covering the production of clinical and independent examination of all trial-related activities commercial products for the Company and on behalf of and documents. This includes site audits, vendor audits clients outside the Company. Its business is thus dependent and system/process audits, as well as general and on the ability to manufacture vaccines at Valneva’s pre-approval inspections. wholly-owned production sites in Livingston, Scotland and Biopharmaceutical manufacturing and release testing is Solna, Sweden. performed regularly at these sites to help avoid disruption to In Livingston, just outside of Edinburgh, Valneva operates a supply and to deliver products in alignment with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved Company’s Master Production Schedule. Multiple other manufacturing site. The Livingston team is currently counter-measures are in place to mitigate production risks, dedicated to drug substance production for Valneva’s viral including: vaccines. ■ annual quality and safety audits; Valneva’s manufacturing site in Solna, near Stockholm, has a ■ preventive maintenance measures; long tradition of vaccine manufacturing connected to the ■ a business continuity plan including an internal crisis Swedish state-owned vaccine institute. management team and disaster recovery; and The Company also operates Good Manufacturing Practice ■ routine servicing and replacement of key equipment. (GMP) laboratories and facilities in Vienna, which are dedicated to the testing and quality control of Valneva’s commercial and clinical stage vaccines. In 2019, over 6% of Valneva’s annual revenues were The vaccine manufacturing carried out on these sites spent on manufacturing site improvements versus presents inherent risks. Figuring prominently among these less than 1% in 2018. risks are those regarding the quality of the products produced, as well as the possibility of being unable to provide the market with a sufficient number of IXIARO® and Objective: Future actions to protect against DUKORAL® doses to satisfy public health needs. manufacturing risk include the continued refinement of the Company’s business continuity plan, Valneva manages manufacturing risks primarily through its as well as increases to bulk safety stocks. Quality Control and Quality Assurance functions, which monitor and regularly audit the Company’s processes. ■ Quality Control evaluates the performance of the manufacturing process to ensure adherence to specifications and limits, and assesses the suitability of incoming raw materials, components, containers, closures, labelling, in-process materials and final vaccine lots. 14 Corporate Social Responsibility Acting Ethically 6. Acting Ethically Developing new vaccines means that the Group has a responsibility to its consumers. Valneva maintains high ethical standards, protecting trial subjects through solid R&D processes and continuously improving its business integrity and transparency – all to preserve the trust of the patients and the communities it serves. 6.1. Complying to the Highest Standard Focused on integrity in its daily business, Valneva conducts Valneva’s Anti-Bribery Procedure its activities with high ethical standards across all functions. The Company has created an internal framework of policies All Valneva employees have 24/7 access to a secured that incorporate its ethical principles into tangible business compliance helpline system. If an employee has a concern or processes. This allows employees to conduct themselves believes in good faith that a law, a rule or one of the ethically. Valneva has continued to grow its set of rules, principles in Valneva’s Code of Conduct has been – or is guidelines and training activities to further realize its about to be – violated, such employee can inform his or her standards of integrity in accordance with new and evolving manager, one of Valneva’s internally-designated Compliance legal requirements. These efforts allow Valneva to mitigate Officers, or use the compliance helpline. Since the 2016 the risk of a failure in business compliance. decision to use this helpline service, Valneva has vowed to ensure that employees are not disciplined or discriminated against for reporting any possible incident, even if the facts Valneva’s Code of Conduct reported prove to be inaccurate, provided that they have acted in good faith. As stated in its official Code of Conduct, Valneva is committed to conducting business responsibly and in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations. The Suite of Policies at Valneva Valneva commits itself and expects every employee to live up to the highest standards of integrity in the common In addition to the cornerstone policies mentioned above, mission to develop new vaccines. The Company shares the Valneva is proud to have a cohesive collection of corporate vision to serve the medical community’s needs and to seek policies that cover a vast array of topics such as: significant returns for its stockholders, in continued pursuit of ■ Anti-harassment, Anti-discrimination and Anti-bullying excellent science for the fight against infectious diseases. ■ Conflicts of Interest Valneva tries to motivate and help every employee to ■ Corporate Procurement contribute to the Company’s success in achieving its goal, and its Code of Conduct applies to all Supervisory Board ■ Data Protection members, Management Board members, directors and ■ Employee Invention employees of Valneva SE and its subsidiaries. ■ Environment, Occupational Health and Safety (EOHS) ■ Global Communications ■ Insider Trading Valneva’s Anti-Bribery ■ Information Technology (IT) and Anti-Corruption Policy ■ Professional and Personal Relationships in the In 2016, Valneva instituted its Anti-Bribery and Workplace Anti-Corruption Policy (ABAC) to align its business with the ■ Non-Retaliation and Non-Retribution best practices in the industry and the highest compliance and ■ Corporate Travel ethics standards. The ABAC policy builds upon the Code of Conduct by providing standards to ensure Valneva’s business activities are conducted ethically and do not attempt to Focus on Ethics-Related Training improperly influence others (including by paying, offering, or accepting bribes in any form, directly or indirectly). This Valneva designates each September as Compliance & Ethics policy was designed in compliance with all global anti-bribery (C&E) Month to bring greater awareness of compliance and and anti-corruption laws including, but not limited to, the UK ethics matters to employees. In 2019, the idea that nothing Bribery Act, the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) brings concepts and events to life better than a good movie and the Canadian Criminal Code and Corruption of Foreign or TV show inspired this year’s C&E Month challenge. Public Officials Act. Valneva has zero tolerance for bribery or corruption of any kind. 15 Corporate Social Responsibility Acting Ethically Compliance Audits To raise awareness of the importance of compliance In 2019, Valneva conducted internal compliance audits and ethics in the workplace, the Compliance focusing on processes and checks of books and records with Committee encouraged all employees to take the regard to Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption. These preventive 2019 C&E Month REAL OR REEL? quiz. The 2019 measures gave insights on the current compliance status at event garnered approximately 39% voluntary different Valneva entities and the results will serve as a employee participation, compared to 54% in 2018. foundation for the next steps towards increased and strengthened preventive measures against compliance risks. Furthermore, Valneva increased its efforts to provide ethics-related training via the implementation of an e-learning platform that will measure successful participation via quizzes during and at the end of each e-learning course. 6.2. Mitigate Cyber Security Risk Companies of all sizes and across all sectors depend on The following counter-measures were put in place to information technology to advance. With this daily use of mitigate the risks associated with cyber security: computers, web applications and mobile devices comes an ■ Spam email gateway and email filtering ever-increasing risk related to cyber security. As our world ■ Constant updating of the Company’s backup becomes more and more connected, hacking methods and cyber-attacks are advancing, too. infrastructure ■ Regular and timely IT system patching to reduce attack At Valneva these risks have been carefully evaluated and vectors include: ■ Multiple layers of security to protect sensitive IT ■ interruption of business operations, infrastructure ■ loss of batches in manufacturing (due to critical ■ IT infrastructure penetration testing production systems being down), ■ Formalized disaster & contingency procedures ■ loss of data, ■ Regular security assessments (both internal and ■ phishing of information, external) ■ fraud, ■ GDPR team in place (including a group Data Protection ■ data breaches in light of European General Data Officer, or DPO) to ensure compliance with all GDPR Protection Regulation (GDPR) regulations, and processes ■ phishing of financial transactions. ■ User awareness trainings, including tailored trainings for These risks can take a variety of forms, through social Valneva’s Management Board, Supervisory Board, engineering, the introduction of malware into IT systems via senior management as well as all Finance department removable media or external hardware, malware infection via staff interand intranet, remote access intrusions and even simple One indicator of Valneva’s performance in reducing its cyber human error. From a phishing attack to malware or hacking security risk is the efficacy of IT and cyber security training of corporate banking information, there are a multitude of measures. As a complement to the Company’s existing IT & potential issues against which employees and upper Telecommunication policy and to bolster the Valneva’s management must be informed. Valneva’s workforce is defense against such risks, a large-scale training initiative considered to be its first and primary line of defense against began in 2019 and continues into 2020. As a way of online crime. educating employees on how to recognize threats and prevent cyber-related incidents, whether at home or at work, In 2019, Valneva’s cyber security risk underwent an in-depth this comprehensive, interactive training program is required reassessment. Data systems were evaluated as safe and the as a refresher for all employees on the current IT policy. most serious cyber security weaknesses were identified as data leakage and the careless use of IT systems. In the event of a cyber-security attack, the Company’s goal was defined as recovering from potential attacks within a reasonable timeframe. 16 Corporate Social Responsibility Acting Ethically 6.3. Combatting Tax Evasion Valneva fulfils its tax obligations in each of the countries where its activities are carried out. 17 Corporate Social Responsibility Developing our People 7. Developing our People Valneva’s success stems from the engagement and expertise of approximately 500 employees, who are the Group’s single largest asset. Because a diverse workforce performs better, Valneva has committed itself to diversity and to the professional development of its employees. This commitment to people starts by creating a lively, open and friendly working environment. 7.1. Attract and retain talented people Valneva’s HR approach New hires and departures ■ Attract and retain talented people. ■ Build a sustainable workforce for the future. 120 ■ Assess and reward performance. 2 2 ■ Value and support diversity. 100 106 ■ Protect its workforce 80 2013 60 51 279 40 EMPLOYEES 2019 20 521 0 9 EMPLOYEES Newly recruited Number Number from 31 nations people of voluntary leave of involuntary leave 18 Corporate Social Responsibility Developing our People Headcount by region On December 31, 2019, the Group had 521 employees working in Austria, Canada, France, Sweden, the United Kingdom, and in the United States. Sweden 157 UK ~500 114 Austria EMPLOYEES France 183 Canada IN 6 45 8 COUNTRIES US 14 >100 IN R&D 19 Corporate Social Responsibility Developing our People A wealth of expertise The majority of Valneva employees work in the areas of Commercial Operations have been consolidated over the manufacturing and R&D. Manufacturing is based in Scotland past four years, with teams now located in Canada, United and Sweden, while R&D is based in Austria and France. States, United Kingdom, Austria, in the Nordic countries and, most recently, in France. The Support functions (G&A) are mostly spread across four main sites in Austria, France, Scotland and Sweden. Commercial Operations 9% Research & Development G&A 33% 25% Manufacturing 33% Gender Breakdown Women are more highly represented than men at Valneva. 60 60% 60% 60% 50 40 40% 40% 40% 30 20 10 0 2017 2018 2019 Female Men 20 Corporate Social Responsibility Developing our People Seniority & Turnover Seniority less than 5 years 5-10 years 10 15 years more than 15 years 2019 56% 15% 19% 10% less than 5 years 5-10 years 10 15 years more than 15 years 2018 53% 17% 20% 10% Valneva's voluntary turnover rate, or employee turnover rate, For many years, Valneva has been offering services to has remained constant over the last three years. It is lower employees such as: than the average voluntary turnover rate for the life sciences ■ childcare assistance ; industry, which was 4.7% in 2018(1). ■ on-site health-related services. Turnover In addition to ensuring well-being at work and guaranteeing competitive compensation and benefits, Valneva also surveys its employees in France to find out how they feel at work and what can be done to develop a dynamic, open and friendly 3 working environment. 3% 2 3% 3% Certification from the Austrian Government: 2 In October 2019, Valneva Austria was granted the base certificate for being a family-friendly employer by the non-profit workandfamily, part of the Austrian Ministry of Family Affairs. The certificate is a clear commitment to providing a family-friendly working 1 culture and comes as a result of a self-initiated audit and application process. 0 2017 2018 2019 Valneva: A Unique Corporate Identity Valneva is an international and multicultural Group where enthusiasm, innovation and strong execution skills are driving Valneva supports its employees in maintaining a healthy forces. With operations in six countries across the globe, work-life balance. Good working conditions, flexibility and Valneva’s teams are diverse and multidisciplinary. Enriched attractive benefits are distinctive elements of the Company's by the 31 nationalities represented in its workforce, Valneva is employer brand. built upon a unique identity in the vaccine industry. (1) Source: Mercer report 2020. 21 Corporate Social Responsibility Developing our People Valneva's HR Strategy Valneva has developed a global HR strategy based on its misson, its vision and its goals. Objectives 1.1 HR support the strategic development of the organisation Pillar 1 1.2 Valneva's employee have a positive attitude towards change and are prepared to be agile / adapt quickly thereby, Organisational supporting the overall change readiness of the organisation development 1.3 Business decisions that result in noticeable changes are being implemented professionally, resulting in smooth and efficient adaptation to different future scenarios 2.1 Be an employer of choice and differentiate Valneva amongst the competition Pillar 2 Talent acquisition 2.2 Continuously adapt and enhance talent acquisition stratgey across sites considering the market pulse & retention 2.3 Boost retention ratio across sites 3.1 Role specific and individual development needs that are critical for tje success of the company are known and met Pillar 3 People 3.2 Key competencies are developed in-house to ensure high relevance of the ocntent and a shared understanding development within the company 3.3 The leadership culture is based on shared values and required competencies 22 Corporate Social Responsibility Developing our People Employee Mobility in Action Twice a year, local events are organized at each site, including end-of-year celebrations and barbecues in the Valneva, as an international company, offers the opportunity summer. of mobility to its employees whenever possible. Newsletters are published regularly to inform employees and In 2019, a Valneva Scotland employee had the opportunity to bring Vaneva's corporate culture to life. In addition, an move from Scotland to Austria, giving the Austrian team the intranet is used to relay the group's social events and benefit of her experience while familiarizing herself with her activities. new surroundings. An Open Dialog across Levels Social Events: Solidifying Valneva’s Culture As a European company, Valneva is proud to maintain an Valneva values its corporate culture and organizes social and internal organization that represents its European workforce, cultural events on a regular basis. A number of events are called the International Work Council (IWC). The 12 members organized at all sites simultaneously to encourage cohesion of the IWC were elected in 2017 for a four-year term and within Valneva. For example, in 2019, Valneva employees meet at least twice a year. They are informed about and celebrated IXIARO®'s 10th anniversary by videoconference. consulted on cross-border operations carried out by Valneva, This was an opportunity to highlight the teams through their contributing to a better understanding of the cultural and testimonials, as many of them have been present for 10 years organizational specificities of each European site. if not more. In addition to the IWC and local work councils for Valneva in Europe, the Canadian and US site leaders and HR team members maintain a constant open dialog with the local workforce. Labor relations Organization of employeeHealth, Safety and Working Conditions Committee (CHSCT) Report for Nantes, management dialogue Local Committees, IWC Expectation Guide Performance Collective bargaining agreements 96% of the Group employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement HR Committees: Heading up Global HR In 2019, Valneva decided to introduce a new, reliable classification system used by a large number of life science Processes companies. This change of referential is based on a The Human Resources Management Committee (HRMC) is multidimensional analysis that brings more ganularity and dedicated to Valneva's global strategy in terms of human differentiation than the previous structure. Valneva has an resources and sensitive issues. The HRMC defines the even more accurate tool for its forward-looking Company's HR strategy and supervises: management of jobs and skills. ■ organizational development; ■ senior leadership development; Innovative Working Arrangements ■ global remuneration policy. Working hours at Valneva are governed by different national agreements, in compliance with local regulations and local The Human Resources Operational Committee (HROC) is contractual needs. responsible for the implementation and execution of HR Whenever possible, flexible working hour arrangements exist policies, systems and other HR processes for all Valneva to facilitate a better work-life balance for employees. In business units. The HROC acts as a functional coordinating addition, home office pilot programs are ongoing, in order to body that: offer more flexibility in the organization of work. ■ handles feedback for all local HR functions; ■ coordinates aspects of the information and consultation processes with the work councils, in 2019 Objective (achieved): In striving for the particular the IWC. continuous improvement of Valneva’s working conditions, time savings accounts were implemented in France. Offering Competitive Compensation 2020 Objective: Formalization of remote work across An early priority for the Company, Valneva implemented a the Company (ex., charter). Group compensation policy based on international benchmarks in 2013. The principles of this policy are consistent and have been harmonized across the different sites since the Company’s creation. 23 Corporate Social Responsibility Developing our People 7.2. Promotion of Diversity and Guarantee of Non-Discrimination Valneva’s Global Anti-Harassment, Anti-Discrimination and Valneva SE and Valneva Austria GmbH are signatories of the Anti-Bullying Policy, in conjunction with its Global Diversity Charter, an initiative seeking to ban discrimination Professional and Personal Relationships in the Workplace from the workplace. Policy, allow the Company to promote equal opportunity and treatment while maximizing the talents and expertise of all employees. Diversity is part of Valneva’s DNA and the Company promotes inclusion in all aspects of the business. Recognizing and Promoting Diversity We believe that discrimination, in any form, is unacceptable in the workplace. Valneva promotes equal opportunity through recruitment and employment, as well as equal consideration with regard to compensation, training and advancement efforts for all employees. This means that prospective and current employees receive the same treatment regardless of nationality, ethnic origin, gender identity, physical or mental disability, age, religion or beliefs, family situation or sexual orientation. As a global company that respects all cultures, Valneva believes that the diversity of its teams is a valuable asset for future success, supporting greater innovation, efficiency and competitiveness. The 31 nationalities represented at Valneva are a by-product of our focus on inclusion. Number of Women in Management Positions We believe that good Corporate Governance is the basis for The Management Committee is a senior management body the trust that our investors, institutions, and employees place that complements Valneva’s Management Board, providing in the Company. Valneva will continue to strengthen this input on the development and execution of Valneva’s confidence in the future while ensuring a diverse and highly business strategy. This Committee holistically oversees qualified group of Board members. cross-functional and cross-site (entity) alignment, including capabilities, objectives and operational oversight across all Valneva’s Supervisory and Management Boards are areas of the business. Currently, two women are part of the committed to managing the Company transparently, in Management Committee: the directors of Valneva’s Solna accordance with the French Middlenext Governance Code and Livingston sites, which are principally dedicated to for Small and Medium Capitalization Companies and with a manufacturing. focus on long-term value creation. As of today, four women serve on Valneva’s Supervisory Board, helping to move the Valneva is committed to ensuring that women and men have Company forward with the highest of ethical standards. equal opportunities to become part of the Company’s corporate governance structure, notably through the development of their qualifications. 24 Corporate Social Responsibility Developing our People 80 70 71% 60 50 55% 50% 50% 52% 48% 40 45% 30 20 29% 10 0 Senior Leadership Intermediate level First level of Total of women with a Positions of Management Position Management Positions management position in the company Female Male Average Age at Valneva The average age of employees at Valneva in 2019 is 44 years old. This has been stable over the last three years. Average Age < 30 30 50 > 50 2019 47 333 141 Average Age: 43.63 56 % 15 % 19 % 10 % < 30 30 50 > 50 2018 42 310 Average Age: 43.45 < 30 30 50 > 50 2017 45 303 109 Average Age: 42.68 25 Corporate Social Responsibility Developing our People 7.3. Having the right level of expectation in terms of performance and competencies to respond to the market demand Valneva promotes equal opportunity and seeks to help each overall goal is to help employees boost their personal of its employees maximize his or her talents. As an integral potential and advance their professional careers at Valneva. part of its strategy, the HR Department has put into place an To guide employees and managers in their development, the internally designed Performance Management system. Human Resources Department created an Expectations Valneva’s system helps to define the roles and responsibilities Guide, based on the contributions of the multi-country of employees and managers within the Group. All Valneva internal team who worked on creating Valneva’s “Employee employees, including managers, are trained to use this Value Proposition.” The Expectations Guide is a tool that system effectively. makes it possible for each employee to progress in a manner that is aligned with Valneva’s expectations. LEAD Model Project In 2019, Valneva has decided to launch a focus group on a Valneva Corporate Training Program new competency model to refine the individual performance Training is a cornerstone of Valneva’s HR strategy and allows assessment process. The objective is to determine the key the Group to maintain high working standards in all of its behavioral competencies within Valneva based on the LEAD activities. The Company offers a broad range of training model (Lead, Empower, Act and Deliver). The events, including sessions on ethics & compliance, risk cross-functional focus group comprises managers from management, biosafety and cyber security awareness. several functions and countries. In Scotland, a pilot Competency Management Program has commenced which will add significant focus to the training, People Development Approach development and assessment of our people for competency and quality assurance. Valneva emphasizes talent management, meaning that employees are gradually trained for further responsibilities. In Sweden, the “Lead without being a Manager” training was conducted for the thrid consecutive year and included 12 Developing employees’ skill sets plays a key role in the employees from different departments. The purpose of this Group’s success. The professional development initiatives training was to encourage employees to become good proposed by Valneva are tied to the improvement and ambassadors for Valneva's values (respect, pride and expansion of operational expertise and are used to enhance engagement) and lead by example in their role. communication and management skills at every level of the corporate hierarchy. Employees are willing to learn and take Valneva has continued the implementation of its Senior on new roles and responsibilities within the Group, thanks to Leadership Development Program, aimed at supporting the professional development options provided to them. The Company leaders in developing a more visible and effective leadership attitude. 26 Corporate Social Responsibility Developing our People Valneva’s Training Investment Across the Group, Valneva’s total training investment was €671,953 for 2019, which represents an average of €1,290 per employee. The slight decrease in the average budget per employee is explained by a larger than expected increase in the Company's workforce. It should also be noted that regulatory training (GMP) is excluded from the training budget presented here. 671,992.53 800,000 618,750.00 700,000 502,763.00 600,000 500,000 235,355.00 243,619.49 400,000 232,331.00 198,706.00 143,270.00 161,726.86 149,842.97 300,000 128,946.00 101,254.00 102,815.06 200,000 36,019.00 36,019.00 1,190.00 8,425.00 13,988.15 100,000 0 2017 2018 2019 Valneva Nordic countries Austria UK France North America 2019 2018 2017 average average average investment of investment of investment of 1,273 euros 1,303 euros 1,290 euros per employee per employee per employee Partnering with Educational Institutions Creating New Oppotunities in Higher At Valneva, preparing for the future begins by encouraging Education the development of the new generation of employees by In addition to regularly welcoming interns in various roles welcoming students who want to discover Valneva's within the Group, Valneva Sweden has been actively involved professions and more broadly the pharmaceutical sector. in the creation of a post-secondary degree in Pharmaceutical Valneva has welcomed 21 students at all its sites, which Engineering. Valneva has a seat on the Board of the degree represents a clear increase compared to 2018 (about a program, which allows the Group to positively influence the dozen). They have been fully integrated, not only into the practical direction of the course. teams, but also into the entire Valneva community. The Company continues its cooperation with universities and vocational training institutes by inviting students to discover Valneva's professions. 27 Corporate Social Responsibility Respecting the Environment 8. Respecting the Environment As a vaccine company, Valneva is aware that the environment directly affects people’s health. The Group feels that it has a responsibility to reduce its own carbon footprint and manage its waste and consumption. In addition, Valneva is aware that the increase in the power and frequency of meteorological phenomena linked to climate change may disrupt the Group's supplies, production or sales, or lead to product losses, and ultimately affect its results. The implementation of a low-carbon policy, which is reflected in particular by the elements described below, is therefore an important element of Valneva's environmental approach, while at the same time making it possible to mitigate the Group's financial risks related to the effects of climate change. 8.1. Valneva’s Environmental Approach Valneva considers Environment, Occupational Health and compliance with a number of corporate social responsibility Safety (EOHS) in the framework of its business activities with rules and environmental sustainability guidelines. the intent to protect people, business assets, natural Good practices for waste separation, recycling and resources and the environment. We strive to prevent the monitoring were adopted by the Group after the 2015 French injury or illness of employees, negative effects on the Energy Transition Act established obligations to promote the environment and any impact on the safety and quality of our circular economy and waste recycling. These practices are a manufactured products, by: major priority and procedures have already been ■ proactively managing risk and supporting a positive, implemented on all sites. innovative EOHS culture; Further developing its environmental practices, Valneva ■ strategically analyzing and minimizing health & safety formalized a Global EOHS Policy in 2017 based on five core risks; and principles: Protect, Prevent, Manage, Analyze & Minimize ■ preventing pollution, minimizing waste and conserving environmental and safety risks. resources. At the request of the Management Board, the local EOHS teams share experience to improve cross-site efficiency and Valneva Global EOHS Policy: alignment, as well as risk reduction. Focus on the Environment With the knowledge that climate change is an important With regard to the environment, this policy ensures that the global issue, Valneva seizes the opportunity to continuously Company uses natural resources responsibly and works to improve its sustainability model. minimize its environmental impact. This includes energy Environmental sustainability is a guiding principle at Valneva. efficiency, minimization of waste, efficient use of water, The Group aims to use natural resources efficiently and choice of chemicals, raw materials and other materials. minimize the environmental impact of its activities and The Company respects the environmental standards and products during their lifecycles. It integrates sustainable requirements set by authorities in each country where it operations & supply chains, innovative products & packaging operates, and has routine and monitoring systems in place to and environmental sustainability into its business decisions ensure continued compliance. process. Valneva pursues its development in strict 28 Corporate Social Responsibility Respecting the Environment Reducing our Carbon Footprint Since energy use constitutes the main source of Valneva’s This year in order to establish a Key Performance Indicator, CO2 emissions, the Group seeks to optimize and continuously CO2 emissions were linked to surfaces (in square meter) of reduce its energy consumption while ensuring energy the 4 main sites used for Valneva activities. The goal of this security for all its business activities. KPI is to check if the Company improve his carbon footprint year after year and based on a time-stable basis between Valneva’s CO2 emissions have been steadily decreasing since each main sites. the Group’s decision to work with green energy providers for the electricity consumed on three of its four main sites. In 2018 and 2019, the electric power used in Nantes, Vienna and Solna was entirely produced by renewable energies. Valneva global CO2 emissions per square meter 0.15 2 2 0.12 0.121 0.107 0.101 0.09 0.099 0.06 0.03 0.00 2016 2017 2018 2019 For the fourth year in a row, the work of the EHS teams on To refine the presentation of energy management and the Valneva's production and R&D sites contributed to a further associated carbon impact, activities have been divided in two reduction in CO2 emissions. categories: manufacturing sites and R&D sites. Each category has its own KPI linked to the specificities of its activity. 29 Corporate Social Responsibility Respecting the Environment Energy consumption per square meter is the chosen KPI for For the manufacturing sites, the chosen KPI is energy R&D sites, where the activity is stable and not linked to a consumption per vaccine batch produced, as the activity of manufacturing process. those sites is directly linked to customer demand. Energy consumption per square meter Energy consumption per batch produced R&D sites Manufacturing sites 2016 0,211 2016 183.41 2017 0,228 2017 214.88 2018 0,222 2018 158.20 2019 0,227 2019 143.09 0,00 0,05 0,10 0,15 0,20 0,25 0 50 100 150 200 250 For R&D sites, variations in activity have very little impact on energy consumption, which is stable over time. When the activity or the climatic conditions have an impact, these are not visible on the graph due to the optimization work on energy consumption implemented by the teams on site. For the production sites, the work of the teams on the shopfloor led to an improvement in energy efficiency despite the production increase and higher temperatures than usual during the summer of 2019. Waste Management Waste has an enormous impact on the environment, causing Two types of waste are produced by the four sites within the pollution and greenhouse gas emissions while generating reporting boundary of this Report: substantial costs for the Group. Proper waste management ■ Non-hazardous waste (paper, cardboard, plastic, etc.); including appropriate reuse, recycling and energy recovery ■ Hazardous waste (used chemical products, is a key factor in optimizing resource efficiency. contaminated plastic, electrical and electronic Valneva’s activities produce waste which is then eliminated at equipment waste, etc.) the different sites in a manner which respects applicable local This last category includes very specific waste associated and European regulations. Separating, recycling and with Valneva’s activities in the biotech field: biological waste. monitoring waste are priorities for Valneva. For that reason, It is subject to specific monitoring procedures by the teams procedures have been implemented and indicators adopted on each site. to closely monitor the Group’s environmental impacts. 30 Corporate Social Responsibility Respecting the Environment Valneva waste repartition by treatment mode Re-use 3.2% Recycling 24.7% Burying 38.7% Incineration with valorization 0.5% Incineration 32.8% In 2019, Valneva choose to present its work on waste To manage this valorization of waste, Valneva works with valorization instead of presenting the quantities of waste specialized companies in the sector and seeks the most produced. well-adapted waste solutions. For each channel, contracts are drawn up with service providers in order to guarantee the The Company treats and valorizes its waste in five different traceability and the nature of the waste recycled. ways: ■ Re-use which allows direct re-use of waste as a raw From the moment waste is collected until its final treatment, service providers give the Company substantiating material in another sector; documents as required by local and European regulations. ■ Recycling which recovers and transforms waste into a new raw material; ■ Incineration with energy recovery, which destroys Other Ways Valneva Reduces Waste waste while producing energy that is subsequently used ■ Replacement of paper cups, plastic water bottles by customers of the incineration plant; and plastic cutlery with reusable options ■ Simple incineration which allows for the destruction of ■ Composting workshop and food waste recycling, waste; and finally, including coffee capsules ■ Burying or landfill use, which is the final treatment ■ Livingston's dedicated Green Team, made of menthod for waste that cannot be valorized using employee volunteers, coordinates waste another channel. Valneva seeks to leverage the other reduction and recycling initiatives. The creation of channels as much as possible, in order to provide a Green Teams on other sites is an additional goal. second life for the largest quantity of waste. 31 Corporate Social Responsibility Respecting the Environment 8.2. Valneva's Approach to Safety at Work Valneva’s manufacturing activities involve certain risks that Managing EOHS Risks and Opportunities could affect the Company’s ability to provide potentially life-saving vaccines. Potential biotechnology risks have been identified at Valneva’s manufacturing and R&D sites. Dedicated teams In order to ensure a steady rhythm of production, the have been tasked with implementing and monitoring the Company understands that employees are key. Thus, Valneva necessary procedures for managing these risks, which reinforces safety at all of its manufacturing and R&D sites include maintenance of the various installations and pieces of through its strong EOHS culture. equipment at these locations. Objectives associated with those risks are defined by the local teams directly linked to Valneva Global EOHS Policy: the specificities of the different sites. Focus on Manufacturing The Global EOHS Policy applies equally to Valneva’s Work Accidents manufacturing and R&D activities and aims to sustain the The nature of Valneva’s activity, together with the Group’s Group’s high level of control over the related risks in the long ongoing improvement of its safety-training measures, has term. resulted in maintaining a low number of work accidents that The EOHS team on site are dedicated to ensure the have historically been non-critical. implementation and respect of the policy. The Company The Frequency Rate, which indicates the accidentology in the ensures that EHS rules are followed consistently through Group, and Severity Rate, which indicates the severity of several complementary actions, including comprehensive accidents within the Company are presented in the 2019 training and procedures. EOHS teams monitor key indicators report because they are a means of showing the and perform regular reporting of near misses, incidents and effectiveness of the work carried out by Valneva teams in accidents. terms of risk prevention for employees. EOHS: The right instincts ■ Always wear personal safety equipment, when and where required. ■ Respect safety warnings and signs. ■ Take part in EOHS training, both overall introduction and special EOHS training when required. ■ Encourage reporting of unsafe behavior and safety risk. 32 Corporate Social Responsibility Respecting the Environment Work Accidents: Frequency Rate 25 20 22.7 15 16.6 10 3.96 5 2.97 2.34 1.37 0 France Average Sector Average 2016 2017 2018 2019 all sector France Pharma/Chimestry INRS figure 2016 INRS figure 2016 Valneva's work accident frequency rate is historically low, thanks to the work of local teams to act as soon as a minor event occurs, thereby preventing more serious events. Valneva's work accident frequency rate is far below those registered by all businesses in France according to 2016 statistics from the French National Research and Safety Institute for the Prevention of Occupational Accidents and Diseases, or INRS. Work Accidents: Severity Rate 1.5 1.5 1.2 0.9 1.0 0.6 0.3 0.003 0.000 0.002 0.028 0.0 France Average Sector Average 2016 2017 2018 2019 all sector France Pharma/Chimestry INRS figure 2016 INRS figure 2016 Work accidents at Valneva only result in short-term work stoppages.In fact, Valneva teams are used to acting on near accidents and near miss in order to act on risks at the source, which has a significant impact on the consequences of accidents. The comparison to all companies in France shows that Valneva's everity rate is far below the averages recorded by the INRS in 2016. 33 Corporate Social Responsibility Other CSR Information 9. Other CSR Information 9.1. Well-being at Work Well-being at work is a part of Valneva’s identity. In the ■ Vegetarian and other healthy meals are prepared by a five years since the Company’s creation, Valneva has company are available in Sweden. undertaken numerous actions in order to create an enjoyable ■ Monthly events are held in France, including cooking workplace at its sites around the world. competitions and holiday-themed lunches. Well-being at work takes many forms at Valneva and each site has its own ideas for promoting health, from being active to providing healthy food options and more. Healthy Working Conditions ■ In Scotland, staff can see a doctor and a nurse on site every month, can participate in a Mental Health Staying Active Awareness program, and be trained in first aid. The HR ■ Each year, Valneva provides a financial contribution for team has also worked on improving private health insurance benefits for all employees who wish it. sports activities for employees in Sweden, Scotland, Canada and France. ■ In France, standing desks have been set up for those ■ The Group offers on-site activities such as yoga, whose doctors have recommended less sitting. This action was supplemented by the installation of more traditional Japanese shiatsu and Indian head massage ergonomic office and lab equipment. techniques. ■ In Austria, a nursery service is available near the site with ■ Valneva encourages its employees to participate in easy access for Valneva employees. Free vaccination walks or races, for charity or not, in the cities where the against influenza and tick-borne encephalitis is also sites are located. available to all employees in Vienna. ■ The Company invites employees from multiple locations to travel to Austria and participate in the annual Vienna In 2018, Valneva France launched a survey in order to Business Run. measure employees’ sense of well-being at work. The results of this survey were used to create action programs in 2019 that continue the Company's progress in the area of Eating Healthy well-being at work. ■ Fruit baskets, cold and hot drinks (tea, water, coffee) are available on all sites. ■ Meal vouchers in France and Austria and discounts in restaurants near the Swedish site are offered to employees. 34 Corporate Social Responsibility Other CSR Information 9.2. Animal Welfare The well-being of animals is an important topic for any Union’s Directive 2010/63/EU and European Convention ETS pharmaceutical business. Valneva works proactively to No. 123) in regards to laboratory animal housing and the ensure animal welfare, as it is an integral part of vaccine performance of animal experiments are strictly followed. development. Regular, unannounced inspections by the respective authorities are carried out in the laboratories. Valneva has an animal laboratory in Vienna and, occasionally, teams in Nantes need to perform specific analyses that In addition, recommendations of the Institute for American require external companies to perform certain animal tests. Laboratory Animal Research (ILAR) and the German Society Before any work can begin, the Company completes of Laboratory Animal Science (GV-SOLAS) are followed to questionnaires for these partners that verify adherence to all grant best possible housing conditions and responsible regulations. The associated contracts include specific clauses treatment of laboratory animals. that require the respect of all existing obligations with regard The ethical framework within these provisions ensures to animal welfare. prospective assessment of proposals for in vivo testing with respect to any potential harm to the animals with special focus on the so-called ‘3R principle’ (“Reduce, Refine, Animal Welfare in Vienna Replace”), one of the key strategies to meet our highs Valneva acknowledges its responsibility for the welfare of demands of Social Responsibility. animals kept in its state of the art laboratories. National laws Well-being of animals is important to Valneva, and the (Austrian Tierversuchsgesetz 2012 and TierversuchsCompany uses the best practices possible for this necessary Verordnung 2012) and international regulations (European aspect of its business. 35 Corporate Social Responsibility Frameworks used to Draw up this Report 10. Frameworks used to Draw up this Report 10.1. European Directives Directive 2014/95/EU October 22, 2014 amended Directive This directive requires companies thus concerned to publish 2013/93/EU and introduces changes for disclosures to be a Report containing information risk prevention policies in included in a CSR Report. The transposition of this directive the areas of environmental, social and employee matters, is complete since August 9, 2017. respect for human rights, anti-corruption and bribery matters, and the outcome of these policies, including a description of the “due diligence processes” and covering the entire supply chain under this approach. 10.2. The French Order No. 2017-1180 of July 19, 2017 The Order No. 2017-1180 is requires the publication of non-financial information by certain large businesses et certain groups of businesses. 10.3. The French Decree No. 2017-1265 of August 9, 2017 The Decree No. 2017-1265 of August 9, 2017 completes the companies and groups of companies. This decree specifies transposition of the CSR Directive (Directive 2014/95/EU on the content of the declaration, the information to be the publication of non-financial information by companies) provided, the publication procedures and the verification initiated by Order No. 2017-1180 of July 19, 2017 on the obligations. publication of non-financial information by certain large 36 Corporate Social Responsibility Methodological Note 11. Methodological Note 11.1. Methodological note on Group CSR data reporting In accordance with French law, Valneva’s Corporate Social The present Report is inspired by this list, but goes over and Responsibility Report focuses on the risks and opportunities above the principal risks by presenting additional linked to the Company’s activities. opportunities that the Company would like to develop. In this Report, the risks and opportunities linked to corporate social In order to manage these risks and opportunities, Valneva is responsibility are thus presented in terms of the Four Pillars committed to maintaining a robust risk monitoring system of Valneva’s previously-defined CSR strategy. and continuously evaluates the risk-reward profile of its activities. The present Report is built upon Valneva’s existing The different entities forming the Group operate according risk management system, which is described in its official to different models linked to business operations (R&D, Corporate Risk Management Policy. production and sales and marketing) as well as their respective cultural and legal environments. Valneva defines risks as all occurrences and possible developments inside and outside of the Company, which may The legal and regulatory context does not reflect the same have a negative impact on the achievement of Valneva’s requirements for compliance from one site to another. objectives. The different priorities relating to the environment and also The Company has also identified opportunities that may have employment are reflected differently according to the sites, a positive impact on the achievement of Valneva’s objectives. even though common practices and shared values can be observed. The risks identified within Valneva are formally evaluated and classified by their importance, according to their likelihood and potential impact. The Company then establishes a list of its ten major risks, which is updated two times per year. 11.2. Group structure of consolidated operations The quantitative data in the employment area is consolidated Quantitative environmental data has been harmonized at the at the Group level for the collection of information in 2018. Group level. Environmental impact measures energy These data are derived from the human resource consumption, GHG emissions and waste for the production management software: Bamboo. and R&D sites only (Livingston, Vienna, Solna and Nantes). 11.3. Data collection method Data collection in 2018 required application of a working ■ other resource persons to coordinate, where possible, method and different steps that are presented below: and transmit quantitative and qualitative data for the environmental information requirements; 1. maintaining the resource persons identified in since 2017 to report quantitative and qualitative ■ resource persons to coordinate, where possible, and employment, social and environmental data for each transmit quantitative and qualitative data for the social site in order to optimize the collection process; information requirements; 2. classifying the source documents received according ■ one person in Nantes (France) to coordinate the data to three fields: employment, environment, and social. collection at the international level. These documents are then made available to the CSR audit 3. implementation of a dedicated CSR reporting firm. platform (installed on the internal server) to improve the data storage and facilitate access for the resource persons. For the construction of this CSR Report, data collection is organized through resource persons identified internally: ■ resource persons to coordinate, where possible, and transmit quantitative and qualitative data for employment-related information requirements; 37 Corporate Social Responsibility Methodological Note 11.4. Future Improvements Valneva hopes to put in place key performance indicators We also aim to develop more complete KPIs for the following (KPIs) for the following risks/opportunities in 2020: risks/opportunities in 2020: ■ supporting healthcare-oriented charities around the ■ attract and retain talented people; world; ■ promotion of diversity and guarantee of non-discrimination; ■ high level of expertise in R&D; ■ KPI relating to the compliance system; ■ responsible manufacturing; ■ climate change. ■ cybersecurity. 38 Corporate Social Responsibility Definitions 12. Definitions 12.1. Employment indicators Relevance Global sum of training budget spent divided by number of employees. Employment indicators provide an understanding, through quantitative and qualitative data, conditions with respect to Regulatory training (GMP) is excluded from the training human rights, employability, working conditions, training budget presented here. policies impacts on employee health and safety, diversity and equal opportunity employment. Conventions and collective bargaining agreements Total headcount A collective bargaining agreement is concluded between the Employees included in the headcount are those with an employer and labor unions for the purpose of setting rules employment contract (permanent or fixed-term) with a governing working conditions, employment and social Valneva Group company, both active and passive. Workforce guarantees for employees. is expressed based on headcount as of December 31, 2019, regardless of the amount of working hours or the starting date in the reporting year. External Workforce and Students Occupational accidents (e.g., Internship, PhD students, Summer students) are Accident resulting from or arising in the course of work, excluded. regardless of the cause, to any salary employee or a person Total headcount also excludes the 5 Management Board working on behalf of the Group. An occupational accident members. can also arise in the course of a business-related trip or during the Home-Work daily trip. Only lost-time accidents are used in the Frequency and Severity Rate calculations Average age presented in this report. Average age is calculated by subtracting the birthdate from 12/31/2019. For example, 12/31/2019 12/16/1973 = 45.04 years. Frequency Rate The frequency rate is the number of accidents with lost time greater than one day, occurring during a period of 12 months Seniority per million working hours. Calculated by the difference between Entry Date and December 31, 2019, ignoring any absences due to maternity, paternity or educational leave. Severity Rate The severity rate represents the number of days lost due to temporary incapacity for 1,000 hours worked. Gender balance Takes into account the total headcount. Turnover Employee development Number of employees who left during the year x 100 Training budget per site divided by number of employees per (Number of employees at the begining of the year + number of site. employees at the end of the year) / 2 12.2. Environmental indicators Relevance Energy Environmental indicators report inputs (energy, water and Only direct energy consumption (originating from a primary raw materials) and outputs (emissions, effluents, waste) and energy source) is taken into account. Consumption are the types of impacts of the organization on the environment. expressed in MWh/m² for R&D sites or in MWh/batch for Manufacturing sites. 39 Corporate Social Responsibility Definitions CO2 Emissions Waste Direct greenhouse gas emissions are taken into account and Waste management is expressed as a percentage based on expressed in tonnes of CO2 per unit area in square meters. the distribution of different types of waste, hazardous and non-hazardous, according to the valorization methods used The transport component (employees, suppliers, customers) for their treatment. is not taken into account here due to a lack of data. 12.3. Social indicators Relevance Periodic Safety Update Report (PSUR) Social indicators cover impacts of the business on the PSURs are pharmacovigilance documents intended to territory, impacts of products on consumer health and safety, provide an evaluation of the risk-benefit balance of a practices with respect to suppliers and subcontractors, the medicinal product at defined time points after its purchasing policy. authorization. All impacts are derived from qualitative data (procedures The objective of the PSUR is to present a comprehensive and and the assessments of practices). critical analysis of the risk-benefit balance of the product, taking into account new or emerging safety information in The Group defined more precisely its social policies, and the context of cumulative information on risk and benefits. focused around two pillars: “Protecting lives” (inherent to its R&D and vaccine commercial activities) and “Acting Ethically” (in consideration of Health, product safety and Compliance issues concerning all employees, internally and externally). 40 Corporate Social Responsibility Independent Third Party Auditor’s Report 13. Independent Third Party Auditor’s Report VALNEVA SE 6 Rue Alain Bombard 44800 Saint-Herblain This is a free translation into English of the independent third party’s report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English-speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional standards applicable in France. For the year ended December 31, 2019 To the Shareholders, Nature and scope of our work As an independent third party and certified by COFRAC The work described below was performed in accordance under number 3-1055 (information available on with Article A. 225-1 and following Articles of the French www.cofrac.fr”), we hereby report to you on the Commercial Code: non-financial statement for the year ended December 31, ■ we obtained an understanding of all the activities of the 2019, included in the management report pursuant to the companies included in the scope of consolidation and, legal and regulatory provisions of Articles L. 225-102-1, the description of the principal risks; R. 225-105 and R. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code ■ we assessed the suitability of the Guidelines with (Code de commerce). respect to their relevance, completeness, reliability, neutrality and understandability, with due consideration The entity’s responsibility of industry best practices, where appropriate; ■ we verified that the Statement includes each category Pursuant to legal and regulatory requirements, the of social and environmental information set out in Management Board is responsible for preparing the Article L. 225-102-1, III as well as information regarding Statement, including a presentation of the business model, a compliance with human rights and anti-corruption and description of the principal non-financial risks, a presentation tax evasion legislation; of the policies implemented considering those risks and the ■ we verified, where relevant with respect to the principal outcomes of said policies, including key performance risks or the policies presented, that the Statement indicators. provides the information required under The Statement has been prepared in accordance with the Article R. 225-105, II when relevant in regards to the entity’s procedures (hereinafter the Guidelines). principal risks and includes a clear and reasoned explanation for the absence of required Informations required in Article L. 225-102-1, III, 2°; Independence and quality control ■ we verified that the Statement presents the business Our independence is defined by the provisions of model and the principal risks associated with all the Article L. 822-11-3 of the French Commercial Code, in companies’ activities included in the scope of addition, we have implemented a system of quality control consolidation, including where relevant and including documented policies and procedures regarding proportionate, the risks associated with their business compliance with the ISO17020 requirements and applicable relationships, their products or services, as well as their legal and regulatory requirements. policies, measures and the outcomes thereof, including key performance indicators; Responsibility of the independent third party ■ we referred to documentary sources and conducted verifier interviews in order to: ■ assess the process used to identify and confirm the On the basis of our work, our responsibility is to provide a principal risks and the consistency of the key report expressing a conclusion on: performance indicators used with respect to the ■ the compliance of the Statement with the provisions of principal risks and the policies presented; Article R. 225-105 of the French Commercial Code; ■ corroborate the qualitative information (measures ■ the fairness of the information provided in accordance and outcomes) that we considered to be the most with Article R. 225-105 I, 3° and II of the French important; Commercial Code, i.e., the outcomes, including key performance indicators, and the measures implemented ■ we verified that the Statement covers the scope of considering the principal risks (hereinafter the consolidation, i.e. all the companies included in the Information). scope of consolidation in accordance with Article L. 233-16 within the limitations set out in the However, it is not our responsibility to comment on the Statement; entity’s compliance with other applicable legal and regulatory provisions, in particular the French duty of care law and ■ we asked what internal control and risk management anti-corruption and tax evasion legislation and the procedures the entity has put in place and we assessed compliance of products and services with the applicable the data collection process implemented by the entity regulations. 41 Corporate Social Responsibility Independent Third Party Auditor’s Report to ensure the completeness and fairness of the We conducted 14 interviews with people responsible for Information; preparing the Statement. ■ for the key performance indicators and other quantitative outcomes that we considered to be the most important(1), we implemented: Conclusion ■ analytical procedures to verify the proper Based on our work, nothing has come to our attention that consolidation of the data collected and the causes us to believe that the non-financial statement is not in consistency of any changes in those data, accordance with the applicable regulatory provisions and ■ substantive tests, using sampling techniques, in order that the Information, taken as a whole, is not presented fairly to verify the proper application of the definitions and in accordance with the Guidelines. procedures and reconcile the data with the supporting documents. This work was carried out on Comments a selection of contributing entities and covers Without qualifying our conclusion, and in accordance with between 22% and 100% of the consolidated data Article A. 225-3 of the French Commercial Code, we express selected for these tests; the following comments: ■ we assessed the overall consistency of the Statement The cybersecurity policy related results do not include key based on our knowledge of all the companies included performance indicators. in the scope of consolidation. Improvement goals and commitments were only mentioned Means and resources in the risk policies in regards to “ensure patient safety” and “responsible manufacturing”. All other policies do not include Our work was carried out by a team of 3 people between improvement goals or commitments. October 2019 and march 2020 during a total of 22 weeks. Toulouse, March 30, 2020 INDEPENDANT THIRD PARTY AUDITOR (ORGANISME TIERS INDÉPENDANT) SAS CABINET DE SAINT FRONT Pauline de Saint Front Associate Director (1) Key performance indicators and other quantitative outcomes : (i) Percentage of Commercial on the total workforce, (ii) Percentage of R&D employee, (iii) Rate of submission of individual case safety reports to the authorities (iv) Percentage of annual budget spent on improving manufacturing sites, (v) Percentage of voluntary participation in C&E Month-Average seniority, (vi) Gender breakdown, (vii) Percentage of woman by position, (viii) Average age, (ix) CO2 emission per m2, (x) Waste recovery, (xi) Energy consumption per m2, (xii) CO2 emission and energy consumption per doses and batch, (xiii) Work accidents: severity rate, (xiv) Work accidents: frequency rate, (xv) Training investment average per employee. 42
