UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Statement from the CEO It has certainly been a very challenging year for the aviation sector and for Air New Zealand. We have worked hard to ensure the actions we have taken over past months will enable the airline to emerge competitively and sustainably from the COVID-19 crisis. Our 2020 Sustainability Report, which accompanies this Communication on Progress, outlines the ways we are supporting our company purpose to enrich our country by connecting New Zealanders to each other and New Zealand to the world. In the report you can read more about our progress across four key areas: • Caring for our people and communities • Tackling climate change & carbon emissions • Championing sustainable tourism & regions • Strengthening sustainable supply chains & reducing waste This year the Air New Zealand Executive identified leading and advocating for action on decarbonisation as an integral part of our recent companywide strategy reset. We believe this will help us accelerate progress towards our sustainability goals. We remain committed to this path and to fulfilling our responsibility as a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact. Greg Foran Chief Executive Officer Air New Zealand UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Demonstrating our commitment This report serves as our communication on progress • In 2015, we refreshed our Supplier Code of regarding Air New Zealand’s implementation of the ten Conduct, which sets out our support of the UNGC principles of the UN Global Compact, which we joined in principles and minimum expectations of our 2015. The information provides specific detail on policies, suppliers, particularly around sustainability and procedures and practices in respect of the UNGC’s transparency. At least 94.2 percent of our principles, and should be read alongside our 2020 suppliers, by procurement spend1, comply with our Sustainability Report, which sets out Air New Zealand’s Supplier Code of Conduct and we are working to progress in relation to its Sustainability Framework. This achieve compliance from all suppliers (excluding Communication on Progress covers the timeframe 1 July fuel and labour). In 2017, the Supplier Code of 2019 – 30 June 2020. Conduct was updated to highlight Air New Zealand’s ongoing commitment to observe, as a Our commitment to the UNGC ten principles is minimum, the same conduct, standards and demonstrated in the following key policies, procedures behaviours that it expects of its Suppliers when and practices at Air New Zealand: conducting business. • Air New Zealand’s Code of Conduct sets out our • We encourage all employees to raise concerns commitment to the principles enshrined in the United about inappropriate conduct, including potentially Nations Global Compact, and the standards of unethical or illegal conduct, while assuring behaviour we expect from our employees globally. The confidentiality and protection against retaliation or Air New Zealand Business Principles detailed in each any form of harassment. Employees are able to section below are derived from our Code of Conduct. raise concerns via their manager or human • All employees are required to abide by our Code of resources business partner, or through an Conduct, which is communicated as part of training independent ‘Speak Up’ service (phone, email or modules before employment commences. Refresher post). Our Just Culture and Reporting policy is training is provided to all employees on an annual intended to create an environment of mutual trust basis. Code of Conduct training completion is reported which encourages employees to report issues to the Air New Zealand Policy Management while being clear on the distinction between Committee and the Audit Committee. acceptable and unacceptable behaviour. • Air New Zealand’s 2019 Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement under the Modern Slavery Act 2015 (UK), further embeds and elaborates on Air New Zealand’s commitment to the UNGC principles by ensuring that there is no modern slavery or human trafficking in our supply chain or in any part of our business. AIRNEWZEALAND.COM 1. This excludes fuel, airport fees, aircraft, taxes and labour. Where supply agreements are not in place, Air New Zealand’s purchase order terms and conditions are used to apply the Supplier Code of Conduct where the supplier spend is below $150,000. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Human Rights Global Compact principle Air New Zealand Business principle Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect • We will treat people fairly, with dignity and will pursue the protection of internationally proclaimed human equality of opportunity and inclusion for all employees rights; and through our employment policies and practices. We value diversity of people and thought. Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in • We will recruit, select and develop our people on human rights abuses. merit – irrespective of age, race, colour, origin, gender, religious beliefs, disability, family or marital status, sexual orientation or other prohibited grounds. • We will take into account social, ethical and environmental considerations in our procurement and supply chain decisions. • Our Code of Conduct and Supplier Code of Conduct • See the Caring for our people and communities section positions on Human Rights are supported by our of our 2020 Sustainability Report for discussion of our Sustainability Framework (see our 2020 Sustainability goals, implementation and outcomes relating to people Report), and the following Air New Zealand Group safety (health, safety and wellbeing), employee policies (publicly available policies are linked): engagement, diversity and inclusion, and people Disciplinary Policy and Disciplinary Guidelines development. Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Policy • In response to the impact of COVID-19 on Air New Zealanders, we put in place a number of measures to Procurement Policy support people exiting the business and safeguard the Just Culture and Reporting Policy wellbeing of all Air New Zealanders. This included customised toolboxes on wellbeing, weekly wellbeing Workplace Bullying: Prevention and Complaints check-ins, access to the Thrive mental health app and Policy Employee Assistance Programme, Peer Assistance Harassment and Sexual Harassment: Prevention Networks, the deployment of our Special Assistance and Complaints Policy Team to support vulnerable employees, and health and wellbeing livestreams. Privacy Policy and Privacy Statement • In 2019, we received the Gender, Rainbow and Transgender and Transitioning Gender Guidelines Accessibility Tick accreditations, which provide Domestic Abuse Guidelines independent validation that people of all genders, sexual identity and abilities respectively are accepted • At the date of this COP, 7,833 of Air New Zealand’s and valued in our workplace. employees are based in New Zealand, with 282 further employees based in Argentina, Australia, Canada, • We are currently reviewing our bullying and China, Cook Islands, Fiji, French Polynesia, France, harassment policies and processes and these will be Hong Kong, Japan, Korea, Samoa, Singapore, Taiwan, shared later this year. A Bullying and Harassment Tonga, and United States of America. awareness campaign and training was rolled out to employees in 2018. Bullying and Harassment • We take legal advice in the local jurisdictions we representatives are in place and receive ongoing operate in about human rights compliance and require training. HR systems and processes have also been managers across the organisation to comply with all subject to review and update to refine the process company policies. Employment contracts are reviewed where a bullying or harassment claim is lodged and the for compliance in each local jurisdiction and we seek confidentiality and actions following reporting. compliance with policy and contract through governance and management structures. • See the Strengthening sustainable supply chains & reducing waste section of our 2020 Sustainability Report for discussion of our goals, implementation and outcomes relating to sustainable procurement. AIRNEWZEALAND.COM UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Labour Global Compact principle Air New Zealand Business principle Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of • We will work in good faith, within the appropriate legal association and the effective recognition of the right to framework, with trade unions and other bodies that collective bargaining; our people collectively choose to represent them. • We will not tolerate child labour and are committed to Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory compulsory labour; labour. Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and • We will not accept any form of discrimination, harassment or bullying. We will take into account Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect social, ethical and environmental considerations in of employment and occupation. our procurement and supply chain decisions. • Our Code of Conduct and Supplier Code of Conduct • See the Caring for our people and communities section positions on Human Rights are supported by our of our 2020 Sustainability Report for discussion of our Sustainability Framework and the following Air New goals, implementation and outcomes relating to people Zealand Group policies (publicly available policies are safety (health, safety and wellbeing), employee linked): engagement, diversity & inclusion, support during COVID-19, and people development. Airline Safety Policy • See the Strengthening sustainable supply chains & Disciplinary Policy and Disciplinary Guidelines reducing waste section of our 2020 Sustainability Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Policy Report for discussion of our goals, implementation and outcomes relating to sustainable procurement. Just Culture and Reporting Policy • Air New Zealand respects and supports the role of Performance Improvement Policy unions in the workplace. As at the date of this COP, People Health, Safety and Wellbeing Policy 72% of our employees are covered by 31 collective agreements. Workplace Bullying: Prevention and Complaints Policy For our airline Cabin Crew, in addition to Code of Conduct training, we provide initial and ongoing Harassment and Sexual Harassment: Prevention training on management of customers with and Complaints Policy disabilities and non-discrimination in this area. Palm Oil Position Statement The guiding document in this regard is the ‘We Care Disability Guide’. We have also introduced a human Procurement Policy trafficking awareness training module, and crew have Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement completed a training module focused on wellbeing and mental health. Sustainability Policy • Air New Zealand’s 2019 Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement under the Modern Slavery Act 2015, further embeds and elaborates on Air New Zealand’s commitment to the UNGC ten principles. AIRNEWZEALAND.COM UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Environment Global Compact principle Air New Zealand Business principle Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary • We will protect the health, wellbeing, safety and approach to environmental challenges; security of our customers, employees and the communities in which we operate. Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater • We will operate our business with discipline and environmental responsibility; and excellence to ensure sustainability, resilience and effectiveness. Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. • We will protect and safeguard the natural environment, minimising our use of finite resources and the release of harmful emissions to the environment. • We will invest in society and communities ensuring effective use of our resources and in line with our mission. • We will take into account social, ethical and environmental considerations in our procurement and supply chain decisions. • Our Code of Conduct and Supplier Code of Conduct • We achieved stage 2 certification with the International positions on the Environment are supported by our Air Transport Association Environmental Assessment Sustainability Framework, and the following Air New (IEnvA) programme, which independently assesses Zealand Group policies (publicly available policies are airline environmental management. This year the linked): scope of the certification was extended beyond Flight Operations and Corporate to include national Cargo; Sustainability Policy Maintenance Repair Organisations; Ground Services; Procurement Policy and Auckland Airport. • See the Tackling climate change & carbon emissions, • Air New Zealand want to take ambitious action on Championing sustainable tourism & regions, climate change by putting greater focus on leading and Strengthening sustainable supply chains & reducing advocating for action on decarbonisation with the goal waste, and Sustainability dashboard & performance of achieving net zero emissions by 2050. metrics sections of our 2020 Sustainability Report for • In addition to our operational activities, Air New discussion of our goals, implementation and outcomes Zealand also partners with the New Zealand relating to our aviation carbon reduction approach, low Department of Conservation, providing support for carbon stationary energy, low carbon ground transport, biodiversity projects and translocation of threatened support of biodiversity projects, waste management, species and conservation dogs. Air New Zealand staff and property and infrastructure. support conservation-related projects every year, through participation in the organisation’s volunteerbased Greenteam. • See the Strengthening sustainable supply chains & reducing waste section of our 2020 Sustainability Report for discussion of our goals, implementation and outcomes relating to sustainable procurement. AIRNEWZEALAND.COM UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Anti-Corruption Global Compact principle Air New Zealand Business principle Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption • We will comply with all applicable domestic and in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. international laws and regulations, appropriate standards and principles, including all competition, anti-trust and anti-money laundering laws. • We will not tolerate any form of bribery, including improper offers of payments or gifts to or from employees. • We will avoid any activity or contracts that may lead to, or suggest, a conflict of interest between personal activities and Air New Zealand. • We will take into account social, ethical and environmental considerations in our procurement and supply chain decisions. • Our Code of Conduct and Supplier Code of Conduct positions on Anti-Corruption are supported by the following Air New Zealand Group policies (publicly available policies are linked): Anti-bribery and Corruption Policy Audit Independence Policy Competition Law Policy Continuous Disclosure Policy Conflicts of Interest Policy Gifts and Entertainment Policy Sponsorships and Donations Policy Procurement Policy Securities Trading Policy • See the Strengthening sustainable supply chains & reducing waste section of our 2020 Sustainability Report for discussion of our goals, implementation and outcomes relating to sustainable procurement. • We review corruption risk as part of our due diligence on new flight routes. • We provide training on competition law for employees and specific groups who work in an environment where they may interact with competitors to ensure that they understand and are able to recognise behaviours that may have an anti-competitive purpose. AIRNEWZEALAND.COM
