A ISS AT A GLANCE 20 19 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 1 ISS AT A GLANCE CONTENTS ISS CASE ISS AT A GLANCE Our business model and strategy 2 STORIES Corporate overview 3 26 ISS AUSTRALIA: Maximising opportunities Our global footprint and strategy 4 for indigenous groups in Australia Regional performance 5 Letter to our stakeholders 7 OUR APPROACH Our approach 9 Sustainable development goals 10 Our framework for Corporate Responsibility 11 Mitigating risks and challenges 12 20 GINA TOH: A Part Of The 30 ENVIRONMENT: Putting our energy Key sustainability events in 2019 14 Singapore Growth Story into reducing consumption Focus on compliance 15 PEOPLE Reaching our full potential 17 Health and safety 24 Overview of 2019 people performance 27 PLANET 21 AMELIA EKUS: Putting your 35 POLICY: Speak up Helping to protect our environment and climate 28 passion into practice Overview of 2019 planet performance 31 PROFIT Competing on fair terms 32 Protecting personal data in ISS 34 Overview of 2019 business integrity framework and activities 38 22 ISS IBERIA: Empowering women 37 POLICY: N o tolerance of sexual harassment INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S ASSURANCE REPORT 39 through decent jobs REPORTING PRINCIPLES AND COMPLIANCE 41 OUR PERFORMANCE AND TARGETS 42 GRI AND UNGC COMPLIANCE TABLES GRI disclosures 45 United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) 52 23 LINE DALSGAARD ANDERSEN: Opportunities for ­professional advancement 2 ISS AT A GLANCE OUR BUSINESS WE ARE PLACEMAKERS FOCUS ON KEY ACCOUNTS BUILDING OUR SERVICE CAPABILITY MODEL AND We believe that people make places and places make people. From strategy through to Increasingly our focus is on key account customers. These are customers demanding a higher ISS is changing and will continue to change over the coming years. As this happens, our impact on STRATEGY operations, we partner with customers to deliver places that work, think and give. They choose us because we create, manage and maintain envivalue outcome from the work we perform. They require cost savings but not at the expense of service excellence or risk assurance. Industry working communities becomes greater – consistent with our customers’ needs. We have built a full suite of facility services with self-delivery ronments that make life easier, more productive segment expertise is critical, and they expect us to capabilities. Whilst facility services remain our and enjoyable. deliver solutions that support their core business core business, they are now just one part of our Our strategy – The ISS Way needs. This key account market comprises around offering to customers. Today, our value propo– has guided our choices for Our people care about the people they support, 40% of the global USD 1 trillion outsourced sition to key account customers covers not only always adding a human touch to create places facility management market. It remains a highly their property (place), but also their impact on over a decade. As we seek that deliver and delight. Every ISS person in every fragmented market with only a small handful the environment (planet) and the engagement to deliver stakeholder value customer facility is one of us – trained, equipped, of players with the capability to credibly offer of building users (people). We are strengthenconsistently and sustainably, motivated and working to high standards. national or multinational solutions. ISS is a leader ing our service capabilities even further through we are increasing our focus in this market with an estimated market share of a programme of accelerated investment running on those customers, services Working with customers day by day, side by less than 2%. until 2021, most notably in areas including techside, we come to understand every aspect of the nology, data and workplace management. and geographies where we user experience. We deploy data, insights and can differentiate and deliver knowledge to develop innovative strategies and industry-leading growth. intelligent solutions to meet the intricate realities Key account customers …deep segment expertise … and this must be of service delivery. This helps us manage risk, ­ emand more than just d is important … ­leveraged across sites, ­reduce cost and ensure consistency. cost savings ... countries, regions As a global company with a heritage of fairness, equality and inclusion, we empower all of our people to deal with problems and opportunities Excellence when they arise. We see it as our job to help our customers achieve their purpose. Whether it is Volumes hospitals healing patients, businesses boosting Risk Cost Concepts productivity, airports transferring passengers or Talent manufacturing sites producing goods, we are there to help. People make places and places make p ­ eople. We know that when we get things right, it enCreating a higher value outcome hances lives and makes the world work better – and that is what drives us. 3 ISS AT A GLANCE CORPORATE OUR TOTAL WORKFORCE OUR STANDOUT ATTRIBUTES OVERVIEW 471,056 Insight High standards Insight People who go the extra Our commitment to Intelligent solutions based on our mile and care about the high standards in all knowledge of every aspect of the people they support aspects of delivery workplace experience WHAT ISS DELIVERS World of work Life Place Places Places Places that work that think that give What What What enhances people need people enjoy peoples’ lives People Functional Emotional CUSTOMER SEGMENTS 1) KEY ACCOUNT SHARE 1) 34% Business Services & IT 12% Industry & Manufacturing 11% Healthcare 10% Public Administration 63 % 33% Other 1) Of Group revenue. 4 ISS AT A GLANCE OUR GLOBAL FOOTPRINT AND STRATEGY Continental Europe Northern Europe Asia & Pacific Americas Other countries Countries to be divested STRATEGY Furthermore, through consolidation and alignment • aligning procurement and business processes, Our strategy, the ISS Way, has choice making at of our capabilities, our strategy drives the skill and • sharing of the concepts and best practices our its core: scale benefits of being a large, global organisation. organisation develops, • clarity on the customer segments we target, • and proactive management of our comprehen• the services we provide, and We strive to extract these benefits of skill and sive talent pool. • the places on the globe where we provide them. scale by leveraging our volume through: 5 ISS AT A GLANCE REGIONAL CONTINENTAL EUROPE NORTHERN EUROPE PERFORMANCE 1) 30.6 25.0 DKKbn DKKbn revenue revenue 39% 32% of Group of Group revenue revenue 55% 73% key accounts key accounts 12% 144,502 4% 70,815 organic growth employees organic growth employees REVENUE BY COUNTRY DKK million REVENUE BY COUNTRY DKK million Switzerland 5,507 UK & Ireland 11,205 Germany 4,891 Norway 4,028 Spain & Portugal 4,880 Denmark 3,789 France 4,566 Finland 3,131 Turkey 3,182 Sweden 2,884 Belgium & Luxembourg 3,015 Austria 2,211 Netherlands 1,344 Italy 511 Poland 293 Russia 147 Lithuania 55 1) The number of employees per region are from continuing Latvia 6 operations. 6 ISS AT A GLANCE REGIONAL ASIA & PACIFIC AMERICAS PERFORMANCE 13.7 8.5 DKKbn DKKbn revenue revenue 17% 11% of Group of Group revenue revenue 60% 59% key accounts key accounts 5% 160,732 2% 25,107 organic growth employees organic growth employees REVENUE BY COUNTRY DKK million REVENUE BY COUNTRY DKK million Australia & New Zealand 3,973 USA & Canada 7,629 Hong Kong 2,534 Mexico 798 Singapore 2,317 Other countries 1) 32 Indonesia 1,970 India 1,592 China 834 Taiwan 425 Japan 80 Other countries – Asia 14 1) Argentina, Bangladesh, Bulgaria, Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Estonia, Greece, Israel, Panama, Peru, Puerto Rico, Sri Lanka, South Africa, South Korea, United Arab Emirates and Vietnam. 7 ISS AT A GLANCE LETTER TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 2019 was a year of historically strong organic growth and improved underlying free cash flow. However, it was also a year where we identified and addressed several operational challenges. We are continuing to work through a bold and vital transformation as we enhance our ability to serve our key account customers to drive stronger and more sustainable value for our shareholders. We maintained robust commercial momenexpenses and capital expenditure. The in-year outcome-driven solutions. We believe that ISS is to an estimated 40% of the total plan. This tum in 2019 as evidenced by a historically ­reduction in operating expenses in 2020 is in a strong position to serve these customers into is a major step in simplifying, de-risking and strong organic growth of 7.1%. This growth ­expected to be around DKK 200 million. the future. focusing our organisation. was supported by the launch of our largest contract to date, with Deutsche Telekom, as Our total shareholder return (TSR) in recent years We continue to develop our people agenda with HEALTH AND SAFETY well as an enhanced customer retention rate has proven disappointing. However, we are very targeted programmes to attract, develop and retain – A KEY PRIORITY of 91%. In addition, our underlying free cash focused on creating maximum value for all our the talent and leadership needed to deliver our straOur focus on health, safety, environment and flow improved considerably. stakeholders. Through the measures taken in tegic objectives. We are also undertaking a major quality (HSEQ) initiatives keep all stakeholders November, and by leveraging our industry-leadtransformation of our technology and associated top of mind, from customers and suppliers In November 2019, we revised our outlook ing and resilient platform, we are confident of processes, ensuring that we offer market-leading to employees and partners. Safety is our on margins and free cash flow. Regrettably, delivering solid growth in both earnings and cash value and stable margins, while benefiting from the highest priority and across the Group we’re our execution had proven unsatisfactory in a flow. The direction of our strategy is right – our support of greater insights and data. ­working tirelessly to ensure that our people few areas leading to an operational shortchosen markets remain fundamentally sound and go home safe to their families after a profall. This ultimately triggered some negative our strategic choices are proving successful. Risk management is an integral part of our value ductive workday. Tragically we suffered three one-off items impacting 2019. While we are creation, both for our customers and ISS. We take work-related fatalities in 2019 (one in 2018). still working to get our performance back PROGRESS IN 2019 an active approach to risk management, ensuring This is unacceptable. We are deeply a­ ffected to where it should be, we are confident that We reiterated our focus on serving key a­ ccounts that our key risks are identified and managed by the fatalities and the impact this has on operating margins will recover over 2020 and in 2019, which has grown to 63% of our Group in a structured and prioritised manner. In 2019, their families, friends and colleagues. We in the medium-term. revenue. These core customers demand more than we have continued our development of our risk have investigated the incidents to ensure we simple cost savings and are looking for c­ apable framework and improving risk visibility to deliver determine the root causes and take corrective Consequently, in November 2019, we partners to support their strategic journeys. In industry best practice risk assurance for our cusactions so that they are not repeated. In the launched an efficiency programme targeting 2019, our organic growth with key accounts tomers and within ISS. past decade, we have reduced our Lost Time corporate cost savings at the Group level. reached 11% with a strong retention rate of Injury Frequency (LTIF) by nearly 80%. The Through stronger prioritisation, this ­efficiency 94%. We are operating in a fundamentally attracThe divestment plan announced in December continuous improvement has been driven by plan targets up to DKK 400 million in comtive and growing Facility Management market, 2018 is making encouraging progress. By the end our systematic approach and focus on HSE bined cash savings across both operating where key account customers are looking for of 2019, we had secured proceeds amounting risks across the organisation. 8 ISS AT A GLANCE PEOPLE AND PLACES – A OUR COMMITMENTS RELATIONSHIP WE UNDERSTAND We remain committed in our support of the We are a company that supports the purpose United Nations (UN) Global Compact as we have of our customers. Working with them day by been since 1999. We continuously align our day, side by side, we understand every aspect strategy and operations with the ten principles of of their needs and support them on everything the UN framework. We are committed to the UN from strategy through to daily operations. Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights While facility services remain our core business, and, in terms of climate change, committed to they are now just one part of our offering to reducing greenhouse gas emissions related to our customers. Today, our value proposition to operations. In last few years, we have specifically key account customers covers not only their focused on strengthening our due diligence sysproperty (place), but also their impact on the tems in order to implement the ‘Protect, respect environment (planet) and the engagement of and remedy’ framework in accordance with UN building users (people). Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Our customers are served by people who care In ISS, we welcome the increased focus on about the places they maintain, the people transparency and the principle of ‘knowing and they work with, and the planet they seek to showing’ the full scope of our non-financial protect. We ensure that our colleagues are responsibilities. trained, equipped and motivated to support our customers. Because our colleagues know Thank you for your continued support. that they are not only creating great workplace experiences but are also helping make the Yours faithfully, world work better. Furthermore, as a global company with a heritage of fairness and equality, we are committed to providing a workplace that fosters inclusiveness through our Diversity and Inclusion programme. As an example, we recently won the ‘Impact Sourcing Influencer Award’ for providing career and development opportunities for underserved populations. Lord Allen of Kensington Kt CBE Jeff Gravenhorst Chairman Group CEO 9 OUR APPROACH OUR OUR COMMITMENT Compact, and we explain how these are embedinto the practical detail of how we achieve this APPROACH We are deeply committed to the transformation to a more resilient and just international community, as expressed in the 17 UN Sustainable Developded in the organisation on the following pages. Our aim is always to take good care of our emwith several case studies. These demonstrate our policies in action, and thereby our engagement with and impact on stakeholders and society. ment Goals (SDGs). As a global business employing ployees, the environment and our customers and hundreds of thousands of people, across a huge this is the central tenet of our approach to corpoWe must be aware of and respond to what is range of sites, we are central to solving some of rate responsibility. We deliver excellent service to happening where we operate, whether these be the most pressing sustainability challenges facing customers and protect their brand and reputation global trends or more specific to a single country the world. On page 10, you can find more details while working on their sites. or culture. The materiality assessment underpins ISS is committed to the well­ of those SDGs which are particularly relevant to our the management of our responsible practices being of our society, employees business, and specifics on how we address them. We organise this contribution to sustainable dealong the entire value chain and we interviewed velopment around three main subject areas, and key internal stakeholders as part of the process. and customers. We create longOur target is to lead our industry by example, this report follows the same structure: The findings were validated and confirmed interterm value for our business, always aiming to positively influence the market nally and externally. and thus the world around wherever we operate. Our role is particularly imPeople: Safe working conditions, us, by addressing our main portant because of the scale of the organisation retention of people, diversity and The materiality assessment was updated in 2019 sustainability challenges and and sheer number of people and places we have and will be again next year (see page 13). inclusion, and human rights an impact on. This can also be in unstable regions reporting our performance and countries with limited legislation, which regularly and transparently. provide challenges to – and can be positively inPlanet: Reducing our impact on the In short, we are a responsible fluenced by – the ISS global standards. environment and climate corporate citizen. These standards are closely related to the principles of our company, which underpin a resilient busiProfit: Compliance with sound business ness – vision, mission, values and strategy. These standards are complemented by a guidance framework of policies, rules and manuals. The main r­eference The report provides an overview of how ISS adpoint for these is the United Nations Global dresses challenges in each of these areas and goes 10 OUR APPROACH SUSTAINABLE significantly in developing employees at all levels DEVELOPMENT SDG 5 of our organisation. We take continuous action at all levels to eradicate injuries and fatalities. We SDG 13 GOALS Achieve gender equality and ­empower all women and girls ISS is a multicultural company and embraces and have zero tolerance of forced labour, child labour, modern slavery and human trafficking in our operations and this is strictly enforced through Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts ISS is committed to continuously reducing any encourages diversity. Women make up nearly half governance controls, including audits. negative impact on the environment due to our our workforce. Female representation in manoperations, and we also work with customers agement, leadership development and graduate to help them reduce their own environmental programmes has high priority and is progressing. footprint. We work at our customers’ premises, Our Diversity Policy continues to bring results, meaning we gain insight into their performance with more initiatives to identify female candidates SDG 10 and use this knowledge to help them manage and promote women to more senior roles. TrainReduce inequality within and reduce their impact and reach their targets. ing programmes educate, enforce and embed and among countries policies against harassment and discrimination. As one of the world’s largest private employers, ISS provides the economic foundation for many individuals and families around the world. There is an increasing number of refugees in our SDG 16 SDG 6 workforce, as well as people with mental and Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for Ensure availability and sustainable physical disabilities, social challenges or little sustainable development, provide access to ­management of water and sanitation for all academic education. We offer all employees the justice for all and build effective, accountConsumption of water is one of the main impacts chance to develop their skills through education able and inclusive institutions at all levels on the environment from our activities. We apply programmes, increasing their job and career We aim to eradicate all forms of discrimination a documented process and management approopportunities. and unethical behaviour through the ISS Code of ach called Cleaning Excellence to reduce enviConduct and the Global People Standards. These ronmental impact. Cleaning Excellent contracts policies are the basis of our learning tools and can reduce the use of detergents by 75%, and programmes, including an extensive onboarding water consumption and disposal by up to 70%. course in which all new employees are trained in We reduce our environmental impact through our SDG 12 our way of working and our values. Corruption ISS Green Offices Programme, which changes our Ensure sustainable consumption and bribery are illegal and against our values, behaviour to use resources more efficiently. and production patterns and we promote the “Speak Up” system to allow We aim to reduce the consumption of chemicals employees to raise concerns on these matters, through our Cleaning Excellence programme, anonymously and without fear of reprisal. working with strategic suppliers to develop and SDG 8 test new tools and processes that will reduce the Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainenvironmental impact. We focus on green innovaably economic growth, full and productive tion projects, such as the comprehensive Diversey ­employment and decent work for all SURE range of cleaning products. These are plant Minimum wages, the right to organise and a based and 100% biodegradable, designed to desafe working environment are basic standards at liver superior results while being safe for people ISS. As a dedicated people company, we invest and kind to the environment. 11 OUR APPROACH OUR HOW WE ARE BUILDING HSEQ and CR is responsible for driving the strategy, FRAMEWORK A RESILIENT BUSINESS Our framework for corporate responsibility shows monitoring and reporting on HSEQ and CR and works in close alignment with the Executive Group FOR the origin of our mindset and how we embed our Group strategy locally. It is based on our business Management. By reviewing performance and actions, Group HSEQ and CR helps the countries CORPORATE fundamentals – the vision and mission, our values and our business strategy: The ISS Way. achieve the common Group goals. RESPONSIBILITY As a global business, a major task is to integrate the Group Strategy for Health, Safety, Environment Key activities are: • Ensuring a healthy and safe work environment; • Driving a responsible supply chain; and Quality (HSEQ) and Corporate Responsibility • Reducing our environmental footprint; (CR) and related policies into our ­local operations. • Mitigating risks through internal education; This effort is essential to reaching our business • Building strong leadership capabilities. goals. Policies are available at http://inv.issworld. In each country, a designated HSEQ manager is com/policies.cfm responsible for implementing the Group strategy into the country business strategy. Countries report their performance to Group HSEQ and CR. Group • ISS Code of Conduct • ISS Corporate Responsibility Policy Continental Europe • Group HSEQ Management System • ISS Safety Rules POLICIES • ISS Tax Policy Northern Europe • ISS Global People Standards GROUP HEALTH, SAFETY, • ISS Supplier Code of Conduct ENVIRONMENT AND • ISS Supply Chain Policy QUALITY Asia & Pacific OUR VALUES – Honesty, Entrepreneurship, Responsibility and Quality, and the ISS Leadership Principles BASIS Americas OUR STRATEGY – The ISS Way 12 OUR APPROACH MITIGATING PROACTIVE DEVELOPMENT proactive development, as the challenges remain Our role as employer, business partner and corRISKS AND Our customers are keen to improve their working environment and impact on climate and are and there will always be new ones to overcome. porate citizen requires us to take responsibility for mitigating risks, using our knowledge to take CHALLENGES ­increasingly asking us, as a service provider, to assist them in these efforts. At the same time, we are focusing on strengthening compliance in The “Speak Up” system – a reporting channel for raising serious and sensitive concerns – is a fundamental part of our efforts to eliminate meaningful actions in a constructive and transparent way. The risks, impacts and actions related to the UN Global Compact principles on responsible our own supply chain. We support the creation non-compliance. It provides a guarantee of business are presented in the overview, below of a level playing field globally in all aspects of protection from reprisals or retaliation for comand on page 13. ­sustainability and aim to achieve this through an plaints made in good faith. More details on this Risks can expose our business, ambitious and systematic approach. Our efforts programme can be found in our case study on harm people and damage should be considered as part of a continuous and page 37. the environment and climate, and mitigating them is an essential part of our corporate High Health and safety responsibility efforts. Managing Environment Management composition risks well can also create Social Labour standards opportunities, for ISS, our Governance (child labour/forced labour) employees, customers, and Personal development opportunities Risk management society. SIGNIFICANCE TO ISS STAKEHOLDERS Working conditions Climate change Supply chain management Sustainable Anti-corruption Employment conditions consumption Fair competition Handling of incidents Economic and social rights C  ivil and Income generation Discrimination political rights Education Prevention of pollution Sustainable use of resources L ocal community involvement Social dialogue Responsible marketing Low Low SIGNIFICANCE OF ISS ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS High 13 OUR APPROACH RISKS IMPACT ACTIONS Given the large number of employees around the world, Foul play by just one of our 471,056 employees someOur global standards are part of the training for all ISS complying with anti-corruption rules may pose a risk. where in the organisation can seriously harm our company employees. Enforcing the anti-corruption and bribery rules Although bribery and corruption are illegal and against ISS at a corporate level. Adverse effects could include financial requires constant focus and the commitment from our top policies, we acknowledge that we cannot always prevent costs, corporate liability, and reputational damages with management is unambiguous. Local management must breaches of rules or legislation. the potential to destroy business opportunities. Corruption work actively to implement the standards. We monitor and affects society by e.g. endangering the rule of law and deensure that each case of non-compliance gets escalated stabilising economic growth. and treated seriously. Reducing our environmental footprint is a clear ambition With our global reach, improving resource productivity will Based on a systematic approach we aim to achieve conin ISS. We manage two different risk categories: our own have a significant impact on the environment by decreasing tinuous improvement in quality and performance. We set operations and our customers’. As for our own operations, the use of water, energy and materials. When we ­transfer standards and targets for improvements, and measure and consistent reporting and coordinated initiatives remain a our standards to customers’ businesses, the impact will report on our performance. Credible and effective managechallenge. In relation to our customers, it is a challenge to grow accordingly. ment of environmental and climate-related risks are part of pursue the highest standards on their behalf. our value proposition to our customers. As a global organisation our people have numerous interBreaching the rights of vulnerable people is particularly We recognise that certain individuals and groups require actions every day. This tests our ability to respect human problematic: their exposed situation is worse, and feeling increased awareness and attention to protect against porights, particularly in regions affected by instability and defenseless they may not claim their rights. Influenced by tential abuse. Our policy on safeguarding children and weak law enforcement. We have identified three main local sub-cultures, this could also impact people in general. vulnerable people is being implemented via a thorough areas posing a risk: child labour, forced labour and right programme. It is part of our onboarding programme, trainto privacy. They reflect the vulnerability of the people we ing of top management and leaders and also included in interact with. our Global People Standard. Our work on privacy is detailed on page 34. Our policy is to ensure that slavery and human traffickPeople who become part of slavery or human trafficking ISS is committed to help eradicate slavery and human ing are not taking place in any part of our business and usually do not know their rights. They are victims of a c­ ruel trafficking; hence we have a systematic and proactive apour supply chain. We recognise that certain categories of business exploiting vulnerable humans. Apart from the proach to ensure this. We conduct internal audits to verify our supply chain carry higher risk of child and slave labour. human costs, the negative societal and economic conseour standards to manage these risks. In relation to our supHere, we specifically seek to secure adequate risk controls. quences are significant. ply chain, we require self-assessments and carry out audits to verify our suppliers’ labour standards and performance. The management of working conditions and supply As we operate a global company with around 470,000 Working with private sector partners as well as civil socichain risks are becoming more important as compliance employees and managing a vast number of sub-contractors ety and labour organisations, we seek to promote labour with international standards grows. Operating in unstaand suppliers every year, we directly or indirectly impact rights both globally and locally. We support the UN Global ble regions with limited legislation can be challenging to ­labour rights for a significant number of people. Union’s 12 fundamental principles and we manage labour enforce ISS global standards which impose decent working rights on the foundation of these shared goals. conditions. 14 OUR APPROACH KEY ISS HONG KONG WINS ERB a commitment to the sourcing of egg Award was collected by Priscilla Lassey, SUSTAINABILITY OUTSTANDING AWARD January suppliers who promote better farming Regional HSE Advisor London, on FOR EMPLOYERS FOR conditions for chickens by 2025 and to behalf of the team at a ceremony in EVENTS IN 2019 FIFTH TIME ISS Hong Kong wins the ERB Outstanding Award for Employers, in the end the usage of cage eggs (shell, liquid and ingredient) globally by 2025. London. BEST RECRUITER August 11th Manpower Development Scheme LABOUR SAFETY AWARD ISS Austria achieves Gold in the Best May Award Presentation Ceremony at the ISS Taiwan is recognised for its exRecruiter Award in Austria, and ISS Southorn Stadium in Wan Chai, organcellent performance in activating Switzerland is awarded Gold for the ised by The Employees Retraining Board workplace disaster prevention and mitBest Recruiter in the Facility/Security (ERB). The Manpower Development igation as well as promoting employee Services segment. Scheme aims to assist all eligible emhealthcare services and workplace ployees in Hong Kong (including new health management activities (such as October HIGHER DISTINCTION arrivals), aged 15 or above and with maternal protection, work overload AT NISO SAFETY AWARDS education attainment of sub-degree management, suitable job placeISS Ireland is awarded a Higher Distincor below, to re-enter the employment ment, health check, abnormal case tion at the 28th Annual NISO Safety market upon completion of training, management, providing work presAwards. This demonstrates a strong to continue in their new posts and to sure relief, middle-to-old age health health and safety culture throughout move up their career ladders. management). the business and continuous improvement journey, after ISS Ireland was ISS RECOGNISED AMONG ISS RANKED FIRST previously awarded a Distinction for May February IAOP'S BEST OF THE IN ESG REPORT three consecutive years. GLOBAL OUTSOURCING 100 The Environment, Social & Governance The International Association of (ESG) rating agency Sustainalytics November IWFM IMPACT ON Outsourcing Professionals (IAOP) ranks ISS among its industry peers in ENVIRONMENT AWARD highlights the “best of the best” in ESG. ISS received the highest overall ISS UK in collaboration with our Big the outsourcing industry, celebrating score of 84 out of 100 among the 89 Four professional services client wins companies that have been consistently companies rated in the Commercial the award for their Project Ceres susat the top of The Global Outsourcing Services sector. tainability campaign which was started 100 (GO100) ranking. In 2019, ISS rein 2018 to radically reduce plastic ceives special recognition for being at ROSPA GOLD MEDAL consumption across the client’s 23 UK June the very top of that list year after year AWARD offices. The Institute of Workplace and and leading the development of the ISS, in partnership with Barclays, is a Facilities Management (IWFM) Awards outsourcing industry. winner at the Royal Society for the recognise and showcase best-in-class Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA) Health workplace and facilities management. March ISS COMMITS TO SOURCE and Safety Awards 2019. ISS achieves CAGE FREE EGGS BY 2025 the Gold Medal award in the prestiThrough its catering services, ISS feeds gious annual scheme for a sixth year millions of people at customer sites in succession, a fantastic achievement across the world. ISS has now made by the whole team. The Gold Medal 15 OUR APPROACH FOCUS ON OPERATING MODEL • ensure that appropriate emergency response be by-passed and reporting shall be made to the COMPLIANCE Group Internal Audit carries out an elaborate set of assurance activities to monitor our performance on business integrity and good business planning and management are in place to address serious incidents; and • reinforce the accountability of Country, Refirst superior reporting level not involved in the serious incident. practices. Group HSEQ and CR also perform augional and Group managers as well as Key To ensure that the Escalation Policy and the dits against the ISS Global People Standards, the Account Managers and Global Account Direcimplemented emergency response plans work in Group HSEQ Manual, the ISS Safety Rules and the tors for duly and timely escalation of serious practice, it and the reporting framework will be ISS Code of Conduct. In 2019, we carried out incidents. reviewed and tested every 12 months. 7 audits in Germany, France, Ireland, India, SweCompliance creates value for our den, Singapore and the US. IMMEDIATE ESCALATION In addition to the Escalation Policy, ISS has a customers as part of our overall We continuously encourage our employees to Speak Up Policy and system to facilitate the reTo meet the needs of our customers for compliescalate serious incidents according to the Escaporting of serious and sensitive concerns. Please value proposition – in short, it ance, efficiencies, transparency and consistency lation Policy. Serious incidents are those which, if see page 35. is sound business. We operate of service performance across our global portfolio not recognised promptly and managed effectively, inside the sites of our customers of customers, ISS has strengthened its operating have or are likely to have a significant adverse and they depend on us to model to ensure a clear line of sight from Group impact on the activities, employees, customers, effectively manage their risks in to Regions to Countries to customer sites, where financial performance or reputation of a customer we deliver our services. or of ISS. terms of health and safety and environment (HSE) and human The drive for alignment and consistency is When considering if an incident may or may not and labour rights. Strict internal supported by a well-defined set of business funbe serious based on the available information, controls ensure we maintain our damentals across ISS, including common vision, escalate the incident, so it can be managed effecmission, values and leadership principles, suppletively. In other words: When in doubt whether or standards at all times and all mented by mandatory polices and processes. not an incident is serious, escalate it. Immediate locations. escalation shall take place before further assessProper and timely escalation of serious incidents ment of the situation has been made. is a prerequisite for making the right decisions and the consequences for ISS and its customers Time is of the essence and escalation cannot of not addressing serious incidents in the optimal await thorough investigations and long ­reports. way may be severe. As a result, this year we have The manner of initial communication is by updated our mandatory Escalation Policy and phone to provide the high-level details of the trained our Global Key Account Managers. Its ­incident, which will allow appropriate actions to purpose is to: be commenced as early as possible. Subsequent communication will normally be less t­ ime• ensure that all serious incidents that could sensitive and is therefore preferably done in have a significant impact on the activities, emwriting, unless otherwise agreed case-by-case. ployees, customers, financial performance or reputation of a customer or of ISS are escalated To avoid conflicts of interest, any persons in the immediately; reporting line involved in serious incidents shall 16 OUR APPROACH TRAVEL AND EXPENSES POLICY markets with different cultures and different levTHE KEY STAKEHOLDERS In 2019, ISS implemented a new Travel and els of safety for foreigners. We give high priority WE ENGAGE WITH Expenses Policy, which is applicable to and manto the safety of our employees. Therefore, all trips datory for all employees. The purpose is to ensure must be booked via our travel agency Egencia to Relation with designated the health and wellbeing of Group employees ensure that we can track our employees. Employees ­manager and annual appraisal travelling for business purposes, reducing our emissions from business travel while at the same The new Policy has led to a better work-life baltime ensuring that we leverage our total travel ance for our employees as well as reducing our Ongoing dialogue to meet spend and follow basic rules in the planning of environmental footprint as a result of reduced expec­tations and feedback from travels and incurring of reasonable expenses on business travel. Customers annual Customer Experience behalf of ISS. survey NEXT LEVEL SUPPLIER ISS will pay for and reimburse reasonable and COMPLIANCE Close dialogue through necessary expenses incurred in relation to business Brand protection and risk control are two of our road shows, conference Investors activity whether such activity involves travelling or key value propositions. ISS’s self-delivery strategy calls, investor meetings and not. The following fundamental principles apply: helps our employees to account for the compliannouncements ance of our total business at any given time. This • The purpose of the expense incurred must be also means holding our many valuable suppliers Increased dialogue to ensure a business related; worldwide to the same high standards. responsible and strong supply • Incurring private, non-business-related chain, to the benefit of both Suppliers ­expenses on the account of the Company In ISS, the route to compliance starts with transparties. This engagement is caris a breach of the Policy; parency. It also supports consistency, efficiency, ried out on a continuous basis • Always use good judgement when incurring and not least the purpose of our key accounts. during the year business expenses; Over the last years, ISS has significantly strength• Employees are responsible for ensuring that ened the global procurement and supply chain Constructive interaction with travel plans are reasonable, realistic and supmanagement approach (for more details, see the international works councils, port the Company’s business activities; 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report). We focus Unions unions and employee represen• Travel should be undertaken only when on where the risks are and establish close relatatives. Quarterly with the EWC necessary. Employees must always consider tionships with key suppliers and clients in order and semi-annually with UNI alternatives such as video and web conferencing to implement our policies, standards, knowledge, Proactive and constructive or conference calls before deciding to travel. processes and solutions. Media ­communication with media and & NGOs NGOs on a broad variety Before any booking takes place, employees must These risks include governance and policies, of platforms seek written approval for the trip from their line unethical behaviour, Freedom of Association, manager. workplace health and safety, conditions of employment and work, child labour, environmental We frequently travel to destinations in both protection, subcontracting, financials and conestablished markets as well as new emerging tract compliance. 17 PEOPLE PEOPLE By investing in people, we can harness their MYLEARNING LMS opportunities, leadership development, customer REACHING full potential and help focus their energies to meet the needs of our customers whilst fulfillservice skills and Microsoft Office training, which can be accessed through the system’s catalogue OUR FULL ing their need for personal development and job satisfaction. 457,097 and self-assigned by a user as easily as selecting a book from a bookshelf. Future plans for the POTENTIAL active user accounts global catalogue include adding multi­language litWe believe that development is a continuous eracy, numeracy and core IT skills training as free process for every employee at every level of the Covering online courses for all team members. ISS is built on the foundation organisation and as such, are committed to give everyone equal access and opportunity to learn 49 COUNTRIES Since its formal launch in Asia-Pacific in 2015, of our employees, who deliver and develop. We strive to empower our people to across Europe, Asia-Pacific and MyLearning’s use across the organisation has condeliver excellent service for our customers every the Americas tinued to grow. In 2017, approximately 100,000 on our promises to customers day, thereby helping us become the world’s greate-learning modules were completed by MyLearnthroughout every working day. est service organisation. Available in over ing users; this figure increased to almost 530,000 With over 470,000 people 10 DIFFERENT in 2018 and is already over 873,000 in 2019 working in 50 different FOCUS ON EDUCATION LANGUAGES bringing the total number of module completions countries, we have a significant The MyLearning is the global Learning Manageto over 1.65 million to date. ment System for ISS and is in place across the responsibility to ensure a safe ISS e-learning content in up to 25 whole of the organisation worldwide. It is the In a survey of end-users: working environment and DIFFERENT first ISS system deployed with the aim of being • 96% of respondents agreed or strongly agreed nurture them with education LANGUAGES accessible to all colleagues and team members, that MyLearning was easy to use; and training to reach their full no matter where they work – from country lead• 96% agreed or strongly agreed that MyLearners and executives to frontline staff in all service ing made it easy to access a range of training potential. lines: cleaners, security officers, food services To ensure all team members are suitably trained, opportunities; staff, technicians and others. safe and compliant while performing their job, • 98% agreed or strongly agreed that MyLearnMyLearning can automate personalised training made it easy to access training at any time. MyLearning is a multi-function platform, supporting assignment based on a team member’s role, ing the deployment and tracking of over 1,400 location, customer and country. This allows ISS LEADING THE ISS WAY global and country-specific e-learning modules and to identify and support team members who may Our drive for quality and consistency of leadermore than 650 training videos. It allows country require advice or have specific needs to ensure ship will allow us to maximise the Power of the organisations to assign, track and store evidence required training is completed. Human Touch. This is why we continue to invest for on-job training, skills, licences, certifications in developing our leaders through Group-wide ISS and qualifications, and has a classroom manageKey focus areas of standardised global MyLearnUniversity programmes that are focused on driving: ment tool for automating invitations and marking ing training for relevant team members include attendance at formal classroom-based training the ISS Code of Conduct, Information Security, 1 Leadership Development; sessions. It is cloud-based, which means our frontData Protection and position-appropriate Health, 2 Business Excellence; line team members do not need to have company Safety and Environment training (such as driving 3 Service Culture; network access, and completely mobile-friendly safety, waste management and office safety), with an intuitive interface for easy access through while each ISS country organisation is encouraged 4 Effective on-boarding. smartphones, tablets and computers by users who to develop their own locally-specific catalogues of may not be familiar with using online tools. content. These may include optional extra training 18 PEOPLE During 2019, our Leading the ISS Way programme THE HUMAN TOUCH has been embraced and embedded by senior leadService with a Human Touch is our game-changers across the globe, with more than 30 leadership ing cultural programme aimed at developing teams completing this individualised learning concrete service behaviours. This programme has journey. The programme facilitates clear and been deployed across the ISS world in 47 counstructured feedback which allows leaders to gain tries, with more than 200,000 employees taking insights into their personal style, strengths and dean active part in developing their own service velopment areas. It has provided clarity regarding behaviours and finding their purpose. business-wide leadership behaviours underpinned by our Leadership Competency Framework, allowWe take great pride in how we introduce new ing the effective discussion of leadership capability people to the ISS world, ensuring that they are and mobility across the global business. empowered to deliver Service with a Human Touch. Our Welcome to ISS induction programme Our Leadership Mastery Programme is an inpromotes a sense of belonging for new employees tensive 12-month programme designed for our on their first day and safeguards time to support future leaders, to provide them with the platform collaboration and meet new colleagues and custo step up into senior leadership positions as the tomers. Expectations and behaviours are discussed business develops and grows. This programme aland agreed, giving each new employee the enso supports our senior leadership talent pipeline. couragement to work to discover their purpose. In 2019, a further 20 executives have successfully graduated, making a total of more than 120 ENGAGED PEOPLE alumni. Engaged and enabled employees have a direct impact on the customer experience. We regularThe impact of this has been particularly noticely survey our employees on how engaged and able, with 42 leaders advancing into new roles in enabled they are in working for ISS and, more different geographical areas. importantly, what we can do better to drive full engagement of our people. With the growth of key accounts being central to our strategy, there is a clear need to ensure we In 2019, we focused on implementation of have the right people with core business acumen findings from our seventh global employee managing and improving our services to customengagement survey, which was conducted in ers. Our Key Account Management Certification 2018 and covered 44 countries in 54 languages. Programme (KAMC) remains the foundation for More than 300,000 employees were invited to building commercial and operational ­capability, participate, with 230,824 responding with an helping develop value propositions for our impressive response rate of 76.4%. customers that are aligned with global tools. We currently have 1,200 certified key account One of the learnings from the survey is the posmanagers and will be continuing to increase the itive impact of the Service with a Human Touch IGNACIO VALVERDE PRADERA reach of our business programmes with the introprogramme, focusing on our frontline employees. FERNANDA SANTOS BARBOSA ISS Iberia duction of a Site Manager Programme, launched The programme is a key strategic game changacross ISS in Q1 of 2020. er driving cultural change, communicating our 19 PEOPLE mission and translating customer value propGlobal People Standards. Our Global People StanThe Board and the Executive Group Management to identify female successors and table the matter ositions into concrete service behaviours for dards cover, among other areas, pre-employment (EGM) recognise the importance of promoting diverof women in leadership at ISS for discussion at thousands of service professionals. checks, zero tolerance for forced and compulsory sity at management levels and have implemented least once a year at EGM level. labour, right to privacy, and child labour. policies regarding competencies and diversity reWe continue to work to continuously improve garding Board and EGMB nominations, according In 2017, we launched our 2020 Talent Vision, engagement, which in turn increases people’s We conduct internal audits to verify we manage to which we are committed to selecting the best which has specific targets for female representaoverall sense of purpose in the delivery of our these risks in our operations. We recognise that candidate while aspiring to have diversity in gender tion in succession plans for EGM and their direct services. We see a clear correlation between certain categories of our supply chain carry a as well as in broader terms. Emphasis is placed on: reports, and the succession plans, diversity targets employee engagement and customer satisfaction, higher risk of child or slave labour and we thereand progress were reviewed by the EGM as well making them key drivers of financial and operafore in 2017 implemented a new Supply Chain • experience and expertise (such as industry, as the Board. It is our policy to ensure strong tional performance. Policy and ISS ProcurePASS. strategy and value creation, leadership of large representation of women in various ISS leadership international companies, transformational development and graduate programmes across the UK MODERN SLAVERY ACT DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION change, people development and succession, Group and at the global head office. We had 30% Our policy is to ensure that slavery and human As one of the world’s largest private employers, sales and marketing, IT and technology, finance, female representation at our 2019 annual Global trafficking are not taking place in any part of our with global operations and more than 470,000 risk management, and corporate responsibility); Leadership Conference, and 40% female particbusiness and in any part of our supply chain. This employees, we are committed to fostering and • diversity (including age, gender, new talent and ipation in our Leadership Mastery development is consistent with our Code of Conduct, Corporate cultivating a culture of diversity and inclusion in international experience) as well as diversity programme, and we actively identify female canResponsibility Policy, Supplier Code of Conduct and the broadest sense. of perspectives brought to the Board or the didates for these programmes to ensure adequate EGMB; and gender diversity. The policy and initiatives create • personal characteristics matching ISS’s values an increased focus on gender diversity across the and leadership principles. organisation, leading to satisfactory progress. ISS UNIVERSITY – THE GROUP-WIDE LEARNING ACADEMY The Board has adopted a gender diversity target The representation of women at management Leadership programmes • 191 graduated to date Business programmes of having at least 40% women, as elected by the level at the global head office increased slightly Service mindset • 120+ leaders general meeting, on the Board by 2020. Currentin 2019 compared to 2018 and gender diversity On-boarding Leadership ly, 33% of these Board members are women and remains a focus area in 2020. Mastery • Annual conference addressing thus the target was not reached in 2019. The the strate­gic objectives and Global Leadership Board found that, in broad terms, it possessed a In 2019, a Global Head of Diversity & Inclusion Conference direction of the Group • 400+ senior leaders high level of diversity and did not nominate new was appointed to intensify our focus and lead Leading The ISS Way candidates in 2019. Including employee representhe ­agenda across the organisation. This step STRATEGY AND • 1,500+ certifications tatives, 44% of our Board are women. will ensure that we share best practices, promote LEADERSHIP ISS Advantage • Approximately 900 key global alignment and drive implementation. We accounts Key Account Manager Certification Programme In order to promote, facilitate and increase the are launching a global concept named “You make • 46 countries number of women in management level positions a difference” and are targeting at least 40% of KEY ACCOUNT CAPABILITY Site Manager Programme • 200,000+ trained employees at ISS’s global head office, we continue to levergender­balance within all leadership roles by 2025 • Approximately 1,000 key age our Diversity Policy, which defines a number – a goal a­ pproved by the Executive Management SERVICE accounts Service with a Human Touch Leading Service with a Human Touch of initiatives. These include our recruitment policy, Board and the Board of Directors. Whilst this will, CULTURE • Strategy induction pro­ requiring us to short-list at least one female initially, be our primary focus, our ambitions go ISS Strategy Operating the ISS Way Policies & Guidelines Systems & Administration Health & Safety gramme for senior leaders candidate in all internal and external searches for beyond gender and we will implement initiatives ONBOARDING • 150+ participants annually vacant positions. It is furthermore our policy to targeting the three dimensions Fairness & Equality@ continuously develop succession planning, aiming work, Diversity of Thoughts and Inclusiveness. 20 CASE GINA TOH: A PART OF THE SINGAPORE GROWTH STORY Gina Toh joined ISS Singapore in 2001, Gina was brought in to integrate new has progressed through the ranks businesses i.e. catering into ISS, which and is now Country Manager. Gina was an entirely new experience in a has been part of the growth story for new language and with a new busiSingapore as well as growing her own ness approach. She worked on a bid career through her roles in operations, for integrated facility services (IFS) and including property management and then became involved in managing IFS catering and more recently as Comaccounts. mercial Director for the country. She was promoted to General ­Manager Gina spent her first four years with ISS of catering and when event catering in sales in the cleaning division and was divested, she moved the rest of had the advantage of a background in the business into headquarters. property management. “I want the business to grow and ISS “I love engaging with people and Singapore to be recognised as the communicating with customers. Perkey IFS provider. Personally, I want to sonal drive is important and I take up develop and build more talents within challenges quite quickly and easily. the organisation, with a succession Change may not be a bad thing, and it plan for key roles in the organisais something I constantly keep an open tions,” Gina says. “I am proud to work mind about,” she says. at ISS because it’s a people organisation. We provide a stable career and “I know people in the organisation – job for low-income workers, which and know that they can help me if I in turn helps their families, and that need it. The oganisation has breadth keeps me motivated.” and tremendous opportunities and my country manager actively helped me develop and invested in me.” 21 CASE AMELIA EKUS: PUTTING YOUR PASSION INTO PRACTICE Amelia Ekus grew up in a house conwin or face a tough situation,” Amelia major companies on their sustainability stantly hosting both social and charity says. “Guckenheimer’s CEO, Helene initiatives, and help support corporate dinners, filled with cookbook authors, Kennan, became a mentor before culture – we are truly nourishing the chefs, and restaurateurs. Working at I worked for the company and she minds at some of the best places to Guckenheimer, ISS’ US food services helped me realise that restaurants work in the world.” company, gave her the opportunity to were not the only place where quality put her passions into practice. food and service could be delivered. She opened my mind to the challenge Ameila’s pursuit of the creative and now I am committed to changing then brought her to Twitter, where the perception of corporate dining.” she began as General Manager for ­Guckenheimer. She revelled in the It was Kennan who brought Amelia to unique opportunity to test out conher current role, as she wanted the opcepts in an environment that values portunity to be creative and contribute innovation through experimentation something meaningful. and developed the role into Senior Food Service Director and opened “Helene opened my eyes to the world accounts in the New York and New of corporate dining. Once I realised I Jersey region. could produce experiences that were as engaging as within traditional Now, she is an Area Manager in restaurants, I was in. I have learned the New York City region for Guckskills that most people learn in a enheimer and was named one of trial by fire environment once they Eater’s 2017 Young Guns, an honour try to open their own shops – merbestowed upon the brightest up and chandising, kitchen design, choice coming talents in the food industry in architecture. the USA. “The reality is that the volume in “I have been lucky to have so many corporate dining has so much power people who have supported and to affect change,” she says. “We can taught me. First and foremost, I call help to support growers and creators my family when I want to celebrate a through our sourcing, partner with 22 CASE ISS IBERIA: EMPOWERING WOMEN THROUGH DECENT JOBS ISS employees of Spain and Portugal In India, the society is organised washing the cattle and milking. Milkhave directly impacted 8,505 people in around a rigid system of castes ing is still done manually. developing countries by financing and and s­ ubcastes. There is one group supporting local programmes which considered c­ asteless: the Dalits or The collaboration between the ISS facilitate access to work. untouchables. In rural I­ndia, the Dalits foundation and the Rural Developrepresent a marginalised community: ment Trust allows the Dalits to take ISS is conscious that empowering their work as labourers is extremely charge of their own destiny and recovpeople and providing access to decent low-paid and irregular and prevents er their dignity, ensuring equal rights jobs improves living standards and them from having access to dignified and opportunities and justice for all contributes to the wellbeing of families living conditions. and improving the welfare of the most and communities in the long term. vulnerable populations, thus fighting In this context the ISS, One More Smile against exclusion and contributing Since 1997, thousands of ISS ­employees foundation has supported two projects ­towards a more sustainable planet. in Spain and later in Portugal donate with the local NGO, Rural Development the cents from their payroll each Trust, to empower 60 women of the month to the ISS, One More Smile Chenchus tribe to succeed through defoundation. This is managed by ISS cent jobs. Providing a job to the women in collaboration with the two main gives them greater awareness of their ­Spanish unions CC.OO Comisiones rights and recognition from society. Obreras (CC.OO) and UGT Unión ­General de los Trabajadores (UGT). The first project financed 28 women. As with a start-up, they received adeThe various decent work programmes quate training and financial resources reach eight countries: Ecuador, Colomneeded to improve production materials bia, Morocco, India, Peru, Dominican and produce plates and cups made of Republic, Angola and Burkina Faso a local tree named ­moduga. Their proand are implemented with experienced duction is sold in the neighbourhoods. local NGOs. The second project boost 32 women In November 2019, 20 employees of ISS and their families by providing cows Iberia had the opportunity to visit two for their own dairy products. The projects located in the south of India. family shares duties: feeding, cleaning, 23 CASE LINE DALSGAARD ANDERSEN: OPPORTUNITIES FOR PROFESSIONAL ADVANCEMENT When Line Dalsgaard Andersen start“I am happy and humble about the ed as replacement in the canteen of opportunities I have had here. I had ­Aalborg Barracks, she could hardly some managers who were really excelhave imagined that just five years lent at developing those things that I later, she would be the district leader am good at. I know that this is a major of one of ISS’s major public faciliassignment, but I have been guided ty management contracts with the well by both leaders and People & Danish Building and Property Agency Culture and a lot has been done for (Bygningsstyrelsen). get me ready for it, and to make me feel safe in the new role as a leader,” After just a short time in the canteen, Andersen says. Andersen was clearly performing well and was taken on as a permanent “ISS is full of possibilities and if you employee and became a team leader. want to go further in the company, When the time came to appoint site there is so much support and help supervisors for a number of defence available in relation to trying somelocations, she was appointed to the thing new and taking opportunities.” role at Hjørring Barracks at the same time as she qualified as a floor host, which she had been working towards for several months. 24 PEOPLE HEALTH AND SAFETY IS SECOND NATURE heights, and see something, say something. The FATALITIES SAFETY As a responsible company, it is our obligation to ensure that our over 470,000 employees go home to their families and loved ones in the same campaign uses posters produced by Group HSEQ and CR that are translated into more than 20 languages. These are supplemented by bi-weekly We regretfully had three work-related fatalities in 2019; in 2018, we had one fatality. We are deeply affected by these incidents and have investigated condition as they started their workday at ISS. In Toolbox Talks, facilitated by Toolbox Talk Calento determine the root causes and take corrective the last decade, we have established a systematic dars and which are translated into 20 languages, actions to ensure they are not repeated. The faapproach to drive this vision. Simply put, we need providing our operations with topics and discustalities occurred in Thailand, Spain, and Indonesia to have a culture where safety is second nature sion points for the talks. and were related to workplace violence, Lock and a natural part of our working culture. Out Tag Out and site safety. As per our Group We have an ambitious 100 We performed bi-monthly safety inspections Escalation Policy, each fatality and serious injury is vision: to be number 1 in our Our HSEQ Management system is the backbone for all our large global key accounts during reported to our top management within 24 hours. of this approach. The integrated management 2019. The inspections build accountability and industry in terms of health, system that was first implemented in 2010 was transparency as results are reported directly into As a result of the incidents, we have sent Global safety and environmental updated to reflect the new ISO standards in 2016 the global HSEQ IT tool. At the same time, the Safety Flashes to the whole organisation to performance; operate with 0 and was certified by our global certification partinspections provide documentation that we are ensure we learn from the incident and take fatalities at our workplaces; ner, DNV GL, in February 2017. The integrated living up to the HSEQ requirements included in preventive actions. In 2019, we also began docuand incur 0 serious incidents management system has now been certified in contracts. menting the Toolbox Talks held at our Global Key June 2019 to the new ISO 45001 Standards. The Account sites. or occupational injuries at our Group HSEQ Management system is mandatory All our processes require commitment from every­ workplaces. for all our operating countries to comply with and one, starting from our EGM to our colleagues IMPROVING THE PERSONAL sets the minimum bar for how we manage our delivering our services to our valued customers. SAFETY OF OUR PEOPLE risks in these areas. We have embedded this commitment at the manThe Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) for 2019 was agement level; our EGM have all signed Personal 2.8, a reduction from 2.9 in 2018 and down from To embed accountability in our operations, we Safety Action Plans (PSAPs), and we start all our 3.5 in 2017. This means, we have reduced our have also implemented a global HSEQ IT tool, senior leadership meetings with a Safety Moment. LTIF by nearly 80% from our 2010 baseline of 13. so our operations can report incidents, carry At middle management levels, we are also embedout investigations and take corrective actions to ding PSAPs and creating Safety Ambassadors by Lost Work Hours (LWH) is an important indiaddress the root causes. We have used the IT asking our employees to be safety role models by, cator of the general health and wellbeing of system to create awareness in our operations, as for example, holding the handrails when using the our employees. It is also closely linked to both reporting incidents including Near Misses is a key stairs, ensuring everyone uses their seat belts in operational and financial gains. LWH decreased component in creating awareness in our organthe car and not holding their mobile phones while by 55% compared to the 2010 baseline, well isation. To encourage employees to report Near they drive. exceeding our target of 45% reduction. The Total Miss incidents and hazard observations, we also Reportable Cases Frequency (TRCF) was 7.5, a launched an app for the IT tool to make reporting At the operational sites, some of the actions indecrease of over 65% compared to the 2010 and carrying out inspections possible using smart clude holding Toolbox Talks, Near Miss reporting baseline value of 23. phones. and stopping unsafe work. Our responsibilities also include the health and safety of our customRISK AND DUE DILIGENCE In 2019, we continued our quarterly Me and You ers as we work side by side with them on a daily We perform services with different personal safety campaigns in all the countries focusing on basis. If we have a strong safety culture, this will health and safety risk profiles depending on our slips, trips and falls, electrical safety, working at also have a positive impact on our customers. customers’ activities and on the individual site. 25 PEOPLE We have for example implemented a standardised Site Risk register that provides us an overview of the hazards and risks at a site. As part of our due diligence process to ensure we understand and comply with our customers’ requirements, we have implemented a HSEQ Compliance Plan. ANNUAL HSEQ ACTION PLANS Each year, we build and distribute a Group HSEQ and CR Action Plan with actions for each country to implement as part of their Country HSEQ and CR Action Plan. One of the actions in 2019 is for individual country management to develop a PSAP with objectives and targets. This encourages and allows for management to show their visible safety commitment and leadership through actions. WHAT WE DID IN 2019 In addition to the Global Campaigns and Toolbox Talk Calendars that were rolled out, we made a number of e-learning modules mandatory in our new learning management system, My-Learning: the ISS Safety Rules, HSE E-Learning, Office Safety and Driver Safety (the modules were assigned to employees based on their function). Furthermore, during 2019 we further developed the Quality Management System (QMS) for the pharma sector. This QMS is under the overall HSEQ Management system and emphasises our commitment to growth in the life science segment. In 2018, we started delivering HSEQ as a service at a global level, supporting our overall strategy to develop HSEQ and CR as a value proposition to our customers. The capabilities we have built up DOLAPO OGUNDIMU over the years enable us to offer HSEQ and CR as ISS UK a service to our existing and new customers. 26 CASE ISS AUSTRALIA: MAXIMISING OPPORTUNITIES FOR INDIGENOUS GROUPS IN AUSTRALIA ISS Australia is committed to maximisAboriginal and Torres Strait i­slander enhanced collaboration with indige­ ing opportunities for local indigenous peoples and our desire to play an nous communities will ensure we groups and individuals. We do this important role in improving employachieve our expected goals in this through supplier partnerships and ISS ment and enterprise opportunities for important area. Indigenous Employment Programmes, Australia’s First People. which are designed to support our Employment Parity Initiative (EPI): business operations and fulfil our ISS was first recognised as a CorpoISS is a proud partner of the Australian commitment to providing sustainable rate Leader by the Australian Federal Federal Government’s EPI programme, employment and career developGovernment in 2008 and since then under which we are contractually ment opportunities for indigenous has achieved a number of positive committed to achieving an indigenous Australians. outcomes in the areas of indigenous employment rate of 3%, equivalent employment, business and community to the proportion of total population, The programme supports the broader engagement. across our Australian workforce by ISS Corporate Social Responsibility December 2020. strategy and aligns with the AustraOver the past 10 years, ISS has provided lian Federal Government’s vision to over 850 new employment opportu“Close the Gap”. For local Aboriginal nities and spent more than $7 million communities and broader indigenous with indigenous businesses. We have populations, ISS provides a valuable also learnt a great deal in the way we source of employment, education and interact with the community, ISS leaders cultural interaction that engenders a and our customers on the importance sense of pride and independence for and emphasis we place on achieving employees. our targeted actions and commitments. ISS INDIGENOUS Whilst our results have been comCOMMITMENTS mendable, there is still an opportunity Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP): for us to improve our performance to ISS Pacific’s RAP 2019-2022 will sucensure our activities remain transcessfully build on the foundations of parent and beneficial to Aboriginal the first, which was implemented in & Torres Strait Islander peoples. Our 2015. The plan has been developed re-energised efforts, as outlined in to demonstrate our commitment to our RAP 2019-2022, combined with 27 PEOPLE OVERVIEW OF SUBJECT ENABLED BY ACTIVITIES PROGRESS 2019 PEOPLE Health and safety • ISS Safety Rules • Personal safety action plans • Fatalities: 3 PERFORMANCE • Group HSEQ and for individual management • Lost Time Injury Frequency: 2.8 CR Action Plan members • Decrease in lost work hours compared to 2010 • The ISS Groups HSEQ • Campaigns baseline: 65% Management Manual • ISS HSE App • The ISS Group HSEQ and CR Reporting Manual • HSEQ@ISS-IT system Employee engagement • Engagement survey • Follow up on survey taken • Actions taken to follow up on the 2018 survey in 2018 where 230,824 employees responded • The measures show continuous high performance with scores above four on a five point scale Leadership and training • Training and development • Service with a Human Touch • More than 200,000 employees completed the programmes • Key Account Manager Service with a Human Touch programme, more Certification (KAMC) than 1,500 completed the KAMC programme, 23 • Leadership training people graduated from the Leadership Mastery programmes programme • Front line employees received 6,200,889 hours of class room training in 2019, compared to 7,180,195 hours in 2018. This is equal to 14 hours per person in 2019. Subjects included health and safety, technical training, management, language training, leadership and supervisory, IT, security and fire prevention. White collar employees had 310,100 hours of training in 2019, compared to 345,486 hours in 2018 and equal to 12 hours per employee Human rights and • ISS Global People • Follow-up on implementation • Included controls in RiskManagement@ISS Labour rights Standards of ISS Global People • European Works Council conference • Diversity policy Standards • Continued UNI Global Union collaboration • Formalised union • Further roll-out of and works council’s ProcurePASS as part of co-operation Supply Chain due diligence 28 PLANET PLANET STRATEGY Our activities impact the environment primarily drive efficiencies in our operations that bring cost reductions and risk mitigation, providing a • 5% reduction in electricity consumption (Mwh/revenue) over the 2018-2021 period, HELPING TO through the use of cars and air transport, energy consumption in buildings and energy, water and competitive advantage and increasing the bottom line. We achieve this through: based on 2017 baseline data; • 15% reduction in car emissions from leased PROTECT OUR chemicals used in delivering our cleaning ­services, which account for 50% of our commercial • a systematic approach to identify potential cars (g/km), from 2014 over the leasing period of four years; ENVIRONMENT offerings. for more efficient use of resources, lower ­emissions and cost optimisation; • 5% reduction in water consumption (m3/revenue), over the 2018-2021 period, AND CLIMATE There is ever more pressure for greater transparency, engagement, and evidence of proactive environmental initiatives from external stakehold• proactive mitigation of environmental risk; • anticipation of our customers’ needs. based on 2017 baseline data. ers such as customers and investors. Furthermore, Our ambition is to focus on how we can do more THE I-MOP AND ISS our employees expect ISS to be responsible and than just comply with environmental policies and The impact of climate change reduce its impact on the environment. pressures – i.e. to go beyond “Eco-Efficiency” Using the i-mop at ISS saves a lot of water is becoming ever clearer and to “Eco-Advantage”. It is not just a matter of – in fact, 2,215,048 litres of clean drinking Thus, it is clear we must carry out our operations cutting waste and becoming more efficient, but water. it is affecting all of us – in in an environmentally friendly manner to ensure rather to fully embed these considerations into terms of our weather, health, our success and future growth, and we are fully every aspect of our operations. We want to be The i-mop combines the working width and economy and general quality committed to reducing our impact. recognised as an environmental leader and create efficiency of a large combination machine, of life. This makes it even more significant value through these initiatives for our as well as the agility and ease of handling important that ISS manages We did not identify any significant non-compliance business, our customers and society as a whole. a small machine. It cleans surfaces better, is with environmental laws and regulations in 2019. more ergonomic and faster than other big the way our business affects On top of cost reductions, we will create common scrubber dryers and is cordless, so it the environment through Our environmental policies are integrated with incremental economic value and enhance comis also easy to reach from one level to another how we design our processes, the overall business strategy to enhance our petitiveness through: and it rotates 360 degrees. the equipment used and the competitive advantage. At the same time, the environmental strategy must be flexible and scalable • improving resource productivity (energy, The Made Blue Foundation calculates the portfolio of services offered to so we can adapt to changing circumstances in the water and material) and realising significant water footprint of the impact of using i-mop customers. future. The guiding principles for the strategy are cost savings; machines and matches the water saved by that it must always: • better managing environmentally-driven companies, products or services by creating ­business risk; equal amounts of clean water in developing • be consistent with the ISS Values; • enhancing the reputation of ISS. countries: 1 litre for 1 litre for people who • be consistent with our ambition need this water. of operational excellence; OUR TARGETS • enhance our reputation; We have improved the quality of our data reWater needed for creating products such • be manageable and measurable; porting in the environmental area over the last as soap, clothing or a cappuccino and for • be substantive and documented. few years through more frequent reporting and realising services such as cleaning or events is tighter quality control, and we believe that it cormade available in developing countries, in a BEYOND POLICY AND PRESSURE rectly represents our current footprint. We have certified, measurable and traceable way. ISS strives to comply with all evolving regulatory established relative targets that are meaningful and customer requirements. Furthermore, we and achievable: 29 PLANET RISK AND DUE DILIGENCE REDUCING OUR CUSTOMERS’ IMPACT PLANET – OUR WAY ISS is always seeking ways to reduce the environmental impact of our operations and services. ISS is at the heart of our customers’ activities and are always working Ambition Credible and effective management of our enwith them to reduce their environmental impacts with processes and Our strategic ambition is to be recognised as an environmental leader, vironmental and climate-related risks is part of systems such as: advocating for more sustainable actions, measures and goals. our value proposition to customers and we have adopted a systematic approach to achieve contin• The ISS Green Offices Programme: Enablers uous improvement in quality and performance. Designed to reduce the impact of offices, sites and daily work practices Environmental strategy: We work towards our goals of reducing on the environment. By changing people’s behaviour, we can use regreenhouse gas emissions, use of water and waste production. We manage these risks as critical business activisources efficiently and dispose of waste responsibly, thereby reducing Cleaning excellence: Cleaning Excellence is an operating process to ties, with standards and targets for improvement, our environmental footprint. identify continuous improvement in both service delivery and environand measures, appraisals and reports on performental impact. It is designed to significantly reduce the use of detergent mance. There are two different risk categories: • Waste process: and water. the impact of our own operations and the impact ISS can directly influence the environmental performance of our cusof our customers’. tomers by managing waste from source using our onsite presence Important for ISS and influence over the supply chain. Our ability to integrate sustainAs people are our most valuable resource, we are responsible for providOur customers’ operations are proving to be a able best practice into the heart of client organisations has helped us ing a safe and secure work environment with the opportunity for all to new business opportunity as they are increasingly regularly achieve recycling rates above 80% and zero waste-to-landfill achieve their personal and professional potential. looking to improve performance and impact. Our targets. role means we often know their offices and sites Drivers better than they do, because we are there every • Audits: Our environmental initiatives and activities are carried out through a sysday and throughout the locations, and hence we We can carry out energy and water audits to help identify resource tematic approach, whereby we identify potential for more efficient use are able to provide unique insights into managing consumption and wastage. This helps identify operational and resource of resources, lower emissions and cost optimisation. We proactively mitiand reducing their environmental impact. consumption saving projects. The audit process also supports our cusgate environmental risk and anticipate our customers’ needs. tomers in achieving or maintaining their ISO certification. Impact on society When we reduce our impact on the environment and climate, we contribute to solving the global challenge of climate change and creating a sustainable world for future generations. What’s next We will continue to work with our stakeholders (employees, customers and suppliers) in reducing our impact on the environment through behavioural change and developing solutions to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and resource consumption. 30 CASE ENVIRONMENT: PUTTING OUR ENERGY INTO REDUCING CONSUMPTION The impact of climate change is beENERGY MANAGEMENT Nordea’s waste management. In fact, coming ever clearer and it is affecting We started with data. We carried out a we are developing more and more all of us – in terms of our weather, mapping and energy audit at Nordea’s ways to approach energy management health, economy and general qualNorwegian headquarters to establish for our customers, including services ity of life. This makes it even more a baseline reading of their energy conlike real-time monitoring, where anaimportant that ISS manages the way sumption. We also began to integrate lysts take data insights and turn them our business affects the environment systems to provide greater transpareninto energy-saving initiatives, and through how we design our processes, cy. During the audits and integration, technicians can respond immediately the equipment used and the portfolio we discovered a number of improveto any issues. Whatever the approach, of services offered to customers. ment opportunities that would result our goal is to help customers create in future cost-avoidance. We took our sustainable places, where we cut costs More and more of our customers are findings, qualified them into busiand emissions in equal measure. And asking how we can help them reduce ness cases and proposed the changes we are confident that, with the right their environmental footprint, reduce to Nordea. For example, one of the energy and focus, we can achieve it. costs and make their processes more business cases focused on replacing efficient. It is something we are chalthe old light bulbs with the latest LED lenging ourselves to do as a company technology throughout the parking too. We want to be more efficient garage and thereby reducing electricity about how we use resources and cut consumption. Through all recommenddown on waste, including plastic poled changes, ISS estimates that Nordea lution. One specific area we have been could avoid CO2 emissions by 747 working on is reducing energy contonnes over a five-year period. sumption. We are taking what we’ve learned ourselves and are helping LOOKING INTO clients put it into practice in their own THE FUTURE businesses. Our approach combines Our work does not stop here. We data, insight and our service knoware scaling our energy management how, to help our customers improve service to cover all of Nordea's headtheir sustainability. Here is how we are quarters by the end of 2020. We will doing just that for Nordea. also expand our service to improve 31 PLANET OVERVIEW OF SUBJECT ENABLED BY ACTIVITIES PROGRESS 2019 PLANET CO2 emissions from Reductions achieved • Driver Safety E-learning Vehicle emissions decreased from 91,199 tonnes CO2 PERFORMANCE leased cars through leasing more fuel efficient cars and changes in • Continued leasing of more fuel efficient vehicles eq. in 2018 to 89,334 tonnes CO2 eq. in 2019 driver behaviour CO2 emissions from We encourage more online Use of webinars • Emissions from business travel decreased from business travel meetings to reduce air travel 22,285 tonnes in 2018 to 21,263 tonnes in 2019. in particular The decrease was due to new Travel Policy and stricter governance on travel • We continue to encourage online meetings to limit travel Chemicals We collaborate with supFurther integration of an IT tool This has led to a reduction in 2019 of: 98,000 pliers to develop and test to propose environmentally kg. waste; 820,000 litres water consumed; and environmentally friendfriendly solutions 228,000 kg. CO2 eq. in GHG emissions ly products and materials that also offer reduced costs in use and increased productivity Electricity (own) Mandatory certification Implementation of awareIn 2019, we consumed 39,903 MWh of electricity according to the ISS Green ness and behaviour changing compared to 44,707 MWh in 2018 Offices Programme measures Water (own) Mandatory certification Implementation of awareIn 2019, we consumed 307,758 m3 water, a decrease according to the ISS Green ness and behaviour changing from 311,339 m3 in 2018; the decrease is due to imOffices Programme measures proved awareness 32 PROFIT PROFIT The ISS Way, our company strategy, focuses on optimising the customer experience while driving We always act with honesty and transparency in our relationships with all local authorities, includCOMPETING cost efficiencies through the alignment of our organisation behind a set of common business ing related to tax. ISS has zero tolerance towards avoidance of taxes, social charges or payroll taxes. ON FAIR TERMS fundamentals and scale benefits. We aim to create value for our shareholders by maximising the cash flow growth from our business in a sustainISS prepares and submits all tax filings required by law and provides complete and timely disclosures able way over the short and long term. to all relevant tax authorities. Our ambition is simple – we aim We have comprehensive measures in place to enISS also has an obligation to optimise the return to be the world’s best service sure the integrity of our business. ISS employees for its shareholders by managing and planning deal with customers and suppliers hundreds of tax payments effectively within the framework of company. We are competitive, thousands of times every day and we want these relevant tax regulation. Transactions between ISS but want to achieve this by fair relations – as well as those with the financial comgroup companies are conducted based on arm’s means and positively influence munity – to be based on sound business practices. length principles and in accordance with current the global business environment OECD guidelines. through sound financial TAX: HONESTY AND RESPONSIBILITY ISS contributes with views and input on the draftperformance and compliance In order for ISS to grow sustainably, the local ing and adoption of relevant tax legislation and with our business integrity communities where we operate need to grow will respond proactively to regulatory and other framework. and benefit as well. The most important way ISS changes as soon as these are known. contributes to local communities is by providing jobs, income, training, social benefits and career The Group Tax Policy and the group tax position, opportunities. Paying tax and duties are also including how tax compliance and tax risks are important contributions to many communities managed and monitored, are reviewed annually around the world. by the Board of Directors. The ISS Group Tax Policy is the foundation to ­ensure GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE a common approach to the tax position within the EXPLANATION ISS Group. It applies to all legal entities within the ISS A/S is a limited liability company registered ISS Group and all employees of ISS, particularly under Danish law and listed on the Nasdaq Stock those involved in the preparation, oversight, manExchange. Management powers are distributed agement and approval of our tax positions. between the Board of Directors and the Executive Group Management Board (the EGMB). The Our Group Tax Policy is founded on our commitmembers of the EGMB are the Group CEO and ment to comply with local and international tax Group CFO and form the management registered legislation and builds on our corporate values and with the Danish Business Authority. The Group leadership principles. Paying taxes accurately and has a wider Executive Group Management (the in a timely manner is fundamental to how we do EGM), which comprises nine Corporate Senior business. Officers of the Group in addition to the EGMB. 33 PROFIT PROFIT – OUR WAY Ambition We are a competitive business, but we want to compete on honest, fair and equal terms. We aim to create value for our customers by allowing them to focus on their core business. Enablers Audit programmes: A comprehensive set of assurance activities are conducted by Group Internal Audit to monitor our performance on business integrity and good business practices. Compliance: The Code of Conduct is the overarching guidance for behaviour by anyone working for, supplying or representing ISS. Building on this, we have adopted policies on competition law and anti-corruption. Important for ISS We intend to create value for our shareholders by maximising the cash growth from our business in a sustainable fashion over the shorter and longer term. Drivers The ISS Way is about optimising the customer experience while driving cost efficiencies through the alignment of our organisation behind a set of common business fundamentals, and benefits of scale. MARCEL KALMEIJER Impact on society ISS Netherlands As ISS continues to be a prosperous and growing business, we impact many communities around the world through compliant ways of working and by paying tax and duties correctly and on time. PERFORMANCE AWARDS made to encourage countries to pro-actively What’s next SUPPORTING CORPORATE support projects that make a difference to the We will retain our healthy pipeline of a growing number of national and international key account RESPONSIBILITY PROJECTS people we work with and the society we live customers, and continue to service and support for their businesses by creating and delivering on At every Global Leadership Conference, we in. An example is ISS Norway supporting an our compelling value proposition. We will work with our customers to develop healthy and proreward and celebrate countries who deliver an organisation called 'Give a Job'. 'Give a Job' ductive work spaces, innovative solutions and apply our full range of concepts for creating value. extraordinarily performance covering organic is an organization with the aim to change the growth, operating margin and cash conversion. perception of refugees from being problems to In 2019, for the very first time, this reward was being resources. They want to create opportuniconverted to a ‘cash award’ to be invested in ties for local businesses and communities to see a Corporate Responsibility project of their own that refugees are professional people who can choice within the country. This change was contribute to local society. 34 PROFIT PROTECTING BINDING CORPORATE RULES PERSONAL The ISS Binding Corporate Rules (BCRs) were approved by the Danish Data Protection ­Agency DATA IN ISS in May 2018, and ISS is now listed on the EU Commission’s website for EU corporations with approved BCRs. During 2019, ISS reviewed and updated the terms of the ISS BCRs and created a BCR standard to make the framework easily accessible and understandable to all stakeholders. The EU General Data Protection Proper documentation and mapping of how Regulation (GDPR) came personal data is processed in ISS is central to compliance efforts. Therefore, ISS began the into force on 25 May 2018, implementation of a data privacy management reaffirming ISS’s focus on data system, which will assist the organisation in mainprotection compliance and taining and updating data processing activities, implementation of proper ensuring ongoing impact assessments of relevant tools and awareness across systems, supporting data subject rights, and ensuring a fast and efficient approach to potential the organisation. To support data protection breaches. this agenda, a data protection project was established in The Group Data Protection Officer and the Gen2018, which evolved into a eral Counsel reviewed the Group Data Protection Policy and made relevant updates to reflect ISS’s Group data protection team focus on proper handling of personal data and and a global network of local encryption of personal data in transit. In addition, data protection managers the General Counsel appointed a Group Data throughout 2019. Protection Manager to help drive and enforce the data protection compliance agenda in ISS. Awareness was a central focus area for ISS in 2019. As such, ISS’s Global Headquarter held its first annual GDPR Day to promote awareness and available data protection-related tools and guidance. The material was shared across the ISS Group to enable similar efforts locally. MAREIKE NIEDEN MICHAEL ZAPP ISS Germany 35 CASE POLICY: SPEAK UP Our commitment to high business • acts by senior management that Business Integrity Committee of ISS. integrity and ethical standards is uncannot be reported using local He or she may engage external audicompromising and an integral part of channels; tors, investigators and/or legal counsel our service delivery. We work inside • violation of competition laws; to assist in the investigation and analthe facilities of our customers and our • serious endangerment to environysis of the results thereof. Overview of effective management of their risks is ment, health and safety; matters investigated and conclusions our license to operate. • activities, which otherwise by law, of investigations are reported to the treaty or agreement amount to Audit & Risk Committee. The Speak Up Policy is designed to en­serious improper conduct. courage people to report wrong­doing In 2019, we continued our efforts related to the business, employees, To facilitate the reporting of incidents, to further increase awareness of the business partners and other stakea Speak Up reporting system includSpeak Up system for employees, busiholders of ISS. ISS ensures that there ing local skype numbers for people ness partners and other stakeholders. will be no discriminatory or retaliatory to call is in place. The treatment of We are currently implementing an iniaction against any employee or third the reports received follows a process tial screening process of our Speak Up party who reports a concern to ISS in with clear governance to ensure that reports whereby an independent law good faith based on his/her personal all concerns are treated seriously and firm makes a first review before these knowledge. appropriately. are forwarded to the Head of Internal Audit. We continue to see an enThe ISS Speak Up Policy covers the Each complaint is received by the Head couraging effect of the efforts during reporting of serious and sensitive of Group Internal Audit, who (i) records recent years to raise awareness across concerns that could have an adall reported complaints or concerns, (ii) the organisation about the Speak verse impact on the operations and considers the seriousness and credibility Up Policy and system. The strongest performance of the business of ISS of the complaint or concern raised and evidence of the increased awareness is and which, due to the nature of the (iii) proceeds ­accordingly in determining the cases reported through the system concern, cannot be reported through the appropriate a­ ction. Some comand other channels, which have grown normal reporting lines. The nature of plaints or concerns may be resolved from 234 in 2018 to 299 in 2019. concerns could include: without requiring investigation. • unlawful activity; The Head of Group Internal Audit • financial fraud; reports on a regular basis the comTÜLAY KARAKURT • bribery or corruption; plaints received and consults with the ISS Switzerland 36 PROFIT INTERNAL INTERNAL CONTROLS AUDIT PROGRAMMES AUDITS COMPLETED 2019 EXAMPLES OF KEY FINDINGS IN 2019 CONTROLS AND ASSURANCE During 2019 GIA performed a number A baseline audit programme that 23 baseline audits Lack of clear procedures for AND of internal audits to provide assurance on the effectiveness and efficiency assesses the internal controls and compliance across 70 key control tracking changes in local labour regulation and ISS Global People ASSURANCE of the internal controls across the entire ISS Group, covering countries, contracts and key Group functions activities, with a view to ensure a strong foundation for the internal Standards. control environment across all key and projects. While the integrity of risks areas. This audit embeds CR financial reporting is a key audit focus, issues such as Code of Conduct, business integrity and good business anti-corruption, health and safety, practices represent equally fundachild labour and working hours. mental elements in the internal audits performed. A contract audit programme 18 contract audits Need to strengthen the procewhich assesses the internal condures and documentation for trols and contract compliance for screening and onboarding of key customer contract. In terms of ­subcontractor employees. CR, the programme assesses the Permit to work (PtW) criteria controls and processes for e.g. require clarification in certain employee screening, training of locations in order to ensure full new hires and performing of precompliance with relevant health ventive maintenance programmes and safety standards. for critical equipment. Risk-based standardised ­audit 6 risk-based audits Individual cases of exceeding the programmes are providing asmaximum number of working surance on the effectiveness hours; Standards and systems for of internal controls related to employee onand off-boarding financial reporting and complirequire strengthening; Comance with internal and external munication of ISS policies and rules and regulations. This covers standards to subcontractor empay-roll, HR and HSE including ployees to be improved. over-time, timely payments and child labour as well as travel and entertainment expenses, and the accounting-to-reporting process. 37 CASE POLICY: NO TOLERANCE OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT ISS tolerates no form of discrimination, SEXUAL HARASSMENT and the framework for reporting harassment including sexual harass– LOCAL AWARENESS and investigating matters related to ment or abuse against employees, and CAMPAIGN AND UPDATE OF sexual harassment. We communicatwe do not discriminate in our hiring or SUPPORTING FRAMEWORK ed these enhancements by holding a other employment practices. We are As an employer of a large workforce townhall meeting and a seminar for strongly committed to ensuring that our globally it has always been important both male and female employees on employees are treated with respect and for ISS to ensure that all employees ­International Women’s Day to raise dignity. are treated with respect and dignity awareness of what sexual harassment and that the workplace is free from is, how to respect personal boundaries, To support our values, Code of Conharassment and discrimination. Sexual the non-tolerance policy within ISS, and duct training programmes for both our harassment allegations are taken very how to report cases of inappropriate support staff and our frontline staff seriously. behaviour. have been rolled out and implemented as part of onboarding and induction of For example, in 2019, we received a As key elements of the supporting our employees globally. report through the Speak Up system framework, the local Sexual Harasswith allegations of sexual harassment ment Policy has been updated and a Also, the Speak Up system is promotat a workplace. As a consequence, local committee consisting of female ed throughout our global organisation Group Internal Audit opened an employees in key positions has been to ensure that appropriate actions are in-depth investigation, including established to handle any future taken to identify and stop any inapconfidential on-site interviews with all concerns regarding inappropriate propriate behaviour. Actions include affected staff. behaviour. education, awareness campaigns and in the most serious cases disciplinary As an outcome of the concern raised, measures and criminal charges. we decided to strengthen awareness NAZIFE KORKMAZCAN ISS Turkey 38 PROFIT SUBJECT ENABLED BY ACTIVITIES PROGRESS OVERVIEW OF Behaviour by Code of Conduct established in 2003 and Code of Conduct is E-learning training module targeting support staff 2019 BUSINESS anyone working for, supplying or revised in 2016. Areas covered: Personal Conduct of Employees; Anti-Corruption and referenced in all documentation of contractual ­available in main 20 languages. New E-learning training module targeting front-line staff INTEGRITY representing ISS Bribery; Compliance with Competition Laws; Business Partner Relations; Work place Stanrelationships: suppliers, customers and employee. available in over 20 languages. ­Training is for all employees as part of their onboarding. FRAMEWORK Competition law dards; Corporate Responsibility. AND ACTIVITIES Competition Law policy adopted in 2014. ConPolicy communicated and In 2019, 31,030 people completed the Code of C ­ onduct cerns risks such as: information sharing with E-learning based training E-learning module. competitors; market behaviour which might be developed as part of Code perceived as price fixing; guidelines for particiof Conduct training pation in industry associations; how to handle inspections by authorities. Anti-corruption The ISS Anti-Corruption policy was estabE-learning based trainIn 2019, 31,030 people completed the Code of C ­ onduct lished in 2010. It states: ing as part of Code of E-learning module. • ISS is against any form of corruption and Conduct training. Training New E-learning module implemented for front-liners bribery and is committed to combat such of relevant staff, both as will increase scope of E-learning training in 2020 and practices; stand-alone requirements onwards. • ISS competes for business on fair terms and and as part of the training solely on the merits of its services; programme: • Regardless of local practice, any personal • ISS Advantage payments, kickbacks or bribes between ISS • Training repeated every and customers, suppliers or public servants second year are strictly prohibited. • It is unacceptable to receive gifts or other gratuities from business partners – unless customary in the environment, of modest value and serving a business purpose Contractual risks Established Negotiation and Contract Process Web-based tool to assess Contract Risk Assessment Model (CRAM) updated in Framework and contract risk assessment tool, contract risks. Applied March 2019 and new CRAM standards rolled out making CRAM. in the contract approval the use of CRAM mandatory for all Key Accounts contracts process. and contracts with annual revenue above 20 million DKK. Access to Speak Up system established in 2013. It is a In 2019, we continued our 87% of the cases reported continue to relate to matters that remediation reporting channel for raising serious and sensiefforts in raising awareare resolved at local level, e.g. e­ mployee misconduct and tive concerns guaranteeing all persons making ness of the Policy and workplace safety concerns. In 2019, there was an increase complaints in good faith protection from reprisystem; we increased the from 10 to 27 cases that required investigation by Group sals or retaliation. number of languages to Internal Audit (GIA) covering violations of labour and tax enable more employees to regulation, senior manager conflict of interest, and ghost report employee schemes. The increase demonstrates the effectiveness of our efforts in raising awareness and reach. 39 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S ASSURANCE REPORT INDEPENDENT We have reviewed the 2019 Corporate Responsiunder Danish audit regulation to obtain limited disclosed in the report. Consequently, we draw AUDITOR’S bility Report (‘the report’), which covers ISS’ global activities from 1 January to 31 December 2019, to assurance about whether the selected CR data in the report are free from material misstatement. no conclusion on these statements. ASSURANCE provide limited assurance that: Deloitte Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab Considering the risk of material error, we planned and performed our work so as to obtain all inREPORT • all ‘People’ data, ‘Planet’ data, and ‘Income tax paid by employees’ on page 42 and 43 in the report, have been stated in accordance with the is subject to International Standard on ­Quality Control (ISQC) 1 and, accordingly, applies a comprehensive quality control system, including formation and explanations necessary to support our conclusion. We used the ISS ‘Group Health, Safety, Environment and Quality (HSEQ) and Correporting criteria; documented policies and procedures regarding porate Responsibility (CR) Data Reporting Manual’ To Management and broader • the report has been prepared in accordance compliance with ethical requirements, professionand the ‘Group Control Accounting Manual Nov stakeholders of ISS A/S with the requirements of sections 99a and 99b al standards and applicable legal and regulatory 2016’ together with GRI reporting principles and of the Danish Financial Statements Act (FSA) requirements. We have complied with the incriteria as an appropriate basis for our engageand the requirements of the UN Global Comdependence and other ethical requirements of ment. Our procedures included the following: pact Communication on Progress Policy; the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants • the report has been prepared in accordance issued by FSR Danish Auditors (Code of Ethics • Reviewing ISS’ processes for determining material with the principles and reporting criteria defined for Professional Accountants), which are based on issues to be included in the report and challengin the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainthe fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, ing the material text statements in the report; ability Reporting Standards (Core level). professional competence and due care, confiden• Reviewing the key processes, tools, systems tiality and professional behaviour. and controls for gathering, consolidating and We express a conclusion providing limited aggregating data at group level and performassurance. A limited assurance engagement is substantially ing analytical review procedures and obtaining less in scope than a reasonable assur-ance enadditional explanations of selected data perforMANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITY gagement. Consequently, the level of assurance mance from group functions; Management of ISS is responsible for collecting, obtained in a limited assurance engagement is • Interviewing management staff across various analysing, aggregating and presenting the informasubstantially lower than the assurance that would group functions, including internal audit, as well tion in the report ensuring that data are free from have been obtained had we performed a reasonas personnel responsible for data and reporting; material misstatement, whether due to fraud or able assurance engagement. Considering the risk • Obtaining relevant, available company docerror. The ISS ‘Group Health, Safety, Environment of material error, we planned and performed our umentation on a sample basis to verify the and Quality (HSEQ) and Corporate Responsibility work to obtain all information and explanations extent to which they support the information (CR) Data Reporting Manual’ and the ‘Group Connecessary to support our conclusion. included in the report; trolling Accounting Manual’ contain Management’s • Evaluating the overall presentation of the redefined reporting scope for each data type. We performed our on-site review at the ISS Head port, including consistency of infor-mation; Office in Denmark between December 2019 • Reviewing the report for adherence to the AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITY and February 2020. We have not performed site requirements of sections 99a and 99b of the Our responsibility is to express a limited assurvisits or interviewed external stakeholders. We Danish Financial Statements Act (FSA) and the ance conclusion based on our engagement with have not performed any assurance procedures on requirements of the UN Global Compact ComManagement and in accordance with the agreed baseline data, economic or financial data, except munication on Progress Policy; scope of work. We have conducted our work in for reported ‘Income tax paid by employees’. • Reviewing the report for adherence to the accordance with ISAE 3000, Assurance EngageWe have not performed assurance procedures GRI principles for defining report content and ments Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical on forward-looking statements, such as targets ensuring report quality, as well as the GRI StanFinancial Information and additional requirements and expectations, or on individual case stories dards disclosure requirements. 40 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S ASSURANCE REPORT LIMITED ASSURANCE CONCLUSION AUDITOR’S OBSERVATIONS REGARDING THE GRI Based on our work, nothing has come to our atSTANDARDS’ REPORTING PRINCIPLES tention that causes us not to believe that: MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER INCLUSIVENESS • all ‘People’ data, ‘Planet’ data, and ‘Income tax SUSTAINABILITY CONTEXT The report describes local and global stake­ paid by employees’ on page 42 and 43 in the The 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report reholder engagement activities undertaken in report, have been stated in accordance with flects, in all material respects, the response of 2019 and provides relevant examples of such the reporting criteria; the Company to the sustainability context in engagement, especially with employees who • the report has been prepared in accordance which it operates. Tailored around an u ­ pdated make up the Company's largest stakeholder with the requirements of sections 99a and 99b 2019 materiality assessment (validated by group by numbers. of the Danish Financial Statements Act (FSA) multiple stakeholders), the report conveys an and the requirements of the UN Global Comongoing commitment to responsible business pact Communication on Progress Policy; practices and contributing to the UN Sustain• the report has been prepared in accordance able Development Goals. with the principles and reporting criteria defined in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) COMPARABILITY, COMPLETENESS ACCURACY AND RELIABILITY Sustainability Reporting Standards (Core level). AND TIMELINESS The Company’s reporting principles, procedures The report presents comparable and timely and controls continue to promote the accuracy Copenhagen, 25 February 2020 performance data on the Company's CR prio-­ and reliability of reported data. The new softrities, enabling stakeholders to assess changes ware platform has helped ensure more accurate Deloitte in performance over time. At the end of a year data entry by a large number of countries and Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab of multiple divestments, the Company has been consolidation at group level. ISS’ reporting Business Registration No. 33 96 35 56 vigilant to ensure sufficient completeness of in accordance with the GRI Standards shows data. Management’s commitment to continued accountability and transparency beyond compliance and in line with global good practice. CLARITY AND BALANCE RECOMMENDATIONS TO MANAGEMENT Kirsten Aaskov Mikkelsen Helena Barton Based on our review of the report data and We have no significant recommendations State Authorised Public Accountant Lead Reviewer narrative as well as interviews with leadership from our observations on the GRI Standards’ MNE no 21358 from key functions, we have found that the Reporting Principles. We have communicatreport provides a balanced presentation of the ed a number of minor recommendations for Company’s 2019 Corporate Responsibility perimprovement to the Management of ISS, formance. The communication on performance ­including how to further strengthen reportis understandable and accessible to stake­ ing on climate-related management and holders seeking such information. performance. 41 REPORTING PRINCIPLES AND COMPLIANCE REPORTING DATA QUALITY In addition, we also work with the principles of of race, colour, sex, religion, political opinion, naPRINCIPLES This report, the ninth comprehensive Corporate Responsibility report prepared by ISS, covers SA8000 pertaining to labour and human rights. The SA8000 Standard is a tool for implementing intional extraction, or social origin as defined by ILO. AND activities under our operational control in the calendar year 2019. The scope is all countries and ternational labour standards to protect employees. Number of vehicles are all company vehicles: a vehicle that is owned or leased by the company COMPLIANCE assets that are under ISS operational control and include all employees (ISS employees, temporary workers and contract personnel). Our employee This is the statutory report on corporate social responsibility cf.§99 a and §99 b of the Danish Financial Statements Act. and provided to an employee in order to carry out the requirements of their work i.e. to meet a particular business need, including pool vehicles. engagement survey was offered to employees Personal company cars are excluded. that have worked for at least three months and The reporting furthermore serves to fulfil our work at least 10 hours a week and were not on obligation to Communicate on Progress (CoP) Number of vehicle accidents are any “contact” leave of absence. In 2019, we have not added as required by the UNGC. In addition, it contribmade between a vehicle and another vehicle, pernew data parameters. For divestments, data was utes to us meeting the requirements of the UK son or other object, regardless of whether there is included up to the time of the divestment t­ aking ­Modern Slavery Act. property damage or personal injury, but excluding: effect and not thereafter. We have focused on • damage to vehicle while it is parked in a improving the quality of our data. We have INTERNAL GUIDELINES ­legitimate parking area; implemented a mandatory HSE@ISS-IT system As a basis for our reporting, ISS developed a • environmental damage (e.g. hail storms, for countries to report and investigate incidents Group HSEQ and CR Reporting Manual in 2010 ­damage from wind, etc.); in a systematic approach. To further ensure imto provide reporting principles and rules to ensure • vandalism, break-ins, or stone chips. provements in the quality of data, we have also a consistent basis for reporting. This Manual is held webinars with countries to explain the data reviewed and updated yearly. Electricity consumption is calculated from utility parameters. However, we are on a journey of invoices or meters. Fuel consumption is calculated continuous improvement in terms of quality of The Manual specifies the data that shall be ­available using fuel purchases e.g. invoices from the suppliour data. for monitoring performance and for reporting on er. Business travel emissions are calculated from corporate responsibility issues at Group level. data received from travel agencies and where this EXTERNAL PRINCIPLES is not possible, emissions are calculated on flight AND GUIDELINES Number of employees are the total number of type (short haul, medium haul, long haul), pasWe have designed our reporting to be in line with headcount full-time and part-time averaged over senger kilometres travelled and emission factors the new GRI Standards by the Global Reporting the 12-month reporting period. Full-time employees from recognised bodies. Initiative (GRI), the world’s most widely used susare defined as employees who work a minimum of tainability reporting framework. We have chosen 30 hours a week for ISS. Number of employees are The source for emission factors for electricity is the to be in accordance with the ‘Core’ option. An specified into front-line and white-collar employees. IEA's Emissions factors, 2019 edition and for fuel overview of the GRI Standards disclosures includis UK Government GHG Conversion Factors for ed in this report can be found in the tables from Hours of training are hours registered as spent Company Reporting, version 1.2 by the UK Departpage 45 onward. by internal and external trainers and hours spent ment for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy. by participants while preparing and participating. For electricity emission factors, we have used 2017 We have also used the ISO Standard ISO 26000 This includes any training participation, paid or actual factors and 2018 estimates where available. Guidance on Social Responsibility and the Danish unpaid, as a result of employment within ISS. Standard DS 49001 ‘Social responsibility manageCHANGES AND FUTURE OUTLOOK ment system – Requirements’ as a basis of our Incidents of discriminations are the registered As we have done in 2019, we will continue on analysis and reporting. number of incidents of discrimination on grounds improving the quality of our data in 2020. 42 OUR PERFORMANCE AND TARGETS OUR We report on our performance PEOPLE PERFORMANCE within three areas: 2019 2018 2017 AND TARGETS Number of employees • Full time % 471,056 77 485,908 76 488,946 76 • Part time % 1) 23 24 24 PEOPLE PLANET PROFIT Total workforce Front line 444,912 460,010 464,108 This section presents our key FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS IN 2019 • % Front line 94 95 95 performance indicators and • % Male 52 51 51 78,555 results against objectives and • % Female 48 49 49 targets for 2019. Objectives White collar 26,144 25,868 24,838 and targets for 2020 are also Revenue – million DKK • % White collar 6 5 5 • % Male 58 56 55 communicated here. 7.1% • % Female Turnover 2) 42 44 45 organic growth % All employees 35 42 44 4.2 % % Front line • Male • Female 37 39 35 44 47 42 45 49 41 Operating margin % White collar 21 25 21 471,506 • Male • Female 21 22 25 24 22 20 Number of employees Hours of training 6,510,989 7,525,680 6,901,337 • Front line 6,200,889 7,180,195 6,561,432 • White collar 310,100 345,486 339,906 Absentee rate % 2.1 2.1 2.0 1) Defined as employees working an average of less than 30 hours per week for ISS. 2) The improvement in turnover in 2019 is due to stronger focus Incidents of discrimination 12 13 9 from Group and countries driving retention initiatives. 3) A LTI is defined as any work-related injury which prevents that Fatalities 3 1 6 person from doing any work after the incident i.e. any work related injury which results in a person being unfit for his/ Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) 3) 2.8 2.9 3.5 her work for at least one full working day or shift. The LTIF is based on 1 million exposure hours. This includes contractors Exposure hours (million hours) 4) 986.4 994.8 981.6 under ISS operational control. 4) Exposure hours include contractors working under ISS Number of vehicles 20,571 20,635 20,527 operational control. For additional information, please see Reporting Principles and Number of vehicle accidents 3,390 3,531 3,515 Compliance on page 41. 43 OUR PERFORMANCE AND TARGETS PLANET PROFIT 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 Electricity consumption (MWh.) 39,903 44,707 48,554 Revenue (million DKK) 1) 78,555 73,592 73,577 Electricity emissions (Scope 2) Operating profit before other items (tonnes CO2 eq.) 12,009 14,804 16,498 (million DKK) 3,290 3,698 3,995 Electricity costs (million DKK) 42.9 40.7 46.1 Net Finance costs (million DKK) 704 590 498 Fuel usage (million litres) 38.6 39.6 42.0 Taxes paid (million DKK) 513 663 812 Vehicle emissions (Scope 1) Staff costs (million DKK) 2) 49,588 46,589 45,873 (tonnes CO2 eq.) 89,334 91,199 96,664 Income tax paid by employees Business Travel emissions (Scope 3) (million DKK) 3) 12,903 13,191 12,778 (tonnes CO2 eq.) 21,263 22,285 18,217 1) 2019, 2018 and 2017 financial data adjusted for discontinued operations. Water consumption (m3) 1) 307,758 311,339 332,442 2) 2017 not restated to include restructuring costs. 3) Income tax paid by employees comprises estimated employment taxes, social charges and contributions paid either by ISS or directly by employees. 1) Water consumption corrected for 2017 due to incorrect reporting from a reporting country. For additional information, please see Reporting Principles and Compliance on page 41. For additional information, please see Reporting Principles and Compliance on page 41. 44 OUR PERFORMANCE AND TARGETS PERFORMANCE AGAINST PEOPLE OBJECTIVES AND TARGETS FOR 2019 AMBITION › PROGRESS › NEXT › ON TREND Our most material issues are also the ones most Fatalities 0 Unfortunately we had three fatalities. Our target is 0 directly supporting our strategy and are related See page 24 to health, safety and environment as well as monitoring of labour conditions for our employees. Lost Time Injury Reduce 60% compared to 2010 LTIF decreased by 78% from the baseOur target in 2020 is less than 2.8 We set targets and carry out audits to ensure the Frequency to below 5 line value of 13, to 2.8 in 2019 organisation’s focus remains on these subjects. Lost Work Hours Reduce 55% compared to 2010 The number of Lost Work Hours per Our target in 2020 is a reduction 1000 exposure hours reduced by 65% of 65% PLANET AMBITION › PROGRESS › NEXT › ON TREND CO2 emissions from 5% reduction (MWh/revenue) There was a further 25% reduction in 5% reduction (MWh/revenue) from electricity from 2018-2021. A baseline was electricity consumption in 2019 2018-2021 established: 16,498 tonnes CO2 eq. in 2017 CO2 emissions from Reduce by 15% within four-year In 2019, we have further reduced emisReduce by 10% within four year leased cars (g/km) lease period based on 2014 data sions from our leased cars (g/km). With lease period based on 2019 data the new Worldwide Harmonized Light Vehicle Test Procedure (WLTP) standard, we will establish a new baseline in 2019 PROFIT AMBITION › PROGRESS › NEXT › ON TREND Audits with HSE and In at least 20% of countries The scope of internal audits in more In at least 20% of the countries CR content where we operate than 30% of countries included the ISS where we operate Code of Conduct, the ISS Safety Rules, child labour and working hours Code of conduct Embed the e-learning module in Over 30,000 employees successfully In 2020, we aim for at least 35,000 e-learning more levels of the organization passed new e-learning module employees 45 GRI AND UNGC COMPLIANCE TABLES GRI GRI CONTENT INDEX DISCLOSURES GRI 101 Foundation GRI Standard Number Disclosure Page number/comment GRI 102 General disclosures GRI Standard Number Disclosure Page number/comment 102-1 Name of the organisation Cover 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Page 2 and here 102-3 Location of headquarters Back cover The following tables provide an overview of the GRI Standard 102-4 Location of operations Page 4 disclosures included in the 102-5 Ownership and legal form Annual Report report. The tables show the 102-6 Markets served Page 4 and here indicator, the topic and the 102-7 Scale of the organisation Pages 3, 5 and 6 page(s) the topic is covered in the report. 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Page 42 102-9 Supply chain Page 13; Our Supply Chain includes over 75,000 suppliers covering categories such as Cleaning, Fleet, Subcontracting and Indirect spend 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its Annual Report ­supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Page 28 102-12 External initiatives We are a founding signatory to the UN Global Compact 102-13 Membership of associations Annual Report 102-14 Statement from senior decision maker Page 7 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Pages 9 -13 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of Page 11 and here behaviour 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Page 35-38 102-18 Governance structure Pages 11 and 32 and Annual Report 102-19 Delegating authority Page 11 46 GRI AND UNGC COMPLIANCE TABLES GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 102 General disclosures GRI Standard Number Disclosure Page number/comment 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, Page 11 ­environmental, and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, Page 16 ­environmental, and social topics 102-32 Highest governance body’s role Page 7; our Board reviews and approves in sustainability reporting the Report before it is published 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Page 35, 37 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns Page 38 102-35 Remuneration policies Annual Report and here 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Annual Report and here 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Page 16 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Over 49% of our employees are covered by bargaining agreements 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Pages 9, 12 and 16; Stakeholders have been based on our latest Stakeholders assessment in 2019 that was part of our yearly review of our material assessment 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Page 16; we regularly meet with stakeholders (meetings, seminars, Investor day); our stakeholder engagement throughout the year has served as input into our ­report preparation. 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Pages 9, 12 and 13 102-45 Entities included in the consolizdated Annual Report financial statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Page 9 -13 and 41 102-47 List of material topics Page 12 102-48 Restatements of information Pages 42 and 43 (footnotes) 102-49 Changes in reporting Page 41 47 GRI AND UNGC COMPLIANCE TABLES GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 102 General disclosures GRI Standard Number Disclosure Page number/comment 102-50 Reporting period Page 41 102-51 Date of most recent report 2018 102-52 Reporting cycle Page 41 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Back cover 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance Page 41 with the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index Pages 45-51 102-56 External assurance Pages 39 GRI 200 Economic Standards – Material topics GRI Standard Number Disclosure Page number/comment 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pages 32 and 34 103-2 The management approach and its components Pages 7, 9, 32, 33 and Annual Report 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pages 32, 36 and 38 Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Page 43 and Annual Report Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Pages 13, 35 and 36 Anti-corruption 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption Pages 35 and 36; the Anti-corruption policies and procedures ­Policy has been communicated to 100% of all governance body members at Group, Regional and country levels. We do not report on the breakdown by employee category, region or business partner Anti-corruption 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Page 35 and 38; we had 0 incidents related to corruption where contracts with business partners were terminated or not renewed; we had 0 public legal cases regarding corruption; we do not report the number of employees dismissed or disciplined Anti-competitive Behaviour 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, We have not been involved in any ­anti­-trust, and monopoly practices anti-trust issue or anti-competitive ­behaviour, and not monopoly practices 48 GRI AND UNGC COMPLIANCE TABLES GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 300 Environmental ­Standards – Material topics GRI Standard Number Disclosure Page number/comment 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Page 28 103-2 The management approach and its components Pages 28 and 29 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Page 31 Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation Pages 31, 41 and 43 Energy 302-3 Energy intensity Based on: Revenue: 0.5080 MWh/mill. DKK Exposure hours: 40.43 MWh/mill. ­exposure hours Energy 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Pages 31 and 43 Water 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Pages 39 and 41; we only report on ­municipal water supplies Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Page 43 Emissions 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Page 43 Emissions 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Page 43 Emissions 305-4 GHG emissions intensity (Scope 1) Based on: Revenue: 1.13 tonnes CO2 eq./ mill. DKK Exposure hours: 91.12 tonnes CO2 eq./mill. exposure hours Emissions 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Pages 31 and 43 Environmental Compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws Page 28 and regulations Supplier Environmental 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using Page 16; 100% of new suppliers screened Assessment ­environmental criteria Supplier Environmental 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply Pages 13 and 16 Assessment chain and actions taken 49 GRI AND UNGC COMPLIANCE TABLES GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 400 Social Standards – Material topics GRI Standard Number Disclosure Page number/comment 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Page 17 103-2 The management approach and its components Pages 17, 18, 19, 24 and 25 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Page 27 Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Page 42; we do not report age group Employment 401-3 Parental leave The ISS Global People Standards: • Ensure paid maternity leave in accordance with local legislative requirements; • Provide women with the opportunity to access paid or unpaid maternity leave for a minimum of 12 weeks without risk of losing their employment • In terms of numerical data, we cannot report at the global level Labour/ Management Relations 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational We comply with European laws based changes on the European Union’s Acquired Rights Directive (ARD) protecting the rights of employees in a business transfer situation, also known as TUPE Occupational Health and Safety 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational Pages 24 and 42; we do not report by diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number ­r­egion or gender of workrelated fatalities Occupational Health and Safety 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal Health and safety are covered in the ­agreements with trade unions agreements with unions. In addition, at the European Works Council meetings, health and safety is on the agenda Training and Education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Page 42; we do not break down ­according to gender Training and Education 404-2 Programmes for upgrading employee skills Pages 17, 18, 19 and 23 and transition assistance programmes 50 GRI AND UNGC COMPLIANCE TABLES GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 400 Social Standards – Material topics GRI Standard Number Disclosure Page number/comment Training and Education 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular It is mandatory for all employees; how­performance and career development reviews ever, we cannot report on all completed data as some are completed on hard copies and registered in files and we are still working on implementing a system to collect the data Diversity and Equal Opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Pages 19 and 42 and Annual Report Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination Pages 37 and 42 and corrective actions taken Freedom of Association and 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to Pages 13, 16 and 36 Collective Bargaining freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk Child Labour 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk Pages 12 and 13; we have identified supfor incidents of child labour pliers of work wear as the highest risk of child labour Forced or Compulsory Labour 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk Pages 12, 13, 15 and 16; we have identifor incidents of forced or compulsory labour fied suppliers of work wear as highest risk of forced or compulsory labour Human Rights Assessment 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human Page 36 rights reviews or impact assessments Human Rights Assessment 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies Page 38; Human rights training carried or procedures out as part of On Boarding for all employees, and training such as ISS Code of Conduct E-learning module and Advantage Supplier Social Assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened Page 16; 100% of new suppliers screened using social criteria Supplier Social Assessment 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain Pages 13 and 16 and actions taken Public Policy 415-1 Political contributions We do not contribute to political parties 51 GRI AND UNGC COMPLIANCE TABLES GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 400 Social Standards – Material topics GRI Standard Number Disclosure Page number/comment Marketing and Labelling 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product We have not identified any non-compliand service information and labelling ance with regulations and/ or voluntary codes concerning products and service information and labelling Marketing and Labelling 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning ­marketing We have not identified any incidents of communications non-compliance with regulations and/ or voluntary codes concerning marketing communications Customer Privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of We have not identified any substantiated customer privacy and losses of customer data complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data 52 GRI AND UNGC COMPLIANCE TABLES UNITED UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT (UNGC) NATIONS HUMAN RIGHTS READ MORE ON PAGE GLOBAL Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 7 COMPACT Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 13, 16 (UNGC) LABOUR STANDARDS READ MORE ON PAGE Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association 16, 46 and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 13, 16 The following table provides Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour; and 13, 15, 36 an overview of the UNGC principles and the page(s) Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 36, 37 the principle is covered in the ENVIRONMENT READ MORE ON PAGE report. Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 28 Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 28 Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies. 29 ANTI-CORRUPTION READ MORE ON PAGE Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 32, 38 Share your opinion We welcome your feedback as it is an important part of our dialogue with our stakeholders. You are welcome to contact Joseph Nazareth, Head of Group HSEQ and CR at +45 3817 0000 or write to us at: Head of Group HSEQ and CR ISS A/S Buddingevej 197 2860 Søborg, Denmark Text Sam Cage Design & production KIRK & HOLM Rosendahls
