KSB Group Annual Report 2019 KSB Proﬁle KSB is a leading supplier of pumps, valves and related service. Our reliable, high-efficiency products are used in applications worldwide where fluids need to be transported or shut off, covering everything from building services, industry and water transport to waste water treatment, power plant processes and mining. Wherever our customers are in the world, 190 service centres are on hand to provide local inspection, servicing, maintenance and repair services under the KSB SupremeServ brand. Innovative technology that is the fruit of KSB’s research and development activities forms the basis for the company’s success and that of our customers. GENERAL CHEMICALS / WATER / INDUSTRY PETROCHEMICALS WASTE WATER ENERGY MINING CONSTRUCTION / BUILDING SERVICES Fields of application for our products KSB pumps and valves are primarily used to transport or shut off all kinds of fluid. Their efficient and reliable operation is taken care of by 3,500 service specialists worldwide offering inspection, servicing, maintenance, repairs and consultancy services. 2019 in Figures Management and Issues 2019 Order intake Sales revenue 2,454 2,383 Group Management Report million million € € + 150 m | + 6.5 % € € + 137 m | + 6.1 % EBIT Employees Consolidated Financial Statements € 113.6 million € + 38.9 m | + 52.1 % 15,645 at 31 December 2019 General Information Compared with 2018 1 3 Management and Issues 2019 Consolidated Financial Statements 4 Management 74 Balance Sheet 6 To Our Shareholders 76 Statement of Comprehensive Income 8 Report of the Supervisory Board 78 Statement of Changes in Equity 16 A Look Back at 2019 80 Statement of Cash Flows 20 Separate Combined Non-financial Report 81 Notes 31 Limited Assurance Report 137 List of Shareholdings on the Combined 141 Supervisory Board Non-financial Report 142 Legal Representatives 144 Proposal on the Appropriation of the Net Retained Earnings of KSB SE & Co. KGaA 2 4 Group Management Report General Information 36 Basic Principles of the Group 148 Responsibility Statement 36 Group Business Model 149 Independent Auditor’s Report 37 Control System 158 Glossary 38 Research and Development 160 Contacts 39 Economic Review 39 Macroeconomic Environment and Sector View 41 Business Development and Results Cover of Operations 44 Financial Position and Net Assets KSB Profile 48 Summary of the Performance in the Fields of Application for Our Products Financial Year Global Presence 49 Report on Expected Developments Financial Calendar 51 Opportunities and Risks Report 62 Disclosures Relating to KSB SE & Co. KGaA (HGB) 67 Acquisition-related Disclosures Key to Symbols 68 Corporate Governance Statement (Section 315d HGB in Conjunction with Section 289f HGB) Reference to table 69 Statement on the Non-financial Report (Section 315c in Conjunction with Sections 289c to 289e HGB) 70 Remuneration Report KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Management and Issues 2019 3 1 Management and Issues 2019 Group Management Report Management Consolidated Financial Statements and Issues 2019 4 Management 6 To Our Shareholders 8 Report of the Supervisory Board 16 A Look Back at 2019 General Information 20 Separate Combined Non-financial Report 31 Limited Assurance Report on the Combined Non-financial Report 4 Management and and Issues Issues 2019 2019 KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Dr Stephan Bross Ralf Kannefass As Managing Director of KSB Management SE, In his role as Managing Director of KSB Stephan Bross is responsible for Production, Management SE, Ralf Kannefass is Technology and Digital Transformation. responsible for Sales, Service and Marketing. KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Management Management and and Issues Issues 2019 5 Management Dr Stephan Timmermann Dr Matthias Schmitz In his position as Managing Director of KSB As Managing Director of KSB Management SE, Management SE and CEO, Stephan Timmermann’s Matthias Schmitz is in charge of Finance, responsibilities include Strategy, Human Resources, Controlling, Taxes, Information Technology Communications, Legal and Compliance, and and Procurement. Internal Audits. 6 Management and Themen und Issues 2019 2019 KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Dr Stephan Timmermann Dear Shareholders and Business Partners, Our review of 2019 leaves us very satisfied. The targets we set ourselves as Management have been achieved; all key performance indicators fall within the scope of our ambitious forecast. Compared with 2018, order intake increased by € 150.2 million to € 2,453.8 million (+ 6.5%). Sales revenue rose by € 137.2 million to € 2,383.2 million (+ 6.1%). Our net financial position has also improved. EBIT development has been extremely positive: After € 74.7 million in the previous year, the current figure of € 113.6 million is in line with the target value that we had set ourselves. All of this is ultimately a result of the numerous measures undertaken to make the company sustainably profitable. The main focuses of the past year included our Climb 21 strategic project, the important issue of sustainability, and continuing the development of our corporate culture as a cornerstone to secure the company’s future. We are focusing on sustainable and proﬁtable growth Climb 21 is a mediumand long-term strategic project which seeks to orientate our company toward growth markets capable of generating sustainable earnings for KSB. Working alongside the measures and projects already initiated, it also aims to reduce costs. As part of Climb 21, we analysed KSB’s fields of activity in detail and classified the business alternatives open to us into three categories. Firstly: Markets with clear growth potential, which must be expanded and strengthened. Secondly: Stagnating markets whose remaining potential we aim to exploit to the full while increasing profitability. And thirdly: Markets that are shrinking or no longer profitable from which we plan to withdraw in a structured manner. On the basis of these findings, we have developed a future model for a new, market-geared organisational structure based on the three pillars of pumps, valves and service (now offered under the KSB SupremeServ brand). KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Management Management undand Themen Issues 2019 7 Within the pumps domain, we will make an additional distinction between engineered business and standard business. The Mining and Energy market segments, in which our engineered products feature predominantly, require a fundamentally different business approach than the Oil & Gas – in future Chemicals / Petrochemicals –, Water and Waste Water, General Industry and Building Services market segments, which are primarily focused on business with standard products. In future, all segments will be responsible for global business development in their markets, while the Regions will work in close coordination to implement operative business. We will strengthen the valves business and establish it as an independent organisation with its own sales force. The aim is to put this business on a path toward growth and improve its profitability. Putting Climb 21 into practice requires us to change work processes and responsibilities. Having implemented initial measures at the end of 2019, 2020 will be a year of transformation for us, which will see us emerge as a market-oriented and more profitable company. We are committed to sustainable business KSB strives for growth that is both profitable and sustainable. So our actions need to be entrepreneurial, holistic, ecological and socially responsible. Sustainability is an indispensable pillar of our corporate strategy – and has been for almost 150 years. Acting responsibly means striking a balance between profitable growth and social responsibility. This is why we signed the UN Global Compact in 2010 and are committed to the 17 sustainability goals of the United Nations. Optimised for energy efficiency, our pumps have been making an important contribution to saving energy and reducing the carbon footprint of our customers for decades. We have set ourselves ambitious goals – starting with the sustainability of the supply chain and extending to the responsible use of resources and the health of our employees. And last but not least, we support over 100 social initiatives and projects worldwide, all aiming to improve people’s lives. We are strengthening our corporate culture A motivating corporate culture that sets us apart from the competition is the basis for economic success. It plays an essential role in enthusing employees for KSB and enabling the company and its staff to unite in responding quickly and flexibly to future challenges. This is why corporate culture is one of our key strategic development areas. The KSB Voice employee engagement survey – which we conducted once again in 2019 – indicates that we are on the right track. We measured significant improvements in all key areas and increased the engagement index by twelve percentage points. The level of improvement is above average when compared with the previous survey. This outstanding result was achieved thanks to the numerous measures taken by our employees and managers. But we will not become complacent. We have set ourselves the goal of significantly increasing the index again to 80 percent by 2025. Dr Stephan Timmermann, CEO 8 Management and Issues 2019 KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Report of the Supervisory Board Dr Bernd Flohr (Chairman of the Supervisory Board) In the 2019 financial year (the “year under review” or “reporting year”), the Supervisory Board of KSB SE & Co. KGaA performed its tasks as set out by the law, the Articles of Association and the Rules of Procedure with the greatest of diligence. We advised the general partner, KSB Management SE, acting through its Managing Directors, on corporate management issues and monitored its work. The Managing Directors informed us about current developments, including but not limited to the company’s business, financial and staffing situation, planned investments, and corporate planning and strategy via written and oral reports prepared regularly and on an ad hoc basis in a comprehensive and timely manner. The Supervisory Board met regularly, with and without the Management, to discuss selected issues. We discussed all business transactions that were significant for the company in depth on the basis of reports from the Managing Directors. Any departures in business developments from the plans and targets were explored by us and commented on in detail by the Managing Directors. Beyond the intensive work in plenary sessions and in the committees, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board in particular and other members of the Supervisory Board were in constant contact with the Managing Directors. There was an ongoing exchange of information with the Administrative Board of KSB Management SE, including but not limited to its Chairman, on current business developments and on material transactions, as well as on questions of strategy, planning, risk situations, risk management and compliance. KSB Group KSB / Annual Group Report / Annual 2019 Report 2019 Management 2019 Issues2019 andIssues Managementand 99 The Chairman of the Administrative Board also took part in the Supervisory Board meetings. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board and his deputy were guests of the Administrative Board on selected issues. Conflicts of interest of Supervisory Board member Klaus Kühborth have been disclosed to the Supervisory Board. They concerned the supply of services of the company to its majority shareholder, Johannes und Jacob Klein GmbH, Frankenthal (Pfalz), as well as other related parties in the past, as discussed in the reports of previous years. Klaus Kühborth did not participate in discussions and the taking of resolutions on this subject area. In the reporting period, no other conflicts of interest arose involving members of the Supervisory Board. The members of the Supervisory Board take part in training required for their tasks under their own responsibility. They are adequately supported in this by the company and regularly – also in the year under review – receive information on the rights, obligations and office of the Supervisory Board. For new members, the information provided includes an in-depth look at the company’s internal processes. Main Focus of Work in the Supervisory Board Plenary Sessions Four regular Supervisory Board meetings were held in the 2019 financial year. The performance of the company and the KSB Group was the key subject of all Supervisory Board meetings, primarily with regard to their business and employment situation, major investment projects and the strategic direction. Our regular consultations with the Managing Directors relating to business development included an analysis of developments in the segments and regions as well as the results of operations. Suitable measures to improve them were discussed, as were the growth initiatives presented by the Managing Directors. The Managing Directors also provided information on the development of ongoing major investments in our manufacturing facilities at various sites at all meetings. One focus was on the extension of production capacities at our factory in Grovetown, Georgia, which specialises in the manufacture of large pumps for mining. Work on the second stage of the expansion project at the US site began in the year under review. The construction of a new production hall as well as its equipment with machinery for mechanical processing and assembly are planned to contribute to the elimination of existing production bottlenecks and will be completed in 2021. The Supervisory Board was also involved in decisions on the founding of a service joint venture in Egypt as well as the acquisition of a service company in Slovakia. Both measures are intended to expand the service activities with which we operate on the international markets under the KSB SupremeServ brand. We also endorsed the plans to establish companies in sub-Saharan Africa in order to continue to strengthen the KSB Group’s position in this challenging region. In addition, at all meetings the Supervisory Board received detailed reports on the progress made in developing the strategy for the Climb 21 project. This earnings-driven, Group-wide programme, which began last year, entails not only a market-oriented realignment of the pump business but also a focused further development of the 10 Management and Issues 2019 KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 service and valve businesses in particular. The relevant growth priorities have been identified and achievement of the ambitious goals will be supported in the current financial year by correlated organisational measures, including an organisational structure based on market segments. The following topics were also discussed at the individual Supervisory Board meetings: The meeting in March 2019 particularly addressed the audit and approval of the annual financial statements for the 2018 financial year, including the management report and the combined separate non-financial report for the company and the KSB Group in accordance with Sections 315b, 315c and 289c to 289e HGB [Handelsgesetzbuch – German Commercial Code]; the auditors also explained the key audit areas and results. The Chairman of the Audit Committee produced an extensive report on the audit carried out on accounting processes for the period. We agreed to the proposal on the appropriation of the net retained earnings presented by the general partner for the 2018 financial year. In May 2019, the Supervisory Board received a detailed report on the development to date and the expected growth of the Chinese nuclear market. The sophisticated prototype of a new reactor coolant pump, developed and built specifically for this purpose, was tested successfully in the year under review and obtained a recommendation by a Chinese panel of experts for use in the latest generation of nuclear power plants. The Managing Directors now see good opportunities for further orders. The September meeting of the Supervisory Board was held at the offices of KSB Italia S.p.A. in Concorezzo in northern Italy. This company is one of the largest sales companies in Europe and also has several service sites. Its Managing Director reported on the main areas of activities there and on the development of the business figures. Business development at the Brazilian subsidiary KSB Brasil Ltda., based in Várzea Paulista, was also explained in detail at this meeting. The market leader in Brazil has managed to increase its profitability significantly since 2017 following successful cost-cutting and growth measures. Planning for the 2020 financial year was a focal point of the meeting in December. The Managing Directors reported at length on the relevant targets, notably on order intake, sales revenue and earnings. Particular focus was on setting the investment budget; this has largely been earmarked for the extension of production capacities in growth markets and the modernisation of machinery. With regard to the ongoing strategy project and the associated future reorganisation, the first market segments provided a progress report on their devised measures at this meeting. The Supervisory Board also dealt with the Internal Audits report on a problematic legacy project in London, which had also been reported on at this point in the previous year. The reasons for its development issues, the additional costs incurred and the conclusions drawn were explained and discussed in detail. The precautions taken to avoid similar project risks in the future were outlined to the Supervisory Board. In the year under review, the Supervisory Board, supported by the Personnel Committee, also discussed the appointments of the Managing Directors Dr Stephan J. Timmermann, Dr Matthias Schmitz and Ralf Kannefass, which were set to expire in 2020, and endorsed their extension for a further three years respectively, as subsequently resolved by the Administrative Board. KSB Group KSB / Annual Group Report / Annual 2019 Report 2019 Management 2019 Issues2019 andIssues Managementand 1111 We also made significant progress again in the year under review with the continued review of the company’s past problematic supply of services to its majority shareholder and other related parties. We succeeded in concluding an extra-judicial settlement agreement which provides, by mutual agreement, for compensation claims on the part of the company against certain parties, some of which were already asserted in 2018. The settlement agreement is subject to approval by this year’s Annual General Meeting. As stated in last year’s Report of the Supervisory Board, significant compensation payments were also received from relevant recipients of the services in recent years. Main Focus of Work in the Committees In order to enable it to fulfil its duties efficiently, the Supervisory Board worked with four committees during the year under review. These prepared the Supervisory Board’s resolutions and the special topics to be discussed in the plenary sessions. In addition, they also made their own decisions – to the extent that this is legally permissible – within the scope of their areas of responsibility. This allocation has proved worthwhile in practice. The Chairs of the committees regularly and comprehensively reported in the plenary sessions on the content and results of the work carried out in the committees. The Nomination Committee recommends to the Supervisory Board suitable nominees for election as Supervisory Board members, whom the Supervisory Board then proposes to the Annual General Meeting. In looking for and evaluating suitable candidates with the requisite expertise and experience of the industry, long-term succession planning is a key factor. The committee met twice in the year under review. The Corporate Development Committee deals with strategic development in the fields of technology, production and sales, among other things. It had four meetings in the year under review. The committee heard reports on the cloud-based KSB Guard pump monitoring system, which was released for sale in early 2019. This system records the performance and status parameters of pumps and thereby contributes to operating reliability and cost reduction in our customers’ systems. It is an example of the potential of digitalisation in our industry. In order to promote the culture of innovation in general, the company held Global Innovation Days in 2019, and the committee was given information on how this went and what it achieved. The C O R PO R ATE D EVELOPMENT NOMINATION COMMITTEE C O MMITTEE Dr Bernd Flohr, Klaus Kühborth Klaus Kühborth Meetings: 4 Meetings: 2 SUPERVISORY BOARD COMMITTEES and their Chairs, as well as number of meetings in the PER SO N N EL C OMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE year under review Dr Bernd Flohr Klaus Burchards Meetings: 2 Meetings: 6 12 12 Management and Issues Management and Issues 2019 2019 KSB KSB Group Annual Report Group // Annual Report 2019 2019 Attendance at meeting Corporate Supervisory Nomination Development Personnel Audit Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Dr. Bernd Flohr, Chair 4/4 2/2 2/2 6/6 Alois Lautner, Deputy Chair 3/4 2/2 3/6 Claudia Augustin 3/4 2/2 Klaus Burchards 4/4 6/6 Arturo Esquinca 4/4 4/4 René Klotz 4/4 4/4 Klaus Kühborth 4/4 2/2 4/4 Birgit Mohme 4/4 6/6 Thomas Pabst 4/4 4/4 Prof. Dr. Corinna Salander 4/4 4/4 Volker Seidel 4/4 4/4 Gabriele Sommer 3/4 2/2 committee was also informed about how production by the former Bochum plant was progressing following its relocation to the Pegnitz factory in 2018. The figures presented revealed significant savings in purchasing and production costs, supported by synergy effects and streamlining of processes. Examples of sales topics covered include measures to increase the service business as well as processes and organisation in the specific sales areas. The Personnel Committee held two meetings in the year under review. It focuses on subjects and challenges relating to Human Resources activities within the Group. It also decides in particular on the conducting of transactions for which the Supervisory Board has been appointed to represent the company pursuant to Section 112 AktG [Aktiengesetz – German Public Companies Act] as well as on matters relating to the remuneration of the Supervisory Board members. In the year under review, the committee discussed with the relevant specialist department the status of the group-wide introduction of personnel administration and management software. Also on the agenda were the generally pleasing results of the employee engagement survey carried out in the year under review. According to this, satisfaction among employees increased significantly on the whole compared with the first survey in 2016. The committee received a detailed explanation of the analysis, including the need for action in certain isolated areas as well as the proposed measures. Another key topic at the meetings was the extension of the expiring appointments of the Managing Directors, as mentioned above. KSB Group KSB / Annual Group Report / Annual 2019 Report 2019 Management Issues2019 andIssues Managementand 2019 13 13 The six meetings of the Audit Committee during the year under review were generally attended by the Managing Directors involved and the managers of the relevant specialist departments, plus, on multiple occasions, the auditors. The Audit Committee discussed the 2018 annual and consolidated financial statements and the relevant audit reports submitted by the auditors. The combined separate non-financial report was also discussed in detail. The committee prepared the independent examination by the Supervisory Board of the financial statements, the management reports and the proposal on the appropriation of the net retained earnings. In addition, the Audit Committee submitted a recommendation for the selection of auditors by last year’s Annual General Meeting to the plenary session. The Audit Committee also commissioned the auditors with auditing the annual and consolidated financial statements for the 2019 financial year and defined specific key areas for the audit. The declaration of independence by the auditors was obtained, and the auditors’ continued independence and performance of non-audit services were monitored. The committee also discussed the half-year financial report for the year under review with the Managing Directors. In addition, the committee focused on monitoring accounting, the accounting process, the risk management system and the effectiveness of the internal control system, including compliance and the auditing of the annual financial statements. The reports by Internal Audits were also explained regularly. The report on the aforementioned critical legacy project in London was of central importance. Its impact on the 2018 annual financial statements gave cause for a separate meeting in the 2019 financial year to analyse the situation and the resulting measures. The issues also addressed by the committee included the handling of currency management as well as advice on the development of selected subsidiaries. Corporate Governance and Statement of Compliance The Supervisory Board continuously monitored developments in corporate governance standards throughout the year under review. The general partner, acting through its Managing Directors, and the Supervisory Board reported on corporate governance at the company as part of the Corporate Governance Statement pursuant to Sections 289f (2 and 3) and 315d HGB. On 19 December 2019, they issued a joint updated statement of compliance in accordance with Section 161 AktG and made it permanently available to shareholders on the company’s web site. The company complies with the German Corporate Governance Code’s recommendations subject to a few justified exceptions. 14 Management and Issues 2019 KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Audit of the 2019 Annual and Consolidated Financial Statements The Supervisory Board examined the annual financial statements of KSB SE & Co. KGaA for the year ended 31 December 2019, which were prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Handelsgesetzbuch (HGB), as well as the consolidated financial statements and the combined management report for both financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2019, which were prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs), and the proposal by the general partner on the appropriation of net retained earnings. This also applies to the separate combined non-financial report. PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, based in Frankfurt am Main with an office in Mannheim, audited the annual financial statements of KSB SE & Co. KGaA for the year ended 31 December 2019, as well as the consolidated financial statements and the combined management report for the company and the Group for the year ended 31 December 2019, and issued an unqualified opinion. The key audit areas defined for the auditors by the Audit Committee for the year under review mainly included the annual impairment test for goodwill, intangible assets and items of property, plant and equipment in the consolidated financial statements as well as the annual impairment test for software made in-house in the annual financial statements. The separate combined non-financial report was reviewed. The auditors reported on their findings both orally and in writing. The accounting documentation, the proposal by the general partner on the appropriation of the net retained earnings, the non-financial report and the audit reports submitted by the auditors were provided in good time to all members of the Supervisory Board. They were discussed in detail by the Audit Committee on 6 March 2020 and on 12 March 2020, as well as in the Supervisory Board plenary session on 19 March 2020, and explained in depth by the Managing Directors of the general partner. The auditors attended the meetings of both bodies, reported on the findings of the audit and were available to provide additional information. The Supervisory Board concurs with the auditors’ findings. Following the final result of the examination by the Audit Committee and its own review, the Supervisory Board raised no objections to the annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements, management report and Group management report, as well as the separate combined non-financial report. In accordance with the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the Supervisory Board approved the financial statements prepared by the general partner. The proposal of the general partner on the appropriation of the net retained earnings of KSB SE & Co. KGaA, and in particular the increase in the dividend to EUR 8.50 per ordinary no-par-value share and EUR 8.76 per preference no-par-value share, is deemed to be appropriate by the Supervisory Board in accordance with its own review; it concurs with the proposal. KSB Group KSB / Annual Group Report / Annual 2019 Report 2019 Management Issues2019 andIssues Managementand 2019 15 15 Changes to the Supervisory Board Alois Lautner resigned from his office as a member of the Supervisory Board on 31 December 2019 due to his retirement. He had been a member of the Supervisory Board since 2001 and its Deputy Chairman since 2013. The Supervisory Board would like to thank Alois Lautner for his many years of successful contribution to this body. He was succeeded on 1 January 2020 by Harald Schöberl, who was elected to the Supervisory Board by the employees. The Supervisory Board elected René Klotz as its Deputy Chairman on 17 January 2020. The Supervisory Board would like to thank the Managing Directors and the Administrative Board of the general partner, as well as the employees and employee representatives of all Group companies for their constructive and committed work during the past financial year. Frankenthal, 19 March 2020 The Supervisory Board 16 Management and Issues 2019 KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 A look back at 2019 Q1 Slovak Republic Slovakian KSB Čerpadlá a Armatúry, s.r.o. celebrates its 25th anniversary. Over this period the original team of four has grown to include15 employees. Major Order KSB wins a contract worth 70 million euros to supply six reactor coolant pumps and spare parts for a Chinese nuclear power plant. The order is a milestone for the company’s China strategy. The customer was convinced by high quality technology which meets the highest safety Young Researchers standards. KSB hosts the regional finals of the “Jugend forscht” youth science competition in Frankenthal for the seventh time. 90 pupils present their projects in science and technology to a panel of experts and the public under the motto “Ask yourself”. Sustainability and environmental protection were the key project themes. Measurement Valves for Drinking Water Service in Taiwan ISH sees KSB showcase its new BOA -Control EKB and BOA -Control IMS EKB type series for the first time. The KSB has been operating in Taiwan since 1993. In order to valves feature an ultrasonic sensor allowing them to offer expand its service business, KSB opens a new, larger service shut-off, balancing and measuring functions all in a single centre equipped with the latest machinery at a central valve. The new valves are intended for use in drinking location in New Taipei. It is to ensure customer support water supply, air conditioning and cooling circuits. that is better and faster than ever before. KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Management and Issues 2019 17 Q2 Award KSB is ranked one of “Germany’s best training companies” for the third time in a row. This is the result of a study commissioned by Deutschland Test and the Focus Money Digital Transformation business magazine which evaluated the training quality of 20,000 companies in different industries. The company’s first Digital Come Together takes place in Frankenthal. KSB experts and managers brought employees up to date on current and upcoming measures to implement digitalisation across the Group. Further events were held later in the year in Halle and Pegnitz. New Site Around 200 guests, including customers, representatives of the German embassy, the German Mechanical Engineering Industry Association (VDMA), trade associations and the Additive Manufacturing German-Russian Chamber of Commerce celebrate the inauguration of a new production, sales and service locaTÜV Süd certifies KSB as the first manufacturer for additive tion in Moscow. KSB has invested more than ten million manufacturing of pressure equipment. This is an important euros to build its largest site in Eastern Europe covering competitive advantage that documents the high quality of 5,000 square metres. 3D printing technology at the company. 18 Management and Issues 2019 KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Q3 Switzerland KSB inaugurates a new service workshop in Oftringen. The Swiss subsidiary’s activities focus on the installed base and general business sales channels and on the expansion of service activities under the KSB SupremeServ brand. Business Innovation Lab The Business Innovation Lab in Ludwigshafen is recognised as one of the best facilities of its kind in Germany for the third time in a row. The Capital magazine analysed think tanks using the categories of inventing innovations, developing innovations and scaling innovations. KSB ’s Business Innovation Lab made it onto the list of winners in An Informative Visit all three categories. As part of her press trip, Minister President of Rhineland-Palatinate Malu Dreyer visits the Frankenthal site to learn about sustainability in the company. For KSB , this means implementing a responsible approach to resources and the environment, but also taking responsibility for our employees and corporate social commitment. Certiﬁcation Digital Education KSB is the first manufacturer of reactor coolant pumps to receive certification for use in the latest generation of This year’s new apprentices at the Frankenthal, Halle and Chinese nuclear power stations (CAP1400). The RUV unit Pegnitz sites are the first to receive tablets so that they can developed especially for this purpose had to undergo a test access teaching content online at any time. The measure is run lasting more than 700 hours at temperatures of almost is one of many toward digitalising training at KSB. 300 °C. KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Management and Issues 2019 19 Q4 Valve Order Largest Boiler Feed Pump KSB receives a major order for 5,500 valves for a chemiA boiler feed pump with the world’s highest drive rating is cal plant in Finland. The factory produces batteries for dispatched by KSB in late December to be used in the electric cars. Chinese Pingshan II power station. The feed pump of the CHTD type series manufactured in Frankenthal will have to cope with extremely challenging conditions. Strategic Direction October sees more than 100 managers meet to discuss Global Innovation Days KSB ’s strategic orientation. As well as focusing on six markets and the business in valves and spare parts, a new Around 100 experts from various specialist departments and organisational structure will be established at the beginning 17 countries take part in the company’s first Global Innoof 2020. The aim is to make KSB sustainably profitable and vation Days. In the course of the three-day meeting they improve its positioning in the competitive landscape. develop topics for the future to support KSB’s business success. 20 20 Management Management and Issues and Issues 2019 2019 KSB Group KSB /Group Annual Report Report / Annual 2019 2019 Separate Combined Non-financial Report Sustainably successful companies act responsibly in the inter2019 has seen us boost commitment by increasing the number ests of future generations. KSB takes this principle to heart. of members on our Sustainability Committee. In addition to Our business activities have always been determined by ecothe CEO, the committee also includes the heads of Human logical and social criteria as well as economic factors. This Resources, Legal & Compliance, Production, Product means adopting a responsible approach to resources and the Management, Purchasing, Communications and Integrated environment while embracing responsibility for our employees Management. and our social commitments. We present these topics in this separate combined non-financial report pursuant to Sections KSB operates a global integrated management system in order 289b(3) and 315b(3) HGB [Handelsgesetzbuch – German to fulfil consistently high standards worldwide with regard to Commercial Code]. The report fulfils the requirements of the quality, risk, environment, occupational health and safety, and CSR Directive Implementation Act [CSR-Richtlinie-Umsustainability. It is process-oriented and complies with the resetzungsgesetz] and combines the statement at company level quirements of the international ISO 9001, ISO 14001, with the Group statement outside of the management report. ISO 26000 and ISO 45001 standards as well as the UN Global Compact. The management system governs organisational In accordance with our business model, we aim to supply cusprocesses and workflows, responsibilities, procedures and protomers worldwide with high-quality pumps and valves, as well cesses at Group level and at our individual locations. as related service. The vast majority of our products are developed in-house and are manufactured in factories on four continents. Our products are sold via our own sales organisation, Our sustainability reporting supported by dealer networks comprising selected partners. The management concepts relating to key issues outlined here KSB’s business model is presented in our combined manageapply to both the Group and to KSB SE & Co. KGaA; any ment report on page 36. instances where this is not the case are duly indicated. All information in the non-financial report relates to KSB SE & Co. By joining the UN Global Compact in 2010, we committed KGaA and the Group in 2019. References to information not ourselves to aligning our business activities with ten universal included in the group management report in this section repprinciples. But it is not only our managers and employees who resent supplementary information and are not part of the sependorse the principles of the Global Compact – our suppliers arate non-financial report. PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH and business partners also share these commitments. performed a limited assurance engagement on the information in this report in accordance with ISAE 3000 (Revised) and issued an independent assurance report, see page 31. Our sustainability profile We have formulated our own corporate sustainability princiIn the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environples in a Group-wide sustainability policy. These are binding ment and anti-corruption, the concepts and activities set out for all locations and all companies within the KSB Group. A in this report follow the principles of the UN Global Compact. committee chaired by the CEO regularly reviews progress on topics related to sustainability. Management also receives a The non-financial report covers 29 material Group companies, compliance report twice a year as well as an annual review of unless otherwise stated. We have selected these on the basis of management issues relating to quality, the environment and their impact on aspects such as energy consumption and numoccupational health and safety. ber of employees. KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Management and Issues 2019 21 Key sustainability topics for KSB Very high Environment Society Business Resource efficiency Respecting human rights Energy-efficient products Equal opportunities Relevance for stakeholders Emissions Compliance Education and training Sustainability in the Product reliability supply chain Occupational health Social responsibility and safety High Relevance for KSB Very high The 29 Group companies include all consolidated subsidiaries In the year under review, specialist departments and our Suswith production plants and two service companies with tainability Committee worked together with Management to energy-intensive workshops. review and finalise the materiality matrix. The aspects and factors necessary for understanding the development and perforKSB’s corporate responsibility includes our commitment to somance of the business and the position of the company as well ciety. This section is an entirely voluntary report on our social as the impact of our activities on the following issues remain engagement activities which do not have any direct or material the same: impact on our business success.  Environment (resource efficiency, manufacturing of energy-efficient products, emissions and product safety) Key issues KSB engages in ongoing consultation with various stakehold Combating corruption and bribery (compliance) ers in order to determine their demands and expectations of our company. Since 2017, these consultations have served as  Respecting human rights (sustainability in the supply the basis for determining KSB’s priorities in terms of sustainchain) ability, see materiality matrix on this page.  Employee concerns (training and development, equal opportunities, occupational health and safety) 22 Management and Issues 2019 KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Non-financial objectives up to 2025 and performance indicators Topics Objectives up to 2025 Performance indicators SDGs* Environment We will report on the environmental impact of our new Resource efficiency product developments. Number of development projects 13 CO2 savings for KSB water pumps with Energy-efficient products Our water pumps will save an annual 850,000 tonnes of CO2. variable speed drives 13 We will reduce global CO 2 emissions from our production Emissions plants by 30 %. CO2 emissions at production sites 13 Employees Each employee will undertake at least 30 hours of training and Education development per year. Number of training hours per employee per year 8 Equal opportunities At least 20 % of our managers will be women. Proportion of women in management positions 5 Engagement score according to employee Engagement We will increase employee satisfaction to 80 %. survey 8 We will reduce time lost due to occupational accidents Number of days lost due to accidents Occupational health and safety to less than 0.3 days per employee per year. (lost time accidents) 3 Society Social commitment We will support at least 25 social projects worldwide. Number of CSR projects 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 General issues We will evaluate the sustainability performance of 90 % Sustainability in the supply chain of our key suppliers. Proportion of evaluated suppliers 8, 12 * The United Nations’ 17 Sustainable Development Goals encompass the three dimensions of sustainability: social, environmental and economic aspects. KSB’s key sustainability topics relate to the goals addressing poverty (1), hunger (2), health and well-being (3), quality education (4), gender equality (5), clean water and sanitation (6), decent work and economic growth (8), sustainable consumption and production (12) and climate action (13). These issues are directly related to our manufacturing activifinancial aspects, such as the environment, anti-corruption, ties, our products, our business partners and our employees. human rights, employee concerns and social issues. All other Our products also directly contribute towards protecting the risks affecting our business activities are described in the comenvironment, for example, by saving energy or through their bined management report from page 54. use in waste water treatment applications. Our goals for 2025 Risks related to non-financial factors We are committed to the United Nations’ 17 sustainable KSB does not see any material risks, as assessed based on the development goals. In the year under review, we derived nine net evaluation method, associated with our own business or concrete sustainability targets from these sustainable developthe business relations of the company, its products and services ment goals and the issues most important to us. We are which have or could have a serious negative impact on nonaiming to achieve each individual goal by 2025 at the latest. KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Management and Issues 2019 23 The nine targets adopted by Management cover environmenEnvironment tal, employee, social and supply chain sustainability topics. ENERGY CONSUMPTION, CO₂ EMISSIONS AND They focus on climate protection, the promotion of decent RESOURCE EFFICIENCY working conditions and sustainable economic growth, and health and well-being. We have also committed ourselves to Targets making more progress on gender equality. Additionally, we intend to gather more comprehensive information on how our As a manufacturing company, we strive to be responsible in suppliers deal with sustainability topics. With our social proour use of natural resources. For this reason, we aim to reduce jects we are dedicated to the fight against poverty and hunger, our consumption of energy and raw materials as far as possiand the provision of clean water and education. We have also ble. This allows us to reduce our impact on the environment set ourselves the binding goal of supporting our employees’ while increasing the profitability of our company. Furtherprofessional development. You can find out more about the more, we avoid economic and legal risks which could potenindividual objectives in the overview on page 22 and in the tially result from environmental damage and failure to comply respective sections of this non-financial report. with laws and regulations. The implementation of these initiatives in the current financial By 2025, we intend to assess the environmental impact of more year is coordinated by the relevant specialist managers from than 50 % of our development projects in accordance with the Production, Product Management, Human Resources, Prointernational ISO 14040 standard. This concerns new product curement, Communications and Integrated Management. The developments and significant design modifications to existing respective specialist departments are tasked with developing type series. This process will yield detailed information regardappropriate measures to achieve the targets by 2025. The Susing the life cycle assessments of our new products. tainability Committee will assess the status of these projects twice a year and monitor the agreed implementation steps. We have also set ourselves the goal of reducing the global CO₂ emissions of our manufacturing plants by 30 % (based on 2018) by 2025. Organisation, processes and measures KSB follows the internationally recognised ISO 14001 environmental management system to continuously improve its environmental performance. We have so far established the Energy consumption KSB SE & Co. Middle East / Total KGaA Europe** Asia / Pacific Americas Africa Total energy consumption* 294,726 MWh*** 99,163 MWh 147,518 MWh 38,931 MWh 94,489 MWh 13,789 MWh Total electricity 157,467 MWh*** 37,112 MWh 58,066 MWh 30,309 MWh 58,323 MWh 10,770 MWh Electricity from renewables 54,208 MWh 20,919 MWh 26,604 MWh 5,292 MWh 19,773 MWh 2,535 MWh CO₂ emissions 99,047 t 21,142 t 30,121 t 29,413 t 31,269 t 8,244 t * Electricity, gas, fuel oil, district heating, wood, etc. ** Including KSB SE & Co. KGaA *** Total deviates due to rounding 24 Management and Issues 2019 KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Percentage of renewable energy in our power Digitalisation enables us to save valuable raw materials in consumption: many company processes. This includes the use of paper, for example. 34. 4 The digital factory – which we have already implemented in a pilot plant – operates without paper, as do several spare parts warehouses in Europe and Asia. In the year under review, we began equipping our trainees in Germany with tablets so that they can access teaching content online. (KSB SE & Co. KGaA: 56.4 %) Results  In 2019, several follow-up audits were carried out at German locations in accordance with the German Energy environmental management system at 37 production and Services Act [Energiedienstleistungsgesetz]. The auditors assembly locations (KSB SE & Co. KGaA: 3 locations); this reviewed the measures resulting from the initial audit in means 90 percent of our locations are covered. 2015. KSB also agreed on further measures to save even more energy. We carry out regular energy audits at our major European locations to reduce energy consumption and CO₂ emissions.  At the Frankenthal location, KSB converted the heating The resulting measures include the energy-efficient refurbishsystems of about one third of the factory buildings for ment of our buildings and foundries. approx. € 1.6 million. Changing from air heaters to hot water radiant ceiling panels in production halls achieved We regularly record and evaluate energy consumption and energy savings of around 30 percent. Further energyCO2 emissions. In the year under review, our energy consumprelated measures were also implemented at other locations tion was 294,726 megawatt hours (KSB SE & Co. KGaA: in the year under review. 99,163 megawatt hours). 34.4 % (KSB SE & Co. KGaA: 56.4 %) of the energy we consumed came from renewable  KSB has increased the share of renewable energy it uses, sources. This percentage rose by 2.6 compared with the previincreasing this from 31.8 % to 34.4 % in the Group comous year across the Group due to the sharp increase at pared with the previous year. KSB SE & Co. KGaA (+ 5.1 %). We calculate the CO2 emissions in accordance with Scope 1 and Scope 2 of the GHG PRODUCTS protocol. Targets The Group’s emissions in the year under review amounted to Many of our products and service offerings contribute to the 99,047 tonnes of CO2 (previous year: 101,339 tonnes of CO2 / efficient and responsible operation of our customers’ systems. KSB SE & Co. KGaA: 21,142 tonnes of CO2, previous year: We therefore strive to offer as many products as possible that 21,215 tonnes of CO2). This means that emissions of this cliconsume little energy and offer many years of reliable operation. mate-critical greenhouse gas decreased compared with 2018. By 2025, we aim to reduce the CO2 emissions generated By gradually modernising our systems, we are reducing the through the operation of our water pumps by 850,000 tonnes amount of hazardous substances used in our manufacturing per year in Europe alone by using variable speed drives. processes. If we discover any environmental contamination at our locations, we set aside provisions to meet the liabilities for the necessary clean-up work. Provisions totalling € 921 thousand have therefore been recognised in the financial statements for KSB SE & Co. KGaA. KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Management and Issues 2019 25 Organisation, processes and measures Our goal is to train all relevant employees in cartel / anti-trust law and the prevention of corruption. Using a global matrix of We attach great importance to the quality and safety of our requirements, we ensure for example that all personnel with products in order to prevent accidents and environmental polcustomer or supplier contact are familiarised with these topics. lution. In production, we comply with recognised standards The training is repeated every three years; in the year under such as CE and implement an established quality management review it was conducted throughout the Group. Any interim system in accordance with the international ISO 9001 standneeds for training are covered twice a year. ard. We are therefore able to design processes such that systematic errors during product manufacturing can be avoided. Organisation, processes and measures Furthermore, we have introduced the internal “Made by KSB” certification process. It ensures an equally high standard of Aiming to support employee compliance, we have developed a quality at 13 locations which exceeds the requirements of the binding compliance management system. It ensures that legal international quality management standard. Our internal cerrequirements and internal KSB rules are adhered to, securing tification stands for quality, short delivery times, professional the success of our business in the long term. The compliance service and optimised manufacturing processes. system is designed to ensure that KSB and its employees always act in line with applicable laws and directives. Our specialists adopt an integrated approach to optimising energy consumption in our customers’ plants, analysing the Group Management is responsible for organising compliance, entire hydraulic system and the complete life cycle of the plant. monitored by the Supervisory Board’s Audit Committee. A In the year under review, KSB trained several employees so Group Compliance Officer is responsible for compliance manthat this service can be offered more widely outside Europe. agement and reports to Group Management on relevant topics every six months. Support is provided by a Group Compliance Results Committee, consisting of top-level managers from the com The year under review saw KSB introduce multiple highly pany. efficient products that reduce systems’ energy consumption. These include pressure booster systems for use in Our Compliance Manual describes structures and processes buildings and industry as well as a new generation of designed to ensure compliant conduct, as well as setting out circulators for heating, ventilation and air-conditioning responsibilities and instruments. systems. KSB has developed a special pump for cleaning exhaust gases on ships; the scrubbing of exhaust gases is A core element of our compliance system is the KSB Code of intended to curb global marine and air pollution. Conduct, which applies across the entire Group. It describes the key legal and business policy principles, providing our em To ensure the safety of our products, a total of 129 KSB ployees with guidance for their actions. The Code also sets locations are certified to the ISO 9001:2015 quality manforth the corporate values which govern our conduct in our agement standard. During the year under review, TÜV day-to-day work: honesty, responsibility, professionalism, Rheinland audited 17 locations worldwide. In addition, trust and appreciation. On this basis, we have formulated and internal audits are carried out annually at all locations. communicated specific principles and rules of conduct. In order to avoid risks resulting from a loss of reputation and legal repercussions, KSB issued two binding corporate direcCompliance tives, one covering compliance with cartel / anti-trust law and one dealing with the prevention of corruption. Both of these Targets directives help to prevent potential violations. Employees reFor KSB, lawful conduct is an important and indispensable ceive appropriate training in recognising potential risks and part of corporate responsibility. Our customers and business practical guidance to ensure impeccable conduct. partners expect KSB to act with integrity. That is why compliance with legal regulations and Group-wide directives is part of our core values. 26 Management and Issues 2019 KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 In the event that employees become aware of violations or are directly tolerate violations of human rights, for example when unsure whether their actions are compliant, they refer the matit comes to selecting our suppliers. ter to the compliance organisation, and specifically to the designated Compliance Officer. If necessary, reports will be Organisation, processes and measures treated anonymously. In addition, any circumstances that give KSB respects and supports the protection of international hurise to legal or anti-trust concerns can be reported directly to man rights. To underline our commitment, we joined the UN an independent ombudsperson, who can process potential Global Compact. As a company, we comply with the convencases without naming informants. If reliable evidence is pretions of the International Labour Organisation (ILO). We fursented, then this is pursued. thermore respect the freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining in our companies. We also observe govKSB does not tolerate any violations of compliance by its emernment sanctions such as embargoes and issue internal export ployees. If investigations reveal sufficient evidence of a violacontrol directives. tion, this will have consequences for the individual concerned. Depending on the severity, sanctions range from a disciplinary Basic conduct requirements among the workforce and with warning to immediate termination of employment; law enbusiness partners are governed by the KSB Code of Conduct. forcement agencies may also be involved. In 2019, KSB committed itself for the third time to abide by Results the UK Modern Slavery Act. We are thus committed to con 2019 saw 3,780 employees successfully complete compliducting our entire business – including our supply chain – free ance training e-learning modules. from all forms of forced labour, slavery or human trafficking.  In 2019, the ombudsperson received one notification of In order to identify and avoid risks in the supply chain, we suspected compliance violation. However, a review repractice active supplier management. For every order we place, vealed that this case did not constitute a compliance violathe supplier declares that it complies with the rules in our Code tion. In 2019, our Group Compliance Office also received of Conduct, which corresponds with the human rights prinfive reports of suspected compliance violations. As a conciples defined in the UN Global Compact. This enables us, for sequence, the responsible employees initiated the necessary example, to ensure we avoid purchasing raw materials from steps and measures for clarifying the situation following a areas of conflict where violations of human rights may have precisely defined three-stage procedure. been involved in their production. We do not cooperate with companies that are known to have committed human rights violations. Human rights Our employees can contact the compliance organisation or an Targets ombudsperson regarding human rights issues, following the same procedure as for suspected compliance violations (see KSB does not tolerate human rights violations. It is our declared above). goal to prevent all forms of discrimination on the basis of individual characteristics such as age, origin, religion, appearance, Results gender, sexual orientation, disability or marital status. We do not tolerate discrimination, harassment or reprisals of any kind  In 2019 there were no reports of possible human rights in the working environment. We have also pledged not to inviolations at KSB. KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Management and Issues 2019 27 Employees CEO and coordinates Group-wide HR issues. Individual locations’ human resources departments look after their local emA MOTIVATED AND CAPABLE WORKFORCE ployees. Targets We use several channels when selecting our future employees. Our more than 15,000 employees form the basis for sustainThese include contacting potential applicants via online social able economic success at KSB. This is why we need motivated networks. We also participate in recruiting fairs. A further and capable people who are committed to our customers. It is channel for finding potential candidates is cooperation with therefore our aim to increase the engagement score with which universities and schools. we measure the satisfaction of our employees to 80 % by 2025. We continuously train young people in order to meet demand for specialist staff. At our German locations, 240 trainees and As an attractive employer, we want to retain our employees and students participating in the country’s dual work / degree proattract new talent. We implement targeted professional developgrammes prepared for professional life. Training staff are parment measures to continuously improve the skills of our workticularly focused on qualifying young people for the digitalised force. By 2025, we intend to increase the number of training world of work. In 2019, we invested almost € 7.2 million in hours per employee per year to 30 hours (2019: 13.6 hours). vocational training. KSB is committed to providing equal opportunities. Our goal KSB develops the skills and knowledge of its employees to preis to increase the proportion of women in management posipare them for specialist and management positions. For this tions to at least 20 % by 2025 (2019: 13 %). purpose, we have developed a three-stage concept. It distinguishes between Group-wide, departmental and individual Organisation, processes and measures professional training measures. Training requirements are Overall responsibility for our human resources work lies with agreed between line managers and employees at annual perthe head of Human Resources, who reports directly to the formance evaluation interviews. We offer training measures covering engineering, business administration, information technology, communication and leadership. Workforce by gender KSB SE & Co. Middle East / Total KGaA Europe* Asia / Pacific Americas Africa Male employees 84 % 81 % 81 % 89 % 86 % 86 % Female employees 16 % 19 % 19 % 11 % 14 % 14 % Male managers 87 % 91 % 87 % 87 % 81 % 93 % Female managers 13 % 9% 13 % 13 % 19 % 7% Number of training hours KSB SE & Co. Middle East / Total KGaA Europe* Asia / Pacific Americas Africa Hours per employee 13.6 12 13 9 18 16 * Including KSB SE & Co. KGaA 28 Management and Issues 2019 KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 In 2019, each of our employees completed an average of Number of training hours per employee: 13.6 hours of professional development activities (KSB SE & 13. 6 Co. KGaA: 12). Regional differences (see table on page 27) emerge above all due to varying qualification levels among new employees, meaning that more specialised training is required in some of our companies. Our Internet-based learning platform launched in 2018 offers our employees the complete KSB training portfolio. In addition (KSB SE & Co. KGaA: 9) to greater use of e-learning, this platform also enables the direct exchange of knowledge and experience among users and thus supports mutual learning. KSB is making great efforts to strengthen its position in a Diversity and equal opportunities form the basis upon which highly competitive market environment and to achieve profitthe people at KSB work together. Our binding human reable growth. This is only possible with employees who drive sources principles harmonise with the conventions of the ILO the company forward with commitment and passion. Emand apply to all KSB companies. In keeping with these prinployee satisfaction has a significant influence on the success of ciples, when recruiting we focus solely on the professional rethe company. We therefore measure the satisfaction of our quirements of the role to be filled and the individual perforstaff by means of a survey conducted every three years. In the mance and potential of the candidate. Clear responsibilities year under review, we were able to carry out these surveys in have been established to ensure this. Management works to almost all Group companies for the first time. Compared with ensure that the principles of equal opportunities and diversity the 2016 survey, employee satisfaction increased by 12 perare realised in company practice. Our Human Resources centage points. Managers discussed the results with their department communicates these principles within the Group teams and collaborated on the development of measures to and adapts them where required. HR also fosters an awareness further improve the score. of this important topic and offers corresponding training and advice. Aiming to further increase satisfaction, we emphasise open exchange with our employees. The active engagement of staff KSB offers women the same opportunities as men. We have contributes to KSB’s ongoing development. Employees have been recording the proportion of female managers since 2017. the opportunity to participate in regular round-table discusIn the year under review, this figure rose from 11 % to 13 % sions with members of Management. compared with 2018. Women account for 16 % of the total workforce. In order to support our female staff, we are Our efforts to balance work and private life include supporting strengthening the measures taken by KSB to reconcile the comsports and leisure activities that our employees undertake tomitments of family and work. Such measures include offering gether. This not only motivates participants, but also promotes childcare during the school holidays. We also offer advice on identification with KSB. caring for family members, and both male and female staff can benefit from our flexible working time models. In order to increase the proportion of women in management positions, we will agree further measures in the current reporting year. KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Management and Issues 2019 29 Results facilitate constructive dialogue on the subject of accident prevention.  13,889 professional development activities were conducted via our online learning platform in 2019. Health awareness at work is also an important topic for our administrative departments. We therefore offer training in Employee performance evaluation was standardised cluding an annual e-learning course on safety in the office. throughout Europe. We invest in the health and well-being of our employees. KSB  14,966 employees were invited to take part in the emtakes a holistic approach to actively implementing its company ployee engagement survey, meaning it was accessible to health management system. This sees us fulfilling not only our almost all employees worldwide. The response rate was company’s legal requirements in terms of occupational health, 80 %. Participants evaluated the company, the Managebut also offering voluntary health care services such as colon ment, talent management, collaboration, training and cancer screening, skin cancer screening and flu vaccinations. professional development – and for the first time the leadership of their line managers. KSB has improved sigResults nificantly in all areas evaluated compared with the 2016 survey. Line managers discussed the results with their staff  The number of accident-related days lost per employee and together developed new measures to achieve further and year was 0.3 in 2019 (lost time accident rate). improvements.  523 employees participated in colon cancer screening. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 61 employees received a positive test result revealing abnormalities. They were advised to consult their family Targets doctor and have the findings examined. KSB takes care of the health and safety of its employees. It is our goal to protect our employees from risks at work and to keep the number of occupational accidents as low as possible. Society By 2025, we aim to permanently reduce the number of days lost due to accidents to less than 0.3 days per employee (2019: Targets 0.3 days). The measures we are undertaking to achieve this KSB has traditionally linked economic success with working include the global “Vision Zero” concept from the Internafor the common good, which also includes providing financial tional Social Security Association. In addition, we strive to assistance to socially active organisations. Through our philoffer our employees opportunities to support healthy living. anthropic efforts, we aim to contribute to social development Organisation, processes and measures that is characterised by a desire to systematically shape the future, ensure social justice and achieve a high quality of life. Our efforts to prevent accidents in everyday working life are By 2025, we intend to support 25 social projects. focused on production areas due to their increased risk. Appropriate training, instruction and other preventive measures Organisation, processes and measures are implemented regularly. In the year under review, 35 of Our binding donation directive sets out for which purposes our production and assembly sites (including all factories of and under which conditions we may make financial or mateKSB SE & Co. KGaA) were certified according to the ISO rial commitments. In this context, we focus on supporting 45001 international occupational health and safety standard. organisations and projects dedicated to the education, social This represents 85 % of our locations. support and protection of children and young people. We are also committed to supporting the disadvantaged. In the event KSB adopts a transparent approach to accident awareness and of disasters we provide assistance to both people and organiprevention. We provide daily updates on key occupational sations. health and safety figures in our locations’ entrance areas and production halls in order to raise employee awareness and 30 Management and Issues 2019 KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 116 Results  2019 saw KSB contribute to 44 health projects. These included blood donation campaigns by our employees, preventative measures such as colon cancer screening and donations to hospitals. In 2019, KSB contributed to more than  40 activities focused on promoting quality education. For 100 charitable initiatives and projects. example, we supported schools with donations of equipment and financial aid.  With a view to promoting industry, innovation culture In 2019, we actively participated in 65 social initiatives in the and infrastructure, we lent our support to 32 projects. In areas around our locations. These included blood donation 2019, for example, we modernised buildings of non-profit campaigns by our employees and material donations for those organisations that directly benefit people. in need. In addition, we donated more than € 5,000 each to 51 projects whose aims include fighting poverty, promoting healthy living, providing education, clean water and sanitation, and eliminating inequalities. More information on our social commitment is available at www.ksb.com/csr With our social commitment we contribute to achieving the 17 goals for sustainable development set out by the United Nations. We have focused on the sustainable development goals of good health and well-being (goal 3), quality education (goal 4) and industry, innovation and infrastructure (goal 9). The provision of financial support for aid projects has a long tradition at KSB. This includes ongoing support for social developments in the areas around our locations. We also make regular donations to projects seeking to supply people with clean drinking water, for which we also provide non-cash support such as pumps. KSB Group KSB / Annual Group Report / Annual 2019 Report 2019 Management Issues2019 andIssues Managementand 2019 31 31 Limited Assurance Report on the Combined Non-financial Report To KSB SE & Co. KGaA, Frankenthal Independent Practitioner’s Report on a Limited Assurance Engagement on Non-financial Reporting1 We have performed a limited assurance engagement on the combined separate non-financial report pursuant to §§ 289b Abs. 3 und 315b Abs. 3 HGB (“Handelsgesetzbuch”: “German Commercial Code”) of KSB SE & Co. KGaA, Frankenthal, (hereinafter the “Company”) for the period from January 1, to December 31, 2019 (hereinafter the “Non-financial Report”). RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The executive directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of the Non-financial Report in accordance with §§ 315c in conjunction with 289c to 289e HGB. This responsibility of Company’s executive directors includes the selection and application of appropriate methods of non-financial reporting as well as making assumptions and estimates related to individual non-financial disclosures which are reasonable in the circumstances. Furthermore, the executive directors are responsible for such internal control as they have considered necessary to enable the preparation of a Non-financial Report that is free from material misstatement whether due to fraud or error. INDEPENDENCE AND QUALITY CONTROL OF THE AUDIT FIRM We have complied with the German professional provisions regarding independence as well as other ethical requirements. Our audit firm applies the national legal requirements and professional standards – in particular the Professional Code for German Public Auditors and German Chartered Auditors (“Berufssatzung für Wirtschaftsprüfer und vereidigte Buchprüfer“: “BS WP/vBP”) as well as the Standard on Quality Control 1 published by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (Institute of Public Auditors in Germany; IDW): Requirements to quality control for audit firms (IDW Qualitätssicherungsstandard 1: Anforderungen an die Qualitätssicherung in der Wirtschaftsprüferpraxis IDW QS 1) – and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. 1 PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH has performed a limited assurance engagement on the German version of the separate non-financial report and issued an independent assurance report in German language, which is authoritative. The following text is a translation of the independent assurance report. 32 Management and Issues 2019 KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 PRACTITIONER´S RESPONSIBILITY Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on the Non-financial Report based on the assurance engagement we have performed. Within the scope of our engagement we did not perform an audit on external sources of information or expert opinions, referred to in the Non-financial Report. We conducted our assurance engagement in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised): Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information, issued by the IAASB. This Standard requires that we plan and perform the assurance engagement to allow us to conclude with limited assurance that nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Company’s Nonfinancial Report for the period from from January 1, to December 31, 2019 has not been prepared, in all material aspects, in accordance with §§ 315c in conjunction with 289c to 289e HGB. In a limited assurance engagement the assurance procedures are less in extent than for a reasonable assurance engagement, and therefore a substantially lower level of assurance is obtained. The assurance procedures selected depend on the practitioner’s judgment. Within the scope of our assurance engagement, we performed amongst others the following assurance procedures and further activities:  Obtaining an understanding of the structure of the sustainability organization  Inquiries of management and relevant personnel involved in the preparation of the Nonfinancial Report regarding the preparation process, the internal control system relating to this process and selected disclosures in the Non-financial Report  Identification of the likely risks of material misstatement of the Non-financial Report  Analytical evaluation of selected disclosures in the Non-financial Report  Comparison of selected disclosures with corresponding data in the consolidated financial statements and in the combined group management report  Evaluation of the presentation of the non-financial information ASSURANCE CONCLUSION Based on the assurance procedures performed and assurance evidence obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Company’s Non-financial Report for the period from January 1, to December 31, 2019 has not been prepared, in all material aspects, in accordance with §§ 315c in conjunction with 289c to 289e HGB. KSB Group KSB / Annual Group Report / Annual 2019 Report 2019 Management Issues2019 andIssues Managementand 2019 33 33 INTENDED USE OF THE ASSURANCE REPORT We issue this report on the basis of the engagement agreed with the Company. The assurance engagement has been performed for purposes of the Company and the report is solely intended to inform the Company about the results of the limited assurance engagement. The report is not intended for any third parties to base any (financial) decision thereon. Our responsibility lies only with the Company. We do not assume any responsibility towards third parties. Frankfurt a. Main, 12 March 2020 PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Nicolette Behncke ppa. Barbara Wieler Wirtschaftsprüfer (German Public Auditor) 34 Group Management Report KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 2 KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Group Management Report 35 Group Management Group Management Report Report 36 Basic Principles of the Group 36 Group Business Model 37 Control System 38 Research and Development 39 Economic Review Consolidated Financial Statements 39 Macroeconomic Environment and Sector View 41 Business Development and Results of Operations 44 Financial Position and Net Assets 48 Summary of the Performance in the Financial Year 49 Report on Expected Developments 51 Opportunities and Risks Report 62 Disclosures Relating to KSB SE & Co. KGaA (HGB) 67 Acquisition-related Disclosures 68 Corporate Governance Statement (Section 315d HGB in Conjunction with Section 289f HGB) 69 Statement on the Non-financial Report (Section 315c in Conjunction with Sections 289c to 289e HGB) 70 Remuneration Report General Information 36 Combined Group Management Management Report Report KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Basic Principles of the Group Group Business Model This management report for the first time combines the manprofit KSB Stiftung [KSB Foundation] and the Kühborthagement reports for KSB SE & Co. KGaA, Frankenthal / Pfalz, Stiftung GmbH [Kühborth Foundation]. KSB SE & Co. KGaA Germany, and the KSB Group for the 2019 financial year and with it the KSB Group are managed via KSB Management (Combined Management Report). SE, which has four Managing Directors and a five-member Administrative Board. The KSB Group’s mission is to supply customers around the world with top-quality pumps and valves as well as related Managers and employees implement the strategy and instrucsystems. It also offers a broad service portfolio to users of these tions of the Managing Directors within an organisation that is products. structured according to responsibilities for product groups, corporate functions and regions. KSB SE & Co. KGaA, as the parent, directly or indirectly holds the shares in the companies belonging to the Group. All organisational units in the KSB Group act with the aim of Besides it, 9 domestic and 76 foreign companies are fully conensuring sustainable, profitable growth to secure both KSB’s solidated; 6 other companies are accounted for under the financial independence and its mediumand long-term future. equity method. KSB is currently represented in more than KSB is monitored by a Supervisory Board consisting of twelve 40 countries with its own subsidiaries. members. The Annual General Meeting of shareholders appoints six members of the Supervisory Board, with the remainAs well as KSB SE & Co. KGaA itself, the companies in the ing six being delegated by the employees under the terms of KSB Group with the highest sales revenue are the Mitbestimmungsgesetz [German Co-determination Act].  KSB S.A.S., Gennevilliers (Paris), France The KSB Group organises its business activities in three seg KSB Shanghai Pump Co., Ltd., Shanghai (China) ments based on product groups: Pumps, Valves and Service.  GIW Industries, Inc., Grovetown / Georgia (USA) The Pumps segment covers singleand multistage pumps, and  KSB Limited, Pimpri (Pune), India associated control and drive systems. Applications are indus KSB Service GmbH, Frankenthal, Germany try, chemicals / petrochemicals, energy supply, water transport  KSB BRASIL LTDA., Várzea Paulista, Brazil and waste water treatment, construction / building services  KSB Italia S.p.A., Milan, Italy and the hydraulic transport of solids in mining. The Valves segment covers butterfly, globe, gate, control, diaphragm and The basic business model has not changed during the year unball valves, as well as associated actuators and control systems. der review. External economic and political changes, however, The applications for these products are essentially identical to have had a partial effect on business. These are – where relethose for pumps. The Service segment, for which KSB launched vant and material to KSB – described in the following sections. its own brand, KSB SupremeServ, in the 2018 financial year, covers the installation, commissioning, start-up, inspection, ORGANISATION, MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL servicing, maintenance and repair of pumps, related systems KSB SE & Co. KGaA was formed from KSB Aktiengesellschaft and valves for all these applications, as well as modular service by entry in the Handelsregister [German Commercial Register] concepts and system analyses for complete systems. on 17 January 2018. The partnership limited by shares (KGaA) [Kommanditgesellschaft auf Aktien] is a common MARKETS AND LOCATIONS legal form in Germany for companies with a familyand founWithin the KSB Group, centrifugal pumps account for around dation-dominated ownership structure. The general partner is two thirds of sales revenue. These pumps, as well as valves, are KSB Management SE, a European public limited company. sold to engineering contractors, OEMs and end users or, in The shares in this company are wholly owned (100 %) by some cases, distributed via dealers. Klein, Schanzlin & Becker GmbH, a subsidiary of the nonKSB Group / Annual Annual Report Report 2019 2019 Group Management Report Combined 37 Bodies / Structure Limited partners General partner KSB shareholders KSB Management SE manages Annual General Meeting KSB SE & Co. KGaA Supervisory Board monitors The former KSB AG now operates in the legal form of a partnership limited by shares (KGaA) [Kommanditgesellschaft auf Aktien]. Management is the responsibility of KSB Management SE, the individually liable general partner. The responsibilities of the bodies are governed by law and the Articles of Association. This is the basis for efficient corporate governance, which contributes to sustainable corporate development. The former KSB AG is now managed in the legal form of a partnership limited by shares [Kommanditgesellschaft auf Aktien – KGaA]. Management is the responsibility of KSB Management SE, the individually liable general partner. The responsibilities of the bodies are governed by law and the Articles of Association. This is the basis for efficient corporate governance, which contributes to sustainable corporate growth. The same applies to control and monitoring systems, and to In order to be able to offer KSB products at favourable prices, package units with pumps and valves. the Group’s purchasing requirements are combined and affordable suppliers sourced around the world who meet the relevant The largest and best developed sales market for these products quality standards. The KSB Group is able to maintain its maris Europe, where KSB operates its main manufacturing faciliket position as one of the leading pump and valve manufacties in Germany and France. The main plant of the present KSB turers through its good and long-term relationships with cusSE & Co. KGaA in Frankenthal is its largest in Europe, ahead tomers and suppliers. Highly trained and motivated employees of the production sites in Pegnitz (Bavaria) and Halle (Saxonyas well as the high quality of products have also helped cement Anhalt) in Germany, and La Roche-Chalais in France. this reputation. The second-largest market for KSB products is the Region Asia / Pacific, followed by the Region Americas and the Region Control System Middle East / Africa. Outside Europe, KSB’s biggest production sites are in Brazil, China, India and the USA. Based upon a matrix organisation, KSB determines its key financial performance indicators as follows: KSB manufactures products and components in a total of 17 countries; they are sold through the Group’s own companies KSB mainly makes management decisions for the Group as a or agencies in more than 100 countries. With their products, whole and for the Pumps, Valves and Service segments on the the Group companies serve customers in industry including the basis of the following key indicators: order intake, sales revechemical and petrochemical industries, in the energy sector, in nue and EBIT. KSB defines EBIT to be earnings before finance construction / building services, in water and waste water manincome / expense and income tax. When specifying key indicaagement, and in mining. In 2019 the largest markets continued tors, KSB is guided on the one hand by developments in the to be general industry, energy and water / waste water. market and on the other by its main competitors. In addition, KSB continues to monitor the key indicators of earnings before As the largest company in the KSB Group, KSB SE & Co. income taxes (EBT), pre-tax return on sales and net financial KGaA serves all the Group’s regions and markets. position, which since the 2019 financial year have no longer been considered significant performance indicators. 38 Combined Group Management Management Report Report KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Management decisions for KSB SE & Co. KGaA are made on the basis of the same control metrics as for the Group. No non-financial performance indicators are consulted for controlling the Group and for making decisions regarding management issues. Research and Development Innovations are a fundamental pillar of KSB’s activities and are part of the core elements of its strategy. They are defined as solutions that create added value for customers and translate into new products, services or business models. Finding creative solutions is the most successful where developers have a high degree of freedom in choosing the approaches or methods. With this objective in mind, KSB has set up the off-site Business Innovation Lab to abandon the traditional paths of research and development. In this think tank, digital natives work with experienced specialists on ideas for the digital transformation of the company and on new paths in the marketing of pumps, valves and hydraulic systems. Beyond these innovation approaches, the integration of hydraulic and electronic systems is a focus of activities. It opens access to new business models. As many product components come into contact with fluids that are corrosive or abrasive, materials research is another key area of the developers’ work. 50. 5 Research and development expenses in € millions In these activities, the KSB Group is primarily drawing on its strong research and development expertise in Europe and India. In addition, it cooperates with external institutes and research facilities. Overall, the Group spent around € 50 million on research and development in the year under review. This equates to about 2 % of our sales revenue. KSB SE & Co. KGaA invested € 34 million in research and development in the year under review, which equates to around 4 % of sales revenue. A large portion of the development work was on customer projects. Across the Group, 512 staff were employed in research and development on average over the year. At KSB SE & Co. KGaA, 271 staff worked in research and development in the year under review. KSB Group / Annual Annual Report Report 2019 2019 Group Management Report Combined 39 Economic Review Macroeconomic Environment and While economic growth in China and India remained above the average for the emerging economies of Asia, the increase Sector View was lower year on year, too. Despite stabilising fiscal policy The world economy lost further steam over the course of the and state infrastructure projects, economic growth in China 2019 financial year. The International Monetary Fund (IMF), slipped to + 6.1 %. Weaker exports and a fall in capital investwhose figures provide the basis for planning, predicted growth ment contributed to the slowdown. In India, economic growth of 3.5 % at the start of 2019. Actual growth, at + 2.9 %, failed declined to + 4.8 % because of weaker domestic demand. to meet this forecast and was at its lowest level since the global financial crisis in 2008 / 2009. The ongoing trade policy The five economically most significant countries in South East restrictions on the traffic of goods along with geopolitical tenAsia – Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Thailand and sion led to a deterioration in the business climate and acted as Vietnam – recorded a growth rate below the previous year’s a brake on capital investment decisions. Weaker growth level at + 4.7 % overall. The IMF forecast for these countries affected both developed countries (+ 1.7 %) and emerging – where KSB also has a presence through its own companies – market and developing countries (+ 3.7 %). was reduced in the course of the year. Europe was once again of primary importance for the KSB The region South America, which includes important markets business in 2019. However, compared with the IMF forecast, for KSB in Argentina, Brazil and Chile, was considerably the growth of the economy in the home market weakened weaker and well below the expectations at the beginning of the more sharply than it did on a global scale. The effects of the year. Here growth was a mere + 0.2 %. In Argentina, the curglobal restrictions on trade and a collapse in sales figures in rency crisis and the outflow of capital were exacerbated folthe automotive industry were reflected in significantly weaker lowing the elections in August. The result was a further decline demand from abroad and pushed down economic growth in in the economy. In Brazil, structural reforms and improved the euro zone to + 1.2 %. Exports declined in Germany in parconditions on the financial markets, accompanied by expanticular. In combination with lower industrial output, this sionary monetary policy, bolstered the economy. However, caused the economy to grow by only + 0.5 %, just avoiding these measures were unable to prevent a slight slowdown in recession. France escaped the fall in growth largely unscathed economic growth compared with the previous year. on account of stable domestic demand, and recorded economic growth of + 1.3 %. In Italy, the drop in demand from abroad The economic performance of the countries in the Region combined with political uncertainty and lower private conMiddle East / Africa was marked above all by international sumption meant that the economy weakened to + 0.2 %. In tension and economic sanctions and by a falling oil price overthe UK, economic growth slowed to + 1.3 %. Main reasons all interrupted only by short-term and supply-driven price were the ongoing uncertainty about the consequences of the shocks. In South Africa, where KSB operates a factory in Joforthcoming exit from the EU and more circumspect capital hannesburg, political uncertainty, low capital investment and investment behaviour as a result. The Spanish economy once trade restrictions acted as a brake on economic growth. again recorded above-average growth in international terms thanks to strong domestic demand. This improved the economic environment for sales in Spain as well as for production and service. After posting strong growth in recent years, the US economy weakened in 2019. The decline was primarily attributable to higher customs duties and the waning effect of the tax-cutting policy. Overall, the US economy achieved growth of + 2.3 %, putting it slightly below the IMF forecasts at the beginning of the year. 40 Combined Group Management Management Report Report KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 World market of centrifugal pumps and valves sector. In the United States, the national trade association for the chemical industry cut its forecast for 2019. In Europe, Middle East / Africa 11.1 % growth was also down owing to the weakening in the manufacturing sector. Asia / Pacific 39.2 % For the water and waste water industry, increasing industrialEurope 24.9 % isation and urbanisation are the driving forces for stable growth. Market observers therefore anticipate a significant increase in capital investment in waste water facilities for 2019. Americas 24.8 % Major capital investment projects were launched in the course of the year as a result of the development of rural regions in Africa and South America and efficiency improvements in Source: KSB estimate (February 2020), European Industrial Forecasting countries in the Middle East, particularly Saudi Arabia. The downward trend of recent years in capital investment in gas-powered and coal-fired power stations continued. In For Saudi Arabia, likewise a large sales market for KSB, the North America and Europe, the generating capacity repreIMF revised its forecast significantly downwards in view of the sented by fossil-fuelled power stations has been continually redrop in crude oil production and industrial output. duced over recent years. Only Asia and the Middle East have increased capacity. As far as nuclear power stations are conFor Russia, the signs pointed to a further weakening in the cerned, global capacity at the beginning of 2019 was slightly economy owing to the continuing sanctions and the lack of above the previous year’s level. Almost all new reactors went foreign investment. on stream in China. Worldwide, more than 50 nuclear power plant reactors remain under construction. The largest expanWEAKER DEMAND OVERALL sion in capacity last year was in renewable energy. With regard Over the course of the year, the restrictions on international to total energy consumption, the IEA’s monthly statistics for trade put a brake on capital investment and industrial output the OECD (Organisation for Economic Cooperation and worldwide. This meant that in the general industry market, Development) countries up to and including October 2019 which is important for KSB, growth in demand was also down showed a reduction. overall. In mining the economic slowdown made itself felt. Coal proThe petrochemical industry faced challenges on a number of duction rose only slightly globally, bolstered by higher demand fronts in view of geopolitical tension, changing international mainly in China, India and Australia. In the USA, Canada and supply chains, volatile crude oil prices and evolving demand. a number of European countries – among them Germany in Oil refineries benefited from higher demand and capacity particular – the coal industry is facing change in view of emisutilisation last year on account of the forthcoming switch to sions regulations. The mining of metals such as iron and coplow-sulphur fuels in shipping from 2020. The International per was also subdued last year. Producers of precious metals Maritime Organisation (IMO) regulation entering into force benefited from higher prices last year. in 2020 requires a reduction in sulphur oxides from 3.5 % to 0.5 %. The construction / building services industry is at a turning point globally after years of strong growth. As a result, growth According to estimates from the International Energy Agency rates in energy-efficient building and heating are also down. (IEA), the consumption of natural gas rose further last year. A On the other hand, significant impetus for refrigeration and number of regionally varying factors contributed to this. In air conditioning technology had been expected in Asia in parChina, political measures to improve air quality took effect, ticular. With support from public infrastructure projects, while in the Middle East the efforts to reduce dependency on growth in the construction / building services industry is excrude oil had an impact. In 2019, investment in liquid natural pected to be strongest in China. The German construction / gas (LNG) technologies reached a record level. building services sector also continued to show strong growth rates across all areas of construction equally, despite the overThe chemical industry fared less well. In China, which is the all economy weakening. world’s largest producer of chemicals, growth weakened in the KSB Group / Annual Annual Report Report 2019 2019 Group Management Report Combined 41 MECHANICAL ENGINEERING IN A DOWNTURN KSB made the most of market opportunities via the global KSB According to information from the German Mechanical Engisales organisation, supported by its global manufacturing neering Industry Association (VDMA), politically motivated network, its service organisation and national dealership netupheaval unsettled investors, while the transformation process works. in the automotive industry hit demand. Global sales revenue in mechanical engineering stagnated in 2019 at prior-year ORDER INTAKE levels in real terms, according to VDMA. Among the top five The volume of incoming orders was increased by a tangible locations (China, USA, Germany, Japan, Italy), which account € 150.2 million (+ 6.5 %) to € 2,453.8 million in the financial for around 70 % of global sales revenue, only China is exyear. pected to show growth. Positive sales figures were also achieved in individual countries in the euro zone and in Notable rises were recorded particularly with customers in the Sweden. In the UK, sales revenue in the mechanical engineering energy (€ + 43.4 million), general industry (€ + 25.4 million), industry showed a negative development. water / waste water (€ + 23.3 million) and construction / building services (€ + 20.8 million) markets. This equates to According to VDMA, sales revenue in the German mechanical growth of 6.5 % in total. engineering sector too dropped by 3.4 %. Real-terms production failed to match the previous year’s level, contracting by At regional level, almost every company posted a significantly 3.2 %, according to provisional calculations from the German higher order intake. The highest growth was achieved by the Federal Statistical Office. Capacity utilisation fell below its Region Asia / Pacific at € + 69.5 million (+ 13.6 %) and the long-term average. Region Americas at € + 44.2 million (+ 12.3 %). Companies in the Region Middle East / Africa were up on the previous In the liquid pumps sector, VDMA recorded real sales revenue year by € 23.4 million (+ 16.3 %), and companies in Europe growth of 2 % among German pump manufacturers. Induswere up by € 13.1 million (+ 1.0 %) in a generally stagnating trial valves stagnated with real sales revenue growth of market. This growth was underpinned by nuclear orders from + / – 0 %. Sales revenue growth for building services valves China, India, Canada and Northern Europe. The Region was 1 %. Middle East / Africa recorded a considerable recovery from its low position. Business Development and Sales revenue by segment Results of Operations In the first seven months of the year, business continued to Service 19 % improve because of strong capital investment activity on the part of customers in important sales markets. This applied, in Pumps 66% particular, to the energy, water / waste water and construction Valves 15% / building services markets. By contrast, the last five months of the year saw a significant cool-down of the capital goods market. 42 Combined Group Management Management Report Report KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Segment reporting Order intake Sales revenue EBIT € thousands 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Pumps segment 1,617,825 1,506,248 1,562,462 1,469,443 84,823 90,563 Valves segment 361,878 355,618 364,365 340,771 2,266 – 37,373 Service segment 474,060 441,670 456,358 435,734 26,514 21,512 Total 2,453,763 2,303,536 2,383,185 2,245,948 113,603 74,702 Pumps Europe remains the region with the strongest sales revenue at In the Pumps segment, order intake was € 1,617.8 million, up 54.4 %. The European companies’ sales revenue was up by a by a substantial € 111.6 million (+ 7.4 %). The main drivers tangible 3.1 % from the previous year. The largest entity, KSB were the nuclear and water / waste water markets in particular. SE & Co. KGaA, which serves markets both in and outside The energy market grew by € 45.8 million (+ 25.5 %), conEurope, improved its sales revenue by € 17.4 million to struction / building services by € 19.1 million (+ 11.3 %), € 779.4 million. Major projects contributed to this growth. water / waste water by € 16.8 million (+ 5.2 %), mining by With the exception of the Region Middle East / Africa, where € 10.4 million (+ 5.0 %) and general industry by € 9.7 million weak order intake from the previous year resulting from polit(+ 2.1 %). ical factors made itself felt, all Regions contributed to growth. The companies in the Region Asia / Pacific recorded the Valves strongest growth with an increase of € 59.5 million (+ 12.4 %) In the Valves segment, order intake was € 361.9 million, up by followed by the legal entities in the Americas with a gain of a moderate € 6.3 million (+ 1.8 %). The most significant € 41.9 million (+ 12.1 %) and Europe with € + 38.9 million growth came in the oil and gas market with € + 17.6 million (+ 3.1 %). The companies in the Region Middle East / Africa, (+ 21.8 %), followed by water / waste water with € + 4.2 milwere down on the previous year with a decline of € 3.0 million lion (+ 20.7 %). The general industry market also performed (– 1.9 %). positively with growth of € 2.8 million (+ 2.7 %). The construction / building services and mining markets remained Pumps almost unchanged, while the energy market declined by Sales revenue in the Pumps segment increased by a significant € 9.1 million (– 11.4 %). € 93.0 million (+ 6.3 %) to € 1,562.5 million. Substantial growth compared with the previous year was recorded by the Service Region Asia / Pacific with € + 40.4 million (+ 11.8 %) and the Order intake in the Service segment totalled € 474.1 million, Region Americas with € + 31.7 million (+ 11.4 %). In the Rewhich was a substantial € 32.4 million (+ 7.3 %) above the gion Europe sales revenue rose by a significant € 24.4 million previous year. The general industry market in particular rec(+ 3.4 %). Growth in the Region Americas was supported priorded notable growth of € 12.9 million (+ 10.9 %). In addimarily by the US company GIW with its main business in the tion, the energy market grew by € 6.6 million (+ 5.9 %), mining market. In Asia / Pacific, the business in India and mining by € 5.6 million (+ 20.3 %), water / waste water by China performed very positively. € 2.3 million (+ 4.2 %) and construction / building services by € 1.8 million (+ 5.0 %). Valves In the Valves segment, order intake growth was translated into SALES REVENUE significantly increased sales revenue. It rose by € 23.6 million Consolidated sales revenue rose significantly by € 137.2 mil(+ 6.9 %). The financial year closed with sales revenue of lion (+ 6.1 %) to € 2,383.2 million. € 364.4 million. While in some cases substantial growth was recorded by the companies in the Region Europe at 2. 4 € + 10.8 million (+ 4.9 %), the Region Asia / Pacific at € + 10.6 million (+ 11 %) and the Region Middle East / Africa at € + 2.6 million (+ 39.8 %), the Region Americas was marginally down on the previous year’s level by € – 0.4 million (– 2.8 %). Consolidated sales revenue in € billions KSB Group / Annual Annual Report Report 2019 2019 Group Management Report Combined 43 113. 6 Service The Service segment saw a tangible upturn in sales revenue of € + 20.6 million (+ 4.7 %) to € 456.4 million. The Region Europe, by far the largest, was approximately level with the previous year at € + 3.7 million (+ 1.1 %), while the Region Americas was well above the previous year’s level at € + 10.6 million (+ 20.0 %), as was the Region Asia / Pacific Consolidated earnings (EBIT) in € millions at € + 8.6 million (+ 20.0 %). Only the Region Middle East / Africa recorded a substantial decline of € 2.2 million While the lump-sum pension payment option referred to above (– 12.7 %), resulting from the economic and political environadded € 5.9 million to EBIT in 2018, EBIT was weighed down ment. in 2018 by a € 20.6 million impairment loss on the goodwill of KSB Seil Co., Ltd., South Korea, and by a write-down on EARNINGS BEFORE FINANCE INCOME / EXPENSE AND property, plant and equipment in the amount of € 10.6 milINCOME TAX (EBIT) lion. Thus, overall the Valves segment recorded a significant The KSB Group achieved earnings before finance income / eximprovement in operational earnings, mainly attributable to pense and income tax (EBIT) of € 113.6 million (previous year: the significant rise in sales revenue and higher margins. € 74.7 million). The Pumps segment contributed € 84.8 million to this figure, the Service segment € 26.5 million and the Service Valves segment € 2.3 million. In the Service segment, the KSB Group achieved EBIT of € 26.5 million. The substantial rise of € 5.0 million (+ 23.3 %) The previous year was marked by a number of extraordinary was in line with the forecast from the previous year. The extransactions, which impacted on EBIT in the amount of traordinary transactions had only a marginal effect of € – 22.8 million. After adjustment for extraordinary trans€ + 0.5 million on EBIT in the Service segment in 2018. The actions, EBIT in 2018 would have been € 97.5 million. The main factor in the improved earnings in this segment in 2019 significant improvement in EBIT recorded in 2019 was thus was the increase in sales revenue of € 20.6 million. The expanattributable both to the extraordinary transactions ceasing to sion of the Service business under the KSB SupremeServ brand have an effect and to improved operational business activity. introduced in 2018 had a positive effect. Individually, the segments contributed as follows: TOTAL OUTPUT OF OPERATIONS Pumps The above-mentioned rise in sales revenue was also reflected EBIT in the Pumps segment, at € 84.8 million, was a signifiin a higher total output of operations. This amounted to cant € 5.7 million below the previous year’s EBIT figure of € 2,381.2 million, after € 2,275.8 million in the previous year, € 90.6 million, despite growth in sales revenue of € 93.0 mildespite a reduction in work in progress and inventories of lion (+ 6.3 %). The decline was principally caused by the onefinished goods of € 9.3 million (previous year: increase of off income of € 32.4 million recognised in the previous year as € 22.6 million). Other work performed and capitalised a result of the introduction of a lump-sum option for pension amounts to € 7.4 million and was therefore stable compared payouts. This option means employees can choose to receive a with the previous year. lump-sum payment, either as a one-time payment or in ten annual instalments, instead of a monthly pension for life. In conINCOME AND EXPENSES trast, EBIT was reduced in the previous year by provisions Other income was almost unchanged on the previous year at amounting to € 25.0 million for a legacy project in the UK and € 33.4 million (previous year: € 33.1 million). However, in the for risks in connection with the business in Iran of € 5.4 milprevious year the item included income of € 8.5 million from lion. The forecast made in the previous year’s report for EBIT the reversal of provisions; since the 2019 financial year this (a slight decline) was not met owing to weaker-than-expected income has been shown in the expense items in which the origsales revenue particularly in the Region Europe and by weaker inal addition to provisions was recognised. Without the effect standard business. of this, other income rose by € 8.8 million. This was primarily attributable to higher compensation payments from customers Valves for cancelled orders in the amount of € + 3.5 million, higher In the Valves segment the forecast for EBIT (a substantial inincome from asset disposals of € + 1.6 million and an increase crease) was met, with an improvement from € – 37.4 million of € 1.2 million in income from the reversal of impairment to € + 2.3 million. Like the Pumps segment, the Valves seglosses. ment also felt the effect of extraordinary transactions in 2018. 44 Combined Group Management Management Report Report KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 The cost of materials rose slightly in relation to the total outEARNINGS put of operations, up from 41.1 % in the previous year to The KSB Group generated earnings before income tax (EBT) 41.4 % in the year under review. Thus, overall the cost of of € 103.4 million compared with € 65.6 million in 2018. Cormaterials increased in step with the total output of operations respondingly, the return on sales before income tax rose from to € 984.8 million compared with € 934.5 million in the pre2.9 % in the previous year to 4.3 %. The income tax rate fell vious year. from 63.5 % in the previous year to 43.4 % in the year under review. The very high income tax rate in the previous year, Staff costs rose significantly in the 2019 financial year, from which remained high in the year under review, was again € 765.5 million to € 848.3 million (a rise of € 82.8 million). In mainly the result of deferred taxes on loss carryforwards that the 2018 financial year, staff costs were reduced by € 46.4 milcannot be capitalised. Overall, KSB more than doubled its lion on account of the lump-sum pension payment option reearnings after income tax, with an increase from € 23.9 milferred to above. Without this factor, staff costs would have lion in 2018 to € 58.5 million. risen by 4.5 % instead of the actual rise of 10.8 %. On average in the year under review, the KSB Group had 233 employees At € 15.4 million, earnings attributable to non-controlling in(+ 1.5 %) more than in the previous year. Just under half the terests rose by € 2.8 million compared with the previous year. rise in headcount was accounted for by Europe, where on Relative to earnings after income tax, there was therefore a average 103 more staff were employed. Other notable inchange from 52.8 % to 26.4 %. creases were recorded in Asia and in the Region Middle East / Africa. With a 4.6 % increase in the total output of operations Earnings attributable to shareholders of KSB SE & Co. KGaA and a rise in staff numbers at the same time, the total output (€ 43.1 million) were € 31.8 million higher than in the preper employee increased further from € 148 thousand to vious year (€ 11.3 million). € 153 thousand. An average of 15,591 people were employed in the reporting year (previous year: 15,358 employees). Earnings per ordinary share were € 24.47, compared with € 6.26 in the previous year, and € 24.73 per preference share, Depreciation and amortisation fell by € 22.6 million to compared with € 6.64 in 2018. € 81.9 million compared with the prior-year period. In the previous year write-downs totalling € 38.8 million were recognised, comprised of impairment losses on the goodwill of KSB Financial Position and Net Assets Seil Co., Ltd., South Korea, and of two French service companies, and of impairment losses on property, plant and equipFINANCIAL POSITION ment of the French production company KSB S.A.S., GenneThe KSB Group’s financial position remained good. This was villiers (Paris). In the year under review, in contrast, depreciareflected in a consistently high equity ratio of 37.1 % (pretion / amortisation of € 15.9 million relating to right-of-use vious year: 38.2 %). assets was shown under this item for the first time. Liquidity Other expenses fell by € 44.7 million to € 372.2 million comKSB recorded cash flows from operating activities of pared with the prior-year period. The decline was mainly at€ 144.9 million, a year-on-year increase of € 83.6 million. The tributable to additions to provisions for a legacy project in the improvement was essentially achieved by a working capital United Kingdom in the previous year as well as to the firstinitiative started in 2019. In particular, the increase in inventime adoption of IFRS 16 in the year under review. This standtories usually associated with sales growth was avoided. ard requires that for leases in which KSB is the lessee lease Higher earnings after income tax also contributed to the sharp liabilities and right-of-use assets (rights to use leased items) be increase in cash flows. A reduction in liabilities had a counterrecognised on the balance sheet. The expenses for rents and vailing effect. leases included in other expenses, which also included operative lease expenses, fell accordingly by € 14.1 million in the The outflows from investing activities fell by € 16.5 million year under review. The right-of-use assets now recognised on compared with 2018: cash flows from investing activities the balance sheet had the effect of adding to depreciation and shrank from € – 90.5 million in the previous year to amortisation. € – 74.0 million in the reporting year. The repayment of a loan extended to Shanghai Electric-KSB Nuclear Pumps and Valves Finance income / expense declined by € 1.0 million. This Co., Ltd., Shanghai, made a major contribution to this. reflects the lower income from equity investments recognised using the equity method. KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Combined Group Management Report 45 246. 3 By contrast, the negative cash flows from financing activities increased, totalling € – 46.4 million compared with € – 9.4 million in the previous year. A key reason was the scheduled repayment on the loan against borrower’s note in the amount of € 26.0 million. Furthermore, in the reporting year cash flows from financing activities included the repayment of lease liabilities in the amount of € 16.1 million from Net financial position in € millions the first-time adoption of IFRS 16. Overall, cash and cash equivalents increased sharply from € 255.5 million to € 280.9 million. Exchange rate effects Net financial position amounting to € – 0.3 million (previous year: € + 4.6 million) The net financial position, at € 246.3 million, fell by € 8.7 milwere recorded. lion after € 255.0 million in the previous year. This reduction was brought about by the first-time adoption of IFRS 16. The The KSB Group assumes that, in future, it will continue to be lease liabilities included in the net financial position rose by a able to meet its outgoing payments largely from operating cash considerable € 47.1 million. After adjustment for the lease liaflows. From the current perspective, its financial management bilities recognised under IFRS 16, the net financial position in is meeting the goal of ensuring its liquidity at all times essenthe year under review would have amounted to € 293.4 miltially without any additional external financing measures. In lion (previous year: € 255.0 million). addition, there has been a syndicated loan agreement of KSB SE & Co. KGaA and KSB FINANZ S.A., Luxembourg, Contingent liabilities and other financial obligations since December 2018 to hedge liquidity risk and cover the need The contingent liabilities as at the reporting date totalled for bank guarantees of the KSB Group. The credit line can be € 19.0 million (previous year: € 35.9 million). This decline used at any time and has a fixed term of five years with the was mainly the result of the revised assessment of a lawsuit option to renew twice by one year each time. In the reporting pending in France, for which the likelihood of a conviction was year KSB made use of this option for the first time and renewed downgraded to remote. the fixed term early until the end of 2024. For more information on liquidity management (such as credit lines) see the There are no other extraordinary obligations and commitsection on Risk Reporting on the Utilisation of Financial ments beyond the reporting date. Further financial obligations Instruments elsewhere in this group management report. arise only within the normal scope from purchase commitments amounting to € 29.5 million (previous year: € 12.4 milInvestments lion). The additions to intangible assets amounting to € 15.2 million (previous year: € 13.0 million) mainly comprised internally NET ASSETS generated intangible assets. Around 33.6 % of funds is attributable to non-current assets (previous year: 31.1 %). Intangible assets and property, plant Investments in property, plant and equipment in the year unand equipment with a historical cost of € 1,507.8 million (preder review, at € 78.9 million, were higher than the prior-year vious year: € 1,476.2 million) have carrying amounts of figure of € 66.6 million. The highest additions at € 29.3 mil€ 608.4 million (previous year: € 587.7 million). Total intanlion (previous year: € 16.1 million) related to advance paygible assets rose from € 91.1 million to € 97.1 million. The ments and assets under construction. Another € 19.8 million main increase, at € 9.2 million, came from internally generated related to plant and machinery (previous year: € 21.5 million), intangible assets, relating primarily to the KSBase sales softwhile € 19.6 million was accounted for by other plant, ware, which was made operational in December 2019 as a operating equipment and office equipment (previous year: selection software for the standard pump range, and to the im€ 20.3 million). As in 2018, the focus of capital investment acplementation of a project aimed at introducing an end-to-end tivity was the Region Europe, mainly Germany and France. e-sales process. Property, plant and equipment rose from Outside Europe, the highest additions were made at the plants € 496.7 million to € 511.3 million as a result of capital exin the USA, India and China. penditure (€ 78.9 million) in excess of depreciation of € 61.5 million. 46 Combined Group Management Management Report Report KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 37. 1 The adoption of IFRS 16, which requires right-of-use assets for leases to be recognised on the balance sheet, resulted in an increase of € 50.1 million. The carrying amount of financial assets, investments accounted for using the equity method and non-current other non-financial assets rose overall by € 0.5 million to € 29.0 million. The investments accounted for using the equity method Equity ratio in percent made up € + 0.3 million. Deferred tax assets rose to € 95.1 million (previous year: € 80.4 million). EQUITY Inventories were recognised in the amount of € 544.7 million, The KSB Group’s equity amounts to € 862.6 million (previous almost unchanged on the previous year (€ 544.4 million) year: € 856.8 million). This includes KSB SE & Co. KGaA’s despite a higher volume of business. This reflected the positive subscribed capital of € 44.8 million as in the previous year. effect of the working capital project referred to above. ConThe capital reserve remains unchanged at € 66.7 million. tract assets edged up from € 74.5 million in the previous year Revenue reserves contracted by a total of € 8.8 million. This to € 76.4 million. reflected the effect of the significant increase in earnings after income tax and the fall in discount rates for pension proviTrade receivables decreased from € 518.1 million at the end of sions, resulting in actuarial losses after deferred taxes in the the previous year to € 504.1 million. This decline was basically amount of € 49.1 million. The revenue reserves include the the result of measures to reduce receivables in Germany, proportion of earnings after income tax attributable to KSB SE France and Sweden. & Co. KGaA shareholders, at € 43.1 million (previous year: € 11.3 million). Out of total equity, € 182.2 million (previous Other financial assets were down from € 103.4 million to year: € 167.6 million) is attributable to non-controlling inter€ 90.9 million. This change essentially resulted from reduced ests. Due to the higher total equity and liabilities, the equity other receivables (€ – 12.3 million). Other non-financial assets ratio contracted to 37.1 % (previous year: 38.2 %). likewise showed a reduction (€ 9.9 million). The main factor was the drop in recoverable taxes, particularly in Germany and The non-controlling interests mainly relate to the following India, which were down by € 8.9 million at € 31.2 million. companies: KSB Limited, India, and KSB Shanghai Pump Co., Ltd., China, as well as the PAB subgroup. The latter consists Cash and cash equivalents account for around 12 % of assets, of Pumpenund Armaturen-Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH, totalling € 280.9 million (previous year: € 255.5 million). Frankenthal, and its US subsidiaries. Assets held for sale in the amount of € 7.8 million relate to the Inflation and exchange rate effects company SPI Energie S.A.S., France, in the Service segment, Of the Group’s consolidated companies only the annual finanthe shares in which were sold in January 2020. cial statements of an Argentinian company had to be adjusted for the effects of inflation. As in the previous year, this did not Total assets increased by 3.8 % to € 2,327.0 million, above all result in any material impact on the net assets, financial posias a result of non-current assets, which since 2019 have also tion or results of operations. included right-of-use assets for leases pursuant to IFRS 16. KSB Group / Annual Annual Report Report 2019 2019 Group Management Report Combined 47 Balance sheet structure Assets (in %) 33.6 23.4 30.9 12.1 2019 31.1 24.3 33.2 11.4 2018 Non-current assets Inventories Contract assets, receivables and current assets Cash and cash equivalents Equity and liabilities (in %) 37.1 30.8 32.2 2019 38.2 27.7 34.1 2018 Equity Non-current liabilities Current liabilities The translation of financial statements of consolidated compaCurrent liabilities fell overall by € 16.1 million to € 748.9 milnies that are not prepared in euro gave rise to a difference of lion, after € 765.0 million at the close of 2018, following the € + 3.8 million (previous year: € – 13.8 million). The total of repayment on the loan against borrower’s note. Taking into currency translation differences was taken directly to equity. account the increase in total equity and liabilities, the share of current liabilities in total equity was 32.1 % (previous year: Liabilities 34.1 %). The largest item under liabilities continues to be provisions for employee benefits, including, also as the largest item, pension Trade payables fell to € 252.7 million (previous year: provisions, which rose by € 76.0 million, from € 553.6 million € 270.2 million). Other non-financial liabilities increased by to € 629.6 million, of which € 70.5 million (previous year: € 6.8 million. Contract liabilities rose from € 157.4 million in € 10.7 million) alone was caused by the decrease in discount the previous year to € 165.5 million. Current financial liabilirates referred to above. Obligations for current pensioners and ties declined by € 4.5 million. vested benefits of employees who have left the company account for about 45 % of the amount recognised in the balance Liabilities in connection with assets held for sale in the amount sheet. The rest relates to defined benefit obligations for current of € 4.0 million relate to the company SPI Energie S.A.S., La employees. Ravoire, France, in the Service segment, the shares in which were sold in January 2020. Non-current financial liabilities rose by € 26.7 million to € 56.8 million, mainly because of the € 31.2 million in additional lease liabilities resulting from the first-time adoption of IFRS 16. The loan against borrower’s note, which still amounts to € 22.0 million, is expected to be repaid in 2021. The other non-current and current provisions for employee benefits dropped to € 28.9 million (previous year: € 34.4 million) because of the reduction in partial retirement provisions. Other non-current and current provisions also decreased from € 84.9 million in 2018 to € 69.7 million. This was mainly the consequence of lower provisions for expected losses (€ – 12.7 million). 48 Combined Group Management Management Report Report KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Summary of the Performance in the Financial Year The order intake forecast in the previous year, expected to be in a range between € 2,350 million and € 2,500 million, was achieved. In the Pumps and Service segments, where a substantial increase was anticipated, the forecast was confirmed. In the Valves segment only a slight increase was recorded. This segment therefore failed to match the tangible increase expected, which was attributable to the energy market. As with order intake, the forecast for sales revenue, expected to be in a range between € 2,300 million and € 2,450 million, was achieved. Sales revenue in the Pumps segment rose only tangibly rather than substantially, as a result of lower-thanexpected growth in the Region Europe. The Valves segment likewise failed to match expectations, with a tangible rise rather than the substantial one forecast. In this segment, too, growth in Europe was weaker than anticipated. In the Service segment the forecast of tangible growth was confirmed. The range between € 95 million and € 115 million forecast for EBIT was also attained. In the Values segment, the forecast of a substantial rise was met. KSB also recorded substantial growth in the Service segment, as anticipated. By contrast, the forecast for the Pumps segment, where a slight decline was expected, was not matched, as there was a tangible decrease. Detailed information on the reasons for the EBIT performance is provided in the “Earnings before finance income / expense and income tax (EBIT)” section. The forecasts on ranges for order intake, sales revenue and EBIT reaffirmed in the 2019 half-year report were fulfilled for all key indicators. The Management of the KSB Group is satisfied overall with business performance in the year under review. KSB continues to have a healthy financial basis for the future. KSB Group / Annual Annual Report Report 2019 2019 Group Management Report Combined 49 Report on Expected Developments The International Monetary Fund has lowered its forecast for Gross domestic product growth global economic growth in 2020 only slightly to 3.2 % in real World* terms. Compared with the previous year, growth is expected 2020 + 3.2 % (Forecast) to pick up on the basis of economic recovery anticipated in a 2019 + 2.9 % number of emerging economies and developing countries, such European Union*** as Brazil, Mexico, Saudi Arabia and Turkey. In India, the 2020 + 1.4 % (Forecast) 2019 + 1.5 % growth rate is expected to rise to 5.8 %. For the advanced USA** 2020 + 2.0 % (Forecast) 2019 + 2.3 % industrialised countries, the expansion in activity is likely to remain level with last year, at 1.6 %. There are prospects of a Latin America** 2020 + 1.6 % (Forecast) boost to growth momentum from the phase 1 deal in the trade 2019 + 0.1 % dispute between China and the USA. Asia (excl. Japan)** 2020 + 5.8 % (Forecast) The IMF forecasts a drop in growth for the USA at + 2.0 %. 2019 + 5.6 % This can be attributed to the waning effect of the 2017 tax Emerging markets** cuts, international trade restrictions, falling capital expendi2020 + 4.4 % (Forecast) ture and lower consumption spending. However, in compari2019 + 3.7 % son to the industrialised nations as a whole, growth in the USA will once again be above average. The Canadian economy is *Source: International Monetary Fund (February 2020) also likely to post a slightly above-average performance at **Source: International Monetary Fund (January 2020) ***Source: EU Commission (February 2020); + 1.8 %. Additional information: Euro zone +1.2 % (2019), +1.2 % (2020) For the euro zone, growth of + 1.3 % is expected, which However, this forecast does not factor in upward potential would be a slight improvement on last year. In Germany, ecofrom an easing in customs duties or the negative impact on the nomic activity is set to accelerate significantly to + 1.1 %. economy of the spread of the coronavirus at the beginning of However, in comparison to other industrialised nations this 2020. In India, an acceleration in economic growth to + 5.8 % growth level is once again below the average. is expected. This is attributable to the after-effects of monetary policy easing and of the cut in corporate taxes. A slight pickFor the emerging markets and developing countries, the IMF up in growth to + 4.8 % is projected for the ASEAN countries, is projecting an overall growth rate of + 4.4 %, i.e. well above which also include important KSB sales markets. the previous year’s level. Turkey, which suffered a significant drag on growth in the course of 2019, will recover in 2020 and In Latin America a significant improvement in growth is anticicontribute to accelerated growth. In Russia, too, a recovery in pated at + 1.6 %. In Brazil, the expectation is that the effect of growth momentum is to be expected. expansionary monetary policy and of structural reforms will be felt and lead to growth of + 2.2 %. For Asia the IMF expects the economy to perform only a little better than last year, which is accounted for both by the stagOn the assumption that the current bottoming out of business nation in economically developed countries and by only a climate indicators for the manufacturing industry will be susslight pick-up in growth in the emerging markets and developtained, then an initial, though slow, rise in demand for capital ing countries. In China, the IMF anticipates a further weakengoods over the course of 2020 could be expected. However, ing in momentum to + 5.6 % as a consequence of a further VDMA expects global sales of plant and machinery to stagnate slowdown in industrial production and capital investment again in 2020 in real terms. While growth of + 2 % is expected activity. in China, sales in the USA and other industrialised countries will probably shrink by 1 %. In Germany, the decline, at 2 %, will be somewhat more marked. 50 Combined Group Management Management Report Report KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 For manufacturers of liquid pumps in Germany, VDMA foreOn the basis of these underlying conditions, order intake of sees a stagnation in sales in nominal terms in the current year between € 2,320 million and € 2,520 million and sales revenue (+ / 0 %). The same applies to industrial valves, for which of between € 2,260 million and € 2,460 million are expected VDMA likewise anticipates a nominal growth rate of 0 %. for 2020. Sales of building services valves are expected to rise by + 1 % in nominal terms. Taking into consideration the uncertainties referred to above, KSB anticipates EBIT in a range between € 100 million and SUMMARY OF EXPECTED DEVELOPMENT € 130 million for the 2020 financial year. This range approDespite the weaker global economic growth, the economic priately reflects the opportunities and risks in the current environment is, generally speaking, expected to be good for an financial year. expansion of business in Europe and Asia. In the Middle East / Africa, too, positive growth impetus is expected. Overall, the In 2020 and subsequent years, the KSB Group intends to imKSB Group will seek to achieve renewed growth in order plement its Climb 21 strategic project. This is expected to intake and sales revenue in the current year. result in one-off burdens on EBIT. Since the exact impact on EBIT is not known at present, it is not factored into the above Expected development forecast for EBIT in 2020. € millions Actual 2019 Forecast 2020 FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Order intake 2,453.8 2,320 – 2,520 This report contains forward-looking statements and inforPumps 1,617.8 Up to + 5 % mation that are based upon the assumptions of Management. Valves 361.9 Up to + 5 % They express current forecasts and expectations with regard to Service 474.1 Down to – 5 % future events. As a result, these forward-looking statements Sales revenue 2,383.2 2,260 – 2,460 and information are exposed to risks and uncertainties that lie Pumps 1,562.5 Up to + 5 % outside the Management’s sphere of influence. KSB wishes to Valves 364.4 Up to + 5 % point out that actual events or results may differ materially Service 456.3 Down to – 10 % from the forward-looking statements and information preEBIT 113.6 100 – 130 sented, if one or more of the following opportunities or risks, Pumps 84.8 Up to + 20 % or other opportunities, risks and uncertainties should materiaValves 2.3 Up to + 40 % lise, or if the assumptions underlying the statements prove to Service 26.5 Up to + 5 % be inaccurate. The drivers of growth will be standard products, service and spare parts, as well as various major projects. However, a negative impact may be felt from geopolitical risks, such as a continuation in the US-Chinese trade conflict and an exacerbation of the political situation in the Middle East. In addition, this forecast does not take account of the impact of the coronavirus. The scale and duration of any adverse effect on production as well as on KSB’s procurement and sales markets both in China and in the Asian, European and American economies are impossible to predict and therefore quantify right now at the time of preparation of the consolidated financial statements. KSB assumes that the spread of the coronavirus will have a negative impact on the Group. KSB Group / Annual Annual Report Report 2019 2019 Group Management Report Combined 51 Opportunities and Risks Report As an organisation that operates throughout the world, the functions and Group companies, including Group companies KSB Group is exposed to macroeconomic, sector-typical, that are not consolidated, are included in the risk management financial and company-specific risks. The risk policy is desystem. The responsible managers are required to supply their signed to enable KSB to grow sustainably and profitably. The relevant key business and financial indicators each month. As KSB Group aims to reduce the risks associated with its busiwell as creating quarterly forecasts on business performance, ness and where possible avoid them completely. At the same they also report twice a year to the Risk Managers on all recogtime its global alignment and extensive product range offer a nised risks for the next 24 months from the reporting date for wealth of opportunities. This includes but is not limited to any the categories of market and competitive risks, technological opportunities that arise on the basis of research and developrisks, projectand product-related risks, financial risks and ment activities, as well as any that are linked to the quality and procurement risks. Other business risks (environmental, cost effectiveness of products. KSB’s competitive position is human resources, etc.) are also reported in this cycle to the also being strengthened by optimising the global sales and proRisk Managers at the Group headquarters. The regular identiduction network. KSB always reviews opportunities to expand fication and updating of risks in the Group companies and in its global presence and is able to achieve this through start-ups the corporate and central functions ensure that risk awareness and acquisition projects. within the KSB Group remains at a high level across the board. A distinction is made between qualitative risks and quantitaThe Group sees opportunities and risks as possible future detive risks, not considering any action that has been taken or velopments or events that may lead to departures from forecast planned. or targets. The departure can be both positive and negative. In order to manage the varied opportunities and risks professionQualitative risks are long-term developments that could have ally and efficiently, the Group aligns its actions accordingly a negative impact on the KSB Group and which cannot or canand focuses upon the respective situation when selecting the not yet be thoroughly quantified due to a lack of precise inforpersons responsible. In doing so, Controlling, Finance and mation. In order to be able to evaluate them all the same, howAccounting as well as Internal Audits perform important monever, estimates of the probability of occurrence and scope are itoring tasks. made using defined evaluation categories. With respect to probability of occurrence, the extent to which the information RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEM indicating the potential risk is detailed must be determined. KSB has implemented a Group-wide risk management system for identifying and assessing relevant risks in the different Quantitative risks are risks for which a potential monetary imareas of responsibility and reporting these to Group headquarpact on the earnings of the KSB Group or of the respective ters. The risk management process of the KSB Group consists Group company can be estimated. They are evaluated taking of the successive phases of identification, assessment, manageinto account the specifically calculated probability of occurment, control, documentation and communication of risks. rence in combination with the potential amount of loss. The six phases form a continuous and IT-based closed-loop system. This is documented in KSB’s risk management manual The scope or amount of loss describes the potential influence as well as the management responsibility and the description of the individual risk on the key indicator of earnings before of all relevant tasks. finance income / expense and income tax (EBIT) of the KSB Group or the respective Group company, not considering any Managers are encouraged to take timely action to define and action that has been taken or planned. implement measures to limit or avoid damage that may result from the occurrence of risk events. All corporate and central 52 Combined Group Management Management Report Report KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Qualitative risks Quantitative risks Probability of occurrence Probability of occurrence High High High High >70 % Medium Medium Medium Medium 30 –70 % Low Low Low Low < 30 % Low Medium High Low Medium High Scope Amount of loss Classification of amount of loss Amount of loss in € thousands Magnitude Sales revenue Low Medium High Small companies Up to € 20m 50 – 125 125 – 250 > 250 Medium-sized companies € 20m to € 80m 75 – 250 250 – 500 > 500 Large companies, holding companies, organisational units From € 80m 100 – 500 500 – 1,000 > 1,000 In order to assess whether qualitative and quantitative individAs the legal representative, KSB Management SE assumes ual risks are material for KSB, they are classified as low, meoverall responsibility for risk management. KSB Management dium or high risks. All individual risks categorised as medium SE reports to the Supervisory Board of KSE SE & Co. KGaA or high that are detailed in the Individually Assessed Opportuvia its Managing Directors during regular Audit Committee nities and Risks section are considered to be material for the meetings and is monitored by the latter. The Managing DirecKSB Group. The relevant classification can be determined tors are supported by the Chief Compliance Officer and the from the above matrices. Group Finance and Accounting department of KSB SE & Co.  Qualitative risks – Quantitative risks KGaA. The latter coordinates the risk management process at Group level and checks all risks reported for relevance to the In evaluating the amount of loss and the probability of occurpreparation of financial statements. This ensures that there is rence, KSB limits itself to three possible classifications: low, a systematic link with the Group accounting process. The medium and high. The following criteria apply: Managing Directors and the Supervisory Board’s Audit Com Classification of amount of loss mittee receive at least two risk reports per financial year. These reports include all the risks that are classed as medium or high This approach offers the necessary transparency to identify that exceed pre-defined threshold values individually or collecrisks in their entirety and to manage them effectively, profestively, not considering any action that has been taken or sionally and in an economically responsible manner. planned (gross risk). Particularly critical topics are reported on an ad-hoc basis by the managers in charge. In contrast, opporThe bodies to which specific responsibilities and competencies tunities are not taken into account in KSB’s current risk manwere assigned in KSB’s risk management system in the reportagement system. They are reported separately by the Risk ing year are shown and explained in the diagram below. Managers of the Group headquarters and regional managers  Risk management system of the KSB Group purely in qualitative terms, without further quantification. KSB Group / Annual Annual Report Report 2019 2019 Group Management Report Combined 53 Risk management at KSB Supervisory Board KSB Management SE Auditors Risk Managers Internal Audits • Audit of the annual financial • Controlling the risk management • Monitoring of proper functioning statements process and effectiveness • Recommendations for improvement • Analysing the risk reports • Reporting to the Managing Directors Risk Owners • Risk identification • Risk evaluation • Risk control and monitoring (incl. implementation of measures) • Risk recording • Risk communication / Ad hoc reporting With regard to financial risks KSB makes use of additional risk INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM AND RISK MANAGEidentification, assessment, management and communication. MENT SYSTEM WITH REGARD TO THE GROUP The central Finance department is responsible for this task ACCOUNTING PROCESS which is described in further detail later in this section. The accounting-related internal control system (ICS) contributes towards ensuring proper financial reporting. The aim is Compliance risks are dealt with by the Chief Compliance to ensure that the consolidated financial statements and group Officer, who is assigned to the Legal and Compliance, Patents management report comply with all relevant regulations. Key and Trademarks staff function. The Chief Compliance Officer elements of the ICS are – as well as the risk management sysis supported by the members of the Compliance Committee tem described above – guidelines and regulations, which inand the Compliance Managers of the individual companies. clude standard accounting and measurement policies. They must be applied to the full extent by all Group companies. The Internal Audits department is integrated into the risk manThere is a separation of functions and the four-eye principle is agement system as part of the internal control system. When applied. This is ensured by the audits carried out by the Interplanning audits, it prioritises areas according to potential risks nal Audits department. and is provided with all the necessary information. The auditors ensure that all audited units adhere to the applicable In addition, Accounting and Controlling carry out regular guidelines, actively participate in the risk management system, analytical plausibility checks of time series analyses and and control or avoid their risks. Information obtained by actual / budget variance analyses. This enables KSB to identify Internal Audits on both the identified risks and the countersignificant changes early on, which are examined for accountmeasures initiated in response forms an integral part of the reing and measurement discrepancies. The resulting findings are porting to the Managing Directors and to the Audit Committhen discussed at management level. tee of the Supervisory Board. The risk management system is updated promptly if need be, for example in the event of releThe responsibility for Group accounting lies with the employvant legal or organisational changes. In addition, the auditors ees in the central Accounting KSB Group department. KSB emexamine within the scope of the annual audit the early risk ploys the services of qualified external reviewers for certain detection system, establishing that it is present and checking calculations as part of financial reporting (such as the calculathat it is fit for purpose. tion of complex pension obligations using actuarial assumptions). 54 Combined Group Management Management Report Report KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Binding schedules and guidelines apply to accounting within match the macroeconomic forecasts. The Group manages the the KSB Group and to accounting at each individual subsidirisk of fluctuations in the economy and in demand by remainary. The accounting and measurement methods that must be ing active in several markets and industries with different ecoapplied to compile the consolidated financial statements are nomic cycles. Furthermore KSB monitors the development of defined in writing in a manual that is updated and revised on the economic environment for its markets. If necessary, capaca continual basis. This also includes the guidelines for posting ities are adjusted, production facilities relocated and costintra-Group transactions. New accounting principles and cutting measures implemented. other official announcements are continually analysed with regard to their relevance and impact on the consolidated finanThe outlook for the global economy remains a highly uncercial statements. Guidelines and manual are adapted where nectain one. At present, risks arise in particular through geopolitessary and any changes communicated immediately to the ical uncertainty resulting from trade conflicts and a number of companies. Group Accounting likewise monitors compliance global flashpoints. The most important factors in this context with requirements. This reduces the risk of compiling inapproare the ongoing trade conflict between the USA and China and priate financial statements or failing to publish them by the the development of relations between the United States and defined deadlines. Iran. Owing to the US sanctions against Iran, there are no opportunities to continue ongoing projects in Iran. ConseThe financial statement information for all Group companies quently, there is a high risk that the costs already incurred for is automatically processed using certified and tested standard the projects in that country will have to be borne without apconsolidation software. Systematic checks are implemented to propriate consideration. Expected losses have already been help validate the data. Employees in Accounting KSB Group recognised through impairment losses and provisions. The verify any warning signals that arise before using the data. The protectionist customs policy of the United States is also a drag sequence of the processing steps is strictly specified through on business as a result of the associated contraction in world the use of the consolidation monitor within the IT system. This trade. The worsening of the conflict in the Middle East, espeensures the correct processing of data. cially in Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Iran and Israel, as well as the development of the political situation in Turkey, may have a To enable a seamless and accurate accounting process, only negative impact on business. In addition, the East / West relaemployees who have the appropriate specialist know-how are tions that are under considerable strain given the political difassigned to this task. These employees are trained on a regular ferences between Russia and the USA, and between Russia and basis to make sure that their expert knowledge remains up to most European countries, continue to be significant. This also date. becomes apparent in the Russian government’s import substitution programme. Russian companies have been requested to Access authorisations have been defined for the accountingorder more products that are made in the country itself or inrelated IT system. This protects the data against unauthorised clude a high proportion of local value creation. access as well as improper usage and modification. The data is checked at many stages, helping to ensure the processing qualThe coronavirus outbreak may have macroeconomic risks ity. Alongside regular system reviews by the auditors, these which may entail significant damage to business not just in checks contribute to limiting operational risks. China and other Asian economies, but also in Europe and North America. Risks to KSB comprise a potential adverse INDIVIDUALLY ASSESSED OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS effect on production, the procurement market including the The categories presented below include the qualitative and supply industry, and the global sales markets. quantitative gross risks classed as medium or high and the main opportunities for business development as at 31 DecemThe departure of the United Kingdom from the European Unber 2019. Where risks are not flagged as high, they are classed ion harbours risks both for the local sales and service company as medium risks. and for the other units with business partners in the United Kingdom. Uncertainty still prevails regarding future regulaMarkets / Competition tions. This may lead to delays in the trade of goods through increased border controls and have a negative impact on the  Risks willingness to undertake capital investment – particularly in The business opportunities of KSB are again affected by the UK but also in the other countries of the European Union. changes in the economic and political environments in the current reporting year. Risks arise for the business model if positive impetus from the world economy and from the markets relevant to KSB fails to materialise and growth rates fail to KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Combined Group Management Report 55  Opportunities Regular market analysis and monitoring minimise the risk that With an increased focus on the six markets of Mining, Energy, products will become technically obsolete or are offered at Building Services, General Industry, Chemicals / Petrochemiprices not acceptable in the market. At the same time KSB is cals and Water / Waste Water in the Pumps segment and the exposed to the risk that rival products from countries with realignment of the Valves segment, KSB expects better market lower wage costs, mainly in the regions of eastern Europe and access and thus higher order intake and sales revenue. Asia, will compete with KSB’s product range. This calls for continuous quality management, which has been introduced In the two large Asian growth markets of China and India, across the Group. some major infrastructure projects are expected to be commissioned in 2020, particularly in energy and fresh water, areas In KSB’s business, there are special requirements when it that are important for KSB. Due to KSB’s strong presence in comes to the processing of large-scale projects with long conthese countries, there is a good chance that it will be involved tract terms. There are also always associated risks. There may as a supplier of pumps, valves and services. The expansion of be cost overruns, tighter import regulations, staff shortages, nuclear energy continues in China and India, for which local technical difficulties or quality problems – including possible plant engineering contractors require high-safety pumps. In contractual penalties – that reduce margins. KSB therefore addition, owing to targeted activities in the service market KSB trains its employees in project management and equips them expects to continue to be able to sell more services and spare with specialist knowledge. This enables them to identify the parts in China in particular. In India, expansion of the supply risks associated with longer-term orders at an early stage. In of fresh water and the construction of flue gas desulphurisaaddition, project managers are provided with appropriate tion plants for coal-fired power stations will be factors. management tools. Decisions are made in conjunction with clearly structured authorisation processes. Furthermore, there By broadening the portfolio of pumps made to API specificais central monitoring of projects exposed to risk across all KSB tions, the KSB Group has steadily improved its position in the companies. oil processing industry and expects further expansion through its increased focus on the chemicals / petrochemicals market. There are also technical and financial risks to orders with newly designed products. Technical risks are limited to the exFrom 2020, new regulations from the International Maritime tent that intermediate steps for development work are defined Organisation (IMO) will come into force. According to this and partial solutions are subjected to assessments. Commercial specialised UN agency, all ships on the high seas will have to risks are minimised by using appropriate contractual clauses, use fuel with a substantially lower sulphur content to reduce Care is taken to ensure that advance payments and collateral air pollution from ships worldwide. Refineries will continue to provided by customers at least cover the costs incurred. Suitinvest in the technology for the processes to produce this fuel. able provisions are set aside for warranty obligations and conThis is likely to boost demand for refinery pumps. Moreover, tractual penalty risks. In the 2019 consolidated financial stateships which continue to use fuel with a high sulphur content ments, these amounted to € 44 million for the Group, of which will be retrofitted with exhaust gas desulphurisation systems. KSB SE & Co. KGaA accounted for € 26 million. In the preThis would have a correspondingly positive impact on order vious year, the total was € 46 million, with € 26 million intake. accounted for by KSB SE & Co. KGaA. Beyond this KSB sees no further material residual risk (net risk). Projects / Products  Opportunities  Risks The increasing integration of hydraulic, drive and IoT soluThe markets’ requirements for the products of the KSB Group tions for pumps will in future enable innovative business are constantly changing. The Group will only succeed if it models, such as the activation of chargeable functionalities via meets its delivery deadlines and offers technically advanced app, cloud connections for maintenance, and the use of operproducts in good quality at affordable prices. To minimise the ational data for the purpose of plant and product optimisation. high risk of delays in delivery, which may lead to a diminished reputation with the customer as well as to penalty payments, KSB uses agile methods. Through interdisciplinary and simulKSB keeps a constant eye on its sale and production processes. taneous product development, these methods enable customer If it discovers that machinery needs to be renewed or capacities requirements for ever shorter development times to be met and expanded, these investment projects are examined as part of a allow developments to be geared with even greater focus tostep-by-step approval process. In this way, KSB counters the wards market requirements. risk of schedule and cost overruns. 56 Combined Group Management Management Report Report KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 At the same time, consistent and intensified use of simulation development of premises that cannot be controlled and on techniques and engineering methods such as statistical design which the earnings are based. For companies with goodwill, of experiments and impact analyses enable development risks KSB has taken into account the risk assessment through sensito be reduced. tivity analyses to estimate the risk of impairment. Further information is provided in the Notes to the consolidated finanCertification by a Chinese customer of the largest seal-less cial statements in section IV. Balance Sheet Disclosures under reactor coolant pump ever built for a newly developed reactor “Intangible assets”. type raises the prospect of follow-on orders. As regards tax matters, the global orientation of the activities Finance / Liquidity of the KSB Group must be taken into consideration. Based on its operative activities in numerous countries with varying tax  Risks laws and administrative interpretation, differentiated assessThe Group’s international focus is associated with exchange ment is required for measuring tax obligations. Uncertainty rate risks. Besides the euro, the most important currencies for may arise due to different interpretations by taxable entities KSB are the US dollar, the Indian rupee, the Brazilian real and on the one hand and local finance authorities on the other. the Chinese yuan. The liquidity risk arising from foreign curThese may come to light during audits. By cooperating closely rency transactions is hedged by using derivative financial inwith external local tax specialists, KSB counteracts the risk of struments. These hedges are based on fixed contracts and on having to pay back taxes. As KSB continually monitors unclear forecasts about future payment streams the occurrence of issues, it can generally classify the probability of occurrence. which is uncertain. Thus, exchange rate fluctuations may have Should a need for subsequent payment arise, the corresponda negative effect on earnings despite hedging. ing provisions are created in good time. The consolidated financial statements for 2019, as in the previous year, do not Risks regarding margins and liquidity are typical of the project include any provision for such matters, which are classed as a business. As well as the continued pressure on selling prices, medium or high risk. In addition, there are contingent liabiliwhich is reducing profit margins, these include unfavourable ties in the expected amount of € 8.4 million, of which € 0 milcontract conditions such as reduced advances and tougher conlion is accounted for by KSB SE & Co. KGaA (previous tractual penalties. As KSB complies exactly with the approval year: € 1.5 million, with € 0 million accounted for by processes in the quotation phase, this risk is minimised. At the KSB SE & Co. KGaA). same time, this enables KSB to recognise and avoid liquidity shortages. Where necessary, sufficient liquidity is secured by Concentration on a small number of customers entails dependagreeing appropriate credit lines early on. encies which, in the event of the loss of a customer, could result in a material slump in order intake and sales revenue and thus Persistent recessions or newly emerging crisis may adversely to a burden on earnings for smaller service companies. The affect the financial situation of customers. Resulting payment pressure which individual customers can exert on the company delays and defaults on receivables, which were classed as a in these cases rises and may result in increasing concessions high risk in the year under review, would impact on the results having to be made by the supplier. If individual Group entities of operations. The same effect might occur if the foreign exfind themselves in such a situation, losses are in part offset by change regulations become stricter for individual countries. their parent company. If the situation continues, KSB will conKSB counters this by means of a strict receivables management sider reviewing the business model of the company affected or system and intensive customer contacts. selling it. Changing market conditions mean that business models need Procurement to be fundamentally reviewed and the product range adjusted accordingly time and again. This may lead to inventories los Risks ing value, which was classed as a high risk in the year under Commodity prices and procurement times are subject to strong review. KSB seeks to counter this risk through a working capmarket-related fluctuations. This may adversely affect KSB’s ital initiative started in 2019, with the focus on increasing the earnings situation if it does not manage to make up for cost turnover rate of inventories and receivables. A further potenincreases or pass them onto its customers. Delays or bottletial consequence of market developments that exert a permanecks in the supply chain for raw materials and components nent strain is an impairment loss on goodwill and assets. If may negatively impact KSB’s business operations. If KSB does impairment testing in accordance with IAS 36 shows a need not benefit promptly from declining procurement prices, the for impairment, KSB recognises a corresponding expense in the persistent pressure on the selling price of products would have financial year. There is also a residual risk with regard to the a negative impact on earnings. KSB Group / Annual Annual Report Report 2019 2019 Group Management Report Combined 57 In its procurement strategy KSB seeks to prevent dependencies more quickly. Direct, personal discussion at all levels also enon suppliers and thereby counter the risk of a supplier failing. ables us to play an active part in the increasing pace of change If local conditions mean that it is impossible to ensure suffiin our sector. Through crowd solutions, the experience and cient diversification in this regard, KSB will make use of addiskills of employees worldwide can be accessed directly. tional foreign business partners. Decisions are prepared by the experts in a way that is more decentralised than before.  Opportunities In the year under review, a reorganisation of Global ProcureThe business decision to digitalise production processes proment launched in 2018 continued to be developed systematigressively opens up opportunities to optimise manufacturing cally, and further process adjustments were made. These inprocesses in terms of resource use, to shorten throughput cluded, among other things, new reporting guidelines, the times, to meet customer expectations better and to continue to elaboration of material group strategies and very early involveimprove the quality of parts and products. ment of the procurement team in projects. This enables a clear increase in global transparency, the implementation of a global Through additive manufacturing, cost-intensive, manual promaterial group strategy, and cost-optimised procurement, cesses and production steps can be avoided, particularly for while at the same time improving security of supply. small quantities and complex individual production, and competitiveness in global and regional markets can be increased. These changes strengthen KSB’s competitiveness while creating the basis for successfully digitalising procurement. In this As well as technical innovation, service, application and proway KSB secures the opportunities for having permanent cess innovations are growing in importance. That means that access to the best suppliers. It also enhances its appeal to developments need to be closely coordinated with local suptalented buyers who help achieve KSB’s corporate goals. pliers, customers and employees. Established innovation methods, business innovation labs, hackathons and start-up Technology / Research and Development events are systematically being rolled out globally in order to strengthen the ability to innovate at the local level.  Risks It is essential to future success to have a product and service By this means, KSB is enhancing its abilities in developing forrange that is suited to the market in terms of technology, price ward-looking products, business models and services more and delivery time. The changing needs of customers and new quickly and more closely in line with customer requirements. standards and regulations – especially in promising markets such as China – require the continuous development and imOther business-specific risks – Environment provement of products and services. Research and development required for adjustments consumes significant financial  Risks and human resources, with no guarantee of success in either KSB’s business activities, primarily in the area of production, the medium or the long term. are subject to numerous environmental protection laws and regulations. Environmental damage of any kind (for example, To avoid any negative impact on earnings, it is important to groundwater contamination, renovation needed due to outrecognise the market-related or technical risks early on. To this dated construction materials or unpleasant odours arising end, the KSB Group is constantly updating the development from the use of chemicals) may result in losses not covered by process, which incorporates various control levels. As sales an insurance policy. Therefore, at all company sites officers employees are regularly included in this process, risks arising monitor compliance with laws and regulations as well as with from changes in markets or applications can be taken into acinternal KSB rules. If KSB discovers any contamination, it sets count in good time in the evaluation. aside provisions to meet the liabilities for the necessary cleanup work. In the 2019 consolidated financial statements, these  Opportunities provisions, as in the previous year, totalled just under Through a new idea-to-market process, KSB seeks to meet the € 0.2 million for medium or high risks, of which € 0.2 million challenge presented by the fact that the centres of growth have was accounted for by KSB SE & Co. KGaA. shifted to Asia and South America in particular and will, it is expected, also shift to Africa. For that reason, internal and exAs part of acquisition projects, KSB examines properties for ternal actors around the world are connected up on a single possible contamination before purchase. Critical issues are platform. taken into account by way of corresponding contractual regulations with the seller and appropriate measures are impleIdeas undergo a stringent process of evaluation, in order to mented in consultation with the seller. identify new trends and technologies more systematically and 58 Combined Group Management Management Report Report KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 In markets with tightening environmental regulations, there is also meets the expectations of its customers and improves a general risk that KSB products and its in-house or purchased order opportunities with companies that pick their suppliers services might infringe against the regulations and that as a with a view to their responsibility for the environment and soresult the necessary authorisation for the relevant business ciety, among other things. might be lost and KSB’s reputation might be damaged. A change in rules on liability in environmental protection can Other business-specific risks – Human resources, also increase the risks for business success. As a member of legal aspects and IT national and international professional associations the KSB Group becomes aware of imminent changes in environmental  Risks law early on. The legal frameworks that are in place in its To achieve its growth and profitability business objectives, Operational Units are continually updated, enabling KSB to KSB needs qualified employees at all locations, including techensure that its employees always abide by the applicable law. nical specialists. Due to the demographic change in some This is also monitored by external auditors as part of the mancountries, the competition for these and other highly skilled agement certifications. professionals is increasing, and will intensify in the course of the economic recovery. KSB counters this risk with demand Opportunities oriented measures, systematic human resources planning and At KSB, environmental management is combined with an international recruitment processes. active and forward-looking approach as well as internal processes that enable permanent cost reductions. This applies, for Changes to our processes and organisational structure, such as instance, to all measures that reduce energy consumption in the introduction of shared services centres, require clearly production, service and administration. Inversely, the KSB defined project responsibilities and valid project plans, as well Group offers the users of its products the opportunity to reas the selection of suitably qualified external partners. This duce their electricity costs by selecting energy-efficient KSB helps to avoid inefficiencies when changing organisational products. structures and processes, which might otherwise reduce the expected cost benefits. The successful introduction, maintenance and ongoing development of global environmental and occupational health and Other potential risks associated with the activities of KSB’s safety management systems (ISO 14001 and ISO 45001) open employees include dishonest conduct or violations of laws, up opportunities for identifying any risks or deviations at an which could damage the image of KSB. The KSB Group early stage and initiating protective measures. In this way, not counters these risks and safeguards its reputation among cusonly is damage to the environment, to the company’s image tomers by organising regular compliance training and through and to employees’ health prevented, but also financial risks are individual initiatives in critical regions. avoided. Legal disputes cannot always be avoided within the framework Investments in plant and machinery are made on the basis of of business activities. These are usually disputes arising from resource efficiency and environmental and health protection in operations, generally involving unclear warranty issues. If as a order to optimise energy costs throughout the entire use phase result of these issues KSB expects negative effects on the sucas well as to prevent any follow-on costs incurred through cess of its business, corresponding provisions are set aside, damage to the environment and/or to health. which cover not only the anticipated amount of loss, but also the costs of proceedings. In order to exclude any net risk, the With its certified environmental management system, KSB also 2019 consolidated financial statements include about € 2 milmeets a requirement stipulated by many public sector customlion for those cases classified as medium or high risks. Of this ers, large companies and entire sectors such as the automotive total, KSB SE & Co. KGaA accounted for € 1 million (preindustry. For them, evidence of an environmental management vious year: € 2 million, of which € 1 million attributable to system is an increasingly important criterion in the selection of KSB SE & Co. KGaA). Furthermore, provisions were created suppliers. By ensuring that production and service locations for disputes with authorities and for staff matters, once again are checked by auditors and certified to international standtotalling just under € 2 million, of which KSB SE & Co. KGaA ards, both the KSB Group and its customers attain a high level accounted for € 0 million (previous year: € 2 million, of which of certainty that KSB operations are acting with respect for the € 0 million attributable to KSB SE & Co. KGaA), where these environment. KSB’s commitment to the UN Global Compact have been classified as medium or high risks in the risk assessment. KSB Group / Annual Annual Report Report 2019 2019 Group Management Report Combined 59 The manipulation and loss of electronic data can lead to customers are also often affected by recessions and more inserious commercial disadvantages. KSB limits this risk by tense competition, which can decrease their ability to pay in means of adequate security systems and access procedures. An individual cases. increased centralisation of the IT systems of the various operating units assists KSB in this. In this way, high security Negative currency changes in growth countries could threaten standards are implemented and the risk of data loss or corrupexports, in particular those from KSB’s European plants. But tion is reduced. this would also enable the production facilities in the countries affected to benefit from such developments and to increase KSB seeks to counter increased external fraud activities by raistheir export volumes. ing awareness of fraud attempts. At the same time, KSB is increasing its compliance requirements. RISK REPORT ON THE UTILISATION OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS  Opportunities Central financial management in the KSB Group performs its At the end of 2019 work began on introducing the “Workday” duties within the framework of the guidelines laid down by global HR management system. This will form the basis for KSB Management SE as the legal representative. The KSB strategic personnel planning. The improved transparency of Group bases the nature and scope of all financial transactions employee-related data will enable KSB to deploy people in an exclusively on the requirements of its business. It does not lend optimum way, taking into account their individual knowledge itself to business of a speculative nature. The aim is to ensure and skills, and to open new career opportunities for them, liquidity at all times and to finance activities under optimal including in other countries. At the same time the program conditions. With respect to the export business, foreign exharmonises and standardises HR processes across the globe, change and credit risks are hedged to the greatest extent poswith due consideration for local legal regimes. sible. KSB continuously improves its receivables management methods with the goal of settling outstanding amounts by their Through investments in IT, particularly through new end due dates. devices and broader bandwidths, support is provided for the digital transformation of the company. The expansion of IT KSB is exposed to the following financial risks as a consesecurity and of cloud-based solutions forms the basis for makquence of its business activities. ing the infrastructure and internal processes as well as the processes for dealing with customers, suppliers and partners KSB is firstly exposed to credit risk. which is defined as potensecure and seamless and thus swifter, more efficient and more tial default or delays in the receipt of contractually agreed payuniform. ments. It is also exposed to liquidity risk, which is the risk that an entity will be unable to meet its financial obligations, or IMPORTANT OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS BY SEGMENT will be unable to meet them in full. In addition, KSB is exposed As in the previous year, the opportunities and risks for the to market price risk. Exchange rate or interest rate changes Pumps, Valves and Service segments are most influenced by may adversely affect the economic position of the Group. economic development. The future development of China reRisks from fluctuations in the prices of financial instruments mains important to KSB. Geopolitical uncertainty arising from are not material. trade conflicts and a number of global flashpoints remains of material importance for Pumps and Valves and to a lesser exForeign exchange hedges are used to reduce the risks from tent for Service. A high level of risk for the KSB Group’s busitransactions involving different currencies. These are generally ness continues to be presented by policy decisions in China recurrency forwards, which KSB uses both for transactions that garding energy projects, the ongoing trade conflict between the have already been recognised and for future cash flows from USA and China, the continuation of very strained East-West orders still to be processed. At year end, the notional volume relations and the US sanctions against Iran. KSB adjusted its of currency forwards used to hedge exchange rate risks was strategy accordingly and discontinued its business with Iran. € 251.9 million, with KSB SE & Co. KGaA accounting for Worsening payment morale also bears corresponding risk € 187.9 million (previous year: € 238.3 million, of which potential for future business. The economic development in € 177.2 million attributable to KSB SE & Co. KGaA). Foreign general continues to be the most significant risk due to the difcurrency items denominated in US dollars account for the ficulty of assessability. By contrast, the KSB Group continues major volume hedged by forwards. A global network of proto hope that the measures intended to foster growth will production sites in the local sales markets reduces potential curvide it with considerable support in achieving its goals. KSB’s rency risks. 60 Combined Group Management Management Report Report KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 All these risks are limited through an appropriate risk management system, defining how these risks are addressed through guidelines and work instructions. In addition, the current risk characteristics are continuously monitored and the information obtained in this way is provided to the Managing Directors and the Supervisory Board in the form of standardised reports and individual analyses. For more information on the three risk areas and the impact on the balance sheet, see the Notes, section VI. Additional Disclosures on Financial Instruments. KSB Group / Annual Annual Report Report 2019 2019 Group Management Report Combined 61 OVERALL ASSESSMENT OF OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS The opportunities and risks for the KSB Group are mainly derived from macroeconomic influencing factors and their effects on the global mechanical engineering markets and the competition. The overall risk situation on the reporting date 31 December 2019 remains tense. This is due to the political developments described in the risk situation by segment and their impact on the markets. Moreover, geopolitical instabilities, decisions on sanctions and volatile currencies had a negative impact on business volume and on planned earnings. Overall, KSB expects an economic performance in line with the IMF forecast for next year. In this environment, the KSB Group continues to rely on its ability to match capacities and resources to the changing market conditions. A solid financial position and an efficient cost structure are vital in order to maintain long-term competitiveness. KSB is convinced that it can continue to successfully overcome the risks arising from the above-mentioned challenges. The potential of opportunities has not changed materially since the previous year. The risk management system in place as well as the related organisational measures allow KSB Management SE as the legal representative to identify risks in a timely manner and to take adequate measures. In view of the somewhat uncertain situation, the focus of activities in 2020 will continue to be on the management of market risks. The legal representative states that, based on the risk management system established by the KSB Group, at present there are no risks that threaten business continuity and could lead to a lasting and material impact on the net assets, financial position and results of the KSB Group. 62 Combined Group Management Management Report Report KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Disclosures Relating to KSB SE & Co. KGaA (HGB) Balance Sheet Assets € thousands 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 Fixed assets Intangible assets 50,163 39,141 Property, plant and equipment 117,844 111,605 Financial assets 292,864 288,763 460,871 439,509 Current assets Inventories 251,978 248,853 Advances received from customers – 85,298 – 92,701 166,680 156,152 Receivables and other assets 308,664 322,669 Current financial instruments – 19,990 Cash and balances with credit institutions 44,864 78,286 520,208 577,097 Prepaid expenses 1,816 2,275 982,895 1,018,881 Equity and liabilities € thousands 31 Dec.2019 31 Dec. 2018 Equity Subscribed capital 44,772 44,772 Capital reserve 66,663 66,663 Revenue reserves 136,180 136,180 Net retained profits 67,364 90,179 314,979 337,794 Provisions Pensions and similar obligations 415,998 386,489 Miscellaneous other provisions 106,798 123,284 522,796 509,773 Liabilities 140,080 165,014 Deferred income 5,040 6,300 982,895 1,018,881 KSB Group / Annual Annual Report Report 2019 2019 Group Management Report Combined 63 Income statement Income statement € thousands 2019 2018 Sales revenue 841,693 807,142 Changes in inventories – 1,262 – 2,007 Work performed and capitalised 6,833 6,871 Total output of operations 847,264 812,006 Other operating income 27,599 25,396 Cost of materials – 388,604 – 365,802 Staff costs – 324,747 – 303,598 Depreciation and amortisation expense – 17,801 – 17,089 Other operating expenses – 160,920 – 188,813 – 17,209 – 37,900 Income from equity investments 40,991 281,625 Other financial income / expense – 38,454 – 61,435 2,537 220,190 Taxes on income – 1,369 – 1,192 Earnings after taxes – 16,041 181,098 Other taxes – 1,191 – 919 Net profit / loss for the year – 17,232 180,179 Profit carried forward from the previous year 84,596 – Transfer to other revenue reserves – – 90,000 Net retained profits 67,364 90,179 64 Group Management Report KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 64 Combined Management Report KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Business Model SALES REVENUE Total sales revenue under HGB was € 841.7 million (previous KSB SE & Co. KGaA, as the parent, directly or indirectly holds year: € 807.1 million), a year-on-year increase of € 34.6 milthe shares in the companies belonging to the KSB Group. The lion. KSB Group is managed via KSB SE & Co. KGaA. The latter is at the same time the Group’s largest operative company. The The disclosures below refer only to sales revenue from the sale central administrative offices are located at the company’s seat of pumps, valves and cast products, and from related service. (registered office) in Frankenthal; branch operations are The 2019 sales revenue of € 788.3 million represents an inlocated in Bremen, Halle and Pegnitz. crease over the previous year of € 26.9 million (3.5 %). Pumps accounted for 86 % of the sales revenue (previous year: 86 %), KSB SE & Co. KGaA is associated via control and profit poolwhile valves made up 12 % (previous year: 13 %). ing agreements with the three service companies KSB Service GmbH, Frankenthal, KSB Service GmbH, Schwedt, and Uder Under IFRS, sales revenue rose from € 762.0 million in the Elektromechanik GmbH, Friedrichsthal. Thus, these compaprevious year to € 779.4 million. The main driver of sales nies are under single management by KSB SE & Co. KGaA. revenue was the engineered pumps project business. Their annual earnings are transferred to KSB SE & Co. KGaA. INCOME AND EXPENSES The annual financial statements of KSB SE & Co. KGaA have Other operating income increased from € 25.4 million to been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the € 27.6 million, principally because of higher income from exHandelsgesetzbuch (HGB) [German Commercial Code] and change rate gains. the Aktiengesetz (AktG) [German Public Companies Act] including the German principles of proper accounting. The cost of materials, at € 388.6 million, was well above the previous year’s level of € 365.8 million. The cost of materials Differences between the accounting policies under HGB and in relation to the total output of operations rose from 45.0 % the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), which in the previous year to 45.9 % in the year under review. are the basis of preparation of the consolidated financial statements of KSB, arise primarily from the recognition over time Staff costs increased in absolute terms by € 21.1 million to of revenue from production contracts under IFRS 15, in the € 324.7 million. This significant rise resulted from one-off incalculation of pension provisions, from the recognition of come in the previous year amounting to € 20.4 million because leases under IFRS 16, and in the capitalisation of deferred of the introduction of a lump-sum option for pension plans. taxes. Furthermore, differences arise in the recognition of General staff cost increases also contributed to raising the assets and liabilities and of income statement items; under the total. Staff costs as a percentage of total output of operations German Accounting Directive Implementation Act [Bilanzwere 38.3 % (previous year: 37.4 %). richtlinie-Umsetzungsgesetz – BilRuG] there is expanded scope for the recognition of sales revenue. At € 160.9 million after € 188.8 million in the previous year, other operating expenses showed a considerable reduction of € 27.9 million. This was primarily caused by one-off effects in Business Development and the previous year arising from the recognition of provisions for expected losses and the recognition of the remaining allocation Results of Operations amount for pension provisions under the German Accounting Overall, in the first seven months of the year business further Law Modernisation Act [Bilanzrechtsmodernisierungsgesetz – improved for KSB SE & Co. KGaA because of strong capital BilMoG]. A large part of other expenses relates to third-party investment activity on the part of customers in important sales services and other selling costs. markets. This applied, in particular, to the energy and water / waste water markets. By contrast, the last five months of the Overall, the income from equity investments, at € 41.0 milyear saw a significant cool-down of the capital goods market. lion, was sharply down on the prior-year level (€ 281.6 million). This includes profit transfers from the three German serORDER INTAKE vice companies of € 11.5 million (previous year: € 10.5 milThe volume of orders received by KSB SE & Co. KGaA rose lion) and dividend income from affiliates and equity investin the year under review by € 29.6 million to € 796.5 million, ments of € 29.5 million. In the previous year, as well as the an increase of 3.9 %. usual dividend income, a special dividend and the recognition KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Group Management Report 65 KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Combined Management Report 65 of hidden reserves as part of the transfer of an equity investthe market in 2012 to secure medium-term liquidity. A tranche ment to KSB FINANZ S.A., Luxembourg, at € 262.6 million of € 26.0 million was repaid in 2019. Trade payables at year overall, led to an extraordinarily high level of income from end were € 0.7 million above the previous year’s level. Liabilequity investments. ities to affiliates and equity investments were almost unchanged on the previous year at € 55.1 million. They include NET PROFIT / LOSS FOR THE YEAR UNDER HGB € 30.0 million (previous year: € 24.7 million) for intercomBecause of the changes to income statement items referred to pany loans and cash investments. above, KSB SE & Co. KGaA recorded a net loss for the year in the 2019 financial year of € 17.2 million after a net profit NET ASSETS for the year of € 180.2 million in the previous year. This is Total assets, at € 982.9 million, were 3.5 % below the priorattributable to a sharp drop in income from equity investyear figure of € 1,018.9 million. Reductions in receivables and ments. other assets, in financial instruments, in cash and balances with credit institutions contrasted with higher fixed assets. EARNINGS BEFORE FINANCE INCOME / EXPENSE AND INCOME TAX (EBIT) UNDER IFRS In the year under review, fixed assets made up 47 % (previous The EBIT calculated under IFRS rules was € – 32.5 million in year: 43 %) of total assets. The share accounted for by current 2019, well below the previous year’s EBIT of € – 10.3 million. assets was 53 % after 57 % in 2018. Inventories including adHigher staff costs made themselves felt in particular. In the vance payments received totalled € 166.7 million after previous year the effects of the exercise of a lump-sum option € 156.2 million in the previous year. in the pension plans were included here. EQUITY The share capital of KSB SE & Co. KGaA remained at € 44.8 million. The capital reserve was unchanged at Financial Position and Net Assets € 66.7 million. At year end, € 136.2 million (previous year: FINANCIAL POSITION € 136.2 million) was assigned to other revenue reserves. Out KSB SE & Co. KGaA is embedded within central financial of the 2018 net earnings for the year of € 90.2 million, a divimanagement at the KSB Group. The latter works within the dend totalling € 5.6 million (dividend of € 3.00 per ordinary framework of the guidelines laid down by KSB Management share and € 3.38 per preference share) was distributed by resoSE as the legal representative and bases the nature and scope lution of the Annual General Meeting of 29 May 2019. The of all financial transactions exclusively on the requirements of remaining amount of € 84.6 million was carried forward to the business. The objective of financial management is to guarnew account. antee liquidity at all times and to ensure the financing of activities on optimum terms. In financing export transactions, KSB SE & Co. KGaA hedges foreign exchange and credit risks to the greatest extent possible. KSB continuously improves its Summary of the Performance in the receivables management methods with the goal of settling outFinancial Year standing amounts by their due dates. In the first seven months of the year, business continued to improve because of strong capital investment activity on the LIABILITIES AND PROVISIONS part of customers in important sales markets. This applied, in The largest liabilities item, as in the previous year, is pension particular, to the energy, water / waste water and construction provisions, which had grown by € 29.5 million to € 416.0 mil/ building services markets. By contrast, the last five months of lion on the reporting date. This increase is explained by the the year saw a significant cool-down of the capital goods maraddition of interest to pension obligations at € 40.4 million. ket. Other provisions amounted to € 106.8 million (previous year: € 123.3 million). The lower figure is mainly attributable to a The forecasts made at the beginning of the year were only parreduction in partial retirement obligations and in provisions tially fulfilled. In terms of order intake, the significant increase for expected losses. anticipated materialised, while sales revenue under IFRS grew only slightly as against the substantial rise forecast. Project Of liabilities totalling € 140.1 million (previous year: business registered increases, while standard business failed to € 165.0 million), € 22.0 million were accounted for by liabilimeet expectations. The anticipated sharp drop in EBIT under ties from a loan against borrower’s note that was placed on IFRS did occur. 66 Group Management Report KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 66 Combined Management Report KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Opportunities and Risks In 2020 and subsequent years, the KSB Group intends to implement its Climb 21 strategic project. This is expected to The business performance of KSB SE & Co. KGaA depends result in one-off burdens on EBIT. Since the exact impact on significantly on the risks and opportunities faced by the KSB EBIT is not known at present, it is not factored into the above Group, which are set out in detail in the Report on Expected forecast for EBIT in 2020. Developments and the Opportunities and Risks Report in the Combined Management Report. KSB SE & Co. KGaA generThe forecast horizon for the above-mentioned information ally shares in the risks of its equity investments and subsidiarand statements is the 2020 financial year. ies in line with its equity interest. Report on Expected Developments Despite the weaker global economic growth, the economic environment is, generally speaking, expected to be good for an expansion of business in Europe and Asia. In the Region Middle East / Africa, too, positive growth impetus is expected. Overall, KSB SE & Co. KGaA thus foresees tangible growth in order intake in 2020, largely owing to the energy market. Sales revenue and EBIT under IFRS are expected to rise substantially, owing to good order intake in the energy market in the 2019 financial year. This forecast does not take account of the impact of the coronavirus. The scale and duration of any adverse effect on production as well as on the procurement and sales markets of KSB SE & Co. KGaA both in China and in the Asian, European and American economies are impossible to predict and therefore quantify right now at the time of preparation of the consolidated financial statements. KSB assumes that the spread of the coronavirus will have a negative impact on the Group. KSB Group / Annual Annual Report Report 2019 2019 Group Management Report Combined 67 Acquisition-related Disclosures A summary of the acquisition-related disclosures required by for cash and at a price that is not materially lower than the section 315a HGB is given below and explanatory information market price for company shares of the same type and with the is provided pursuant to sections 175(2) and section 176(1) same features at the time of the sale. This authorisation is limAktG. ited to the sale of shares that overall represent no more than 10 % of the existing share capital on the date on which such The share capital of KSB SE & Co. KGaA (the company) authorisation becomes effective or, if the amount is lower, the amounts to € 44.8 million, of which € 22.7 million is repredate this authorisation is exercised. The 10 % limit shall be sented by 886,615 no-par-value ordinary shares and € 22.1 reduced by the proportional amount of share capital for shares million by 864,712 no-par-value preference shares. Each no(i) issued within the scope of a capital increase during the term par-value share represents an equal notional amount of the of the authorisation excluding subscription rights pursuant to share capital. All shares are bearer shares. They are listed for section 186(3) sentence 4 of the AktG or (ii) to be issued for trading on the regulated market and are traded in the General the purpose of servicing warrants and convertible bonds, proStandard segment of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. vided that the bonds were issued during the term of the authorisation excluding subscription rights pursuant to section Each ordinary share entitles the holder to one vote at KSB SE 186(3) sentence 4 of the AktG; (3) sell the shares with the con& Co. KGaA’s Annual General Meeting. Johannes und Jacob sent of the Supervisory Board, excluding shareholders’ subKlein GmbH, Frankenthal, holds approximately 84 % of the scription rights, to third parties for the purpose of acquiring ordinary shares; the KSB Stiftung [KSB Foundation], Stuttgart, companies, parts thereof and/or financial interests in compaholds the majority of the shares of Johannes und Jacob Klein nies as well as within the scope of corporate mergers or (4) GmbH. The preference shares carry separate cumulative preredeem the acquired shares without any further resolution of ferred dividend rights and progressive additional dividend the Annual General Meeting in full or in part, including in sevrights. Detailed information on the share capital and shareeral partial steps. The redemption may also take place without holders holding an interest of more than 10 % is provided in a capital reduction by adjusting the proportional amount of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Holders the other no-par-value shares in the company’s share capital. of preference shares are entitled to voting rights only in the In this case, the Board of Management has been authorised by cases prescribed by law. The issue of additional ordinary the Articles of Association to adjust the number of no-parshares does not require the consent of the preference sharevalue shares. The company has not yet made use of this holders. Similarly, the issue of additional preference shares authorisation to purchase treasury shares. does not require the consent of the preference shareholders provided that the subscription rights do not exclude newly There are no resolutions by the Annual General Meeting issued senior or pari passu preference shares. authorising the company’s individually liable general partner to increase the share capital (authorised capital). The company is authorised by a resolution passed at the Annual General Meeting on 6 May 2015 to purchase, until 5 May The company’s business is managed by KSB Management SE, 2020, company shares of any type totalling up to 10 % of the which acts through the four Managing Directors. current share capital or, if lower, of the share capital at the time of this authorisation being exercised. The Board of ManAmendments to the company’s Articles of Association are agement shall be entitled to: (1) sell company shares purchased resolved by the Annual General Meeting. If the amendments on the basis of this authorisation either on the stock exchange only affect the wording of the Articles of Association, they can or by another means that safeguards the rule of equal treatbe made by the Supervisory Board, which operates and is ment of all shareholders, for example by means of an offer to formed in accordance with the regulations of the German Coall of the company’s shareholders; (2) sell the acquired shares determination Act. of the company with the consent of the Supervisory Board, excluding shareholders’ subscription rights, if the shares are sold 68 Combined Group Management Management Report Report KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Corporate Governance Statement (Section 315d HGB in Conjunction with Section229f HGB) The Corporate Governance Statement pursuant to section 315d HGB in conjunction with section 289f HGB [Handelsgesetzbuch – German Commercial Code] dated 11 March 2020 is accessible to the public at www.ksb.com > Investor Relations > Corporate Governance / Corporate Governance Statement. In addition to the Corporate Governance Report (including the Statement of Compliance in accordance with section 161 Aktiengesetz [German Public Companies Act]), the Corporate Governance Statement includes relevant information on corporate governance practices applied at KSB SE & Co. KGaA that go above and beyond statutory requirements. Also described are the working methods of KSB Management SE as the general partner and of the Supervisory Board, and the composition and working methods of the committees of the Supervisory Board. KSB Group / Annual Annual Report Report 2019 2019 Group Management Report Combined 69 Statement on the Non-financial Report (Section 315c in Conjunction with Sections 289c to 289e HGB) The separate combined non-financial report is prepared in accordance with section 315c in conjunction with sections 289b to 289e HGB and disclosed together with the combined management report in accordance with section 325 HGB. The report can be viewed at: www.non-financial-report2019.ksb.com Under the same address the limited assurance report for the separate combined non-financial report is also disclosed. 70 Combined Group Management Management Report Report KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Remuneration Report The remuneration report provides information on the prinof a company car, payment of insurance premiums and any ciples of the remuneration system for the general partner (KSB payments associated with a post-contractual non-competition Management SE) including its Managing Directors and clause. No loans or advance payments were granted to ManAdministrative Board. It is prepared in accordance with the aging Directors in the past financial year. recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code in its version dated 7 February 2017. To ensure the sustainability of the nature of the remuneration, the variable remuneration component includes a long-term 1. REMUNERATION OF THE GENERAL PARTNER component, which accounts for around two thirds of the variIn accordance with the Articles of Association of KSB SE & able remuneration. It is calculated on the basis of the net profit Co. KGaA (the “company”), the general partner receives anof the KSB Group plus depreciation / amortisation. Its calcunual remuneration not based on profit and loss in the amount lation in the form of a rolling, weighted three-year average of 4 % of the share capital for the management and assumpessentially includes the effect of the future financial years over tion of personal liability. Accordingly, € 20 thousand was the contract term. The short-term variable portion of spent on this by the company in the 2019 financial year. remuneration is linked to three reference values in equal part. In addition to the Group’s key indicators of EBIT margin and According to the Articles of Association, the company addisales revenue, the calculation is based on the personal goals of tionally reimburses the general partner for any expenses inthe Managing Directors. These goals are set in such a way that curred in connection with the management of business operatheir fulfilment has a positive impact on the relevant perfortions; this relates but is not limited to the remuneration of the mance area beyond the year under review. members of the governing bodies of the general partner. The total amount of the variable remuneration components is 2. REMUNERATION OF THE MANAGING DIRECTORS limited in order to take extraordinary, unforeseen developThe general partner is responsible for the management of the ments into account. company. The Administrative Board of KSB Management SE appoints its Managing Directors and is responsible for the conThe weighting factors above do not reflect the additional postracts of service of the Managing Directors. This responsibility sibility of a bonus, to be paid out in individual cases at the includes the structure of the remuneration arrangements, the discretion of the Administrative Board, of no more than three amount of remuneration and their regular review. monthly salary payments per financial year in recognition of any special performance of individual Managing Directors. The remuneration arrangements for the Managing Directors Such decisions are only made on an irregular basis, meaning are structured as transparently as possible. The total amount that they do not necessarily have to be made annually. of remuneration for the individual Managing Directors is determined based on various parameters. Criteria for assessing Furthermore, when contracts of service are concluded, care is the appropriateness of the remuneration include the responsitaken to ensure, in accordance with item 4.2.3 of the German bilities of the individual Managing Directors, their personal Corporate Governance Code, that payments made to a performance, the economic situation, the company’s success Managing Director in the event of his or her tenure being terand customary remuneration amounts when taking peer comminated prematurely without good reason shall not exceed the panies and the remuneration structure used elsewhere within value of two years’ remuneration including fringe benefits (setthe company into consideration. tlement cap) and shall not exceed the remuneration due for the remaining term of the contract of service. No other payments The remuneration of the Managing Directors consists of fixed have been promised to any Managing Director in the event of and variable components. Fixed components are granted retermination of service; similarly no compensation will be paid gardless of performance and consist of a fixed sum plus benein the event of a takeover offer. If the contract of service of a fits, as well as pension commitments (retirement, disability, Managing Director is terminated for cause, the company shall widow’s or orphan’s pension). The fixed sum makes up 60 % not make any severance payments. On 6 May 2015 – using a of the normal annual salary and is paid out as a monthly basic legally permissible option – the Annual General Meeting remuneration. All Managing Directors are equally entitled to resolved not to disclose the details of the compensation for a the accompanying fringe benefits which include the private use period of five years. KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Combined Group Management Report 71 3. REMUNERATION OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE BOARD The shareholder of KSB Management SE, Klein, Schanzlin & Becker GmbH, decides on the remuneration of the Administrative Board. The remuneration essentially consists of a fixed sum which covers the time spent attending up to 15 meetings of the Administrative Board. A daily or hourly rate in line with usual market rates is agreed for any extra time spent. Fringe benefits for the Administrative Board have not been agreed and will not be granted. Its members are, however, covered by directors’ and officers’ (D&O) liability insurance [Vermögensschaden-Haftpflichtversicherung] taken out by the company under usual market conditions in favour of the Administrative Board. Frankenthal, 12 March 2020 KSB Management SE The Managing Directors 72 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 3 KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Consolidated Financial Statements 73 Consolidated Financial Statements 74 Balance Sheet 76 Statement of Comprehensive Income 78 Statement of Changes in Equity 80 Statement of Cash Flows Consolidated Financial Statements 81 Notes 137 List of Shareholdings 141 Supervisory Board 142 Legal Representatives 144 Proposal on the Appropriation of the Net Retained Earnings of KSB SE & Co. KGaA General Information 62 74 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Balance Sheet Assets € thousands Notes 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 Non-current assets Intangible assets 1 97,128 91,089 Right-of-use assets 2 50,096 * – Property, plant and equipment 3 511,281 496,659 Non-current financial assets 4 1,962 1,773 Other non-financial assets 5 2,840 2,914 Investments accounted for using the equity method 6 24,203 23,855 Deferred tax assets 20 95,101 80,391 782,611 696,681 Current assets Inventories 7 544,703 544,430 Contract assets 8 76,428 74,499 Trade receivables 8 504,101 518,116 Other financial assets 8 90,938 103,388 Other non-financial assets 8 39,613 49,504 Cash and cash equivalents 9 280,875 255,545 Assets held for sale 10 7,753 – 1,544,411 1,545,482 2,327,022 2,242,163 * The new balance sheet item “Right-of-use assets” (rights of use to leased assets) results from the first-time adoption of IFRS 16 in the year under review. Further information is provided in the Notes to the consolidated financial statements. KSB Group / Annual Annual Report Report 2019 2019 Consolidated Financial Statements 63 75 Equity and Liabilities € thousands Notes 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 Equity 11 Subscribed capital 44,772 44,772 Capital reserve 66,663 66,663 Revenue reserves 568,916 577,756 Equity attributable to shareholders of KSB SE & Co. KGaA 680,351 689,191 Non-controlling interests 182,210 167,600 862,562 856,791 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 20 11,146 10,252 Provisions for employee benefits 12 646,340 578,640 Other provisions 12 1,366 1,377 Financial liabilities 13 56,750 * 30,099 715,602 620,368 Current liabilities Provisions for employee benefits 12 12,190 9,287 Other provisions 12 68,376 83,557 Financial liabilities 13 44,318 * 48,777 Contract liabilities 13 165,463 157,389 Trade payables 13 252,741 270,212 Other financial liabilities 13 31,226 32,767 Other non-financial liabilities 13 161,528 154,689 Income tax liabilities 13 9,050 8,326 Liabilities in connection with assets held for sale 10, 13 3,967 – 748,858 765,004 2,327,022 2,242,163 * The first-time adoption of IFRS 16 in the year under review had a material effect on the lease liabilities included in the financial liabilities. Further information is provided in the Notes to the consolidated financial statements. 64 76 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Statement of Comprehensive Income Income statement € thousands Notes 2019 2018 Sales revenue 14 2,383,185 2,245,948 Changes in inventories – 9,316 22,554 Work performed and capitalised 7,354 7,332 Total output of operations 2,381,223 2,275,834 Other income 15 33,413 33,050 Cost of materials 16 – 984,787 – 934,545 Staff costs 17 – 848,295 – 765,462 Depreciation and amortisation 1-3 – 81,851 – 104,491 Other expenses 18 – 372,198 – 416,869 Other taxes – 13,902 – 12,815 Earnings before finance income / expense and income tax (EBIT) 113,603 74,702 Finance income 19 5,741 4,893 Finance expense 19 – 17,098 – 16,544 Income from / expense to investments accounted for using the equity method 19 1,186 2,510 Finance income / expense – 10,171 – 9,141 Earnings before income tax (EBT) 103,432 65,561 Taxes on income 20 – 44,932 – 41,644 Earnings after income tax 58,500 23,917 Attributable to: Non-controlling interests 21 15,415 12,618 Shareholders of KSB SE & Co. KGaA 43,085 11,299 Diluted and basic earnings per ordinary share (€) 22 24.47 6.26 Diluted and basic earnings per preference share (€) 22 24.73 6.64 KSB Group / Annual Annual Report Report 2019 2019 Consolidated Financial Statements 65 77 Statement of income and expense recognised in equity € thousands Notes 2019 2018 Earnings after income tax 58,500 23,917 Remeasurement of defined benefit plans 12 – 70,479 – 10,736 Taxes on income 21,389 3,341 Expense and income recognised directly in equity and not reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods – 49,090 – 7,395 Currency translation differences 3,982 – 13,276 Attributable to: Expense and income recognised directly in equity attributable to investments accounted for using the equity method 209 451 Changes in the fair value of financial instruments: Hedging reserve – 530 – 5,571 Taxes on income 162 1,665 Attributable to: Expense and income recognised directly in equity attributable to investments accounted for using the equity method – – 37 Changes in the fair value of financial instruments: Hedging cost reserve – 45 – 53 Taxes on income 13 18 Expense and income recognised directly in equity and reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods 3,582 – 17,217 Other comprehensive income – 45,508 – 24,612 Total comprehensive income 12,992 – 695 Attributable to: Non-controlling interests 16,593 12,983 Shareholders of KSB SE & Co. KGaA – 3,601 – 13,678 Further information is provided in the Notes to the consolidated financial statements. 66 78 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Statement of Changes in Equity Subscribed capital of Capital reserve KSB SE & Co. of KSB SE & Co. € thousands KGaA KGaA 31 Dec. 2017 44,772 66,663 Impact of transition to IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 – – 1 Jan. 2018 (restated under IFRS 9 and IFRS 15) 44,772 66,663 Other comprehensive income – – Earnings after income tax – – Total comprehensive income – – Dividends paid – – Capital increase / decrease – – Change in consolidated Group / Step acquisitions – – Other – – 31 Dec. 2018 44,772 66,663 Subscribed capital of Capital reserve KSB SE & Co. of KSB SE & Co. € thousands KGaA KGaA 1 Jan. 2019 44,772 66,663 Other comprehensive income – – Earnings after income tax – – Total comprehensive income – – Dividends paid – – Capital increase / decrease – – Change in consolidated Group / Step acquisitions – – Other – – 31 Dec. 2019 44,772 66,663 Equity attributable to shareholders of KSB SE & Co. Non-controlling Total Accumulated currency translation differences (€ thousands) KGaA interests equity 1 Jan. 2018 – 83,769 – 20,145 – 103,914 Change in 2018 – 14,501 652 – 13,849 31 Dec. 2018 – 98,270 – 19,493 – 117,763 1 Jan. 2019 – 98,270 – 19,493 – 117,763 Change in 2019 2,505 1,318 3,823 31 Dec. 2019 – 95,765 – 18,175 – 113,940 KSB Group / Annual Annual Report Report 2019 2019 Consolidated Financial Statements 67 79 Revenue reserves Other comprehensive income Changes in Changes in the fair value Equity the fair value of financial attributable to Other Currency of financial instruments: Remeasurement shareholders of revenue translation instruments: Hedging cost of defined KSB SE & Co. Non-controlling Total reserves differences Hedging reserve reserve benefit plans KGaA interests equity 862,874 – 83,769 976 – 539 – 167,687 723,290 162,108 885,398 – 9,218 – – – – – 9,218 – 7 – 9,225 853,656 – 83,769 976 – 539 – 167,687 714,072 162,101 876,173 – – 13,686 – 3,906 – 35 – 7,350 – 24,977 365 – 24,612 11,299 – – – – 11,299 12,618 23,917 11,299 – 13,686 – 3,906 – 35 – 7,350 – 13,678 12,983 – 695 – 13,360 – – – – – 13,360 – 2,506 – 15,866 – – – – – – – – 3,032 – 815 – – – 80 2,137 – 4,978 – 2,841 20 – – – – 20 – 20 854,647 – 98,270 – 2,930 – 574 – 175,117 689,191 167,600 856,791 Revenue reserves Other comprehensive income Changes in Changes in the fair value Equity the fair value of financial attributable to Other Currency of financial instruments: Remeasurement shareholders of revenue translation instruments: Hedging cost of defined KSB SE & Co. Non-controlling Total reserves differences Hedging reserve reserve benefit plans KGaA interests equity 854,647 – 98,270 – 2,930 – 574 – 175,117 689,191 167,600 856,791 – 2,664 – 368 – 32 – 48,950 – 46,686 1,178 – 45,508 43,085 – – – – 43,085 15,415 58,500 43,085 2,664 – 368 – 32 – 48,950 – 3,601 16,593 12,992 – 5,583 – – – – – 5,583 – 1,983 – 7,566 – – – – – – – – 503 – 159 – – – 344 – 344 – – – – – – – – 892,652 – 95,765 – 3,298 – 606 – 224,067 680,351 182,210 862,562 * Accumulated income and expenses recognised under other comprehensive income as at the reporting date amounted to € – 143 thousand and resulted from provisions for pensions and similar obligations, which represent a disposal group classified as held for sale under IFRS 5. 68 80 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Statement of Cash Flows € thousands 2019 2018 Earnings after income tax 58,500 23,917 Depreciation and amortisation / Write-ups 81,851 104,491 Increase / decrease in non-current provisions 1,791 – 41,305 Gain / loss on disposal of fixed assets – 2,736 – 957 Other non-cash expenses / income – 138 – 455 Cash flow 139,268 85,691 Increase / Decrease in inventories – 1,215 – 50,834 Increase / Decrease in trade receivables and other assets 30,626 – 7,522 Increase / Decrease in contract assets – 2,347 – 6,606 Increase / Decrease in current provisions – 16,138 10,320 Increase / Decrease in liabilities (excluding financial liabilities) – 11,725 35,997 Increase / Decrease in contract liabilities 7,720 – 4,433 Other non-cash expenses (operating) – 1,260 – 1,260 5,661 – 24,338 Cash flows from operating activities 144,929 61,353 Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets 9 1,778 Payments to acquire intangible assets – 14,447 – 13,932 Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 5,654 2,263 Payments to acquire property, plant and equipment – 76,595 – 69,203 Proceeds from disposal of non-current financial assets 531 6 Payments to acquire non-current financial assets – 749 – 843 Payments to acquire consolidated companies – – 5,650 Proceeds from investments in Group companies that are not fully consolidated 12,063 681 Payments for investments in Group companies that are not fully consolidated – 346 – Proceeds from commercial papers 19,990 29,979 Payments for commercial papers – – 19,990 Proceeds from term deposits (maturity of more than 3 and up to 12 months) – 596 Payments for term deposits (maturity of more than 3 and up to 12 months) – 20,116 – 16,180 Other non-cash expenses / income – – Cash flows from investing activities – 74,006 – 90,495 Dividends paid for prior year – Shareholders of KSB SE & Co. KGaA (Notes No. 11) – 5,583 – 13,360 Dividends paid for prior year – Non-controlling interests – 1,983 – 2,506 Payments for loan against borrower’s note – 26,000 – Proceeds from financial liabilities 8,230 23,702 Payments for financial liabilities – 21,094 – 15,757 Payments to acquire non-controlling interests – – 1,512 Cash flows from financing activities – 46,430 – 9,433 Changes in cash and cash equivalents 24,493 – 38,575 Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents – 364 4,585 Effects of changes in consolidated Group 1,201 – Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 255,545 289,535 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 280,875 255,545 Cash flows from operating activities include cash flows from interest received amounting to € 5,638 thousand (previous year: € 4,618 thousand) and cash flows from income taxes totalling € – 36,754 thousand (previous year: € – 23,780 thousand). Cash flows from investing activities for the 2019 financial year include cash flows from dividends received amounting to € 575 thousand (previous year: € 1,029 thousand). Cash flows from financing activities include cash flows from interest expense of € – 5,322 thousand (previous year: € – 4,888 thousand). Cash flows from operating activities and cash flows from financing activities were impacted by the first-time adoption of IFRS 16 in the year under review. Accordingly, cash flows from operating activities in the 2019 financial year include payments for expenses for leases of low-value assets of € 2,347 thousand, for expenses for short-term leases of € 7,591 thousand, for variable lease payments of € 668 thousand, and payments for interest expenses from the subsequent measurement of lease liabilities of € 1,556 thousand. Cash flows from financing activities include payments for the repayment of lease liabilities of € 16,142 thousand. For more information see the Notes, section VII. Statement of Cash Flows. KSB Group // Annual KSB Group Report 2019 Annual Report 2019 Consolidated Financial Statements 81 81 Notes I. GENERAL INFORMATION ON THE GROUP KSB SE & Co. KGaA, Frankenthal / Pfalz, Germany, is a cap[Handelsgesetzbuch – German Commercial Code]. To do so, ital market-oriented partnership limited by shares [Komthe Conceptual Framework and all Standards applicable at the manditgesellschaft auf Aktien] under the law of the Federal reporting date and adopted by the European Commission for Republic of Germany. The company is registered with the use in the EU that are of relevance to the KSB Group as well Handelsregister [German Commercial Register] of the Amtsas the interpretations of the IFRS Interpretations Committee gericht [Local Court] Ludwigshafen am Rhein, registration were applied. For the purposes of this document, the term No. HRB 65657, and has its registered office in Frankenthal / IFRSs includes applicable International Accounting Standards Pfalz, Germany. KSB SE & Co. KGaA was formed from KSB (IASs). The consolidated financial statements of KSB SE & Co. Aktiengesellschaft by entry in the German Commercial RegisKGaA therefore meet the requirements of the IFRSs as adopted ter on 17 January 2018. The general partner is KSB Manageby the EU. The consolidated financial statements were prement SE, a European public limited company. The shares in pared on a going concern basis in accordance with IAS 1.25. this company are wholly owned (100 %) by Klein, Schanzlin On principle, the historical cost is the measurement basis used & Becker GmbH, Frankenthal / Pfalz, a subsidiary of the nonfor the consolidated financial statements, unless Section III. profit KSB Stiftung [KSB Foundation] and the non-profit KühAccounting Policies provides otherwise. borth-Stiftung GmbH [Kühborth Foundation]. KSB SE & Co. KGaA and thus the KSB Group are managed via KSB ManageAmounts in this report are generally presented in thousands of ment SE, which has four Managing Directors and a five-memeuros (€ thousands) using standard commercial rounding ber Administrative Board. rules. Due to rounding, there may be minor differences in the totals and percentages presented in this report. KSB SE & Co. KGaA is the ultimate and immediate parent company whose consolidated financial statements include the The financial year of the companies consolidated is the calensingle-entity financial statements of KSB SE & Co. KGaA. The dar year. consolidated financial statements of KSB SE & Co. KGaA prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting The income statement as part of the statement of comprehenStandards as adopted by the EU are published in the Bundessive income has been prepared using the nature of expense anzeiger [German Federal Gazette]. method. The KSB Group is a global supplier of high-quality pumps, All material items of the balance sheet and the income statevalves and related systems and also provides a wide range of ment are presented separately and explained in these Notes. support services to users of these products. The Group’s operations are divided into three segments: Pumps, Valves and SerThe main accounting policies used to prepare the consolidated vice. financial statements are presented below. The policies described were applied consistently for the reporting periods Basis of preparation of the consolidated financial presented unless stated otherwise. statements The accompanying consolidated financial statements of KSB The consolidated financial statements, the annual financial SE & Co. KGaA were prepared in accordance with the Interstatements and the combined management report are submitnational Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by ted to and published in the Bundesanzeiger. the European Union (EU) and the additional requirements of German commercial law under section 315e(1) of the HGB 82 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 These consolidated financial statements will be approved by Policies in the “Changes in accounting policies due to the firstthe Managing Directors of KSB Management SE on 12 March time adoption of IFRS 16” sub-section. 2020 for forwarding to the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board is expected to approve the financial statements b) Accounting principles that have been published but that on 19 March 2020. are not yet mandatory New accounting principles The new or revised Accounting Standards and Interpretations listed below were not yet mandatory and were not applied in a) Accounting principles applied for the first time in the the 2019 financial year. 2019 financial year As a matter of principle, the new or revised Standards or InThe new or revised accounting Standards and Interpretations terpretations shown in the table have not been adopted early. listed below which were adopted for the first time in the reWe expect no or no material effects on our net assets, financial porting year had no or no material impact on the Group’s net position or results of operations from these amendments. assets, financial position and results of operations, except for IFRS 16 Leases. The effects resulting from the first-time adoption of IFRS 16 Leases are presented in Section III. Accounting Accounting principles applied for the first time in the 2019 financial year First-time adoption in the EU IFRS 16 Leases 1 Jan. 2019 Amendments to IFRS 9 Financial Instruments – Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation 1 Jan. 2019 Amendments to IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures – Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures 1 Jan. 2019 Amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits – Plan Amendment, Curtailment or Settlement 1 Jan. 2019 Annual improvements to IFRSs (2015-2017 cycle) with respect to amendments to IFRS 3 Business Combinations, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, IAS 12 Income Taxes and IAS 23 Borrowing Costs 1 Jan. 2019 IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatment 1 Jan. 2019 Accounting principles that have been published but that are not yet mandatory First-time adoption in the EU Amendments to the cross-references in the Conceptual Framework in IFRS 1 Jan. 2020 Revision of IFRS 3 Business Combinations 1 Jan. 2020 Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements and IAS 8 Accounting Policies 1 Jan. 2020 Amendments to IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures (Interest Rate Benchmark Reform) 1 Jan. 2020 IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts 1 Jan. 2021 KSB Group / Annual Annual Report Report 2019 2019 Consolidated Financial Statements 83 II. CONSOLIDATION PRINCIPLES Consolidated Group plus or minus cumulative changes in net assets, with recogIn addition to KSB SE & Co. KGaA, 9 German and 76 foreign nised goodwill reported in the carrying amount of the investcompanies (previous year: 9 German and 74 foreign compament. nies) were fully consolidated. A majority interest is held, either directly or indirectly, in the voting power of these subsidiaries The Thai company KSB Pumps Co. Ltd., Bangkok, and the which the KSB Group has the option to control under IFRS 10. Indian company KSB Limited, Pimpri (Pune), are included in the group of fully consolidated affiliates despite the fact that Subsidiaries are companies controlled by the Group. The KSB holds less than 50 % of the voting rights. KSB does, howGroup controls a company if it is exposed, or has rights, to ever, have the power to determine their business and financial variable returns from its involvement with the company and policies and thus the level of variable returns. has the ability to affect those returns through its power of disposition over the company. The financial statements of subsidKSB gained control over KSB Limited, Pimpri (Pune), in which iaries are included in the Group’s financial statements from the KSB owns 40.54 % of the shares, through contractual agreedate on which control begins until the date on which control ments with other shareholders. These agreements ensure that ends. Changes in the investment ratio that do not result in a KSB has the majority of voting rights in management commitloss of control are treated as a transaction between sharetees and also exer-cises control over the budget. holders and recognised directly in equity. Such transactions do not result in the recognition of goodwill or the realisation of Likewise, KSB exercises control over KSB Pumps Co. Ltd., disposal profits. Bangkok, in which it owns 40 % of the shares, through additional agreements which give KSB the majority of voting rights The consolidation principles apply accordingly to joint venin management committees and control over the budget. tures and associates accounted for using the equity method. Upon the loss of joint control or significant influence any reCompanies that were not consolidated due to there being no tained interest in the investee is remeasured at fair value material impact are reported as other investments under nonthrough profit or loss. current other financial assets. Associates are companies in which the Group has significant The following table shows the subsidiaries with non-controlinfluence but does not have control or joint control over finanling interests that are material subsidiaries of the KSB Group. cial and business policy. A joint venture is an agreement “Seat” refers to the country in which the main activity is perthrough which the Group exercises joint control, in that it has formed. rights to the net assets of the agreement rather than rights to  Material subsidiaries with non-controlling interests its assets and obligations for its liabilities. The shares in companies included at-equity are measured at cost of acquisition 84 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Material subsidiaries with non-controlling interests Non-controlling Earnings after income tax interest attributable to Accumulated Name and seat in capital non-controlling interests non-controlling interests € thousands 2019 / 2018 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 PAB, Germany / USA (subgroup) 49.00 % 5,604 6,312 89,340 81,920 KSB Limited, India 59.46 % 7,435 5,059 60,284 55,116 KSB Shanghai Pump Co., Ltd., China 20.00 % 626 – 254 10,913 10,222 Individually immaterial fully consolidated subsidiaries with non-controlling interests 1,750 1,501 21,673 20,342 Total amount of non-controlling interests 15,415 12,618 182,210 167,600 Composition of the PAB subgroup as at 31 Dec. 2019 Capital share Cons. No. Name and seat Country in % Held by No. 1 PAB Pumpenund Armaturen-Beteiligungsges. mbH, Frankenthal Germany 51.00 – 2 KSB America Corporation, Richmond / Virginia USA 100.00 1 3 GIW Industries, Inc., Grovetown / Georgia USA 100.00 2 4 KSB Dubric, Inc., Comstock Park / Michigan USA 100.00 2 5 KSB, Inc., Richmond / Virginia USA 100.00 2 6 KSB, Inc. – Western Division, Bakersfield / California USA 100.00 2 7 Standard Alloys Incorporated, Port Arthur / Texas USA 100.00 2 Information on the subgroup that comprised the subsidiaries The required intercompany eliminations were taken into conof the KSB Group listed in the following table as at 31 Decemsideration for the PAB subgroup. The details on the PAB subber 2019 is summarised under the name “PAB”. group in the 2018 financial year also included financial infor Composition of the PAB subgroup as at 31 Dec. 2019 mation of KSB AMRI Inc., Houston / Texas, in which KSB America Corporation, Richmond / Virginia, held an 89.97 % The summarised financial information regarding the KSB stake until the company was liquidated on 6 December 2018. Group’s material subsidiaries with non-controlling interests  Summarised balance sheet and the PAB subgroup considered here is provided below. Except for the details on the PAB subgroup, this information cor Summarised statement of comprehensive income responds to the amounts shown in the subsidiaries’ financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS prior to inter Condensed statement of cash flows company eliminations. KSB Group / Annual Annual Report Report 2019 2019 Consolidated Financial Statements 85 Summarised balance sheet PAB KSB Limited KSB Shanghai Pump Co., Ltd. € thousands / 31 Dec. 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Non-current assets 85,024 69,422 49,374 47,404 28,485 27,851 Current assets 154,508 150,681 128,272 107,463 125,965 145,085 Non-current liabilities – 17,764 – 13,140 – 2,794 – 2,340 – 768 – Current liabilities – 39,442 – 39,779 – 73,466 – 59,832 – 99,116 – 121,824 Net assets 182,326 167,184 101,386 92,695 54,566 51,112 Summarised statement of comprehensive income PAB KSB Limited KSB Shanghai Pump Co., Ltd. € thousands 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Sales revenue 243,635 212,570 163,138 133,180 168,006 158,278 Earnings after income tax 11,436 12,882 12,820 9,365 3,132 – 1,269 Other comprehensive income 3,706 8,496 – 1,480 – 3,890 322 2,934 Comprehensive income 15,142 21,378 11,340 5,475 3,454 1,665 Other comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests 1,816 4,163 – 880 – 2,313 64 587 Comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests 7,420 10,475 6,555 3,255 691 333 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests – – – 1,575 – 1,538 – – Condensed statement of cash flows PAB KSB Limited KSB Shanghai Pump Co., Ltd. € thousands 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Cash flows from operating activities 20,264 9,286 24,398 9,883 6,896 11,210 Cash flows from investing activities – 19,995 – 20,722 – 4,660 – 7,597 10,740 2,250 Cash flows from financing activities – 1,270 – 1,178 – 163 325 1,340 – 3,179 Changes in cash and cash equivalents – 1,001 – 12,614 19,575 2,611 18,976 10,281 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 7,400 19,486 12,493 10,264 12,730 2,258 Effects of exchange rate changes 145 528 – 404 – 382 – 84 191 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 6,544 7,400 31,664 12,493 31,622 12,730 86 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Changes in the consolidated Group Capital consolidation is based on the purchase method of acTOV “KSB Ukraine”, Kiev, Ukraine, IOOO “KSB BEL”, counting pursuant to IFRS 3. This means that the amortised Minsk, Belarus and KSB Ltd., Tokyo, Japan, previously not cost of the parent’s shares in the subsidiary is eliminated consolidated due to there being no material impact, were inagainst the remeasured equity attributable to the parent at the cluded in the group of consolidated companies on 1 January date of acquisition. 2019. These affiliates, which were consolidated for the first time, were established in previous years. First-time consolidaAny goodwill created from the application of the purchase tions contributed € 4,682 thousand to sales revenue and also method denominated in a currency other than the functional had the following impact on the consolidated balance sheet: currency of the KSB Group is measured at the relevant current closing rate. Goodwill is reported under intangible assets and First-time consolidations – Impact on balance sheet tested for impairment at least once a year. If an impairment is € thousands 2019 identified, an impairment loss is recognised. Any excess of our Non-current assets – 306 interest in the fair values of net assets acquired over cost reCurrent assets 1,790 maining after reassessment is recognised in profit or loss in the Assets 1,484 year it occurred. Equity 344 Those shares of subsidiaries’ equity not attributable to KSB SE Non-current liabilities – & Co. KGaA are reported as non-controlling interests. Current liabilities 1,140 Equity and liabilities 1,484 Currency translation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in The contribution by the three aforementioned companies to euro (€). Unless otherwise stated, amounts in this report are consolidated earnings after income tax for the consolidation presented in thousands of euros (€ thousands) using standard period was € 759 thousand. Other effects resulting from the commercial rounding rules. consolidation of companies were not material. Currency translation is effected on the basis of the functional The 2019 financial year saw the establishment of the new comcurrency of the consolidated companies. As in the previous pany KSB PUMPS AND VALVES LIMITED, Nairobi, Kenya. year, the functional currency is exclusively the local currency KSB Pumps (S.A.) (Pty) Ltd., Germiston (Johannesburg), of the company consolidated, as it operates as a financially, South Africa, which is already fully consolidated, holds 100 % economically and organisationally independent entity. of the shares. Due to reasons of materiality the newly established company will not be consolidated. Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the individual companies at the rate prevailing when the The previously fully consolidated company KSB Verwaltung transaction is initially recognised. Monetary assets and liabili(Schweiz) AG, Reinach, Switzerland, was liquidated in Noties are subsequently measured at the closing rate. Measurevember 2019. This did not have any material impact on the ment effects are recognised in the income statement. consolidated financial statements. When translating financial statements of consolidated compaA full list of the shareholdings held by the KSB Group is pronies that are not prepared in euro, assets and liabilities are vided at the end of these Notes to the Consolidated Financial translated at the closing rate; the income statement accounts Statements. are translated at average exchange rates (modified closing rate method). The sole exception as at 31 December 2019 was the Consolidation methods translation of the financial statements of KSB Compañía For the purposes of consolidation, the effects of any intercomSudamericana de Bombas S.A., Carapachay (Buenos Aires), pany transactions are eliminated in full. Any receivables and Argentina, where income statement items were translated at liabilities between the consolidated companies are offset the closing rate, as in the previous year. Gains and losses from against each other, and any unrealised gains and losses recogthe translation of items of assets and liabilities compared with nised in fixed assets and inventories are eliminated. Any revetheir translation in the previous year are taken directly to nues from intercompany sales are offset against the correequity in other comprehensive income and reported under sponding expenses. KSB Group / Annual Annual Report Report 2019 2019 Consolidated Financial Statements 87 currency translation differences. They amount to and non-current financial assets was € 4,434 thousand (previ€ – 113,940 thousand (previous year: € – 117,763 thousand). ous year: loss of € 6,885 thousand). The effect of currency translation adjustments taken directly  Exchange rates for the most important currencies to equity on intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, Exchange rates for the most important currencies Closing rate Average rate 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 2019 2018 US dollar 1.1234 1.1450 1.1195 1.1810 Brazilian real 4.5157 4.4440 4.4126 4.3085 Indian rupee 80.1870 79.7298 78.8269 80.7332 Chinese yuan 7.8205 7.8751 7.7348 7.8081 Hyperinflation Fair value Argentina has been rated as a hyperinflation country for acFair value is the price that independent market participants counting purposes since 2018. As such, KSB is following the would, under standard market conditions, receive when selling information of the International Practices Task Force (IPTF) an asset or pay when transferring a liability at the measureof the Center of Audit Quality (CAQ). Based on this assessment date. This applies irrespectively of whether the price is ment, activities in Argentina have been reported under IAS 29 directly observable or has been estimated using a measurement Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Countries. No furmethod. ther information was provided as the impact on the Group’s net assets, financial position and result of operations was not The KSB Group defined a monitoring framework concept for material. determining fair value. This includes the monitoring of all material measurements at fair value and the direct communicaIII. ACCOUNTING POLICIES tion of material facts to Management and, if necessary, to the audit committee. For the purposes of calculating fair value, Acquisition and production costs KSB makes use wherever possible of estimates from market In addition to the purchase price, acquisition cost includes atparticipants or estimates derived from these. As an initial step, tributable incidental costs (except for costs associated with the regular checks are made to ascertain if there are current prices acquisition of a company) and subsequent expenditure. Puron active markets for an identical transaction. If no quoted chase price reductions are deducted. market prices are available, the preference is to use the marketbased approach (deriving the fair value from the market or As well as directly allocated costs, production costs also intransaction prices of comparable assets, for example multipliclude reasonable proportions of material and production overers) or the income-based approach (calculation of fair value as heads based on standard capacity utilisation of the relevant a future value by discounting future cash surpluses). production facilities, if and to the extent these were incurred as part of the production process. This also includes producBased upon the input factors used in the measurement methtion-related administrative expenses. General administrative ods, fair values are assigned to different levels of the fair value expenses, research costs and selling expenses are not capitalhierarchy. ised.  Level 1: Quoted prices (unadjusted) on active markets for Borrowing costs as defined in IAS 23 that can be directly alloidentical assets and liabilities cated to the acquisition or production of qualifying assets are capitalised. As in the previous year no such borrowing costs were incurred. 88 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2019  Level 2: Measurement parameters that are not the quoted Financial assets and liabilities are reported at fair value on inprices taken into account for level 1, but that are observitial recognition. Financial assets and liabilities that are not able for the asset or the liability either directly as a price measured at fair value are recognised after adjustment for or indirectly derived from prices transaction costs. Subsequent measurement is in line with the  Level 3: Measurement parameters for assets or liabilities measurement category allocated to the financial asset or finanthat are not based on observable market data cial liability. If input factors categorised into different levels are included in The fair value option is not being used at the moment. the fair value measurement, the measurement must be categorised in its entirety in the level of the lowest level input factor b) Derivatives that is material for the entire measurement. Derivatives are exclusively used for hedging purposes. Future cash flows and existing recognised underlyings are hedged Reclassifications between different levels in the fair value hieragainst foreign currency and interest rate risks (cash flow archy are recognised at the end of the reporting period during hedges). The hedging instruments used are exclusively curwhich the change has occurred. There were no reclassifications rency forwards and interest rate derivatives entered into with carried out in the year under review. prime-rated banks. Currency risks are hedged primarily for transactions in US dollars (USD). Interest rate risks are miniFinancial assets and financial liabilities mised for long-term borrowings at floating rates of interest. A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to both a Group guidelines govern the use of these instruments. These financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity transactions are also subject to continuous risk monitoring. instrument of another entity. In the case of cash flow hedges, changes in the fair value of the Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the effective portions of the currency derivatives are recognised consolidated balance sheet at the time when KSB becomes a under other comprehensive income and reported under contractual party. When the contractual right to payments “Changes in the fair value of financial instruments” in equity from financial assets expires, these are derecognised. Financial for as long as the underlying transaction is not recognised in liabilities are derecognised at the time when the contractual the income statement. Only the spot element of the derivative obligations are settled or cancelled or have expired. The acquihedging instrument is designated, while the forward element sition and sale of financial instruments on an arm’s length baand currency basis spreads are excluded from the hedge and sis are recognised at the value at the date of settlement. This reported separately in the hedging cost reserve in other comapplies to primary financial instruments, such as trade receivprehensive income. Any hedge ineffectiveness is reported ables and financial receivables. Only derivative financial inthrough the income statement. struments are recognised at the value at the trade date. Changes in the fair value of interest rate derivatives used to a) Primary financial instruments hedge against interest rate risks in liabilities are recognised unIn the KSB Group, primary financial instruments are allocated der other comprehensive income and reported under “Changes to the following measurement categories as financial assets in the fair value of financial instruments” in equity. and financial liabilities based on the requirements of IFRS 9: The carrying amounts equal fair value and are determined on Financial assets: the basis of input factors observable either directly (as a price) or indirectly (derived from prices). Fair values may be positive  Financial assets at amortised cost – Receivables, credits, or negative. Fair value is the amount that KSB would receive cash and cash equivalents, loans and other financial assets or have to pay at the reporting date to settle the financial in Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (FVPL) strument. This amount is determined using the relevant ex– Financial instruments change rates, interest rates and counterparty credit ratings at the reporting date. Information is obtained solely from recogFinancial liabilities: nised external sources.  Financial liabilities at amortised cost – Loans, trade payCurrency forwards and interest rate swaps are reported under ables and other financial liabilities other financial assets, and under other financial liabilities. KSB Group / Annual Annual Report Report 2019 2019 Consolidated Financial Statements 89 As in the previous year, maturities of the currency derivatives As part of the assessment, the Group conducts sensitivity analused are mostly between one and two years; there are no inyses to estimate the risk of impairment. The following assumpterest rate derivatives for the financial year in the Group. The tions are used in the process: a 15 % increase in the cost of maturities of the hedging instruments are matched to the capital (Sensitivity 1), a reduction of the growth rate to 0.00 % period in which the forecast transactions are expected to (Sensitivity 2; previous year: 0.25 % reduction in the growth occur. In the year under review, almost all hedged forecast rate) and a 10 % reduction in sales revenue with the corretransactions occurred as expected. sponding impact on expense items and performance indicators (Sensitivity 3). Sensitivity 3 is only applied to the material Intangible assets goodwills of the KSB Group. Intangible assets are measured at (acquisition or production) cost and reduced by straight-line amortisation. Depreciation / When companies are acquired, purchase price allocations are amortisation is reported under “Depreciation / amortisation” made and the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired is in the income statement. The underlying useful lives of intandetermined. In addition to the assets and liabilities already recgible assets – excluding goodwill (indefinite useful life) – is beognised by the selling party, account is also taken of markettween 2 and 15 years. If the reasons for an impairment loss in ing-related aspects (primarily brands or trademarks and coma previous period no longer apply, it is reversed (write-up) up petitive restrictions), customer-related aspects (primarily custo a maximum of amortised cost. tomer lists, customer relations and orders on hand), contractrelated aspects (mainly particularly advantageous service, Goodwill is tested for impairment once a year. The test relates work, purchasing and employment contracts) as well as techto cash-generating units (CGUs), which at KSB are generally nology-related aspects (primarily patents, know-how and dathe legal entities. Occasionally a group of cash-generating tabases). The residual value method, the excess earnings units may also serve as the basis, provided these units reflect method and cost-oriented procedures are primarily applied to the lowest level on which goodwill is monitored. The goodwill determine values. (and, if necessary, other assets) is reduced by the difference in value if the value in use is lower than the carrying amount of Development costs are capitalised as internally generated inthe CGU. Reversal of an impairment loss from an earlier petangible assets at cost where the criteria described in IAS 38 riod is not possible. In addition, a review of impairment is are met and reduced by straight-line amortisation as from the always carried out when events or circumstances (“trigger time the asset becomes operational. Research costs are exevents”) suggest that the value could be impaired. pensed as incurred. Where research and development costs cannot be reliably distinguished within a project, no costs are The discounted cash flow model is used to determine the recapitalised. coverable amount (value in use). The future earnings (EBIT in accordance with IFRS) applied were taken from a multi-year Leases financial plan (covering a maximum of five years), based on In the reporting year, KSB applied the new provisions of the 30 September reporting date taking into account the meIFRS 16 Leases for the first time. dium-term strategy approved by Management for the respective cash-generating unit. This planning was carried out based For leases where KSB is the lessee this requires that lease liaon certain assumptions which were drawn from both forecasts bilities and right-of-use assets (rights to use leased assets) be from external sources, e.g. current German Mechanical Engirecognised on the balance sheet. Leases of low value assets and neering Industry Association (VDMA) publications, and our short-term leases are exempt from this provision as KSB has own experience-based knowledge of markets and competitors. elected to make use of the practical expedient of accounting The earnings of the last plan year were consistently extrapofor lease payments as an expense. lated as a constant, considering that level to be achievable in the long term. Growth rates were derived taking account of Further details on the effects resulting from the first-time the estimates with regard to economic circumstances. The adoption of IFRS 16 and the associated accounting policies are Group regularly tests goodwill for impairment in the fourth presented in the following sub-section “Changes in accounting quarter of every year based on the figures as per 30 September policies due to the first-time adoption of IFRS 16”. of the year in question. 90 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Property, plant and equipment is usually the case where an entity holds between 20 % and In accordance with IAS 16, property, plant and equipment is 50 % of the voting power. These assets are recognised at cost measured at cost and reduced by straight-line depreciation at the time of acquisition. If the costs of acquisition exceed the over its useful life. If an asset’s recoverable amount is lower share of the net assets, adjustments are made on the basis of than its carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised. If the fair value (pro rata hidden reserves and liabilities). The rethe reasons for an impairment loss recognised in a previous maining amount is recognised as goodwill. It forms part of the period no longer apply, the impairment loss is reversed (writecarrying amount of the joint venture or associate and is not up) up to a maximum of amortised cost. amortised. For subsequent measurement, the carrying amounts are increased / reduced annually by the pro-rata earnGovernment grants relating to property, plant and equipment ings, distributed dividends or other changes in equity of the are transferred to an adjustment item on the liabilities side. joint venture or the associate. If local accounting principles This adjustment item is reversed over a defined utilisation differ from the Group’s standard accounting policies, adjustperiod. As far as government grants recognised which are to ments are made accordingly. The share of earnings is reported be held for specific periods of time are concerned, these periods in the consolidated income statement in a separate line (earnare expected to be complied with. ings from investments accounted for using the equity method), and changes such as currency translation effects are taken Maintenance expenses are recognised as an expense in the directly to Group equity. If the losses attributable to the KSB period in which they are incurred, unless they lead to the exGroup correspond to the carrying amount of the company or pansion or material improvement of the asset concerned. exceed this, they are not recognised unless KSB has entered into obligations or has made payments for the company. InterThe following useful lives are applied: company gains and losses from transactions between Group companies and investments accounted for using the equity Useful life of property, plant and equipment method are offset against the carrying amount in profit or loss. At each reporting date, a review is carried out to determine Buildings 10 to 50 years whether there are any objective indications of impairment, and Plant and machinery 5 to 25 years the amount of such impairment is calculated if required. If the Other equipment, operating and office equipment 3 to 25 years carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount of an investment, it is written down to the recoverable amount. Any imNon-current financial assets pairments or reversals of impairments are reported in the conInterest-bearing loans are recognised at amortised cost, solidated income statement under finance income / expense. whereas non-current financial instruments are reported in the income statement at fair value on the balance sheet date. Inventories Financial assets such other cash deposits are subject to an exPursuant to IAS 2, inventories are recognised at the lower of pected default risk. The impairment loss is calculated based on cost and net realisable value as at the reporting date. Cost is the loan amount on the closing or balance sheet date, the loss measured using the weighted average method. KSB takes acratio of the loan amount and the term-weighted credit default count of the inventory risks resulting from slow-moving goods spreads as a benchmark for probability of failure. Furtheror impaired marketability through write-downs to the net more, partial or complete impairment is recognised as soon as realisable value. This also applies if the selling price is lower there are signs of an increase in default risk. No significant than production cost plus costs still to be incurred. If the default risks of counterparties were determined during the reasons for an impairment loss charged in a previous period year. They were within investment grade as a whole. no longer apply, the impairment loss is reversed (write-up). Non-current other non-financial assets Advance payments made on inventories are also presented Investments in non-consolidated subsidiaries are measured at under inventories because of the correlation and expected amortised cost. realisation of these advances (through conversion into inventories) within the normal business cycle. Investments accounted for using the equity method Investments accounted for using the equity method are comContract assets and contract liabilities panies in which the parties exercise joint control (joint venA contract asset shows KSB’s claim to consideration in exture) or have the power to exercise significant influence over change for goods or services transferred to customers, with the the companies’ operating and financial policies (associate); this right to payment being not only conditional on the passage of KSB Group / Annual Annual Report Report 2019 2019 Consolidated Financial Statements 91 time but also on the satisfaction of an overall contractual perOther non-financial assets formance obligation by KSB. By contrast, receivables reflect The prepayments made that are presented in this item relate to KSB’s unqualified claim to consideration. A contract liability accrued expenditure prior to the reporting date that will only also represents KSB’s obligation to transfer goods or services be classified as an expense after the reporting date. to a customer. However, in these cases KSB has already received consideration from a customer that exceeds the amount Cash and cash equivalents of the goods or services provided. Any impairment of contract Cash (cash and sight deposits) and cash equivalents (shortassets is recognised using the simplified impairment model. term, highly liquid financial investments that are readily conContract assets relate to ongoing projects that have not yet vertible to defined amounts of cash, and that are subject to been invoiced and are subject to similar credit risks as trade only immaterial fluctuations in terms of their value) are recogreceivables for the same types of contract. Against this backnised at amortised cost. Cash and cash equivalents are subject ground, the expected loss rates of trade receivables are also to an expected credit default risk. The impairment allowance applied to the impairment of contract assets. under IFRS 9 is calculated based on the loan amount on the closing date, the loss ratio of the loan amount and the termTrade receivables weighted credit default spreads as a benchmark for probability Trade receivables and other current assets are subsequently of failure. Furthermore, partial or complete impairment allowrecognised at amortised cost. Low-interest or non-interestances are recognised as soon as there are signs of an increase bearing receivables are discounted. In addition, identifiable in default risk. No significant default risks of counterparties risks are taken into account by charging individual impairment were determined during the year. They were within investment losses. Individual impairment allowances are to be applied if grade as a whole. insolvency or collection proceedings have been instigated, on the default or failure to meet agreed repayment plans and on Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale overdue payments. Receivables are derecognised if it is reasonPursuant to IFRS 5, non-current assets or disposal groups are ably certain that payment cannot be expected. A risk provision classified as held for sale if it is highly likely that the carrying for expected credit losses (ECL) is set aside under the simpliamount will be realised primarily by a sales transaction and fied impairment model according to IFRS 9 for receivables that not through continued use of that asset. It must be assumed are not individually impaired. To measure expected credit that the sale will be completed within one year. If the Group losses, trade receivables are summarised on the basis of comis committed to a sale that involves loss of control of a subsidmon credit risk features (risk classes) and number of days overiary, all assets and liabilities of that subsidiary will be classified due. The expected default rates stem from the historic payment as held for sale, provided the above conditions are met. The profiles of sales revenues over the last three financial years beintangible assets, right-of-use assets for leases, and property, fore the reporting date. The historic and forward-looking inplant and equipment of the held-for-sale assets are no longer formation forms the basis for the expected probability of failamortised / depreciated, but instead are recognised at the lower ure, adjusted for future-oriented macroeconomic factors. of the carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. Most of the default risk exposure of trade receivables is Taxes on income hedged. For more information, please refer to Section VI. AdCurrent taxes on income are recognised in income tax liabiliditional Information on Financial Instruments” – sub-section ties to the extent that they have not yet been paid. If the “Financial risks – Credit risk”. amount already paid exceeds the amount owed, an income tax receivable is recognised and reported in other tax assets under Trade receivables for which collateral, such as credit insurother non-financial assets. ance, has been provided or letters of credit have been opened are recognised as impaired, taking account of default risks of Deferred taxes are accounted for in accordance with IAS 12 the provider of the security and the company’s macroeconomic using the balance sheet liability method on the basis of the enfactors. acted or substantively enacted local tax rates. This means that deferred tax assets and liabilities generally arise when the tax If the reasons for an impairment loss charged in a previous base of assets and liabilities differs from their carrying amount period no longer apply, the impairment loss is reversed (writein the IFRS financial statements, and this leads to future tax up). expense or income. Deferred tax assets from tax loss carryforwards are recognised in those cases where it is more likely than not that there will be sufficient taxable profit available in 92 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 the near future against which these tax loss carryforwards can current obligation on the reporting date. Any more or less sebe utilised. Deferred taxes are also recognised for consolidacure recourse or reimbursement claims are recognised as sepation adjustments. Deferred taxes are not discounted. Deferred rate assets. tax assets and liabilities are always offset where they relate to the same tax authority. Changes to deferred taxes in the conIf customer contracts are expected to be loss-making, a gross solidated balance sheet generally result in deferred tax expense statement is drawn up of contract assets and provisions for the or income. If, however, a direct entry is made in other compreexpected losses. hensive income in equity, the change in deferred taxes is also taken directly to equity. Provisions for restructurings are recognised only if the criteria set out in IAS 37 are met. Provisions a) Provisions for pensions and similar obligations Non-current provisions are discounted if the effects are mateProvisions for pensions and similar obligations pursuant to rial. IAS 19 are calculated on the basis of actuarial reports. They are based on defined benefit pension plans. They are measured Contingent liabilities using the projected unit credit method. Contingent liabilities, which are not recognised, are potential obligations that arise from past events and whose existence Actuarial gains and losses are taken directly to other comprewill be confirmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence of hensive income and reported in equity under “Remeasurement uncertain future events. Contingent liabilities may also be preof defined benefit plans”. The actuarial demographic assumpsent obligations that arise from past events where it is possible tions and the setting of the discount rate (based on senior, but not probable that there will be an outflow of resources fixed-income corporate bonds) and other measurement paembodying economic benefits. rameters (for example income and pension trends) are based on best estimates. Contingent liabilities correspond to the extent of liability at the reporting date. Net interest is calculated by multiplying the discount rate with the net liability (pension obligation minus plan assets) or the Revenue from contracts with customers net asset value that results if the plan assets exceed the pension KSB generates sales revenue from the sale of goods and goods obligation. purchased and held for resale from the production, sale and trade of machinery, systems and other industrial products, The defined benefit costs include the service cost, which is inparticularly pumps and valves and related support services. cluded in staff costs under pension costs, and the net interest KSB generates most of its sales revenue in the Pumps segment. income or expense on the net liability or net asset value, which The breadth of these orders ranges from the supply of an indiis recognised in finance income / expense under interest and vidual pump to customised pump sets, including drive and similar expenses or under interest and similar income. control systems. These goods and services are sold to engineering contractors, OEMs and end users or, in some cases, disNo provisions are set aside for defined contribution pension tributed via dealers. Some customer contracts contain several plans. In these cases, the premium payments are recognised service components, such as manufacture of a pump and the directly in the income statement as pension costs in the staff related installation and commissioning. These installation sercosts. Other than an obligation to pay premiums, KSB has no vices cover integration services and can only be carried out by further obligations. Consequently, the insurance risk remains specifically trained and qualified staff. They are not accounted with the insured parties. for as independent performance obligations and the transaction price is not split. b) Other provisions Provisions are recognised if a past event results in a present Sales revenue is recognised in the amount of the consideration legal or constructive external obligation that the company has expected by KSB based on the transfer of goods or provision no realistic alternative to settling, where settlement of this obof services to the customer. Depending on the type of perforligation is expected to result in an outflow of resources emmance and contractual structure, sales revenue is recognised bodying economic benefits, and the amount of the obligation either over time or at a point in time in line with satisfaction can be estimated reliably. The amount of the provision correof the performance obligation by KSB. sponds to the best estimate of the settlement amount of the KSB Group / Annual Annual Report Report 2019 2019 Consolidated Financial Statements 93 If a performance obligation meets the criteria for recognising EXW terms and conditions apply in most cases. For some insales revenue over time under IFRS 15 and the progress toternational deliveries, the contractual risk transfer takes place wards completion and expected consideration can be reliably when the goods are loaded onto a cargo ship in the port or estimated, the sales revenue is recognised based on progress delivered to the customer in the destination country. In these towards complete satisfaction of the performance obligation. cases, sales revenue is also recognised on the basis of the conKSB specifically recognises sales revenue over time for contractually agreed INCOTERMS. For certain deliveries and sertracts covering the production of customised pumps and valves vices, a declaration of acceptance by the customer is required as well as contracts for the provision of services. By contrast, for the recognition of sales revenue. For customer contracts standard products in the pumps and valves areas are typically based on sales revenue recognised at a point in time, sales resubject to sales revenue recognition at a point in time. KSB ductions also reduce sales revenue. applies the input-oriented method to determine progress that is measured by the factors used. The percentage of completion KSB agrees payment terms and conditions for customer conof contracts is determined on the basis of the proportion that tracts that allow for payment in a reasonable period after the contract costs incurred for work performed up to the reporting invoice has been issued. Extended payment terms are not usudate bear to the estimated total contract costs at the reporting ally granted to customers. There are usually no long-term fidate and thus follows the cost-to-cost method. Contract revenancing components. nue consists of all contractually agreed revenues, as well as additional claims and incentive payments that are likely to result In individual cases and in compliance with the statutory rein revenue and are capable of being reliably measured. Conquirements of IFRS 15, a customer may ask to obtain control tract revenue may vary, for instance because of cost escalation of a product prior to delivery of the goods (bill-and-hold arclauses, renegotiations or penalties. Sales revenue is accounted rangements). This can result in earlier sales revenue recognifor based on the amount fixed in the contract less expected tion. consideration. Variable considerations (cost escalation clauses, penalties, bonuses) are estimated at the most likely For regular fixed-price contracts, the customer pays a fixed value. Restrictions on estimate options are taken into account. amount using a payment plan. Depending on the ratio of the Estimates on costs and contract progress are corrected if circustomer payments received to the claim to consideration accumstances change. Any resultant increases or reductions in quired by KSB based on the transfer of goods and services to the estimated proceeds or costs are reflected in the profit and the customer, there is an advance or subsequent type of payloss account for the period in which the circumstances giving ment on the reporting date for the respective customer conrise to the correction occurred. If the earnings from a service tract. Contract assets are reported reduced by advances reor production order with sales revenue recognition over time ceived, if the amount of the goods and services provided by cannot be reliably estimated, revenue will only be recognised KSB exceed the payment amount. Payments received from the in the amount of the contract costs incurred that are likely to customer that exceed the amount of the goods and services be covered and the contract costs recognised as an expense for provided by KSB for the respective customer contract result in the period in which they are incurred. the reporting of a contract liability. Sales revenue is recognised at a point in time for performance Interest income and expense are recognised in the period in obligations that do not meet the criteria for recognising sales which they occur. Dividend income from investments is colrevenue over time under IFRS 15. At KSB, this typically applies lected when the legal entitlement to payment is created. Operin particular to standard products without any significant cusating expenses are recognised when they are incurred or when tomer-specific characteristic in the Pumps and Valves segthe services are utilised. Income tax is calculated in accordance ments. The point in time at which KSB satisfies its performance with the statutory tax rules in the countries in which the Group obligations from contracts with customers subject to sales operates. Deferred taxes are accounted for on the basis of the revenue recognition at a point in time is based on the agreed enacted or substantively enacted income tax rates. supply terms and conditions or acceptance by the customers. At the time of revenue recognition, receipt of the consideration must be probable and the amount of sales revenue must be reliably measurable. A reliable estimation of the associated costs and potential return of the goods must also be possible. Sales revenue from delivery is as a rule recognised in line with the agreed INCOTERMS. For standard products, FCA or 94 94 Consolidated Financial Consolidated Financial Statements Statements KSB KSB Group Group // Annual Annual Report Report 2019 2019 Estimates and assumptions are reviewed regularly by those with operative responsibility The preparation of consolidated financial statements in acand adjusted where necessary. cordance with the IFRSs as adopted by the EU requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the Provisions for employee benefits, especially pensions and simaccounting policies to be applied. When implementing such acilar obligations, are determined according to actuarial princounting policies, estimates and assumptions affect the assets, ciples which are based on statistical and other factors so as to liabilities, income and expenses recognised in the consolidated anticipate future events. Material factors are the reported marfinancial statements, and their presentation. These estimates ket discount rates and life expectancy. The actuarial assumpand assumptions are based on past experience and a variety of tions made may differ from actual developments as a result of other factors deemed appropriate under the circumstances. Acchanging market and economic conditions, and this can have tual amounts may differ from these estimates and assumptions. material effects on the amount of provisions and thus on the The estimates and assumptions made are constantly reviewed. company’s overall net assets, financial position and results of If more recent information and additional knowledge are operations. For the material pension plans of the German comavailable, recognised amounts are adjusted to reflect the new panies, every employee is entitled to apply at any time during circumstances. Any changes in estimates and assumptions that the ongoing employment contract for payment in annual inresult in material differences are explained separately. stalments, as a one-time payment or as a pension for life. KSB’s estimate as to how the specific workforce is likely to decide on Impairment tests for goodwill, which are conducted at least exercising the lump-sum option remains unchanged over the once per year, require an estimate of the recoverable amounts previous year and is reflected accordingly in the measurement for each cash-generating unit (CGU). These correspond to the of pension provisions. higher amount from the fair value less costs to sell and value in use. The earnings forecast on the basis of these estimates are Other provisions are recognised for uncertain liabilities with a affected by various factors, which may include exchange rate probability of occurrence of more than 50 %. The provision fluctuations, progress in Group integration or the expectations corresponds to the best estimate of the expenditure to fulfil the for the economic development of these units. Although mancurrent obligation on the reporting date. The later, actual outagement believes that the assumptions used to calculate the reflow can, however, differ from the estimate as a result of coverable amount are appropriate, any unforeseen changes in changed economic, political or legal conditions. This will be these assumptions could lead to an impairment loss. reflected in additional expenses or income from reversals. Estimates and assumptions must also be made to review the The global scope of activities must be taken into account in value of assets. For each asset it must be verified to what extent relation to taxes on income. Based on operative activities in there are indications of an impairment. When determining the numerous countries with varying tax laws and administrative recoverable amount of property, plant and equipment, the esinterpretation, differentiated assessment is required for detertimation of the relevant useful life is subject to uncertainty. mining tax liabilities. Uncertainty may arise due to different interpretations by taxable entities on the one hand and local Contract assets are subject to the impairment rules of IFRS 9. finance authorities on the other. Uncertain tax assets and liaAny impairment of contract assets is recognised using the simbilities are recognised if their probability of occurrence exceeds plified impairment model. Contract assets relate to ongoing 50 %. The best estimate of the expected tax payment is used projects that have not yet been invoiced and are subject to for reporting purposes; depending on the case in question this similar credit risks as trade receivables for the same types of will take the form of the most probable result or of the excontract. Against this background, the expected loss rates of pected value. Although KSB believes it has made a reasonable trade receivables are also applied to the impairment of contract estimate regarding any tax uncertainties, it is possible that the assets. actual tax obligation will differ from the original estimate. With regard to future tax benefits, KSB assesses their realisaIf performance obligations meet the relevant criteria of IFRS bility as of every reporting date. For this reason, deferred tax 15, KSB recognises revenue from customer contracts over time assets are only recognised if sufficient taxable income is availin line with progress towards completion. The latter is deterable in future. In assessing this future taxable income within mined according to the percentage of completion. This rethe planning horizon of three to five years it must be taken into quires estimates regarding the total contract costs and revenue account that expected future business developments are sub(including the variable considerations based on experience), ject to uncertainties and are in some cases excluded from concontract risks as well as other relevant factors. These estimates KSB Group / Annual Annual Report Report 2019 2019 Consolidated Financial Statements 95 trol by company management (for example changes to appliwere recognised for such leases. Leased assets with a fair value cable tax legislation). If KSB comes to the conclusion that preof up to € 5,000 were defined as low-value assets. For existing viously reported deferred tax assets cannot be realised because agreements classified as finance leases, only property, plant of changed assumptions, then the assets will be written down and equipment capitalised to date was reclassified as right-ofby the appropriate amount. use assets. The related lease liabilities continued to be recognised without change. Maturities The effects resulting from the first-time adoption of IFRS 16 Maturities of up to one year are classified as current. on the opening balance sheet are presented in summary form in the following table: Assets that can only be realised after more than twelve months,  Restatement of opening balance sheet as at 1 January 2019 as well as liabilities that only become due after more than twelve months, are also classified as current if they are atA reconciliation of obligations from operating leases as at 31 tributable to the operating cycle defined in IAS 1. An operating December 2018 to lease liabilities as at 1 January 2019 is precycle of more than 12 months typically applies to made-tosented in the following table: order production (construction contracts).  Reconciliation of lease obligations Assets and liabilities not classified as current are non-current. The weighted average incremental borrowing rate at which the lease liabilities were discounted as at 1 January 2019 was Changes in accounting policies and the impact resulting 2.5 %. This interest rate is used as the basis for determining from the first-time adoption of IFRS 16 Leases the discounting effect in the reconciliation from 31 December In January 2016, the IASB published the IFRS 16 Leases 2018 to 1 January 2019. accounting standard superseding IAS 17 Leases, IFRIC 4 Determining Whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease, Lease liabilities and right-of-use assets are generally recognised SIC 15 Operating Leases – Incentives and SIC 27 Evaluating at the time at which the leased asset is made available to KSB the Substance of Transactions Involving the Legal Form of a by the lessor for use. The carrying amount of the two items is Lease. IFRS 16 includes new rules on recognising, measuring, essentially based on the present value of the future minimum presenting and disclosing leases on a more detailed basis comlease payments. It is discounted using the incremental borrowpared with IAS 17. According to IFRS 16, a contract is, or coning rate of KSB if no interest rate implicitly underlying the lease tains, a lease if it conveys the right to control the use of an is available. Extension and termination options are included in identified asset for a period of time in exchange for considerathe term and the carrying amounts of a lease if it is deemed tion. Under IFRS 16, all leases must be presented by the lessee reasonably certain that they will be exercised by KSB. Only on the balance sheet in the form of a right-of-use asset (right lease components and in particular no separate service compoto use the leased asset) and a corresponding lease liability (lianents are taken into account in the measurement of lease paybility from lease obligations) for the payment of lease instalments. The right-of-use assets are depreciated over the ecoments. The interest expense for the lease liability and deprecinomic useful life of the leased asset or over the term of the ation / amortisation expense for the right-of-use asset must be lease, whichever is shorter. Lease liabilities are subsequently recognised separately. measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method in the form of a redemption and interest portion. KSB applied IFRS 16 for the first time as of 1 January 2019 Changes in lease payments are taken into account through reusing the modified retrospective method without restatement measurements of lease liabilities. Moreover, the practical exof prior periods, which continue to be presented in accordance pedients for leases with low-value underlying assets and shortwith IAS 17. The capitalised right of use was taken into acterm leases are applied unchanged beyond the date of first count in the amount of the lease liability, which had no effect adoption. The result is that for these leases the lease payments on equity. Initial direct costs were excluded when measuring are recognised as an expense in the income statement. the right of use at the time of first-time adoption. KSB has made use of the practical expedient in connection with lease There was no material effect on KSB’s EBIT from the amended agreements for low-value assets and for contracts with a term presentation in the income statement showing interest exof up to twelve months, i.e. for short-term leases. Existing lease penses from lease liabilities and depreciation of the right-ofagreements with a lease term ending in 2019 were also classiuse assets compared with the expenses for operating leases fied as short-term leases irrespective of their original total shown under IAS 17 in the previous year. term. Accordingly, no right-of-use assets and lease liabilities 96 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 The redemption component included in the lease payments is The new rules for lessors under IFRS 16 have minor signifiallocated to cash flows from financing activities. The interest cance for KSB and did not have any material effect on the concomponent is recognised in cash flows from operating activisolidated financial statements. ties, as is the case for lease payments for short-term leases, leases for low-value assets and variable lease payments. KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Consolidated Financial Statements 97 Restatement of opening balance sheet as at 1 January 2019 € thousands 31 Dec. 2018 Additions Reclassification 1 Jan. 2019 Assets Rights of use to land and buildings – 34,631 4,137 38,768 Rights of use to plant and machinery – 1,660 – 1,660 Rights of use to other equipment, operating and office equipment – 13,596 816 14,412 Intangible assets 91,089 – – 3,489 87,600 Property, plant and equipment 496,659 – – 1,464 495,195 Total 587,748 49,887 – 637,635 € thousands 31 Dec. 2018 Additions Reclassification 1 Jan. 2019 Equity and liabilities Equity 856,791 – – 856,791 Liabilities from lease obligations 1,230 49,887 – 51,117 Total 858,021 49,887 – 907,908 Reconciliation of lease obligations € thousands Obligations from operating leases as at 31 Dec. 2018 63,060 Practical expedient for leases of low-value assets – 8,470 Practical expedient for short-term leases – 2,445 Discounting – 2,258 + Liabilities from lease obligations (finance leases) as at 31 Dec. 2018 1,230 Liabilities from lease obligations as at 1 Jan. 2019 51,117 of which current liabilities from lease obligations 12,972 of which non-current liabilities from lease obligations 38,145 98 98 Consolidated Financial Consolidated Financial Statements Statements KSB KSB Group Group // Annual Annual Report Report 2019 2019 IV. BALANCE SHEET DISCLOSURES 1. Intangible assets Statement of changes in intangible assets Concessions, industrial property and similar rights and assets, as well as licences in Internally generated Intangible assets € thousands such rights and assets Goodwill intangible assets Advance payments Total Historical cost 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Balance at 1 Jan. (application of IAS 17) 74,781 71,883 105,571 103,210 30,745 – 773 25,311 211,870 200,404 Restatement under IFRS 16 – 5,572 – – – – – – – – 5,572 – Balance at 1 Jan. (application of IFRS 16) 69,209 71,883 105,571 103,210 30,745 – 773 25,311 206,298 200,404 Changes in consolidated Group 2 1,241 – 2,254 – – – – 2 3,495 Currency translation adjustments 74 – 552 – 283 – 167 – – – – – 209 – 719 Other 158 2,093 – 274 – – – – 72 158 2,295 Additions 2,844 2,596 – – 9,585 9,187 2,735 1,228 15,164 13,011 Disposals – 499 – 5,780 – 33,713 – – – – – 1,000 – 34,212 – 6,780 Reclassifications 774 3,300 1 – – 175 21,558 – 600 – 24,694 – 164 Reclassification to assets held for sale – 29 – – 1,376 – – – – – – 1,405 – Balance at 31 Dec. 72,533 74,781 70,200 105,571 40,155 30,745 2,908 773 185,796 211,870 Accumulated depreciation and amortisation 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Balance at 1 Jan. (application of IAS 17) 59,027 59,680 61,191 32,670 563 – – – 120,781 92,350 Restatement under IFRS 16 – 2,083 – – – – – – – – 2,083 – Balance at 1 Jan. (application of IFRS 16) 56,944 59,680 61,191 32,670 563 – – – 118,698 92,350 Currency translation adjustments 37 – 481 – 353 395 1 – – – – 315 – 86 Other 41 301 – – 68 – – – – 41 233 Additions 4,309 4,513 – 28,194 163 563 – – 4,472 33,270 Disposals – 488 – 5,002 – 33,711 – – – – – – 34,199 – 5,002 Reclassifications – 16 – – – – – – – 16 Reclassification to assets held for sale – 29 – – – – – – – – 29 – Balance at 31 Dec. 60,814 59,027 27,127 61,191 727 563 – – 88,668 120,781 Carrying amount at 31 Dec. 11,719 15,754 43,073 44,380 39,428 30,182 2,908 773 97,128 91,089 KSB Group / Annual Annual Report Report 2019 2019 Consolidated Financial Statements 99 In the context of the first-time adoption of IFRS 16 in the Goodwill impairment test reporting year contractual rights of use to land and building The carrying amounts of the cash-generating units in connecelements were reclassified from intangible assets to right-oftion with the impairment testing of goodwill do not contain use assets for leases. These reclassifications are presented in any items relating to taxes or financing activities. the “Statement of changes in intangible assets” table as “Restatement under IFRS 16”. To determine the discount factor, the weighted average cost of capital (WACC) method is applied in conjunction with the The additions to intangible assets amounting to € 15.2 million capital asset pricing model (CAPM), taking into account a peer (previous year: € 13.0 million) primarily concerned, as in the group. Under this method, first the cost of equity is determined previous year, own work capitalised and advance payments. using CAPM and the borrowing costs are defined, and then The own work capitalised relates in particular to the KSBase the individual capital components are weighted in accordance sales software, which is the new selection software for the with the capital structure taking account of the peer group. standard pump programme. The peer group information includes aspects like beta factors, capital structure data and borrowing costs. The peer group inThe “Concessions, industrial property and similar rights and cludes companies that are similar to the KSB Group in terms assets, as well as licences in such rights and assets” item inof industry, size and activity. To account for changes in market cludes € 10.0 million (previous year: € 10.6 million) of softparameters, the composition of the peer group is reviewed at ware including software licences valid for a limited period. As regular intervals and adjusted if necessary (e.g. changes in the in the previous year, there are no restrictions on ownership or business model of either the company, the cash-generating unit use. or the comparable company being looked at). KSB reported internally generated intangible assets of The interest rate for risk-free 30-year Bunds was used as a base € 39,428 thousand (previous year: € 30,182 thousand). This rate. This rate was 0.1 % in the year under review (previous resulted essentially from the above-mentioned KSBase selecyear: 1.0 %). The market risk premium was set at 6.75 % (pretion software, which was made operational in December 2019. vious year: 5.75 %), with a beta factor of 1.04 (previous year: 0.90). In addition, country-specific tax rates and country risk In the year under review, no impairment losses were recogpremiums are taken into account individually for each cashnised on intangible assets. In the previous year, advance paygenerating unit (CGU). The growth rate in the year under rements for intangible assets of € 1,000 thousand were derecogview for all companies was set at 0.5 % (previous year: 0.00 % nised; in addition to this, no impairment losses were recogto 1.25 %). The regular review of the peer group did not gennised on intangible assets. erate any new findings in relation to the business models of comparative companies. The peer group for examining the As in the previous year, no product-related development costs weighted capital cost factor therefore remained the same as in were capitalised in the year under review because not all of the the previous year. comprehensive recognition criteria defined in IAS 38 were met. Further information on the reclassification from intangible assets to held-for-sale assets in the year under review is provided in Note 10 “Assets held for sale and liabilities in connection with assets held for sale”. When assessing the indications for impairment of assets as at 31 December 2019, it was found that the carrying amount of net assets at KSB exceeds market capitalisation. As a result, the assets within the scope of IAS 36 were tested for impairment. As at 31 December 2019 this test did not show a need for impairment. 100 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Discount rates For the goodwill impairment test, the assumptions listed in the “Detailed information on key goodwill items (30 September Before taxes in % (value in use) 30 Sep. 2019 30 Sep. 2018 2019)” and “Basic assumptions for goodwill considered mateCompanies in Germany 9.5 – 9.9 7.9 – 8.4 rial” tables were made for the goodwill considered material. Companies in The Netherlands 9.3 7.7 Among other things, this relates to the assumptions made Companies in the USA 8.6 – 9.7 7.8 regarding order intake figures, sales revenue and operating Companies in South Africa 14.4 11.4 earnings. Companies in South Korea 9.6 8.2  Detailed information on material goodwill items (30 September Companies in the other 2019) European countries 8.8 – 15.7 7.5 – 11.1  Basic assumptions for goodwill considered material Goodwill As well as impairment testing, sensitivity analyses were conducted for each cash-generating unit. No need for impairment Name of CGU / € thousands 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 would have resulted here for any cash-generating units in the DP industries B. V., The Netherlands 18,285 18,285 year under review. Dynamik-Pumpen GmbH, Germany 3,150 3,150 Uder Elektromechanik GmbH, After adjusting all required parameters, the discount factors as Germany 2,980 2,980 at 31 December 2019 were within the range of the sensitivity KSB Finland Oy, Finland 2,603 2,603 calculations performed as at 30 September 2019. KSB Dubric, Inc. (USA) 2,451 2,405 KSB Pumps (S.A.) (Pty) Ltd., The need for goodwill impairment as at 31 December of the South Africa 1,886 1,808 previous year is shown in the “Impairment loss on goodwill 31,355 31,231 (31 December 2018)” table. Other 15 (previous year: 18)  Impairment loss on goodwill (31 December 2018) companies 11,718 13,149 Total 43,073 44,380 The “Sensitivities” table shows the amounts of goodwill that would have resulted from the sensitivity analyses as at 31 DeThe reference date for carrying out the goodwill impairment cember of the previous year. test is 30 September every year. The impairment test as at 30  Sensitivities September 2019 did not show a need for impairment. Detailed information on material goodwill items (30 September 2019) Carrying amount of Percentage Method for assessing Name of goodwill of total Underlying assumptions, the value of the underCGU Method (€ million) goodwill Discount rate Growth rate corporate planning lying assumption DP industries Value in use 18.3 42 % 9.3 % 0.50 % Low to significant market Consideration of macroB.V., growth rates economic key data and before tax The Netherinternal estimates of the lands relevant purchasing and sales departments. KSB Group / Annual Annual Report Report 2019 2019 Consolidated Financial Statements 101 Basic assumptions for goodwill considered material Name of CGU Order intake Sales revenue EBIT Planning time horizon DP industries B.V., Constant growth, on average Constant growth, on average Moderate growth, on 5 years average, as a result of sales The Netherlands revenue and cost planning Impairment loss on goodwill (31 December 2018) Recoverable amount Impairment loss Name of CGU Segment Discount factor € thousands € thousands Total 31 Dec. 2018 Société de travaux et Ingénierie Industrielle (ST II) / KSB SERVICE COTUMER, France Service 8.8 % 1,433 6,188 KSB Service Energie S.A.S.U., France Service 8.7 % 4,538 1,412 KSB Seil Co., Ltd., South Korea Valves 8.7 % 16,371 20,599 In the 2019 financial year, no need for impairment relating to goodwill was identified. Sensitivities Name of CGU / € thousands Sensitivity 1 Sensitivity 2 Sensitivity 3 31 Dec. 2018 Société de travaux et Ingénierie Industrielle (ST II) / KSB SERVICE COTUMER, France 6,676 6,257 n/a KSB Service Energie, France 2,040 1,466 n/a KSB Seil, Busan, South Korea 23,290 21,066 31,714 KSB Italia S.p.A., Italy 2,737 – n/a SPI Energie, France 332 – n/a Dynamik-Pumpen GmbH, Germany 132 – n/a KAGEMA Industrieausrüstungen GmbH, Germany 135 – n/a The sensitivity analyses for the 2019 financial year did not reveal any imputed impairment losses for goodwill. 2. Right-of-use assets € thousands 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 Additions to right-of-use assets in the reporting year amounted Right-of-use assets for leases 50,096 – to € 12,956 thousand. of which land and buildings 34,210 – of which technical equipment Depreciation on right-of-use assets in the year under review and machinery 1,139 – was as follows: of which other equipment, operating and office equipment 14,747 – € thousands 2019 2018 Depreciation on right-of-use assets 15,893 – The new balance sheet item “Right-of-use assets” results from of which land and buildings 8,807 – the first-time adoption of IFRS 16 in the year under review. of which technical equipment and machinery 604 – of which other equipment, operating and office equipment 6,482 – 102 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 3. Property, plant and equipment Statement of changes in property, plant and equipment Other equipment, Advance payments operating and office and assets under Property, plant and € thousands Land and buildings Plant and machinery equipment construction equipment Historical cost 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Balance at 1 Jan. (application of IAS 17) 416,831 381,587 594,186 593,154 228,153 225,103 25,125 24,071 1,264,295 1,223,915 Restatement under IFRS 16 – 1,100 – – – – 1,861 – – – – 2,961 – Balance at 1 Jan. (application of IFRS 16) 415,731 381,587 594,186 593,154 226,292 225,103 25,125 24,071 1,261,334 1,223,915 Changes in consolidated Group – 1,282 – 25 325 109 – – 325 1,416 Currency translation adjustments 1,394 – 1,991 874 – 822 304 – 3,481 607 – 1,092 3,179 – 7,386 Other 823 25,324 – – 22,901 486 225 – – 4 1,309 2,644 Additions 10,130 8,660 19,794 21,472 19,615 20,315 29,322 16,146 78,861 66,593 Disposals – 3,983 – 641 – 6,913 – 9,168 – 9,183 – 12,894 – 52 – 20 – 20,131 – 22,723 Reclassifications 10,960 2,610 6,948 12,426 2,365 – 1,224 – 20,273 – 13,976 – – 164 Reclassification to assets held for sale – – – 2,555 – – 289 – – – – 2,844 – Balance at 31 Dec. 435,055 416,831 612,334 594,186 239,915 228,153 34,729 25,125 1,322,033 1,264,295 Accumulated depreciation and amortisation 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Balance at 1 Jan. (application of IAS 17) 188,906 156,455 416,445 402,104 162,285 159,142 – – 767,636 717,701 Restatement under IFRS 16 – 452 – – – – 1,045 – – – – 1,497 – Balance at 1 Jan. (application of IFRS 16) 188,454 156,455 416,445 402,104 161,240 159,142 – – 766,139 717,701 Currency translation adjustments 516 315 680 1,013 254 – 2,152 – – 1,450 – 824 Other 514 18,540 – 62 – 17,846 568 277 – – 1,020 971 Additions 11,484 13,712 31,343 38,417 18,659 19,092 – – 61,486 71,221 Disposals – 2,181 – 285 – 6,454 – 8,685 – 8,579 – 12,447 – – – 17,214 – 21,417 Reclassifications 702 169 – 862 1,442 160 – 1,627 – – – – 16 Reclassification to assets held for sale – – – 1,975 – – 154 – – – – 2,129 – Balance at 31 Dec. 199,489 188,906 439,115 416,445 172,148 162,285 – – 810,752 767,636 Carrying amount at 31 Dec. 235,566 227,925 173,219 177,741 67,767 65,868 34,729 25,125 511,281 496,659 KSB Group / Annual Annual Report Report 2019 2019 Consolidated Financial Statements 103 Assets resulting from finance leases were capitalised under 5. Other non-financial assets property, plant and equipment in the previous year pursuant to IAS 17. With the first-time adoption of IFRS 16 at the start € thousands 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 of 2019 they were reclassified as right-of-use assets. These Other investments 2,840 2,914 reclassifications are presented in the “Statement of changes in 2,840 2,914 property, plant and equipment” table as “Restatement under IFRS 16”. Other investments are investments in affiliates that were not consolidated due to there being no material impact. As in the Disposals of intangible assets and items of property, plant and previous year, there was no depreciation / amortisation apequipment resulted in book gains of € 3,190 thousand (previplied in the year under review. ous year: € 1,618 thousand) and book losses of € 453 thousand (previous year: € 661 thousand). The book gains and 6. Investments accounted for using the equity method losses are reported in the income statement under other income The following table lists the KSB Group’s material joint venand other expenses. tures. “Seat” refers to the country in which the main activity is performed. All joint ventures and associates are accounted In the year under review, impairment losses of € 512 thousand for using the equity method and can also be found in the list (previous year: € 10,580 thousand) were recognised on propof shareholdings in these Notes to the Consolidated Financial erty, plant and equipment to take account of lower expected Statements. The share of capital corresponds to the share of cash inflows from a foundry. This impairment is reported in voting rights. the income statement under depreciation and amortisation.  Material joint ventures The impairment loss recorded in the year under review relates to the Pumps segment. The impairments in the previous year Neither of the two material joint ventures is listed on a stock related to two valve ranges in the Valves segment. market, which is why there is no active market. Further information on the reclassification from property, Summarised financial information on these material joint venplant and equipment to held-for-sale assets in the year under tures of the KSB Group and a combined summary for all the review is provided in Note 10 “Assets held for sale and liabilindividually immaterial joint ventures and associated compaities in connection assets held for sale”. nies are provided in the following tables:  Summarised balance sheet 4. Financial assets  Summarised statement of comprehensive income € thousands 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 Loans 1,265 1,113  Reconciliation to carrying amount of Group share in joint Financial instruments 697 660 ventures 1,962 1,773  Summarised information on joint ventures and associates that € 778 thousand of the loans are loans to equity investments are immaterial individually (previous year: € 535 thousand). As in the previous year, there are no pro rata losses that have not been recognised from the consolidation at equity. 104 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Material joint ventures Name and seat Capital share Nature of the entity’s relationship KSB Pumps Arabia Ltd., 50.00 % KSB Pumps Arabia Ltd. in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, offers a wide range of services and activities for the energy Saudi Arabia market as well as in water, waste water and building services applications. The portfolio includes business development and marketing, supply chain management, production of pressure booster systems and pump sets, sale of pumps, valves and systems and technical service activities. KSB Pumps Arabia Ltd. is important for the growth of the Group in the Saudi Arabian market. Shanghai Electric-KSB 45.00 % Shanghai Electric-KSB Nuclear Pumps and Valves Co., Ltd. in Shanghai, China, produces suitable auxiliary pumps Nuclear Pumps and Valves for the secondary coolant circuits and modern reactor coolant pumps for the primary cooling circuits of nuclear Co., Ltd. (China) power stations. Shanghai Electric-KSB Nuclear Pumps and Valves Co., Ltd. is a strategic partnership on the part of the Group, through which KSB is participating in the expansion of energy capacity in China and other Asian markets. Summarised balance sheet Shanghai Electric-KSB Nuclear KSB Pumps Arabia Ltd. Pumps and Valves Co., Ltd. € thousands 2019 2018 2019 2018 Non-current assets 10,718 10,678 81,209 73,907 Current assets 38,101 39,143 125,483 126,679 of which cash and cash equivalents 3,115 263 28,718 17,928 Non-current liabilities – 2,981 – 4,896 – 21,733 – 25,523 of which non-current financial liabilities (excluding trade payables and provisions) – 1,189 – 3,487 – 12,787 – 25,523 Current liabilities – 27,889 – 26,634 – 154,337 – 145,667 of which current financial liabilities (excluding trade payables and provisions) – 7,172 – 5,090 – 19,321 – 26,793 Net assets 17,949 18,291 30,622 29,396 Summarised statement of comprehensive income Shanghai Electric-KSB Nuclear KSB Pumps Arabia Ltd. Pumps and Valves Co., Ltd. € thousands 2019 2018 2019 2018 Sales revenue 33,572 34,916 61,934 55,840 Depreciation / amortisation 989 782 4,323 4,116 Interest income – – 70 62 Interest expense – 397 – 553 – 2,149 – 2,613 Earnings from continuing operations – 755 2,591 1,032 775 Taxes on income – – 46 – – Earnings after taxes from continuing operations – 755 2,545 1,032 775 Earnings after taxes from discontinued operations – – – – Other comprehensive income 413 861 194 – 266 Comprehensive income – 342 3,406 1,226 509 Dividends received from joint ventures – 201 – – KSB Group / Annual Annual Report Report 2019 2019 Consolidated Financial Statements 105 Reconciliation to carrying amount of Group share in joint ventures Shanghai Electric-KSB Nuclear KSB Pumps Arabia Ltd. Pumps and Valves Co., Ltd. € thousands 2019 2018 2019 2018 Net carrying amount at 1 January 18,291 15,287 29,396 28,887 Earnings after income tax – 755 2,545 1,032 775 Distribution of dividends – – 402 – – Other comprehensive income 413 861 194 – 266 Net carrying amount at 31 December 17,949 18,291 30,622 29,396 Investment in joint venture (50 % / 45 %) 8,975 9,145 13,780 13,228 Elimination of intercompany profit and loss – – – 3,874 – 3,349 Goodwill – – – – Carrying amount at 31 December 8,975 9,145 9,906 9,879 Summarised information on joint ventures and associates that are immaterial individually Joint ventures Associates Total Joint ventures Associates Total € thousands 2019 2019 2019 2018 2018 2018 Group share of earnings from continuing operations 241 751 992 140 592 732 Group share of other comprehensive income 74 – 74 144 23 167 Group share of comprehensive income 315 751 1,066 284 615 899 Total carrying amounts of Group shares in these companies 3,946 1,376 5,322 3,631 1,200 4,831 7. Inventories € 88,827 thousand (previous year: € 61,614 thousand) of the inventories is carried at net realisable value. The impairment € thousands 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 losses recognised as an expense in the reporting period amount Raw materials and production to € 12,426 thousand (previous year: € 10,513 thousand). Due supplies 192,740 182,134 to new estimates, write-downs totalling € 649 thousand (preWork in progress 168,871 184,158 vious year: € 810 thousand) were reversed where the current Finished goods and goods purchased net realisable value was higher than the prior-period value. and held for resale 165,221 162,128 Inventories amounting to € 994,103 thousand (previous year: Advance payments 17,871 16,010 € 911,991 thousand) were recognised as an expense in the 544,703 544,430 reporting period. 106 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 8. Contract assets, trade receivables and other financial and non-financial assets € thousands 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 Contract assets 76,428 74,499 Trade receivables 504,101 518,116 Trade receivables from third parties 473,873 483,626 Trade receivables from other investments, associates and joint ventures 30,228 34,490 thereof from other investments 5,800 5,384 thereof from associates 460 7 thereof from joint ventures 23,968 29,098 Other financial assets 90,938 103,388 Receivables from loans to other investments, associates and joint ventures 348 12,661 Currency forwards 850 1,070 Other receivables and other current assets 89,740 89,657 Other non-financial assets 39,613 49,504 Other tax assets 31,237 40,124 Deferred income 8,376 9,380 At € 76,428 thousand (previous year: € 74,499 thousand), the Impairment losses on receivables from loans to other investbalance of contract assets at the end of the reporting year was ments amounted to € 320 thousand (previous year: € 3.172 at a comparable level to the previous year. Impairment losses thousand). No impairment losses were applied on receivables on contract assets amounted to € 204 thousand (previous year: from joint ventures or associates, as in the previous year. € 190 thousand). Impairment losses on trade receivables include the individual In addition, impairment losses on trade receivables from third impairment allowance (EWB) and risk provisions for expected parties amounted to € 35,000 thousand (previous year: credit losses (ECL). For contract assets, impairment losses in€ 33,943 thousand). There were no impairment losses on trade clude risk provisions for expected credit losses (ECL). receivables from other investments (previous year: € 499 thou Reconciliation of impairment losses sand). KSB Group / Annual Annual Report Report 2019 2019 Consolidated Financial Statements 107 Reconciliation of impairment losses 2019 Trade receivables from third parties Contract assets € thousands Total EWB ECL ECL Opening balance at 1 January – 33,943 – 29,359 – 4,584 – 190 Additions – 9,493 – 8,107 – 1,386 – 30 Utilised 1,561 1,561 – – Reversals 6,478 4,306 2,172 15 Currency translation 396 371 26 1 Closing balance at 31 December – 35,000 – 31,228 – 3,772 – 204 Reconciliation of impairment losses 2018 Trade receivables from third parties Contract assets € thousands Total EWB ECL ECL Opening balance at 1 January – 35,481 – 27,746 – 7,735 – 79 Additions – 7,399 – 7,399 – – 111 Utilised 3,616 3,616 – – Reversals 5,321 2,170 3,151 – Currency translation – – – – Closing balance at 31 December – 33,943 – 29,359 – 4,584 – 190 Risk provisions for expected credit losses of contract assets are The expected default risk of trade receivables from third pardetermined as follows: ties, calculated using the simplified impairment model, is distributed across the age structure of the unhedged gross trade Risk provisions for expected credit losses of contract assets receivables, as shown in the “Risk provision for expected credit losses by maturity of trade receivables” table. Not overdue  Risk provision for expected credit losses by maturity of trade receivables 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 Expected default risk in % 0.3 0.3 Furthermore, the balance of risk provisions for expected credit € thoulosses from trade receivables against third parties includes an Gross contract assets sands 76,632 74,689 amount of € 407 thousand (previous year: € 555 thousand) € thouwhich relates to hedged receivables. ECL sands – 204 – 190 108 108 Consolidated Financial Consolidated Financial Statements Statements KSB KSB Group Group // Annual Annual Report Report 2019 2019 Risk provision for expected credit losses by maturity of trade receivables Not Up to Up to Up to Up to Over 31 Dec. 2019 overdue 30 days 90 days 180 days 360 days 360 days Total Expected default risk in % 0.2 1.3 1.8 2.1 2.6 2.9 – Gross trade receivables from third parties excluding hedged receivables € thousands 336,985 38,129 25,232 14,430 16,913 33,898 465,587 ECL € thousands – 682 – 504 – 462 – 307 – 437 – 973 – 3,365 31 Dec. 2018 Expected default risk in % 0.3 1.1 2.0 3.0 3.2 4.2 – Gross trade receivables from third parties excluding hedged receivables € thousands 323,241 52,016 37,208 18,870 13,754 21,254 466,343 ECL € thousands – 830 – 554 – 753 – 560 – 439 – 893 – 4,029 Other receivables and other current assets include hedges of 9. Cash and cash equivalents credit balances prescribed by law for partial retirement Cash and cash equivalents are term deposits with short maturarrangements and long-term working time accounts of the ities and call deposits, and also current account balances. German Group companies in the amount of € 19,600 thousand. € 29,242 thousand (previous year: € 20,964 thousand) of total provisions and other assets are due after more than one year. KSB Group // Annual KSB Group Report 2019 Annual Report 2019 Consolidated Financial Statements 109 109 10. Assets held for sale and liabilities in connection with assets held for sale Assets held for sale € thousands 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 Non-current assets 3,455 – Intangible assets 1,376 – Right-of-use assets 1,208 – Property, plant and equipment 715 – Non-current financial assets 41 – Deferred tax assets 115 – Current assets 4,298 – Inventories 1,036 – Trade receivables 2,375 – Other financial assets 597 – Other non-financial assets 97 – Cash and cash equivalents 193 – Total 7,753 – Liabilities in connection with assets held for sale € thousands 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 Non-current liabilities 1,361 – Provisions for employee benefits 398 – Financial liabilities 963 – Current liabilities 2,606 – Other provisions 7 – Financial liabilities 252 – Contract liabilities 35 – Trade payables 1,030 – Other financial liabilities 6 – Other non-financial liabilities 1,237 – Income tax liabilities 39 – Total 3,967 – As far as the assets and liabilities of subsidiary SPI Energie Within the scope of reclassification, no impairment losses were S.A.S., La Ravoire, France, from the Service segment were conrecognised for the assets of the disposal group because the net cerned, KSB as at the reporting date expected a highly likely carrying amount of the assets and liabilities in question was disposal as defined by IFRS 5 through the sale of shares. This below the fair value less costs to sell. assessment was based on advanced negotiations with a potential buyer. Accordingly, the assets and liabilities of this subsidThe sale of assets and liabilities took place as part of the sale iary are presented as a disposal group held for sale in the of shares in January 2020. reporting year and recognised in separate balance sheet items. 110 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 11. Equity companies in India and China. KSB FINANZ S.A., EchterThere was no change in the share capital of KSB as against the nach, Luxembourg, holds a 51 % interest in PAB GmbH, previous year. In accordance with the Articles of Association, while Johannes und Jacob Klein GmbH, Frankenthal, holds a it totals € 44,771,963.82 and, as in the previous year, is com49 % interest. posed of 886,615 ordinary shares and 864,712 preference shares. Each no-par-value share represents an equal notional Details of the changes in equity accounts and non-controlling amount of the share capital. The preference shares carry sepainterests are presented in the Statement of Changes in Equity. rate cumulative preferred dividend rights and progressive additional dividend rights. All shares are no-par-value bearer The proposal on the appropriation of the net retained earnings shares. The individual shares have no par value. of KSB SE & Co. KGaA calculated in accordance with HGB [Handelsgesetzbuch – German Commercial Code] is shown at The capital reserve results from the appropriation of premiums the end of these Notes. from capital increases in previous years. Capital disclosures In addition to revenue reserves from previous years, the reveSufficient financial independence is a key requirement for safenue reserves include currency translation adjustments, consolguarding KSB’s continued existence in the long term. Obtainidation effects, remeasurements of defined benefit plans under ing the necessary funds for ongoing business operations is also IAS 19 and changes in the fair value of interest rate derivatives extremely important for KSB. KSB regularly monitors the taken directly to equity. These issues resulted in deferred tax development of the net financial position that is derived from assets in the amount of € 96,957 thousand (previous year: the balance of interest-bearing financial liabilities and interest€ 75,366 thousand) and deferred tax liabilities in the amount bearing financial assets (current and non-current financial of € 8 thousand (previous year: € 24 thousand). instruments, interest-bearing loans to companies accounted for using the equity method as well as companies that were not A total of € 5,583 thousand (dividend of € 3.00 per ordinary consolidated due to there being no material impact, cash and share and € 3.38 per preference share) was paid from equity cash equivalents and receivables from deposits). One objective by resolution of the Annual General Meeting of the Group’s is to avoid net debt. The net financial position at the end of parent company KSB SE & Co. KGaA, Frankenthal, on 29 the year under review was € 246 million (previous year: € 255 May 2019. million). The decline over the previous year is due, in particular, to the rise in lease liabilities from the first-time adoption Non-controlling interests relate primarily to PAB GmbH, of IFRS 16 in the year under review. Frankenthal / Pfalz, and the interests it holds, as well as to the 12. Provisions Composition of provisions 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 € thousands Total Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Employee benefits 658,529 646,340 12,190 587,927 578,640 9,287 Pensions and similar obligations 629,617 629,617 – 553,573 553,573 – Other employee benefits 28,912 16,722 12,190 34,354 25,067 9,287 Other provisions 69,742 1,366 68,376 84,934 1,377 83,557 Warranty obligations and contractual penalties 44,304 – 44,304 45,582 – 45,582 Provisions for restructuring 410 – 410 1,023 – 1,023 Miscellaneous other provisions 25,028 1,366 23,662 38,329 1,377 36,952 728,271 647,706 80,565 672,861 580,017 92,844 KSB Group / Annual Annual Report Report 2019 2019 Consolidated Financial Statements 111 Development of individual provision categories Changes in consolidated Group / Utilisation / € thousands 1 Jan. 2019 CTA* / Other Prepayments Reversals Additions 31 Dec. 2019 Employee benefits 587,927 – 238 – 30,770 – 151 101,761 658,529 Pensions and similar obligations 553,573 – 218 – 17,379 – 10 93,652 629,617 Other employee benefits 34,354 – 21 – 13,390 – 141 8,109 28,912 Other provisions 84,934 – 449 – 35,945 – 4,235 25,439 69,742 Warranty obligations and contractual penalties 45,582 99 – 19,508 – 3,030 21,162 44,304 Provisions for restructuring 1,023 3 – 610 – 13 7 410 Miscellaneous other provisions 38,329 – 551 – 15,827 – 1,192 4,270 25,028 672,861 – 688 – 66,715 – 4,386 127,200 728,271 * CTA = Currency translation adjustments Provisions for pensions and similar obligations titled to apply at any time during the ongoing employment The pension obligations in the KSB Group include defined concontract for payment in annual instalments, as a one-time paytribution and defined benefit plans and contain both obligament or as a pension for life. tions from current pensions and future pension benefit entitlements. Pension schemes in France are governed by the provisions of the respective collective agreements. The obligations are basiTotal expenses for defined benefit pension plans in the year cally covered by assets that have been paid in to an external under review amounted to € 41,138 thousand (previous year: fund. At the beginning of the final quarter of each year, an € 34,655 thousand). Of this figure, € 27,655 thousand (previactuarial report is prepared to calculate the current scope of ous year: € 26,778 thousand) resulted from contributions into obligation. If there is a shortfall, a compensation payment is the statutory pension insurance scheme in Germany. made to the fund. Differences in the calculation parameters under local and international law ultimately result in a surplus The obligations for defined benefit pension plans for employof obligations in the Group. Upon retirement, the employees ees of the Group are mainly due to pension obligations in Gerconcerned receive a one-off payment from the fund. many, as well as in France, the United States and Switzerland. The defined benefit pension plans in the United States are More than 90 % of the defined benefit pension plans are closed to new entrants. The pension benefit amount is derived attributable to the German Group companies. These relate to from the average salary and years of service before closure of direct commitments by the companies to their employees. The the plan. The retirement age is 65 years; from this point a commitments are based on salary and length of service. Conmonthly payment is made to the beneficiaries. The pension tributions from employees themselves are also considered. benefits are financed by external funds. This pension provision can be broken down into purely company-financed basic provision and the top-up provision from Pension obligations in Switzerland are predominantly based the employer. The latter is based on the amount of own conon statutory obligations. This also includes details on a minitributions and the generated return on sales before taxes on mum pension which all employees with uninterrupted contriincome. Both components take account of the general pension butions are entitled to by law. The employer is therefore contribution (the amount of which partially depends on comrequired to pay in contributions which are high enough for the pany performance), personal income (the relationship between respective pension fund or insurance company to pay out these pensionable income and maximum income threshold) and the minimum amounts. As well as pension benefits, the plans enannuity conversion factor (based on age). For the material pencompass other benefits such as disability or survivors’ benefits. sion plans of the German companies, every employee is enBoth employer and employee contributions are paid to the 112 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 pension fund, with the company having to make contributions The actuarial valuations of the present value of the defined that at least match the employee contributions specified in the benefit obligation (and the related current service cost and the terms and conditions of the plan. The retirement benefits are past service cost) are measured and calculated annually on the paid out in monthly instalments, but all employees have the basis of actuarial reports using the projected unit credit option to receive a (partial) capital payment. method (IAS 19). Plan assets are measured at fair value.  Balance sheet figures for defined benefit plans In addition, employees in other countries are also entitled to a limited extent to retirement and partly to medical care bene Change in cash value of defined benefit obligations fits, depending mainly on the length of service and salary. These defined benefit plans harbour actuarial risks, such as the longevity risk and interest rate risk. The payments associated with the pension obligations are mostly serviced through liquidity. Plan assets are also partially available for financing these obligations. Most of the plan assets are managed by insurers who set their own appropriate investment policies. Balance sheet figures for defined benefit plans Defined beneNet liability Defined beneNet liability fit obligations Fair value of from defined fit obligations Fair value of from defined (DBOs) plan assets benefit plans (DBOs) plan assets benefit plans € thousands 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2018 Germany 599,720 – 599,720 529,188 – 529,188 France 18,150 5,373 12,777 16,332 7,279 9,053 USA 14,278 13,237 1,041 13,411 11,253 2,158 Switzerland 13,890 12,364 1,526 12,794 11,721 1,073 Other countries 41,462 26,909 14,553 39,458 27,357 12,101 Balance sheet values 687,500 57,883 629,617 611,183 57,610 553,573 KSB Group / Annual Annual Report Report 2019 2019 Consolidated Financial Statements 113 Change in cash value of defined benefit obligations € thousands 2019 2018 Opening balance of the defined benefit obligation (DBO) – 1 Jan. 611,183 650,465 Current service cost 12,236 8,011 Interest cost 11,735 12,837 Employee contributions 265 3,190 Remeasurements – / + Gain / loss from the change in demographic assumptions 490 4,718 – / + Gain / loss from the change in financial assumptions 75,323 1,278 – / + Experience-based gain / loss – 1,024 818 Benefit payments – 20,357 – 20,935 Past service cost (incl. effects of settlements and curtailments) – 20 – 46,174 Transfer of assets 14 – 433 Currency translation differences 1,642 192 Changes in consolidated Group / Other – 3,987 – 2,784 Closing balance of the defined benefit obligation (DBO) – 31 Dec. 687,500 611,183 The current and past service cost is recognised in staff costs A mean fluctuation rate (2.0 %) continues to be applied to under pension costs, and the interest cost is recognised in staff turnover for the German plans, as in the previous year. finance income / expense under interest and similar expenses. The biometric assumptions are based on the 2018G mortality tables published by Prof. Klaus Heubeck, and the retirement The past service cost amounting to € 46,174 thousand reage used for the calculations is based on the Rentenversicherported in the previous year essentially resulted from the introungs-Altersgrenzenanpassungsgesetz 2007 [RVAGAnpG – duction of a lump-sum option in the pension plans of German German Act Adapting the Standard Retirement Age for the companies concluded before 2009. Statutory Pension Insurance System]. Other measurement parameters (e.g. cost trends in the medical care area) are not In the following year, employer contributions to plan assets material. are expected to be at the level seen in the 2019 financial year. The amounts in 2019 came to € 1,638 thousand. The discount rate and future mortality were identified as key  Changes in the fair value of the plan assets actuarial assumptions. As in the previous year the basis for the calculation of the sensitivities is the same method which was Interest income is recognised in the income statement net of used for the calculation of the provisions for pensions and simthe DBO interest expense under interest and similar expenses ilar obligations. and thus reported under finance income / expense.  Changes to the net liability of the defined benefit obligations Were the discount factor to increase by 100 basis points, the DBO would fall by € 84,718 thousand (previous year:  Composition of plan assets € 86,364 thousand). A 100 basis point reduction in the discount factor would increase the DBO by € 143,166 thousand The pension funds are endowed with the amount needed to (previous year: € 113,422 thousand). It should be noted that a meet the respective statutory minimum requirements. change in the discount factor due to particular financial effects (such as compound interest) does not affect the development The actual income from plan assets amounted to € 6,266 thouof the DBO on a straight-line basis. Were life expectancy to sand (previous year: expense of € 1,093 thousand). increase by 1 year, the DBO would increase by € 20,554 thou Actuarial assumptions sand (previous year: € 22,242 thousand). 114 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Additionally, the individual actuarial assumptions are mutuOn 31 December 2019 the weighted average term of the DBO ally dependent, but these interdependencies are not taken into was 25 years (previous year: 24 years). account in the sensitivity analysis. Changes in the fair value of the plan assets € thousands 2019 2018 Opening balance of the plan assets measured at fair value – 1 Jan. 57,610 63,604 Interest income 1,711 2,019 Remeasurements + / – Gain / loss from plan assets excluding amounts already recognised in interest income 4,310 – 3,922 Contributions by the employer 1,638 1,787 Contributions by the beneficiary employees 191 197 Currency translation differences 1,111 131 Paid benefits – 3,788 – 4,096 Changes in consolidated Group / Other – 4,900 – 2,110 Closing balance of the plan assets measured at fair value – 31 Dec. 57,883 57,610 Changes to the net liability of the defined benefit obligations € thousands 2019 2018 Opening balance of the net liability from defined benefit plans – 1 Jan. 553,573 586,861 Current service cost 12,236 8,011 Net interest expense 10,024 10,818 Employee contributions 74 2,993 Contributions by the employer – 1,638 – 1,787 Remeasurements – / + Gain / loss from plan assets excluding amounts already recognised in interest income – 4,310 3,922 – / + Gain / loss from the change in demographic assumptions 490 4,718 – / + Gain / loss from the change in financial assumptions 75,323 1,278 – / + Experience-based gain / loss – 1,024 818 Benefit payments – 16,569 – 16,839 Past service cost (incl. effects of settlements and curtailments) – 20 – 46,174 Transfer of assets 14 – 433 Currency translation differences 531 61 Changes in consolidated Group / Other 913 – 674 Closing balance of the net liability from defined benefit plans – 31 Dec. 629,617 553,573 KSB Group / Annual Annual Report Report 2019 2019 Consolidated Financial Statements 115 Composition of plan assets No quoted No quoted Quoted market market price Quoted market market price price in an in an active price in an in an active active market market Total active market market Total € thousands 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2018 Equity instruments (shares) 23,777 – 23,777 20,746 – 20,746 Debt instruments (loans) 19,822 – 19,822 21,824 70 21,894 Government bonds 5,031 – 5,031 6,625 – 6,625 Corporate bonds 14,791 – 14,791 15,199 70 15,269 Currency forwards – – – – – – Money market investments 285 327 612 1,606 277 1,883 Real estate 3,785 – 3,785 3,377 – 3,377 Insurance contracts – 7,175 7,175 – 6,098 6,098 Bank credit balances 1,484 – 1,484 792 12 804 Other investments 1,228 – 1,228 1,528 1,280 2,808 50,381 7,502 57,883 49,873 7,737 57,610 Actuarial assumptions Discount rate Assumed rate of salary increase Assumed rate of pension increase in % 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 Germany 1.1 1.8 2.7 2.7 1.9 1.9 France 0.9 1.6 2.8 2.8 1.9 – USA 3.0 4.0 – – – – Switzerland 0.2 1.0 1.0 1.0 – – Expected pension benefit payments € thousands at 31 Dec. 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 Expected payments 22,759 26,055 23,133 23,687 23,852 € thousands at 31 Dec. 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Expected payments 27,711 23,953 25,900 23,630 25,576 Other employee benefits Other provisions primarily contain provisions for expected Provisions for other employee benefits relate primarily to anlosses of € 13,226 thousand (previous year: € 25,900 thouniversary and partial retirement obligations. sand). These include, as in the previous year, provisions for a legacy project in the United Kingdom as well as provisions set Other provisions aside due to the political situation in Iran. Furthermore, to a The provisions for warranty obligations and contractual penlesser extent provisions for litigation risks amounting to alties cover the statutory and contractual obligations to cus€ 1,771 thousand are included in miscellaneous other provitomers and are based on estimates prepared using historical sions. data for similar products and services. They amount to € 44,304 thousand (previous year: € 45,582 thousand) in the € 16,134 thousand (previous year: € 16,571 thousand) of the year under review. other provisions are expected to become cash-effective after more than one year. 116 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 13. Liabilities Non-current liabilities € thousands 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 Financial liabilities 56,750 30,099 Loan against borrower’s note 21,988 21,976 Bank loans and overdrafts 2,410 6,967 Finance lease liabilities 32,036 826 Other 316 330 Current liabilities € thousands 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 Financial liabilities 44,318 48,777 Loan against borrower’s note – 26,000 Bank loans and overdrafts 28,698 21,990 Finance lease liabilities 15,015 404 Liabilities to other investments, associates and joint ventures – 320 Other 605 63 Contract liabilities 165,463 157,389 Trade payables 252,741 270,212 Trade payables to third parties 251,382 264,675 Liabilities to other investments, associates and joint ventures 1,359 5,537 Other financial liabilities 31,226 32,767 Currency forwards 3,336 3,731 Miscellaneous other financial liabilities 27,890 29,036 Other non-financial liabilities 161,528 154,689 Social security and liabilities to employees 126,117 116,674 Tax liabilities (excluding income tax) 23,760 23,734 Prepaid expenses 6,419 9,629 Investment grants and subsidies 5,232 4,652 Income tax liabilities 9,050 8,326 Liabilities in connection with assets held for sale 3,967 – KSB Group / Annual Annual Report Report 2019 2019 Consolidated Financial Statements 117 In 2012, to safeguard liquidity in the medium term, KSB SE & At € 165,463 thousand (previous year: € 157,389 thousand), Co. KGaA took the precaution of placing a loan against borthe balance of contract liabilities at the end of the year was at rower’s note with a total volume of € 175 million. This loan is a comparable level to the previous year. In the year under divided into repayment tranches of 3, 5, 7 and 10 years. review, KSB reported sales revenue of € 78,828 thousand (preTranches of € 127 million in total were repaid in 2017 and vious year: € 61,797 thousand) which was contained in the 2015, some early. As the different repayment tranches have balance of contract liabilities at the beginning of the year different terms, different rates of interest apply, some of which under review. are fixed and some variable. A repayment of € 26 million was made in the year under review. € 13.5 million (previous year: The reported investment grants and subsidies largely comprise € 27.5 million) of the liabilities arising from the loan against funding from the European Union and German entities for borrower’s note are classified as bank loans and overdrafts, new buildings and development aid projects. and € 8.5 million (previous year: € 20.5 million) as other financial liabilities. Assets amounting to € 10,168 thousand (previous year: € 11,939 thousand) have been pledged as security in the KSB The weighted average interest rate on bank loans and overGroup for liabilities on the basis of standard terms and condidrafts as well as on an open-market credit (loan against bortions. Of these, € 3,416 thousand (previous year: € 5,239 rower’s note) was 5.34 % (previous year: 3.94 %). thousand) relate to property, plant and equipment, € 504 thousand (previous year: € 1,442 thousand) to cash and cash The increase in current and non-current liabilities from lease equivalents and € 6,248 thousand (previous year: € 5,258 obligations compared with the prior-year figures results from thousand) to other securities. the first-time adoption of IFRS 16 in 2019. The maturity analysis of lease obligations at the reporting date is as follows: As in the previous year, no liabilities were secured by land charges or similar rights in the year under review. Maturity analysis of liabilities from lease obligations There were no covenant agreements for loans in the year under € thousands 31 Dec. 2019 review, as was the case in the previous year. Due within 1 year 15,015 Due between 1 and 5 years 29,054 Liabilities in connection with held-for-sale assets form part of Due after more than 5 years 2,982 the disposal group detailed in Note 10 “Assets held for sale 47,051 and liabilities in connection with assets held for sale”. 118 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 V. INCOME STATEMENT DISCLOSURES 14. Sales revenue Sales revenue by contract type Unsatisfied performance obligations € thousands 2019 2018 € thousands 2019 2018 Revenue from the sale of goods and Total transaction price of unsatisfied goods purchased and held for resale 2,109,370 1,984,508 performance obligations as at the Services sales revenue 273,815 261,440 closing date (orders on hand) 1,409,339 1,353,910 Sales revenue 2,383,185 2,245,948 of which expected sales revenue within the next 12 months 1,004,543 1,004,119 KSB generates income from the transfer of goods and services of which expected sales reveover time or at a point in time in the segments presented. nue in more than 12 months 404,796 349,791 Spare parts used for repairs are also included in the Service segment. Sales revenue by segment and timing of revenue recognition in 2019 Pumps Valves Service € thousands segment segment segment Total Revenue from contracts with customers 1,562,462 364,365 456,358 2,383,185 Timing of revenue recognition At a point in time 1,328,011 337,870 – 1,665,881 Over time 234,451 26,495 456,358 717,304 Sales revenue by segment and timing of revenue recognition in 2018 Pumps Valves Service € thousands segment segment segment Total Revenue from contracts with customers 1,469,443 340,771 435,734 2,245,948 Timing of revenue recognition At a point in time 1,307,639 319,957 – 1,627,596 Over time 161,804 20,814 435,734 618,352 KSB Group / Annual Annual Report Report 2019 2019 Consolidated Financial Statements 119 15. Other income 17. Staff costs € thousands 2019 2018 € thousands 2019 2018 Income from the reversal of Wages and salaries 685,412 655,614 provisions – 8,507 Social security contributions and Income from the reversal of employee assistance costs 131,083 126,650 impairment losses 6,533 5,321 Pension costs 31,800 – 16,802 Income from disposal of assets 3,190 1,618 848,295 765,462 Currency translation gains 740 1,146 Miscellaneous other income 22,950 16,458 Pension costs are reduced by the interest component included 33,413 33,050 in the allocation of provisions that is reported in financial income / expense. In the previous year, pension costs included income from past service cost in the amount of € 46,434 thouIncome from current assets is primarily from the reversal of sand as a result of the introduction of a lump-sum option. impairment losses on receivables. Other income includes in Employees come from government grants in the amount of € 4,177 thousand (previous year: € 3,855 thousand) and income from inThe first-time inclusion of the fully consolidated companies surance compensations of € 2,745 thousand (previous year: TOV “KSB Ukraine”, Kiev, Ukraine, IOOO “KSB BEL”, € 2,549 thousand). Furthermore, income from claims for damMinsk, Belarus, and KSB Ltd., Tokyo, Japan, led to an increase ages amounting to € 3,476 thousand was included in this item of 27 in the average number of employees over the year and to in the year under review. an increase of 26 at the closing date. In the 2019 financial year the presentation was changed and In the year under review the calculation of the average headincome from the reversal of provisions, which was previously count and the headcount at the reporting date was changed in reported under other income, is now shown under the expense that employees are included irrespective of their level of items originally used to create the provisions. The reversal of employment. By contrast, the number of trainees is no longer provisions in the year under review totalled € 4,386 thousand. included in the figure. The prior-year figures were restated accordingly. 16. Cost of materials The cost of materials amounted to € 984,787 thousand (previous year: € 934,545 thousand) in the year under review. This item includes expenses for raw materials, consumables and supplies and for goods and services purchased. Employees Average for the year At reporting date 2019 2018* 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018* Wage earners 7,220 7,099 7,200 7,134 Salaried employees 8,371 8,259 8,445 8,348 15,591 15,358 15,645 15,482 * Restated compared with presentation in the 2018 annual report 120 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 18. Other expenses Other expenses essentially include expenses from the addition to provisions in connection with customer orders. Income from the reversal of such provisions is also included in this € thousands 2019 2018 item in the year under review. Repairs, maintenance, third-party services 129,012 118,983 19. Finance income / expense Administrative expenses 97,793 89,703 Interest and similar expenses include the net interest expense Selling expenses 64,553 68,370 for pension provisions amounting to € 10,024 thousand (preRents and leases 12,547 26,640 vious year: € 10,818 thousand). In 2019, the item included inOther staff costs 26,905 26,001 terest expense of € 1,556 thousand from the subsequent measImpairment losses on trade urement of lease liabilities resulting from the adoption of receivables and contract assets 9,493 7,510 IFRS 16. The negative performance of the finance income / exCurrency translation losses 210 2,546 pense compared with the previous year is principally attributLosses from current assets 1,979 2,142 able to this new feature. Losses from asset disposals 453 661 Miscellaneous other expenses 29,252 74,313 372,198 416,869 The decline in expenses for rents and leases results from the first-time adoption of IFRS 16 in the year under review. In 2019, this item included expenses for leases with low-value underlying assets of € 2,347 thousand, expenses for short-term leases in the amount of € 7,591 thousand, expenses from variable lease payments of € 668 thousand and expenses for rents and other leases in the amount of € 1,941 thousand. Finance income / expense € thousands 2019 2018 Finance income 5,741 4,893 Income from equity investments – 248 thereof from other investments – 248 Interest and similar income 5,638 4,618 thereof from other investments 8 30 thereof from investments accounted for using the equity method 814 767 Other finance income 103 27 Finance expense – 17,098 – 16,544 Interest and similar expenses – 16,802 – 15,432 thereof to other investments – – Write-downs on other investments – – Other finance expense – 296 – 1,112 Income / expense from / to investments accounted for using the equity method 1,186 2,510 Finance income / expense – 10,171 – 9,141 KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Consolidated Financial Statements 121 20. Taxes on income All income-related taxes of the consolidated companies and deferred taxes are reported in this item. Other taxes are re Allocation of deferred taxes ported in the income statement after other expenses. As at the reporting date, deferred tax assets of € 80,830 thouTaxes on income sand (previous year: € 67,579 thousand) were recognised, arising from companies posting a loss in the year under review or € thousands 2019 2018 previous year, whose realisation exclusively depends on the Effective taxes 37,478 27,663 creation of future profit. Based on the planning figures availDeferred taxes 7,454 13,981 able, KSB expects realisation to take place. 44,932 41,644 Income tax included under equity € 289 thousand (previous year: € 1,376 thousand) of the effective taxes in the year under review relate to tax refunds and € thousands 2019 2018 € 715 thousand (previous year: € 889 thousand) to tax Remeasurement of arrears. defined benefit plans – 70,479 – 10,736 Taxes on income 21,389 3,341 Contingent liabilities from income tax issues amount to Currency translation differences 3,982 – 13,276 € 2,627 thousand (previous year: € 1,536 thousand). At preTaxes on income – – sent, there are no indications that any claims will be asserted Changes in the fair value of under these obligations. financial instruments – 575 – 5,624 Taxes on income 175 1,683 Reconciliation of deferred taxes Other comprehensive income – 45,508 – 24,612 € thousands 2019 2018 Change in deferred tax assets – 14,710 11,345 Change in deferred tax liabilities 894 – 4,451 Change in deferred taxes recognised in balance sheet – 13,816 6,894 Change in deferred taxes taken directly to equity 21,564 5,024 Changes in consolidated Group / CTA* / Other – 294 2,063 Deferred taxes recognised in income statement 7,454 13,981 * CTA = Currency translation adjustments 122 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Allocation of deferred taxes Deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities € thousands 2019 2018 2019 2018 Non-current assets 3,882 4,191 49,408 36,708 Intangible assets 412 608 11,978 9,089 Right-of-use assets – – 10,460 – Property, plant and equipment 3,470 3,583 26,964 27,618 Non-current financial assets – – 6 1 Current assets 40,408 41,999 20,801 20,957 Inventories 35,147 34,997 318 51 Receivables and other current assets 5,268 7,002 20,821 20,906 Assets held for sale – 7 – – 338 – Non-current liabilities 112,271 84,364 68 7 Provisions 105,127 84,167 68 – Other liabilities 7,144 * 197 – 7 Current liabilities 17,332 18,600 19,873 22,475 Provisions 7,219 12,055 1,182 931 Other liabilities 10,559 * 6,545 18,691 21,544 Liabilities in connection with assets held for sale – 446 – – – Tax loss carryforwards 212 1,132 – – Gross deferred taxes – before offsetting 174,105 150,286 90,150 80,147 Offset under IAS 12.74 – 79,004 – 69,895 – 79,004 – 69,895 Net deferred taxes – after offsetting 95,101 80,391 11,146 10,252 * Deferred tax assets from non-current lease liabilities amount to ≈ 7,124 thousand and those from current lease liabilities total ≈ 3,449 thousand. They are reported under deferred taxes for other liabilities (non-current and current). Reconciliation of income tax € thousands 2019 2018 Earnings before income tax (EBT) 103,432 65,561 Calculated income tax on the basis of the applicable Group tax rate (30 % as in the previous year) 31,030 19,668 Differences in tax rates – 4,829 16 Unused tax loss carryforwards 13,852 14,124 Impairment losses on deferred taxes on tax loss carryforwards 950 – Impairment loss on goodwill – 6,659 Impairment losses on deferred taxes for temporary differences – – Tax-exempt income – 3,750 – 7,243 Non-deductible expenses 6,236 11,957 Prior-period taxes 1,761 – 1,587 Other tax credits – 1,219 – 1,695 Non-deductible foreign income tax 2,746 2,471 Investments accounted for using the equity method – 228 – 579 Miscellaneous – 1,617 – 2,147 Current taxes on income 44,932 41,644 Current tax rate 43 % 64 % KSB Group / Annual Annual Report Report 2019 2019 Consolidated Financial Statements 123 The unchanged applicable tax rate of 30 % is a composite rate deferred tax assets can be utilised. The loss carryforwards are resulting from the current German corporation tax, solidarity largely available for an indefinite period. The income resulting surcharge and trade tax rates. from the use of loss carryforwards for which no deferred tax liabilities have been recognised was € 2,791 thousand (previThe introduction of new local taxes had no effects (previous ous year: € 250 thousand). year: minor effects) in the year under review. Changes in foreign tax rates led to an increase in the total tax expense of Deductible temporary differences for which no deferred tax € 938 thousand (previous year: increase of € 185 thousand). assets had to be set up amounted to € 32,586 thousand (previous year: € 34,339 thousand). As far as net income from affiliates and other equity invest Reconciliation of income tax ments is concerned, withholding taxes incurred in connection with distributions and German taxes incurred are recognised 21. Earnings after income tax – Non-controlling interests as deferred taxes if these gains are expected to be subject to The net profit attributable to non-controlling interests corresponding taxation, or there is no intention of reinvesting amounts to € 16,353 thousand (previous year: € 13,569 thouthem in the long term. No deferred tax liabilities were recogsand) and the net loss attributable to non-controlling interests nised for temporary differences of € 83,098 thousand (previamounts to € 938 thousand (previous year: € 951 thousand). ous year: € 71,440 thousand) in relation to affiliates and assoNon-controlling interests relate primarily to PAB GmbH, ciates as it is unlikely that these temporary differences will be Frankenthal, and the interests it holds, as well as to the comreversed in the foreseeable future. panies in India and China. No deferred tax assets were recognised for loss carryforwards 22. Earnings per share amounting to € 147,818 thousand (previous year: € 124,041 Earnings per share are calculated using the weighted average thousand) because it is unlikely that there will be sufficient number of shares as the denominator. taxable profit available in the near future against which these Earnings per share 2019 2018 Earnings after income tax attributable to KSB SE & Co. KGaA shareholders € thousands 43,085 11,299 Additional dividend attributable to preference shareholders (€ 0.26 per preference share) (previous year: € 0.38 per preference share) € thousands – 225 – 329 € thousands 42,861 10,970 Number of ordinary shares 886,615 886,615 Number of preference shares 864,712 864,712 Total number of shares 1,751,327 1,751,327 Diluted and basic earnings per ordinary share € 24.47 6.26 Diluted and basic earnings per preference share € 24.73 6.64 124 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 VI. ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES ON FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Financial instruments – Carrying amounts and fair values by measurement category: Financial instruments by measurement category – Assets Balance sheet item / Class Measurement Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value € thousands category 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2018 Non-current assets Non-current financial instruments FVPL 697 697 660 660 Loans Amortised cost 1,265 1,265 1,113 1,113 Current assets Trade receivables from third parties Amortised cost 473,873 – 483,626 – Trade receivables from other investments, associates and joint ventures Amortised cost 30,228 – 34,490 – Trade receivables from other investments, associates and joint ventures Amortised cost 348 – 12,661 – Currency forwards used as hedges n/a 850 850 1,070 1,070 Other receivables and other current assets Amortised cost 89,740 – 89,657 – Cash and cash equivalents Amortised cost 280,875 – 255,545 – Financial instruments by measurement category – Equity and liabilities Balance sheet item / Class Measurement Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value € thousands category 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2018 Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities excluding lease obligations Amortised cost 24,714 26,510 29,274 31,621 Lease obligations n/a 32,036 – 826 832 Current liabilities Financial liabilities excluding lease obligations Amortised cost 29,303 – 48,373 – Lease obligations n/a 15,015 – 404 – Trade payables Amortised cost 252,741 – 270,211 – Currency forwards used as hedges n/a 3,336 3,336 3,731 3,731 Miscellaneous other financial liabilities Amortised cost 27,890 – 29,036 – Carrying amounts aggregated by category under IFRS 9 Balance sheet item / Class Measurement € thousands category 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 Assets Amortised cost 876,329 877,092 Equity and liabilities Amortised cost 334,648 376,894 FVPL FVPL 697 660 KSB Group / Annual Annual Report Report 2019 2019 Consolidated Financial Statements 125 The carrying amount of financial assets measured at amortised The following table shows the financial assets and liabilities cost approximates fair value. This is also the case for all finanmeasured at fair value on a recurring basis, broken down into cial liabilities shown on the balance sheet, with the exception measurement categories and the previously described hierarof non-current financial liabilities. This is mainly due to the chy levels. There were no reclassifications carried out during short maturities of these financial instruments. the year under review.  Hierarchy levels The fair values of non-current financial liabilities and loans are determined as the present value of level 2 cash flows associated The net gains and losses from financial instruments, after takwith the liabilities and loans. KSB applies an appropriate yield ing into account the relevant tax effect, are presented in the curve to arrive at this present value. following table:  Net results by measurement category The fair values of the current and non-current financial instruments presented in the table above are based on prices quoted The interest shown is a component of finance income / exin active markets (level 1). Fair values within level 2 are deterpense. The effect from the application of the effective interest mined based on a discounted cash flow method. Future cash rate method is immaterial here as the interest expenses are virflows from currency forwards are estimated on the basis of tually offset by the resulting interest income. The other gains forward exchange rates (observable rates on the reporting and losses are partly reported in other income and other exdate) and the contracted forward exchange rates, and are dispenses. counted with an adequate interest rate. Level 3 includes financial instruments whose fair value is determined on the basis of The amount of financial assets and liabilities subject to offsetinputs not based on observable market data. Foreign exchange ting agreements is not material. derivatives are measured using forward exchange rates. For interest rate swaps the fair value is determined through discounting the future expected cash flows based on the market interest rates and yield curves that apply to the remaining term of the contracts. Hierarchy levels 2019 € thousands Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets recognised at fair value Current financial instruments 697 – – 697 Currency forwards – 850 – 850 Financial liabilities recognised at fair value Currency forwards – 3,336 – 3,336 Hierarchy levels 2018 € thousands Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets recognised at fair value Current financial instruments 660 – – 660 Currency forwards – 1,070 – 1,070 Financial liabilities recognised at fair value Currency forwards – 3,731 – 3,731 126 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Net results by measurement category in 2019 From subsequent measurement From interest Currency Impairment € thousands and dividends At fair value translation losses From disposal Net results Amortised cost (assets) 5,741 – – 286 – 3,395 – 2,060 Amortised cost (equity and liabilities) – 6,819 – – 427 – – – 7,246 FVPL 16 – – – – 16 – 1,062 – – 713 – 3,395 – – 5,170 Net results by measurement category in 2018 From subsequent measurement From interest Currency Impairment € thousands and dividends At fair value translation losses From disposal Net results Amortised cost (assets) 4,645 – 500 – 1,997 – 3,148 Amortised cost (equity and liabilities) – 5,992 – 43 – – – 5,949 FVPL 12 – – – – 12 – 1,335 – 543 – 1,997 – – 2,789 Financial risks minimises this risk using a variety of measures. As a matter of KSB is exposed to certain financial risks as a consequence of principle, KSB runs credit checks on potential and existing its business activities. These risks can be classified into three counterparties. KSB only enters into business relationships if areas: the results of these checks are positive. Additionally, European companies in particular take out trade credit insurance poliKSB is firstly exposed to credit risk. Credit risk is defined as cies. As in the previous year, this applies to around 10 % of the potential default or delays in the receipt of contractually the Group’s trade receivables in total. In exceptional cases KSB agreed payments. KSB is also exposed to liquidity risk which accepts other securities (collateral) such as guarantees. The inis the risk that an entity will be unable to meet its financial surance policies primarily cover the risk of loss of receivables. obligations, or will be unable to meet them in full. In addition, Moreover, cover is also taken out against political and comKSB is exposed to market price risk. The risk of exchange rate mercial risks in the case of specific customers in selected counor interest rate changes may adversely affect the economic tries. For both types of insurance, KSB has agreed deductibles, position of the Group. Risks from fluctuations in the prices of which represent significantly less than 50 % of the insured volfinancial instruments are not material for KSB. ume. As part of receivables management, KSB continuously monitors outstanding items, performs maturity analyses and KSB limits all these risks through an appropriate risk manageestablishes contact with customers at an early stage if delays ment system, defining how these risks are addressed through in payment occur. In the case of major projects, the terms and guidelines and work instructions. In addition, KSB continuconditions provide for prepayments, guarantees and – for ously monitors the current risk characteristics and regularly export transactions – letters of credit. These also mitigate risk. provides the information obtained in this way to the Managing KSB recognises impairment losses for the residual risk remainDirectors and the Supervisory Board in the form of standarding in trade receivables. It regularly examines the extent to ised reports and individual analyses. which individual receivables need to be written down for impairment. Indications of this are significant financial difficulThe three risk areas are described in detail in the following. ties of the debtor, such as insolvency or bankruptcy. ReceivAdditional information is also provided in the group manageables are derecognised when it is reasonably certain that payment report, in particular in the Economic Review, Report on ment cannot be expected. Expected Developments, Opportunities and Risks Report sections. The maximum default risk, excluding collateral received, corresponds to the carrying amount of the financial assets. These Credit risk all have an investment grade rating. The primary credit risk is that there is a delay in settling a receivable, or that it is not settled either in full or in part. KSB KSB Group / Annual Annual Report Report 2019 2019 Consolidated Financial Statements 127 There is no concentration of risk because the diversity of KSB’s regular liquidity planning. This way, it can react at any time business means that it supplies a considerable number of custo fluctuating liquidity requirements. Approved cash loans and tomers in different sectors. credit lines total approximately € 1,319.4 million (previous year: approx. € 1,283.9 million), of which € 814.9 million Liquidity risk (previous year: € 1,012.4 million) has not yet been utilised. Liquidity management ensures that the liquidity risk is minimised in the Group and that solvency is ensured at all times. Cash loans and credit lines included amounts from a syndiThere are no concentrations of risk because KSB works with a cated loan agreement signed in December 2018 whose credit number of credit institutions, on which strict creditworthiness line can be used at any time. The credit line has a fixed term requirements are imposed. of five years with the option to renew twice by one year each time. In the year under review, KSB availed itself of this option KSB generates its financial resources primarily from its operfor the first time and extended the fixed term of the line early, ating business. These are used to finance investments in nonuntil the end of 2024. current assets. KSB also uses them to cover our working capital requirements. To keep these as low as possible, KSB monitors The utilisation of cash loans and credit lines from the syndichanges in inventories, contract assets, trade receivables, trade cated loan agreement by the Group was as follows at the end payables and contract liabilities regularly using a standardised of the year under review: Group reporting system. Maximum Use as at The reporting system additionally ensures, with the help of € thousands / Type of line amount of line 31 Dec. 2019 monthly rolling cash flow planning , that the Group’s centralLoans 300,000 6,687 ised financial management is continuously informed about Sureties 350,000 90,723 liquidity surpluses and requirements. This enables KSB to optimally meet the needs of the Group as a whole and of the The following tables show the contractually agreed non-disindividual companies. For selected companies KSB uses a cash counted future cash flows of the financial liabilities (primary pooling system to ensure that available cash is deployed optifinancial instruments) and derivative financial instruments. Inmally within the Group. A worldwide receivables netting proterest payments on fixed-rate liabilities are determined on the cedure is also applied within the KSB Group so as to minimise basis of the fixed rate. Floating-rate interest payments are both the volume of cash flows and the associated fees. In order based on the last floating interest rates fixed before 31 Decemto be able to provide the necessary collateral in the project ber. Projections for future new liabilities are not included in business, KSB makes corresponding guarantee volumes availthe presentation. Based on the current state of knowledge, it is able. In addition, it is always ensured that credit facilities are neither expected that the cash flows will take place signifisufficient; KSB identifies the need for these on the basis of cantly earlier, nor that the amounts will differ significantly. Cash flows of financial liabilities 2019 € thousands Total Up to 1 year 1 – 5 years > 5 years Financial liabilities 106,589 47,318 55,875 3,396 of which from lease obligations 49,803 16,211 30,357 3,235 Trade payables 252,741 252,741 – – Miscellaneous other financial liabilities 27,890 25,343 2,547 – Derivative financial instruments – Incoming payments – 849 – 750 – 99 – Derivative financial instruments – Outgoing payments 3,335 3,081 254 – 389,706 327,733 58,577 3,396 128 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Cash flows of financial liabilities 2018 € thousands Total Up to 1 year 1 – 5 years > 5 years Financial liabilities 84,419 56,101 28,005 313 Trade payables 270,212 270,212 – – Miscellaneous other financial liabilities 29,036 26,320 2,716 – Derivative financial instruments – Incoming payments – 1,190 – 1,062 – 128 – Derivative financial instruments – Outgoing payments 3,851 3,498 353 – 386,328 355,069 30,946 313 Market price risk Changes in the fair value of the derivatives are almost comGlobal business activities expose KSB primarily to currency pletely offset by changes in the fair value of the cash flows and interest rate risk. Any changes in market prices can affect from the underlyings (dollar offset method). The change in fair fair values and future cash flows. Sensitivity analyses are used value of the underlyings and hedges in the financial year thereto determine the hypothetical impact of such market price flucfore match the unrealised profits and losses recorded under tuations on earnings and equity. In doing so, KSB assumes that equity. As a rule, KSB does not hedge currency risks from the the portfolio at the reporting date is representative of the full translation of foreign operations into the Group currency (€). year. Ineffectiveness can arise from hedging currency risk if the material measurement parameters of the underlying and hedge KSB reduces the risks resulting from changes in prices on the no longer match. There was no ineffectiveness in the KSB procurement side for orders with extended delivery dates by Group in respect of currency hedges in the 2019 and 2018 agreeing cost escalation clauses or, in the case of fixed-price financial years. contracts, by including the expected rate of cost increases in the sales price. At the reporting date, the notional volume of all currency forwards was € 251,878 thousand (previous year: € 238,300 Currency risk mainly affects cash flows from operating activithousand). The contractual maturities of payments for curties. It arises when Group companies settle transactions in currency forwards are as follows: rencies that are not their functional currency. KSB minimises  Notional volumes this risk using currency forwards. Further information is presented in Section III. Accounting Policies under “Financial assets and liabilities – b) Derivative financial instruments”. The weighted average rate of hedging instruments for the main KSB uses micro hedges with regard to transactions already foreign currencies was: recognised and transactions that are expected in the future. The hedging instruments used share the essential terms and conditions with the underlying transactions, i.e. with regard to Hedging of currency risk in 2019 amount, term and quality. Internal guidelines govern the use Average rate USD / EUR 1.14 of financial instruments. Such transactions are also subject to Average rate CNY / EUR 7.99 ongoing risk control measures. The effectiveness of hedges is determined at the beginning of the hedge and through regular Average rate CHF / EUR 1.10 prospective assessment. The aim is to ensure that there is a financial relationship between the hedge underlying and hedging instrument. The hedging instruments used are exclusively Hedging of currency risk in 2018 currency forwards entered into with prime-rated banks. To Average rate USD / EUR 1.19 hedge forward exchange transactions, the Group takes out Average rate GBP / EUR 0.90 hedges where the contractual modalities of the hedging instruAverage rate SEK / EUR 10.32 ment essentially match those of the hedged underlying. The hedge ratio for hedges is 1:1, i.e. the volume of hedge transactions matches the designated underlyings. In order to measure the effectiveness or ineffectiveness of hedges, KSB compares the fair value of the underlying and the hedge transactions. KSB Group // Annual KSB Group Report 2019 Annual Report 2019 Consolidated Financial Statements 129 129 The “Changes in the fair value of derivatives” table shows the change in the hedging reserve and in the cost of the hedging reserve for currency hedges before tax.  Fair value changes in derivatives Notional volumes in 2019 € thousands Total Up to 1 year 1 5 years > 5 years Currency forwards 251,878 228,453 23,425 – Notional volumes in 2018 € thousands Total Up to 1 year 1 5 years > 5 years Currency forwards 238,300 231,947 6,353 – Fair value changes in derivatives in 2019 OCI Cash flow hedges – Cash flow Hedging cost hedges – € thousands Hedging reserve reserve Currency risk Opening balance at 1 January – 4,149 – 823 Effective portion of changes in fair value 4,863 965 Realisation of underlying recognised in income – 5,434 – 1,010 Closing balance at 31 December – 4,719 – 868 Fair value changes in derivatives in 2018 OCI Cash flow hedges – Cash flow Hedging cost hedges – € thousands Hedging reserve reserve Currency risk Opening balance at 1 January 1,384 – 770 Effective portion of changes in fair value – 6,272 – 459 Realisation of underlying recognised in income 739 406 Closing balance at 31 December – 4,149 – 823 130 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 The key foreign currencies in the KSB Group are the US dollar VII. STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS (USD) and Chinese yuan (CNY). For the currency sensitivity analysis, KSB simulates the effects based on the notional In the statement of cash flows, KSB classifies cash flows by volume of existing foreign exchange derivatives and foreign operating, investing and financing activities. Effects of changes currency receivables and liabilities at the reporting date. For in the consolidated Group and in exchange rates are eliminated the analysis, a 10 % increase (decrease) in the value of the euro in the relevant items. The effect of exchange rate changes versus the other currencies is assumed. In the reporting year, (based on annual average rates) and changes in the consolithis would have amounted to approximately € – 1.6 million dated Group on cash and cash equivalents is presented sepa(previous year: € – 0.4 million) for CNY, € 1.7 million (previrately. ous year: € 2.4 million) for USD and € 3.0 million (previous year: € 1.5 million) for the remaining currencies. Changes in the presentation of the cash flow statement com Currency volumes pared with the previous year resulting from the first-time adoption of IFRS 16 in the year under review are explained in Based on the measurement of derivatives, at the reporting date, Section III. Accounting Policies in the “Changes in accounting equity and the fair value of the derivatives would have been policies due to the first-time adoption of IFRS 16” sub-section. € 12.7 million lower (higher), with € 8.0 million resulting from USD and € 4.7 million from the other currencies. At the Cash flows from operating activities additionally include a previous year’s reporting date, equity and the fair value of the “cash flow” subtotal that merely comprises the net profit for derivatives would have been € 11.2 million lower (higher), the year; depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses as with € 8.1 million resulting from USD and € 3.1 million from well as reversals of impairment losses; changes in non-current the other currencies. provisions; and non-cash effects, for example, of the disposal of fixed assets. This subtotal is combined with the changes in KSB regularly monitors the interest rate risks associated with the other operating components of assets (including current its financing activities. To avoid the negative effects of interest financial instruments) and liabilities to determine cash flows rate fluctuations on the international capital markets, KSB from operating activities. Only those changes that are recogconcludes interest rate hedges (interest rate swaps) where necnised in the income statement are taken into account. essary, generally for long-term loans. These are used exclusively to hedge floating rate loans against rising interest rates. Cash flows from investing activities exclusively reflect cashIn the year under review, as in the previous year, no such transeffective acquisitions and disposals of investments in intangiactions or other interest rate derivatives were recognised. ble assets, property, plant and equipment, non-current financial assets, and changes in term deposits with a maturity of As part of the interest rate sensitivity analysis, KSB simulates more than 3 months, including commercial papers. a 50 basis point increase (decrease) in market interest rates and analyses the impact on the floating rate financial instruments. In addition to cash flows resulting from equity items (capitaliIn the 2019 reporting year, the net interest balance would have sation measures and dividend payments), cash flows from been € 1.6 million (€ 1.1 million) (previous year: € 1.5 million financing activities also comprise cash flows arising from (€ 1.0 million)) higher (lower). changes in financial liabilities. If cash and cash equivalents include restricted cash, this is reported separately. Cash equivalents include short-term deposits with an original maturity of less than three months.  Changes in cash flows from financing activities KSB Group / Annual Annual Report Report 2019 2019 Consolidated Financial Statements 131 Currency volumes CNY CNY USD USD € thousands 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 Trade receivables 49,508 53,335 26,584 22,740 Trade payables 33,676 49,074 13,326 15,558 Balance 15,832 4,261 13,258 7,182 Changes in cash flows from financing activities in 2019 Cash-effective Not cash-effective Additions / Disposals / Exchange-rateAcquisitions / related € thousands 1 Jan. 2019 Other changes 31 Dec. 2019 Non-current liabilities 29,274 – 4,487 – – 73 24,714 Current liabilities 48,053 – 18,229 – – 521 29,303 Lease liabilities 51,117 * – 16,142 12,104 – 28 47,051 Total liabilities from financing activities 128,444 – 38,858 12,104 – 622 101,068 Dividend payments – – 7,566 – – – Salary conversion (provisions for pensions) – – 5 – – – Total cash flows from financing activities – – 46,429 – – – * Restated compared with 31 Dec. 2018 due to first-time adoption of IFRS 16. Changes in cash flows from financing activities in 2018 Cash-effective Not cash-effective Additions / Disposals / Acquisitions / Exchange-rate€ thousands 1 Jan. 2018 Other related changes 31 Dec. 2018 Non-current liabilities 53,759 – 23,862 – – 623 29,274 Current liabilities 21,285 28,479 – – 1,711 48,053 Lease liabilities 927 335 – – 32 1,230 Total liabilities from financing activities 75,971 4,952 – – 2,366 78,557 Dividend payments – – 15,866 – – – Salary conversion (provisions for pensions) – 2,993 – – – Acquisition of minority interests – – 1,512 – – – Total cash flows from financing activities – – 9,433 – – – 132 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 VIII. SEGMENT REPORTING Segment reporting is prepared in accordance with IFRS 8 The Service segment covers the installation, commissioning, based on the management approach and corresponds to the start-up, inspection, servicing, maintenance and repair of internal organisational and management structure as well as pumps, related systems and valves for all applications; as well the reporting lines to the Managing Directors as the chief as modular service concepts and system analyses for complete operating decision-makers. In KSB’s matrix organisation, systems. management decisions are primarily taken on the basis of the key performance indicators – order intake, external sales revThe companies can be allocated to one or more segments based enue and earnings before finance income / expense and income on their business activities. tax (EBIT) – determined for the Pumps, Valves and Service segments. Reporting the relevant assets, number of employees and The amounts disclosed for the individual segments have been inter-segment sales revenue for these segments is not part of established in compliance with the accounting policies of the internal reporting. The managers in charge of these segments, underlying consolidated financial statements. which are geared to product groups, have profit and loss responsibility. They identify business opportunities across Transfer prices for intercompany sales are determined on an markets and industries and assess the options based on current arm’s length basis. and future market requirements. They also proactively encourage the development of new products and improvements to the There were no discontinued operations in the period under available range of products. In this context, they work closely review, as in the comparative period of the previous year. with the Sales organisations and with Operations. The order intake by segment presents order intake generated The Pumps segment includes singleand multistage pumps, with third parties. submersible pumps and associated control and drive systems. Applications include process engineering, building services, The sales revenue by segment presents sales revenue generated water and waste water transport, energy conversion and solids with third parties. transport. The table shows earnings before finance income / expense and The Valves segment covers butterfly, globe, gate, control, income tax (EBIT) including non-controlling interests. diaphragm and ball valves, as well as associated actuators and  Segment reporting control systems. Applications primarily include process engineering, building services, energy conversion and solids transport. Segment reporting Order intake Sales revenue EBIT € thousands 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Pumps segment 1,617,825 1,506,248 1,562,462 1,469,443 84,823 90,563 Valves segment 361,878 355,618 364,365 340,771 2,266 – 37,373 Service segment 474,060 441,670 456,358 435,734 26,514 21,512 Total 2,453,763 2,303,536 2,383,185 2,245,948 113,603 74,702 The EBIT of the Pumps segment includes depreciation and assets (rights of use to leased assets) is included for the first amortisation expense of € 54,079 thousand (previous year: time in these amounts in 2019. € 48,802 thousand), the EBIT of the Valves segment includes depreciation and amortisation expense of € 11,566 thousand € 561,803 thousand (previous year: € 562,147 thousand) of (previous year: € 32,292 thousand) and the EBIT of the Service the sales revenue presented was generated by the companies segment includes depreciation and amortisation expense of based in Germany, € 239,353 thousand (previous year: € 16,206 thousand (previous year: € 23,397 thousand). Fol€ 241,476 thousand) was generated by the companies based in lowing the adoption of IFRS 16, depreciation on right-of-use KSB Group / Annual Annual Report Report 2019 2019 Consolidated Financial Statements 133 France, € 212,876 thousand (previous year: € 188,989 thouin a cash outflow depends on the future business performance sand) by the companies based in the USA, and € 1,369,153 of the respective company. thousand (previous year: € 1,253,336 thousand) by the other Group companies. The contingent assets of KSB at the reporting date total € 1,200 thousand (previous year: none). They relate to a reimThere were no relationships with individual customers that acbursement claim for the full amount towards an insurance counted for a material proportion of Group sales revenue. company due to a settlement agreement to be approved by the Annual General Meeting. At the reporting date, the total non-current assets of the KSB Group amounted to € 682,708 thousand (previous year: Other financial obligations € 611,603 thousand), with € 240,362 thousand (previous As in the previous year, there are no purchase price obligations year: € 214,857 thousand) being attributable to the compafrom acquisitions of companies and no payment obligations nies based in Germany and € 442,346 thousand (previous from capitalisation measures at Group companies. year: € 396,746 thousand) being attributable to the other Group companies. They include intangible assets, property, The aggregate purchase obligation for investments amounts to plant and equipment, investments accounted for using the € 29,484 thousand (previous year: € 12,418 thousand). Most equity method and since 2019 also right-of-use assets (rights of the corresponding payments are due in 2020. of use to leased assets) under IFRS 16. Non-current financial instruments and deferred tax assets are not included. Leases IX. OTHER DISCLOSURES KSB as lessee Lease agreements in which KSB is the lessee mainly relate to Contingent liabilities real estate and motor vehicles. The terms of leases and addiContingent liabilities to third parties and other investments are tional cancellation and renewal options for one or both conas follows at the balance sheet date: tracting parties are agreed individually and at different conditions. Contingent liabilities The total cash outflow from leases, in the form of the repay€ thousands 2019 2018 ment of lease liabilities, outgoings for leases relating to lowFrom legal disputes 870 23,700 value assets and for short-term leases as well as variable lease From warranty agreements 1,500 – payments, totalled € 26,748 thousand in the year under From other tax matters 5,730 – review. From other contingent liabilities 479 393 8,579 24,093 KSB as lessor KSB acts as a lessor in the context of operating leases. This In the context of establishing the contingent liabilities, estirelates, among other things, to the leasing of real estate. mates are required in particular with regard to the existence of any obligations and in relation to the probability and amount The maturity analysis of future lease payments from operating of an outflow of resources. leases is as follows:  Maturity analysis of future operating lease payments For the contingent liabilities from legal disputes, material estimation uncertainties result for KSB with regard to the expected outcome of current court proceedings and the potentially resultant obligations and risks. There are no insurance claims to be covered, as in the previous year. At present, KSB does not expect a payment obligation for the total of contingent liabilities listed in the table of that name. In addition, the KSB Group has contingent liabilities towards associates and joint ventures of € 7,800 thousand (previous year: € 7,367 thousand). The extent to which these will result 134 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Maturity analysis of future operating lease payments The members of the Supervisory Board, the Managing Directors of KSB Management SE and the members of the € thousands 2019 Administrative Board of KSB Management SE are deemed to Due within 1 year 1,682 be related parties of KSB SE & Co. KGaA. In the year under Due between 1 and 2 years 1,377 review, two members of the Administrative Board held an imDue between 2 and 3 years 979 material share of interests in KSB SE & Co. KGaA. Due between 3 and 4 years 584 As part of normal business activities, the company maintains Due between 4 and 5 years 390 business relationships with numerous companies, including Due after more than 5 years 350 affiliates that are deemed to be related parties. 5,362 The company maintains relationships with affiliates in the folThe financing leases where KSB acts as a lessor have minor lowing areas: sig-nificance for KSB and do not have any material effect on the consolidated financial statements.  Buying / selling assets  Sourcing / providing services Research and development costs  Usage / transferring usage of assets Research and development costs in the year under review amounted to € 50,529 thousand (previous year: € 49,228 Balances and transactions between KSB SE & Co. KGaA and thousand). Most of these costs are order-related expenses. its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated during the consolidation process and are not explained in furRelated party disclosures ther detail. Details regarding transactions between the KSB Pursuant to section 21(1) of the 28 Dec. 2007 version of the Group and other related parties are provided below. WpHG [Wertpapierhandelsgesetz – German Securities Trade Act], KSB Stiftung [KSB Foundation], Stuttgart, notified us on The following table shows services provided and used, as well 21 May 2008 that its voting interest in KSB SE & Co. KGaA, as pending receivables and liabilities owed from and to related Frankenthal / Pfalz exceeded the 75.00 % threshold on 5 May parties: 2008 and amounted to 80.24 % (711,453 voting shares) on  Services, receivables and liabilities in dealings with this date. 0.54 % of the voting rights (4,782 voting shares) related parties were held directly by KSB Stiftung, Stuttgart, and 79.70 % (706,671 voting shares) were attributed to KSB Stiftung, The liabilities to KSB Management SE are due in the short Stuttgart, pursuant to section 22(1), sentence 1, No. 1 of the term. As the legal representative, KSB Management SE pro28 Dec. 2007 version of the WpHG. The voting rights vides management services and accepts KSB’s liability as attributed to KSB Stiftung, Stuttgart, were held by Johannes general partner. It receives reimbursement of its costs as a und Jacob Klein GmbH, Frankenthal / Pfalz. In 2018, the votmanagement fee and 4 % of its share capital for acceptance of ing interest of Johannes und Jacob Klein GmbH increased to liability. 83.94 %. Related parties are KSB Management SE as general partner, KSB Stiftung, Stuttgart, and Kühborth Stiftung GmbH, Stuttgart, each with their direct and indirect interests, joint ventures and associates. These are primarily Johannes und Jacob Klein GmbH, Frankenthal / Pfalz, Palatina Versicherungsservice GmbH, Frankenthal / Pfalz, and the companies of Abacus alpha GmbH, Frankenthal / Pfalz. Furthermore, related parties also include entities controlled or jointly controlled by the Managing Directors of Johannes und Jacob Klein GmbH, the Managing Directors or members of the Administrative Board of KSB Management SE or the Managing Directors or members of the Advisory Board of Klein, Schanzlin & Becker GmbH. KSB Group / Annual Annual Report Report 2019 2019 Consolidated Financial Statements 135 Further information on joint ventures and associates (related ables and other financial and non-financial assets” and Notes party disclosures) is presented in Section IV. Balance Sheet DisNo. 13 “Liabilities”, and in Section IX. Other Disclosures – closures – Notes No. 6 “Investments accounted for under the Contingent Liabilities. equity method”, Notes No. 8 “Contract assets, trade receivServices, receivables and liabilities in dealings with related parties Sales of goods Purchases of goods and services and services Receivables Liabilities 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. € thousands 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 KSB Management SE 1 62 5,345 5,817 – – 4,742 3,340 Klein, Schanzlin & Becker GmbH – – – – – – – – KSB Stiftung and Kühborth-Stiftung GmbH – – – – – – – – Johannes und Jacob Klein GmbH – 222 – 23 – 1 – 1 Subsidiaries of Johannes und Jacob Klein GmbH 517 665 3,280 2,933 165 163 42 34 Associates / joint ventures of Johannes und Jakob Klein GmbH – – 7 142 – – – 1 Other related parties (corporate bodies), excluding “Management remuneration” 20 24 – – – – – – The transactions in relation to Johannes und Jacob Klein Pending balances at the year end are unsecured, do not accrue GmbH are based on a rental and services agreement. In addiinterest and are settled by means of payments. No guarantees tion, Johannes und Jacob Klein GmbH received dividend paywere given or received. The receivables presented here, as in ments. the previous year, are not subject to write-downs and no provisions have been created for this purpose. Transactions with subsidiaries of Johannes und Jacob Klein GmbH comprise transactions with Palatina VersicherungsserDisclosures and information on affiliates and investments acvice GmbH, Abacus alpha GmbH, Abacus Resale GmbH, Abcounted for using the equity method provided in other section acus Experten GmbH, Salinnova GmbH and airinotec of these Notes refer to relations covering the supply of prodGmbH). There were minor transactions with associates or ucts and services on an arm’s length basis, unless stated otherjoint ventures of KSB with Johannes und Jacob Klein GmbH wise. in the year under review. Pursuant to IAS 24, the remuneration of key management perA services agreement for insurances is in place between Palasonnel of the Group must be disclosed. The following table tina Versicherungsservice GmbH and KSB SE & Co. KGaA. presents the relevant information for the KSB Group on remuAbacus Experten GmbH concluded a number of service agreeneration paid to the Managing Directors and the members of ments with KSB SE & Co. KGaA; there is a framework delivthe Administrative Board of KSB Management SE by KSB ery and service agreement with Abacus Resale GmbH for the under an expense reimbursement agreement. purchase of returns and the provision of additional related services. In addition, products were delivered to the company as part of the normal business activities. KSB SE & Co. KGaA and Abacus alpha GmbH have also concluded service agreements. KSB products were delivered to airinotec GmbH and Salinnova GmbH as part of normal business activities. KSB purchased spare parts from Salinnova GmbH. Transactions with related parties are performed at arm’s length. 136 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Management remuneration statements of KSB SE & Co. KGaA and the German subsidiaries included in the consolidated financial statements. The € thousands 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 fees for other certification services primarily include attestaShort-term benefits tion services outside of the audit of the annual financial state(total remuneration) 3,775 3,722 ments. The fees for other services mainly include fees for Post-employment benefits 1,374 1,929 project-specific consultancy services in IT, risk management Other long-term benefits – – and compliance. Termination benefits – – Share-based payments – – Use of exemption option Total 5,149 5,651 KSB Service GmbH, Frankenthal, KSB Service GmbH, Schwedt, and Uder Elektromechanik GmbH, Friedrichsthal, In the year under review, KSB Management SE received from have made partial use of the exemption provision under secKSB SE & Co. KGaA reimbursed expenses of € 196 thousand tion 264(3) of the HGB. (previous year: € 166 thousand) for managing KSB’s business in addition to the aforementioned reimbursement of expenses Events after the Reporting Period for remunerating the members of the governing bodies of KSB The global spread of the novel coronavirus has increased Management SE. steadily in the first few months of 2020. The scale and duration of any adverse effect on production as well as on KSB’s KSB has set aside provisions of € 784 thousand (previous year: procurement and sales markets both in China and in the Asian, € 684 thousand) for pension obligations to current Managing European and American economies are impossible to predict Directors of KSB Management SE, and € 43,505 thousand and therefore quantify right now at the time of preparation of (previous year: € 41,648 thousand) for pension obligations to the consolidated financial statements. KSB assumes that the former members of the Board of Management of KSB AG (exspread of the coronavirus will have a negative impact on the cluding the Managing Directors of KSB Management SE) and Group. their surviving dependants as at 31 December 2019; total benefits paid to these persons amounted to € 2,648 thousand in In addition, there were no events after the close of the financial the year under review (previous year: € 2,548 thousand). year that are of particular significance for the Group’s net assets, financial position and result of operations. The short-term benefits paid to members of the Supervisory Board amount to € 798 thousand for the 2019 financial year German Corporate Governance Code (previous year: € 932 thousand). Provisions of € 452 thousand The Managing Directors and the Supervisory Board of KSB (previous year: € 482 thousand) were set aside for members of SE & Co. KGaA issued the current Statement of Compliance the Supervisory Board at the end of the financial year. with the recommendations of the Government Commission on the German Corporate Governance Code in accordance The members of the Supervisory Board, the Managing Direcwith section 161 AktG [Aktiengesetz – German Public Comtors and the members of the Administrative Board of the genpanies Act] on 19 December 2019. The Statement of Comeral partner are listed before the information on the proposal pliance is published on the KSB web site (www.ksb.com) on the appropriation of net retained earnings for KSB SE & and has thus been made permanently accessible. Co. KGaA. Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, based in Frankfurt am Main with an office in Mannheim, were appointed as auditors and group auditors for financial year 2019 at the Annual General Meeting of KSB SE & Co. KGaA on 29 May 2019. Overall, fees (including expenses) amounting to € 874 thousand were recognised as expenses. Of this, € 719 thousand relate to audit services, € 116 thousand to other certification services and € 39 thousand to other services. The audit fees include costs for the audit of the consolidated financial statements and of the statutory annual financial KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Consolidated Financial Statements 137 List of Shareholdings Affiliates (national and international) Group share of Cons. ActivCapital capital Held by No. Name and seat Country ity* share in % in % No. 1 Canadian Kay Pump Limited, Mississauga / Ontario Canada H 100.00 100.00 2 KSB Limited, Pimpri (Pune) India P 40.54 40.54 1 49.00 19.86 2 3 KSB MIL Controls Limited, Annamanada India P 51.00 51.00 4 Pofran Sales & Agency Limited, Pimpri (Pune) India S 100.00 40.54 2 5 Dynamik-Pumpen GmbH, Stuhr Germany SVC 100.00 100.00 6 Hydroskepi GmbH, Amaroussion (Athens) Greece H 100.00 100.00 7 KAGEMA Industrieausrüstungen GmbH, Pattensen Germany P 100.00 100.00 8 KSB Armaturen Verwaltungsund Beteiligungs-GmbH, Frankenthal Germany H 100.00 100.00 9 OOO “KSB”, Moscow Russia S 100.00 100.00 8 98.10 98.10 9 10 IOOO “KSB BEL”, Minsk Belarus S 1.90 1.90 8 11 TOV “KSB Ukraine”, Kiev Ukraine S 100.00 100.00 9 92.00 92.00 1.00 1.00 26 12 KSB, Bombas e Válvulas, SA, Albarraque Portugal S 1.00 1.00 67 1.00 1.00 15 13 KSB Chile S.A., Santiago Chile S 100.00 100.00 14 KSB de Mexico, S.A. de C.V., Querétaro Mexico P 100.00 100.00 15 KSB FINANZ S.A., Echternach Luxembourg H 100.00 100.00 16 Aplicaciones Mecánicas Válvulas Industriales, S.A. (AMVI), Burgos Spain P 100.00 100.00 15 17 Dalian KSB AMRI Valves Co., Ltd., Dalian China P 100.00 100.00 15 18 KSB Australia Pty Ltd, Bundamba QLD Australia S 100.00 100.00 15 19 KSB New Zealand Limited, Albany / Auckland New Zealand S 100.00 100.00 18 20 KSB Belgium S.A., Bierges-lez-Wavre Belgium S 100.00 100.00 15 21 KSB Service Belgium S.A./N.V., Bierges-lez-Wavre Belgium SVC 100.00 100.00 20 22 KSB BRASIL LTDA., Várzea Paulista Brazil P 100.00 100.00 15 95.00 95.00 15 23 KSB Compañía Sudamericana de Bombas S.A., Carapachay (Buenos Aires) Argentina P 5.00 5.00 24 KSB Finance Nederland B.V., Zwanenburg The Netherlands H 100.00 100.00 15 25 DP industries B.V., Alphen aan den Rijn The Netherlands P 100.00 100.00 24 26 KSB Nederland B.V., Zwanenburg The Netherlands S 100.00 100.00 24 99.00 99.00 15 27 KSB Italia S.p.A., Milan Italy S 1.00 1.00 28 KSB ITUR Spain S.A., Zarautz Spain P 100.00 100.00 15 29 KSB Limited, Loughborough United Kingdom S 100.00 100.00 15 30 KSB Middle East FZE, Dubai U.A.E. S 100.00 100.00 15 31 KSB Österreich Gesellschaft mbH, Vienna Austria S 100.00 100.00 15 32 KSB-Pompa, Armatür Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S., Ankara Turkey P 100.00 100.00 15 * P = Production, S = Sales, SVC = Service, H = Holding 138 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Group share of Cons. ActivCapital capital Held by No. Name and seat Country ity* share in % in % No. 33 KSB Pumps and valves L.t.d., Dom«ale Slovenia S 100.00 100.00 15 34 KSB Pumps Inc., Mississauga / Ontario Canada S 100.00 100.00 15 35 KSB Pumps (S.A.) (Pty) Ltd., Germiston (Johannesburg) South Africa H 100.00 100.00 15 36 KSB Pumps and Valves (Pty) Ltd., Germiston (Johannesburg) South Africa P 70.00 70.00 35 37 FORTY FOUR ACTIVIA PARK (PTY) LTD, Germiston (Johannesburg) South Africa 100.00 70.00 36 38 KSB S.A.S., Gennevilliers (Paris) France P 100.00 100.00 15 39 KSB POMPES ET ROBINETTERIES S.à.r.l. d'Associé unique, Casablanca Morocco S 100.00 100.00 38 40 KSB Service EITB-SITELEC S.A.S., Montfavet France SVC 100.00 100.00 38 41 KSB Service Energie S.A.S.U., Rambervillers France SVC 100.00 100.00 38 42 KSB SERVICE COTUMER S.A.S., Déville lès Rouen France SVC 100.00 100.00 41 43 Société de travaux et Ingénierie Industrielle S.A.S., Déville lès Rouen France SVC 100.00 100.00 42 44 SPI Energie S.A.S., La Ravoire France SVC 100.00 100.00 38 45 KSB Shanghai Pump Co., Ltd., Shanghai China P 80.00 80.00 15 46 PAB Pumpenund Armaturen-Beteiligungsges. mbH, Frankenthal Germany H 51.00 51.00 15 47 KSB America Corporation, Richmond / Virginia USA H 100.00 51.00 46 48 GIW Industries, Inc., Grovetown / Georgia USA P 100.00 51.00 47 49 KSB Dubric, Inc., Comstock Park / Michigan USA SVC 100.00 51.00 47 50 KSB, Inc., Richmond / Virginia USA S 100.00 51.00 47 51 KSB, Inc. – Western Division, Bakersfield / California USA SVC 100.00 51.00 47 52 Standard Alloys Incorporated, Port Arthur / Texas USA SVC 100.00 51.00 47 94.06 94.10 15 53 PT. KSB Indonesia, Cibitung Indonesia P 5.94 5.90 99.00 99.00 53 54 PT. KSB Sales Indonesia, Cibitung Indonesia S 1.00 1.00 55 SISTO Armaturen S.A., Echternach Luxembourg P 52.85 52.85 15 56 KSB Finland Oy, Kerava Finland S 100.00 100.00 57 KSB Hungary Kft., Budapest Hungary S 100.00 100.00 58 KSB Korea Ltd., Seoul South Korea S 100.00 100.00 59 KSB Limited, Hong Kong China S 100.00 100.00 60 KSB Pump & Valve Technology Service (Tianjin) Co., Ltd, Tianjin China SVC 100.00 100.00 59 61 KSB Ltd., Tokyo Japan S 100.00 100.00 62 KSB Norge AS, Ski Norway S 100.00 100.00 63 KSB Polska Sp. z o.o., Ozarow-Mazowiecki Poland S 100.00 100.00 64 KSB Pumps Co. Ltd., Bangkok Thailand S 40.00 40.00 65 KSB Pumps Company Limited, Lahore Pakistan P 58.89 58.89 66 KSB-Pumpy+Armatury s.r.o., koncern, Prague Czech Republic S 100.00 100.00 67 KSB (Schweiz) AG, Oftringen Switzerland S 100.00 100.00 68 KSB Seil Co., Ltd., Busan South Korea P 100.00 100.00 69 KSB Service GmbH, Frankenthal Germany SVC 100.00 100.00 70 KSB Service GmbH, Schwedt Germany SVC 100.00 100.00 71 KSB Singapore (Asia Pacific) Pte Ltd, Singapore Singapore S 100.00 100.00 72 KSB Malaysia Pumps & Valves Sdn. Bhd., Shah Alam Malaysia S 100.00 100.00 71 73 KSB PHILIPPINES, INC., Makati City Philippines S 100.00 100.00 71 74 KSB Vietnam Co., Ltd, Long Thanh District Vietnam S 100.00 100.00 71 75 KSB Sverige Aktiebolag AB, Gothenburg Sweden S 100.00 100.00 * P = Production, S = Sales, SVC = Service, H = Holding KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Consolidated Financial Statements 139 Group share of Cons. ActivCapital capital Held by No. Name and seat Country ity* share in % in % No. 76 KSB Sverige Fastighets AB, Gothenburg Sweden S 100.00 100.00 75 77 PUMPHUSET Sverige AB, Sollentuna Sweden SVC 100.00 100.00 75 78 VM Pumpar AB, Gothenburg Sweden S 100.00 100.00 75 79 KSB Taiwan Co., Ltd., New Taipei City Taiwan S 100.00 100.00 80 KSB Tech Pvt. Ltd., Pimpri (Pune) India 100.00 100.00 81 KSB Valves (Changzhou) Co., Ltd., Jiangsu China P 100.00 100.00 82 PMS-BERCHEM GmbH, Neuss Germany SVC 100.00 100.00 83 Pumpen-Service Bentz GmbH, Reinbek Germany SVC 100.00 100.00 84 REEL s.r.l., Ponte di Nanto Italy P 100.00 100.00 85 Uder Elektromechanik GmbH, Friedrichsthal Germany SVC 100.00 100.00 Joint ventures (national and international) Group Net profit / share of loss for the Cons. ActivCapital capital Held by Equity** year** No. Name and seat Country ity* share in % in % No. € thousands € thousands National 86 Nikkiso-KSB GmbH i.L., Pegnitz Germany 50.00 50.00 – – International KSB MOTOR TEKNOLOJİLERİ SANAYİ VE TİCARET 87 Turkey P 55.00 55.00 32 106 33 ANONİM ŞİRKETİ, Ankara 88 KSB Pumps Arabia Ltd., Riyadh Saudi Arabia S 50.00 50.00 15 17,949 – 755 89 KSB Service LLC, Abu Dhabi U.A.E. S 49.00 49.00 7,933 456 Shanghai Electric-KSB Nuclear Pumps and Valves 90 China P 45.00 45.00 30,622 1,032 Co., Ltd., Shanghai Associates (national and international) Group Net profit / share of loss for the Cons. ActivCapital capital Held by Equity** year** No. Name and seat Country ity* share in % in % No. € thousands € thousands International 91 Motori Sommersi Riavvolgibili S.r.l., Cedegolo Italy 25.00 25.00 5,506 3,007 * P = Production, S = Sales, SVC = Service, H = Holding ** Data according to latest annual financial statements under IFRS 140 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Companies not consolidated because of immateriality – Affiliates (national and international) Group Net profit / share of loss for the Cons. ActivCapital capital Held by Equity** year** No. Name and seat Country ity* share in % in % No. € thousands € thousands National 92 FluidPartner GmbH, Stein Germany SVC 51.00 51.00 69 11 2 ■ International 93 KSB Algérie Eurl, Bordj el Kifane (Alger) Algeria S 100.00 100.00 15 1,236 281 94 KSB Čerpadlá a Armatúry, s.r.o., Bratislava Slovakia S 100.00 100.00 346 – 14 95 KSB Colombia SAS, Funza (Cundinamarca) Colombia S 100.00 100.00 15 531 216 96 KSB Perú S.A., Lurín Peru S 100.00 100.00 1,455 143 KSB Pumpe i Armature d.o.o. Beograd, Bel97 Serbia S 100.00 100.00 33 149 13 grade 98 KSB pumpe i armature d.o.o., Rakov Potok Croatia S 100.00 100.00 33 202 – 2 99 KSB ZAMBIA LIMITED, Kitwe Zambia SVC 80.00 80.00 35 11 – 24 Techni Pompe Service Maroc (TPSM), 100 Morocco SVC 100.00 100.00 39 – 563 – 6 Casablanca 101 TOO KSB Kazakhstan , Almaty Kazakhstan S 100.00 100.00 9 202 29 102 KSB PUMPS AND VALVES LIMITED, Nairobi Kenya S 100.00 100.00 35 – 0 * P = Production, S = Sales, SVC = Service, H = Holding ** Data according to latest annual financial statements under IFRS ■ Prior-period figures KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Consolidated Financial Statements 141 Supervisory Board Dr Bernd Flohr, Dipl.-Kfm., Dipl.-Soz., Geislingen Klaus Kühborth, Dipl.-Wirtsch.-Ing., Frankenthal Former Executive Board Member of WMF AG (Chair) Managing Director of Johannes und Jacob Klein GmbH Alois Lautner, Lathe Operator, Kirchenthumbach Birgit Mohme, Industrial Business Management Assistant, Deputy Chair of the Pegnitz Works Council of KSB SE & Co. KGaA Frankenthal (Member and Deputy Chair of the Supervisory Board until 2. Delegate of IG Metall Ludwigshafen / Frankenthal 31 Dec. 2019) Thomas Pabst, Dipl.-Ing., Freinsheim René Klotz, NC Programmer, Heßheim Head of the Energy market segment of KSB SE & Co. KGaA Chair of the General Works Council of KSB SE & Co. KGaA and KSB Service GmbH Prof. Dr.-Ing. Corinna Salander, Dipl.-Physikerin, Dresden (Deputy Chair of the Supervisory Board since 17 Jan. 2020) Director of the German Centre for Railway Traffic Research at Eisenbahn-Bundesamt [Federal Railway Authority] Claudia Augustin, Office Management Assistant, Pegnitz Deputy Chair of the Pegnitz Works Council of KSB SE & Co. KGaA Harald Schöberl, Industrial Business Management Assistant, Plech Klaus Burchards, Dipl.-Kfm., Stuttgart Full-time Member of the Pegnitz Works Council of KSB SE & Co. Independent Auditor KGaA Arturo Esquinca, Dipl.-Chemieing., MBA, Forch, Switzerland Volker Seidel, Electrical and Electronics Installer, Münchberg M&A and Strategy Consultant 1. Delegate of IG Metall Ostoberfranken Gabriele Sommer, Dipl.-Geol., Wörthsee1) Global Head of Human Resources TÜV SÜD AG Mandates of KSB Supervisory Board members on the Supervisory Board / Board of Directors of other companies 1) TÜV SÜD Industrie Service GmbH, Munich, Germany TÜV SÜD Auto Service GmbH, Stuttgart, Germany 142 Konzernabschluss Consolidated Financial Statements KSB KSB Group Konzern / Annual Report 2019 / Geschäftsbericht Legal Representatives Managing Directors of KSB Management SE Dr Stephan Jörg Timmermann, CEO, Augsburg Mandates of the Managing Directors on the Strategy, Human Resources, Communications, Internal Audits, Board of Directors of KSB companies Legal & Compliance, Patents & Trademarks, as well as the 1) KSB Pumps (S.A.) (Pty) Ltd., Germiston (Johannesburg), South Africa Region Europe KSB Pumps and Valves (Pty) Ltd., Germiston (Johannesburg), South Africa Area of responsibility since 10 February 2020: Spokesperson KSB Limited, Pimpri (Pune), India for Management. Strategy, Human Resources, CommunicaKSB MOTOR TEKNOLOJİLERİ SANAYİ VE TİCARET ANONİM ŞİRKETİ, Ankara, Turkey tions, Internal Audits, Legal & Compliance, Patents & Trademarks, the Mining and Valves market segments, as well as 2) SISTO Armaturen S.A., Echternach, Luxembourg the Regions Europe West and Americas North KSB Shanghai Pump Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China Shanghai Electric-KSB Nuclear Pumps and Valves Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China Dr Stephan Bross, Freinsheim1) Global Operations, Research and Development / Technology / 3) KSB FINANZ S.A., Echternach, Luxembourg KSB Finance Nederland B.V., Zwanenburg, The Netherlands Complexity, Digital Transformation, Committees and AssociaCanadian Kay Pump Limited, Mississauga / Ontario, Canada tions, the Corporate Units Pumps and Valves, as well as the KSB America Corporation, Richmond / Virginia, USA Region Asia West and the Region Middle East / Africa KSB Limited, Pimpri (Pune), India KSB Shanghai Pump Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China Shanghai Electric-KSB Nuclear Pumps and Valves Co., Ltd., Shanghai, Area of responsibility since 10 February 2020: Global OperaChina tions, Research and Development, Technology and Processes, GIW Industries, Inc., Grovetown / Georgia, USA Digital Transformation, Committees and Associations, the KSB BRASIL LTDA., Várzea Paulista, Brazil KSB Pumps Arabia Ltd., Riyadh, Saudi Arabia Energy and Chemicals / Petrochemicals market segments, as well as the Regions Asia South / Pacific and Asia West Ralf Kannefass, Regensburg2) Sales and Marketing, Service, Project Management, as well as the Regions Asia North and Asia South / Pacific Area of responsibility since 10 February 2020: Sales and Marketing, as well as the Water / Waste Water, General Industry, Building Services and KSB SupremeServ market segments, and the Regions Europe North / East, Asia North, Middle East / Africa and Americas South Dr Matthias Schmitz, Frankenthal3) Taxes, Controlling KSB Group, Finance / Accounting, Coordination Shared Services, Information Technology and Procurement, as well as the Regions Americas North and Americas South Area of responsibility since 10 February 2020: Taxes, Controlling KSB Group, Finance, Accounting, Coordination Shared Services, Information Technology and Procurement, as well as the Region Europe Central. KSB Group / Annual Konzern Report 20192019 / Geschäftsbericht Konzernabschluss Consolidated Financial Statements 143 Members of the Administrative Board of KSB Management SE Oswald Bubel, Chair, Saarbrücken Managing Director of Hager Electro GmbH & Co. KG Monika Kühborth, Deputy Chair, Homburg Managing Director of Klein, Schanzlin & Becker GmbH Günther Koch, Ludwigshafen Dr Harald Schwager, Speyer1) Deputy Chairman of the Executive Board of Evonik Industries AG Andrea Teutenberg, Berlin2) Managing Director of Orange12 GmbH Mandates on statutory Supervisory Boards 1) Evonik Nutrition & Care GmbH, Essen, Germany (Chair) Evonik Resource Efficiency GmbH, Essen, Germany (Chair) Evonik Performance Materials GmbH, Essen, Germany (Chair) 2) Bauer AG, Schrobenhausen, Germany 144 Konzernabschluss Consolidated Financial Statements KSB KSB Group Konzern / Annual Report 2019 / Geschäftsbericht Proposal on the Appropriation of the Net Retained Earnings of KSB SE & Co. KGaA We will propose to the Annual General Meeting on 13 May 2020 that the net retained earnings of € 67,363,764.33 of KSB SE & Co. KGaA be appropriated as follows: Proposal for the appropriation of net retained earnings € Dividend of € 8.50 per ordinary no-par-value share 7,536,227.50 Dividend of € 8.76 per preference no-par-value share 7,574,877.12 Total 15,111,104.62 Carried forward to new account 52,252,659.71 67,363,764.33 Frankenthal, 12 March 2020 KSB Management SE The Managing Directors The annual financial statements of KSB SE & Co. KGaA were prepared in accordance with German accounting principles. They are published in the Bundesanzeiger [German Federal Gazette]. The annual financial statements can also be downloaded from our web site at www.ksb.com, or sent in print form on request. KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 Consolidated Financial Statements 145 146 General Information KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 4 KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 General Information 147 General Information 148 Responsibility Statement 149 Independent Auditor’s Report 158 Glossary 160 Contacts General Information 148 General KSB GroupInformation / Annual Report 2019 General KSB Group Information / Annual Report 2019 147 Responsibility Statement To the best of our knowledge, and in accordance with the applicable reporting principles, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group, and the combined management report for the Group and KSB SE & Co. KGaA includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal opportunities and risks associated with the expected development of the Group. Frankenthal, 12 March 2020 KSB Management SE The Managing Directors KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 General Information 149 Independent Auditor´s Report To KSB SE & Co. KGaA, Frankenthal Report on the audit of the consolidated financial statements and of the group management report AUDIT OPINION We have audited the consolidated financial statements of KSB SE & Co. KGaA, Frankenthal, and its subsidiaries (the Group), which comprise the statement of financial position as at 31 December 2019, and the statement of comprehensive income, statement of changes in equity and statement of cash flows for the financial year from 1 January to 31 December 2019, and notes to the consolidated financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies. In addition, we have audited the group management report of KSB SE & Co. KGaA for the financial year from 1 January to 31 December 2019. In accordance with the German legal requirements, we have not audited the content of those parts of the group management report listed in the Other Information section of our auditor's report. In our opinion, on the basis of the knowledge obtained in the audit,  the accompanying consolidated financial statements comply, in all material respects, with the IFRSs as adopted by the EU, and the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to § [Article] 315e Abs. [paragraph] 1 HGB [Handelsgesetzbuch: German Commercial Code] and, in compliance with these requirements, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, and financial position of the Group as at 31 December 2019, and of its financial performance for the financial year from 1 January to 31 December 2019 and  the accompanying group management report as a whole provides an appropriate view of the Group's position. In all material respects, this group management report is consistent with the consolidated financial statements, complies with German legal requirements and appropriately presents the opportunities and risks of future development. Our audit opinion on the group management report does not cover the content of those parts of the group management report listed in the Other Information section of our auditor’s report. Pursuant to § 322 Abs. 3 Satz [sentence] 1 HGB, we declare that our audit has not led to any reservations relating to the legal compliance of the consolidated financial statements and of the group management report. 150 General Information KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 BASIS FOR THE AUDIT OPINIONS We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements and of the group management report in accordance with § 317 HGB and the EU Audit Regulation (No. 537/2014, referred to subsequently as “EU Audit Regulation”) in compliance with German Generally Accepted Standards for Financial Statement Audits promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer [Institute of Public Auditors in Germany] (IDW. Our responsibilities under those requirements and principles are further described in the “Auditor's Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements and of the Group Management Report” section of our auditor’s report. We are independent of the group entities in accordance with the requirements of European law and German commercial and professional law, and we have fulfilled our other German professional responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. In addition, in accordance with Article 10 (2) point (f) of the EU Audit Regulation, we declare that we have not provided non-audit services prohibited under Article 5 (1) of the EU Audit Regulation. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinions on the consolidated financial statements and on the group management report. KEY AUDIT MATTERS IN THE AUDIT OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial statements for the financial year from 1 January to 31 December 2019. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our audit opinion thereon; we do not provide a separate audit opinion on these matters. In our view, the matters of most significance in our audit were as follows: ❶ Recoverability of goodwill ❷ Accounting treatment of project orders recognized over time ❸ Effects of the first-time application of IFRS 16 on the accounting of leases Our presentation of these key audit matters has been structured in each case as follows: ① Matter and issue ② Audit approach and findings ③ Reference to further information KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 General Information 151 Hereinafter we present the key audit matters: ❶ Recoverability of goodwill ① In the Company’s consolidated financial statements goodwill amounting in total to EUR 43.1 million is reported under the “Intangible assets” balance sheet item. Goodwill is tested for impairment by the Company once a year or when there are indications of impairment to determine any possible need for write-downs. Impairment testing is carried out at the level of the cash-generating units to which the relevant goodwill is allocated. The carrying amount of the relevant cash-generating unit, including goodwill, is compared with the corresponding recoverable amount in the context of the impairment test. The recoverable amount is generally calculated on the basis of the value in use. The present value of the future cash flows from the respective cash-generating unit normally serves as the basis of valuation. The present values are calculated using discounted cash flow models. For this purpose, the adopted medium-term business plan of the Group forms the starting point which is extrapolated based on assumptions about long-term rates of growth. Expectations relating to future market developments and assumptions about the development of macroeconomic factors are also taken into account. The discount rate used is the weighted average cost of capital for the relevant cash-generating unit. The impairment test determined that no write-downs were necessary. The outcome of this valuation is dependent to a large extent on the estimates made by the executive directors with respect to the future cash inflows from the respective cash-generating unit, on the discount rate used, the rate of growth as well as other assumptions, and is therefore subject to considerable uncertainty. Against this background and due to the complex nature of the valuation, this matter was of particular significance in the context of our audit. ② As part of our audit, we assessed the methodology employed for the purposes of performing the impairment test, among other things. After matching the future cash inflows used for the calculation against the adopted medium-term business plan of the Group, we assessed the appropriateness of the calculation, in particular by reconciling it with general and sector specific market expectations. We also assessed the appropriate consideration of the costs of Group functions. In the knowledge that even relatively small changes in the discount rate applied can have a material impact on the value of the entity calculated using this method, we focused our testing in particular on the parameters used to determine the discount rate applied, and assessed the calculation model. We evaluated the sensitivity analyses performed by the Company, in order to reflect the uncertainty inherent in the projections. Taking into account the information available, we determined that the carrying amounts of the cash-generating units, including the allocated goodwill, were adequately covered by the discounted future cash flows. Overall, the measurement inputs and assumptions used by the executive directors are in line with our expectations and are also within the ranges considered by us to be reasonable. 152 General Information KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 ③ The Company’s disclosures on goodwill are contained in section IV. “Balance sheet disclosures” note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. ❷ Accounting treatment of project orders recognized over time ① In the Company's consolidated financial statements revenue totaling EUR 2,383.2 million is reported in the consolidated income statement. The Company has put in place comprehensive systems and processes throughout the Group for the purposes of accurately recognizing and deferring revenue. Revenue amounting to EUR 717.3 million is attributable to project orders recognized over time and the service business. In the case of project orders, the stage of completion is estimated based on the ratio of costs already incurred to budgeted total costs. IFRS 15 requires estimates and judgments to be made for certain areas, which were assessed for appropriateness in the context of our audit. In particular, the estimation of the planned total costs of the project orders to be recognized over time and the appropriate allocation of costs incurred to the orders are based on the estimates and assumptions made by the executive directors. Against this background and due to the resulting estimation uncertainties and the complexity of the accounting treatment under Group-wide application of IFRS 15, this matter was of particular significance in the context of our audit. ② As part of our audit, among other things we assessed the processes and controls established by the Group for the recognition of revenue from project orders recognized over time, taking into account the stage of completion. In addition, with respect to project orders recognized over time we examined projects on a sample basis to determine whether they met the requirements for recognizing revenue over time in accordance with IFRS 15. We assessed the estimates and judgments made by the executive directors with respect to the recognition and deferral of revenue for the various business models of the Group com-panies. Furthermore, we assessed the calculation of percentage of completion and the proportionate recognition of revenue and profit derived from this. In this connection we examined the calculation of both the budgeted total costs and the costs actually incurred. We assessed the progress of the respective projects, among other things based on interviews with project managers and by inspecting project documentation. In addition, we assessed the consistency of the methods used to calculate the costs incurred. We also addressed the inherent audit risk in this audit area by means of audit procedures that were consistently applied throughout the Group. We were able to satisfy ourselves that the systems, processes and controls in place are appropriate and that the estimates and assumptions made by the executive directors are sufficiently documented and substantiated to ensure that revenue is appropriately accounted for. ③ The Company's disclosures on the accounting treatment of project orders recognized over time are contained in sections III. Accounting policies , IV. Notes to the balance sheet , nos. 8 and 13 and V. Notes to the income statement , no. 14 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 General Information 153 ❸ Impact of the initial application of IFRS 16 on lease accounting ① In the Company's consolidated financial statements right-of-use assets of EUR 50.1 million and lease liabilities of EUR 47.1 million are reported as of the balance sheet date. The initial application of the new accounting standard on leases (IFRS 16) had material effects on the carrying amounts in the opening balance sheet and subsequent measurement in the financial year. The Company transitioned to IFRS 16 using the modified retrospective approach. The comparative information for prior-year periods was not restated. For the purposes of applying the new IFRS 16, the Company has put in place Group-wide processes to fully and accurately recognize leases. Initial application also necessitated the implementation of a centralized IT system to report leases. The new IFRS 16 requires that the executive directors make estimates and judgments for certain areas, which were assessed for appropriateness in the context of our audit. This concerns in particular estimates regarding the exercise of options impacting the term of the lease. Against this background and due to the complexity of the new requirements of IFRS 16, lease accounting was of particular significance in the context of our audit. ② As part of our audit and with the assistance of our internal specialists from Capital Markets and Accounting Advisory Services and from Risk Assurance Services, among other things we assessed the appropriateness and effectiveness of the processes put in place by the Group to recognize leases. This also applies to the implementation of the centralized IT system to report leases and to the required modifications of existing systems in order to process the transactions. In addition, as part of our audit and with the assistance of our internal specialists we assessed the impact of the initial application of IFRS 16. Together we assessed the implementation work and evaluated the design of the processes set up to report the transactions in accordance with IFRS 16 and of the IT systems in place to support the implementation of the new requirements. We inspected the lease agreements on a test basis, verified the identification of lease components and assessed whether these were fully and accurately recorded in the centralized system newly implemented to report leases. In particular, we interviewed Company employees and inspected the appropriate evidence to assess the estimates regarding the exercise of options impacting the lease term. We were able to satisfy ourselves that the systems and processes put in place and adapted to IFRS 16 are appropriate. Furthermore, we verified that the estimates and assumptions made by the executive directors are sufficiently documented and substantiated to ensure that leases are appropriately accounted for in accordance with IFRS 16 as applied for the first time. ③ The Company's disclosures on the impact of the initial application of IFRS 16 are contained in section I. General information on the Group , and on the accounting treatment of leases in sections III. Accounting policies , IV. Notes to the balance sheet, nos. 2, 3 and 13, V. Notes to the income statement , nos. 18 and 19, VII. Statement of cash flows and IX. Other disclosures of the notes to the consolidated financial statement. 154 General Information KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 OTHER INFORMATION The executive directors are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the following non-audited parts of the group management report:  the statement on corporate governance pursuant to § 289f HGB and § 315d HGB included in section “Corporate Governance Statement” of the group management report  the corporate governance report pursuant to No. 3.10 of the German Corporate Governance Code  the separate non-financial report pursuant to § 289b Abs. 3 HGB and § 315b Abs. 3 HGB The other information comprises further the remaining parts of the annual report – excluding cross-references to external information – with the exception of the audited consolidated financial statements, the audited group management report and our auditor's report. Our audit opinions on the consolidated financial statements and on the group management report do not cover the other information, and consequently we do not express an audit opinion or any other form of assurance conclusion thereon. In connection with our audit, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in so doing, to consider whether the other information  is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements, with the group management report or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or  otherwise appears to be materially misstated. RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE SUPERVISORY BOARD FOR THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT The executive directors are responsible for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements that comply, in all material respects, with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to § 315e Abs. 1 HGB and that the consolidated financial statements, in compliance with these requirements, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position, and financial performance of the Group. In addition the executive directors are responsible for such internal control as they have determined necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the executive directors are responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. They also have the responsibility for disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern. In addition, they are responsible for financial reporting based on the going concern basis of accounting unless there is an intention to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or there is no realistic alternative but to do so. Furthermore, the executive directors are responsible for the preparation of the group management report that, as a whole, provides an appropriate view of the Group’s position and is, in all material respects, consistent with the consolidated financial statements, complies with German legal requirements, and appropriately presents the opportunities and risks of future development. In addition, the executive directors are responsible for such arrangements and measures (systems) as they have considered necessary to enable the preparation of a group management report that is in accordance with the applicable German legal requirements, and KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 General Information 155 to be able to provide sufficient appropriate evidence for the assertions in the group management report. The supervisory board is responsible for overseeing the Group’s financial reporting process for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements and of the group management report. AUDITOR'S RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OF THE GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and whether the group management report as a whole provides an appropriate view of the Group’s position and, in all material respects, is consistent with the consolidated financial statements and the knowledge obtained in the audit, complies with the German legal requirements and appropriately presents the opportunities and risks of future development, as well as to issue an auditor’s report that includes our audit opinions on the consolidated financial statements and on the group management report. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with § 317 HGB and the EU Audit Regulation and in compliance with German Generally Accepted Standards for Financial Statement Audits promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (IDW) will always detect a material misstatement. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements and this group management report. We exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also:  Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements and of the group management report, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinions. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.  Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit of the consolidated financial statements and of arrangements and measures (systems) relevant to the audit of the group management report in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an audit opinion on the effective-ness of these systems.  Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used by the executive directors and the reasonableness of estimates made by the executive directors and related disclosures.  Conclude on the appropriateness of the executive directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in the auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements and in the group management report or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our respective audit opinions. Our conclusions are based on the 156 General Information KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to be able to continue as a going concern.  Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial statements present the underlying transactions and events in a manner that the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and financial performance of the Group in compliance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to § 315e Abs. 1 HGB.  Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express audit opinions on the consolidated financial statements and on the group management report. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinions.  Evaluate the consistency of the group management report with the consolidated financial statements, its conformity with German law, and the view of the Group’s position it provides.  Perform audit procedures on the prospective information presented by the executive directors in the group management report. On the basis of sufficient appropriate audit evidence we evaluate, in particular, the significant assumptions used by the executive directors as a basis for the prospective information, and evaluate the proper derivation of the prospective information from these assumptions. We do not express a separate audit opinion on the prospective information and on the assumptions used as a basis. There is a substantial unavoidable risk that future events will differ materially from the prospective information. We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with the relevant independence requirements, and communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, the related safeguards. From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter. KSB Group / Annual Report 2019 General Information 157 Other legal and regulatory requirements FURTHER INFORMATION PURSUANT TO ARTICLE 10 OF THE EU AUDIT REGULATION We were elected as group auditor by the annual general meeting on 29 May 2019. We were engaged by the supervisory board on 29 August 2019. We have been the group auditor of KSB SE & Co. KGaA, Frankenthal, without interruption since the financial year 2015. We declare that the audit opinions expressed in this auditor’s report are consistent with the additional report to the audit committee pursuant to Article 11 of the EU Audit Regulation (long-form audit report). German public auditor responsible for the engagement The German Public Auditor responsible for the engagement is Dr. Ulrich Störk. Mannheim, 12 March 2020 PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Dr. Ulrich Störk Christina Pöpperl Wirtschaftsprüfer Wirtschaftsprüferin 158 General KSB Group /Information Annual Report 2019 General KSB Group Information / Annual Report 2019 161 Glossary ABBREVIATIONS KEY CORPORATE AND TECHNICAL TERMS API Additive Manufacturing Sustainable Development Goals American Petroleum Institute Previously referred to as rapid prototypThe United Nations’ 17 goals for susing: a process which enables rapid and tainable development HR cost-effective production of patterns, Human Resources samples, prototypes, tools and final Stakeholders products. Groups of people who are directly or inIEA directly affected by a company’s activiInternational Energy Agency ties; KSB’s main stakeholders are cusBusiness Innovation Lab tomers, suppliers, investors, employees IMO Think tank in which a KSB team develand the public. International Maritime Organisation, ops future-oriented business models for a specialised UN agency the age of digitalisation UK Modern Slavery Act British law combating modern slavery, IoT Greenhouse Gas Protocol forced labour and human trafficking Internet of Things Standard for calculating CO2 and greenhouse gas emissions IWF UN Global Compact International Monetary Fund United Nations initiative for responsible International Labour Organisation corporate governance based on ten uniVDMA (ILO) versal principles Verband Deutscher Maschinenund Specialised United Nations agency reAnlagenbau e. V. sponsible for drawing up and overseeing [Mechanical Engineering Industry international labour standards and soAssociation] cial standards 158 KSB Group / Informationen Weitere Annual Report 2019 General KSB Konzern Information / Geschäftsbericht 2019 159 162 160 Information General Information KSB Group KSB Group // Annual Annual Report Report 2019 2019 Contacts EDITOR As a signatory to the United Nations KSB SE & Co. KGaA Global Compact, KSB is committed to enJohann-Klein-Straße 9 dorsing the ten principles of the interna67227 Frankenthal, Germany tional community in the areas of human Tel.: +49 6233 86-0 rights, labour standards, environmental protection and anti-corruption. ONLINE NEWS You will find the latest news on the KSB Group at: www.ksb.com Should you need additional information, A print version of the KSB Group’s Annual Report is addiplease contact: tionally available in German. We also publish German and English versions online in PDF format at FSC-INFOBLATT INVESTOR RELATIONS Dieter Pott http://annualreport2019.ksb.com . Tel. +49 6233 86-2615 E-mail: investor-relations@ksb.com FSC-INFOBLATT X COMMUNICATIONS Wilfried Sauer l-Logo bei Mixed-Papier, zu benutzen bei Endformat A4 oder größer. Tel. +49 6233 86-1140 E-mail: 02 FULL MIX wilfried.sauer@ksb.com 11 10 12 Varianten für Full-Logo bei Mixed-Papier, zu benutzen bei Endformat A4 oder größer. CONCEPT AND DESIGN 09 KSB Communications, Frankenthal, Germany 10 11 12 3st kommunikation, Mainz, Germany PHOTOGRAPHY 100% Gaby Gerster, Frankfurt (pp. 4 / 5, 6) G_color.pdf 02_Full_Mix_HF_NEG_sw.pdf 02_Full_Mix_HF_POS_color.pdf 02_Full_Mix_HF_POS_sw.pdf s Robert Kwiatek, Frankenthal (p. 8) PRINTING 02_Full_Mix_HF_NEG_color.pdf A climate-neutral process was 02_Full_Mix_HF_NEG_sw.pdf used to produce this 02_Full_Mix_HF_POS_color.pdf Annual 02_Full_Mix_H 14 Ottweiler Druckerei und Verlag 15GmbH, Ottweiler 16 Report. This means that the carbon emissions resulting from production were offset through certified climate protection projects. 13 14 15 16 G_color.pdf 02_Full_Mix_QF_NEG_sw.pdf 02_Full_Mix_QF_POS_color.pdf 02_Full_Mix_QF_POS_sw.pdf 02_Full_Mix_QF_NEG_color.pdf 02_Full_Mix_QF_NEG_sw.pdf 02_Full_Mix_QF_POS_color.pdf 02_Full_Mix_Q X l-Logo bei Mixed-Papier, zu benutzen bei Endformat kleiner A4. Global GroupPresence Financial Highlights Backed up by BU SINESS production DEVELOPMENT A NDand assembly sites around EA R NINGS 2019 the world, 2018 as well as 2017 a tight-knit 2016 sales 2015 and Order service intakenetwork, KSB staff are always € m close at hand. 2,303.5 2,453.8 2,265.3 2,156.6 2,261.2 Sales revenue €m 2,383.2 2,245.9 2,205.0 2,165.7 2,334.8 Orders on hand €m 1,409.3 1,353.9 1,260.8 1,200.6 1,209.7 EUROPE MIDDLE EAST / AFRICA ASIA / PACIFIC Earnings before finance income / expense, Austria Norway Algeria Australia income tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) €m 195.5 179.2 186.9 162.6 176.5 Belarus Poland Egypt China Earnings before financePortugal Belgium income / Ghana India expense and income tax (EBIT ) €m 113.6 74.7 116.4* 90.0* 103.7* Croatia Russia Kenya Indonesia Earnings before income tax (EBT ) €m 103.4 65.6 104.2 74.6 93.4 Czech Republic Serbia Morocco Japan Earnings after income tax Slovakia €m 58.5 23.9 52.1 47.8 52.2 Estonia Oman Kazakhstan Finland Slovenia Qatar Malaysia France Spain Free cash flow (cash flows from operating activities Saudi Arabia New Zealand + cash flows from investing Germany Swedenactivities) €m 70.9 South Africa – 29.1 112.5 20.5 Pakistan 82.1 Hungary Switzerland Turkey Philippines K S B W O R L D W I D E | K E Y I N D I C AT O R S Italy The Netherlands United Arab Emirates Singapore BA LA NC E SH EET Latvia Ukraine Zambia 2019 2018 2017 Korea South2016 2015 Luxembourg Balance sheet total United Kingdom €m 2,327.0 2,242.2 2,253.4 Taiwan 2,350.2 2,291.1 Thailand Capital expenditure €m 107.0 79.6 101.9 Vietnam 82.2 82.8 Depreciation and amortisation €m 81.9 104.5 70.6 72.6 72.8 AMERICAS Argentina Columbia KSB production / assembly sites Net financial position €m 246.3** 255.0 288.0 259.5 211.3 Brazil Mexico KSB sales / service sites Canada Peru Equity (incl. non-controlling interests) €m 862.6 856.8 885.4 890.3 870.2 Chile USA Equity ratio (incl. non-controlling interests) % 37.1 38.2 39.3 37.9 38.0 P R O FITA B ILIT Y 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 EBT margin (sales revenue in relation to EBT) % 4.3 2.9 4.7 3.5 4.0 EBIT margin (sales revenue in relation to EBIT) % 4.8 3.3 5.3 4.2 4.4 F_POS_sw.pdf E M PLOY EES 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Number of employees at 31 Dec. 15,645 15,482# 15,455 15,572 16,196 S H A R ES 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Market capitalisation at 31 Dec. €m 536.1 491.3 884.4 637.7 659.2 Earnings per ordinary share (EPS ) € 24.47 6.26 21.10 18.68 22.30 Earnings per preference share ( EPS ) € 24.73 6.64 21.36 18.94 22.56 Dividend per ordinary no-par-value share € 8.50 3.00 7.50 5.50 5.50 Dividend per preference no-par-value share € 8.76 3.38 7.76 5.76 5.76 F_POS_sw.pdf * Restated retrospectively due to new definition of EBIT as earnings before finance income / expense and income tax (previously earnings before interest and income tax) ** 2019 amount includes lease liabilities of € 47.1 million from the first-time adoption of IFRS 16. # New definition of employee counting method in 2019 (2018 figures restated retrospectively; previous years are presented without adjustments) Further information is provided in the Notes to the consolidated financial statements. Global Presence Backed up by production and assembly sites around the world, as well as a tight-knit sales and service network, KSB staff are always close at hand. EUROPE MIDDLE EAST / AFRICA ASIA / PACIFIC Austria Norway Algeria Australia Belarus Poland Egypt China Belgium Portugal Ghana India Croatia Russia Kenya Indonesia Czech Republic Serbia Morocco Japan Estonia Slovakia Oman Kazakhstan Finland Slovenia Qatar Malaysia France Spain Saudi Arabia New Zealand Germany Sweden South Africa Pakistan Hungary Switzerland Turkey Philippines K S B W O R L D W I D E | K E Y I N D I C AT O R S Italy The Netherlands United Arab Emirates Singapore Latvia Ukraine Zambia South Korea Luxembourg United Kingdom Taiwan Thailand Vietnam AMERICAS Argentina Columbia KSB production / assembly sites Brazil Mexico KSB sales / service sites Canada Peru Chile USA Financial Calendar 26 March 2020 Financial press conference 10:00, Frankenthal, Germany 30 April 2020 Interim report January – March 2020 13 August 2020 Half-year financial report January – June 2020 12 November 2020 Interim report January – September 2020 28 January 2021 Preliminary report on financial year 2020 You will find the latest information on the 2020 Annual General Meeting at: www.ksb.com/agm KSB SE & Co. KGaA 67225 Frankenthal (Germany) www.ksb.com
