Making a Difference 2019 Annual Sustainability Report April 2020 Boston Consulting Group partners with leaders in business and society to tackle their most important challenges and capture their greatest opportunities. BCG was the pioneer in business strategy when it was founded in 1963. Today, we help clients with total transformation—inspiring complex change, enabling organizations to grow, building competitive advantage, and driving bottom-line impact. To succeed, organizations must blend digital and human capabilities. Our diverse, global teams bring deep industry and functional expertise and a range of perspectives to spark change. BCG delivers solutions through leading-edge management consulting along with technology and design, corporate and digital ventures— and business purpose. We work in a uniquely collaborative model across the firm and throughout all levels of the client organization, generating results that allow our clients to thrive. Contents 01 | E xecutive 30 | E  mpowering Introduction Our People 02 | A bout This 40 | P  romoting Report Responsible Business Practices 09 | P ositively Impacting Society 48 | A  ppendix 16 | Protecting Our Planet Executive Introduction 2019 was a pivotal year for BCG. I am proud of the steps we have taken— both through our client work and through the transformation of our own operations—to address important societal challenges and to help shape a brighter future. In a time of rapid change and unprecedented global economic, sustainability, inclusion, and global health challenges, we have never been more committed to working with organizations across the social, public, and private sectors to create solutions that increase our collective impact and make bold progress. In 2019, we delivered more than 700 social impact projects with over 450 organizations. As we release this report, we recognize that the world is personal growth, and providing them with the opportunity facing a public health crisis. While this report focuses on to find their own paths. This is deeply embedded in our activities during 2019, we cannot ignore the profound culture at all levels. In 2019, we earned the top spot on impact that COVID-19 is having on individuals, communiConsulting Magazine’s list of “Best Firms to Work For” for ties, health-care systems, and economies all around the the sixth consecutive year, and Fortune magazine placed world, as well as on our clients and their industries. At BCG in the top ten of its “100 Best Companies to Work BCG, we are committed to doing everything we can to For” for the eleventh consecutive year. support our people, our clients, and our communities during this challenging time, and addressing this humaniOur firm’s purpose—to unlock the potential of those tarian crisis together. who advance the world—drives everything we do at BCG. Now, more than ever, in today’s challenging Among the world’s other defining challenges today is world, we are committed to living this purpose. We climate change—a complex and urgent problem that also dedicate ourselves to living our values every day and confronts both business and society. Combating the clito maintaining the highest standards of responsible and mate crisis is a key priority within BCG. True collaboration ethical behavior. As we grow our business in this complex between business and government is essential to achievenvironment, we consistently strive to uphold our values ing necessary change. We need governments and investors and adapt to emerging business challenges; to foster and to focus on setting the right context, while businesses move promote a culture of transparency that encourages individdecisively to reduce net emissions. In that vein, in 2019, we uals to raise the most sensitive topics; and to act with a launched the Center for Climate Action to help our clients profound sense of humility and respect for our place in prepare for a decarbonized world, supporting them as they society and the responsibilities that come with our unique drive technological and economic transformation and access, people, and capabilities. realize competitive advantage in a low-carbon economy. We also advanced ongoing efforts to reduce our own enviI hope that you find this report to be of value and that it ronmental impact and to retain CarbonNeutral® company helps you get a sense of how we are evolving our business certification through a combination of internal emissions practices to positively impact society, protect our planet, reduction projects and the purchase of carbon credits. and empower our people. Not only do we feel that this is the right way to do business, but we believe that it will Looking ahead to the new decade, we believe that the bring long-term value to our people, clients, and society. engine fueling growth at BCG will be our ability to attract and retain exceptional people from all backgrounds and to develop an organization that fully reflects the diverse world in which we live and work. We invest deeply in our people, through training, mentorship, and a culture of apprenticeship, engaging recruits from day one, accelerating their Rich Lesser Chief Executive Officer 1 MAKING A DIFFERENCE: 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT About This W elcome to Boston Consulting Group’s inaugural Annual Sustainability Report. Here we outline policies and programs designed to actualize our values and purpose while addressing urgent global chalReport lenges. We describe BCG’s material nonfinancial aspects and impacts during fiscal year 2019 for The Boston Consulting Group, Inc. as a single entity, aligned with the reporting guidelines of the UN Global Compact (UNGC). The Boston Consulting Group, Inc. is the ultimate parent company for all of our operating entities worldwide, including The Boston Consulting Group Nordic AB (“BCG Sweden”). We take an operational control approach to defining our reporting boundary. We have also referenced the GRI standards as a basis for disclosure. For more information on these standards, please see the GRI Index table in the appendix of this report. This report also serves as our first communication on progress toward furthering the principles of the UNGC, to which BCG became a Participant in 2018. We reaffirm our commitment to the UNGC principles and summarize their practical application in an index table in the appendix. If you have any questions about this report, please send them by email to SustainabilityReporting@bcg.com. BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP 2 About BCG gy and design, corporate and digital ventures, and business purpose. We work in a uniquely collaborative model across Boston Consulting Group (BCG) partners with leaders in the firm and throughout all levels of the client organizabusiness and society to tackle their most important chaltion, generating results that allow our clients to thrive. lenges and capture their greatest opportunities. BCG was the pioneer in business strategy when it was founded in Boston Consulting Group is a privately held corporation. 1963. Today, we help clients with total transformation— BCG has offices in more than 90 cities in over 50 countries inspiring complex change, enabling organizations to grow, and operates as one firm worldwide. The corporation is building competitive advantage, and driving bottom-line wholly owned by the members of its partnership. BCG’s impact. offices are owned directly or indirectly by The Boston Consulting Group, Inc. To succeed today, organizations must blend digital and human capabilities. Our diverse, global teams bring deep For more information about BCG’s leadership (Executive industry and functional expertise and a range of perspecCommittee, Chairman, and Global Practice Area Leaders), tives to spark change. BCG delivers solutions through visit https://www.bcg.com/about/people/leadership.aspx. leading-edge management consulting along with technoloOﬃces in $8.5 billion more than 1963 Founded by revenue 50 countries 90% of global Bruce Henderson Many of our business from Oﬃces in more repeat customers More than than 90 cities clients rank 21,000 among the employees 500 largest corporations 3 MAKING A DIFFERENCE: 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Bring insight Drive Conquer Lead, with Grow by to light inspired complexity integrity growing impact others Our Purpose These principles are foundational to our purpose and permeate our culture. They articulate what BCG looks At BCG, our purpose and values underlie everything we do. like at its best, and they serve as a compass to ensure We know that a clear articulation of an organization’s that we embody our ethos and actualize our purpose. purpose can be transformational. To excavate our own We celebrate colleagues who best personify these purpose, we set out on a journey to capture and communiprinciples with our “Keys to Purpose” awards, and we cate it, seeking answers to two questions: “Who are we issue frequent communiqués to engage and inspire when we’re at our best?” and “What fundamental need in our people. the world are we working to address?” After extensive exploration, we arrived at this encapsulation of our purpose: to unlock the potential of those who advance the world. Underpinning this simple phrase are five core purpose principles: 1. We bring insight to light by challenging traditional thinking and ways of operating and bringing fresh perspectives to the toughest problems. 2. We drive inspired impact by looking beyond the next deadline to the next decade and by collaborating closely with our clients to enable and energize their organizations. Watch our purpose video, “Unlocking the Potential of Those Who Advance the World.” 3. We conquer complexity by discovering unique sources of competitive advantage and hidden truths in dynamic, complex systems. 4. We lead with integrity by confronting the hard issues, staying true to our values, and stating our views candidly and directly. 5. We grow by growing others, enabling our clients, colleagues, and the broader community to build success and achieve their full potential. BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP 4 Our Values We are committed to the highest standards of ethics and business conduct , as set Having a strong culture anchored in clear forth in our Values Statement. Every BCG values helps make BCG a market leader—and employee is expected to uphold these a rewarding, inspiring place to work. standards. BCG Values INTEGRITY RESPECT FOR THE DIVERSITY as an expression of INDIVUAL of thought, expertise, courage and accountability and their capacity and desire for experience, and background personal growth CLIENTS COME THE STRATEGIC VALUE DELIVERED FIRST PERSPECTIVE in the form of tangible, and their success is the enabling our clients to deliver positive, and lasting measure of our success superior results in a change sustainable manner PARTNERSHIP SOCIAL IMPACT EXPANDING THE ART guided by a long-term view of to make the world a OF THE POSSIBLE our relationships, internally better place because the goal is not simply and with clients to apply best practice, but also to invent it 5 MAKING A DIFFERENCE: 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Materiality and Stakeholders • Employees offer input via our global network of green teams—groups of consulting and support staff who We regularly engage with external and internal stakeholdvolunteer to reduce environmental impact in their ers with regard to our sustainability and societal impact local offices. goals, performance, and reporting. Feedback from our primary stakeholders—clients and employees—comes • We receive regular informal feedback from employees through formal and informal channels: at global town hall meetings and via direct messages to leadership. In 2019, two of our town hall meetings • From clients, we see interest in our performance on key covered sustainability topics in great detail, generating nonfinancial aspects such as environmental sustainabilmuch dialogue, producing useful suggestions, and inity and supplier diversity, as evidenced by invitations to forming our priorities. participate in collaborative initiatives that address these issues and by requests for more information about our • Beyond drawing insights from clients and employees, we efforts on matters identified here as material. use industry benchmarks such as CDP and Ecovadis to assess our material topics and identify best practices. • Clients also tell us that consultancy services designed to help them maximize their positive societal impact, Our materiality matrix is shown below. This matrix focuses such as those offered by our Social Impact practice, are on aspects pertinent to human rights, labor, environment, increasingly important. This reflects growing investor and opposition to bribery and corruption. Accordingly, it interest in environmental, social, and corporate govexcludes aspects that are important to our business but ernance (ESG) performance, as well as employee and incidental to the UNGC and to nonfinancial reporting, such customer scrutiny of clients’ societal impact. as account planning. Higher • Anti-bribery and corruption • Learning and development • Climate change • Employee well-being • Data security Importance of the topics to our stakeholders • Advocacy on social issues • Diversity and inclusion • Social Impact client work • Talent acquisition • Waste and recycling • Volunteering and community • Economic performance • Human rights engagement • Supplier diversity • Alignment with voluntary • Supplier labor practices environmental and governance standards Lower Importance of topics to our business Higher BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP 6 When trying to solve complex social and environmental challenges, no organization or sector can succeed alone. Partnership is at the heart of how we push for positive change. – Rich Hutchinson, Social Impact Practice Lead UN Sustainable Development Goals Recent Awards and Honors The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) ratified by the United Nations’ member states in 2015 provide a blueprint Ranked number one on Consulting for achieving a better and more sustainable future for all. Magazine’s “Best Firms to Work For” list for the sixth consecutive year The SDGs include ending poverty, improving health, providing access to high-quality education, and reducing inequal­ ity. They also address environmental challenges, such as tackling the climate crisis and preserving natural environments. The goals are an urgent call for action by all counRanked in the top ten of Fortune's “100 tries to work in partnership to achieve peace and prosperity Best Companies to Work For,” for the for people and the planet. 11th consecutive year, placing 10th overall on the 2019 list Received a perfect score for the 11th consecutive year on the Human Rights Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index, which recognizes equality for lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender employees Watch this video to see how BCG is partnering Named one of the “100 Best with others to achieve the Sustainable Companies” for parents in the US for the 13th year by Working Mother Development Goals. magazine Achieving the SDGs Together As a global firm engaged with business, government, and the Honored as one of four Catalyst Award winners in 2018, featuring Women at social sector on critical challenges and transformational BCG as an innovative program for the strategies, BCG focuses intensively on the SDGs. We help a recruitment, development, and wide array of organizations develop their capabilities in the advancement of women area of global sustainable development. Although we address all of the SDGs in our social impact work, we believe that collaboration across sectors is imperative, so we place special emphasis on Goal 17: Partnerships to achieve the goals. Ranked number three on Glassdoor’s “Best Places to Work” list for 2018, earning a Glassdoor Employees’ Choice Closing the SDGs Investment Gap Award, which relies solely on the input Current rates of spending worldwide fall nearly $2.5 trillion of employees dollars short of the investment necessary to meet the SDGs.1 In response to this gap, BCG is taking the following steps: Ranked 10th among LinkedIn’s “Top • Foster innovation to reduce the investment and time Companies 2018” in the UK and among required to achieve results. the top companies in three other countries in 2018 • Develop new models to leverage the complementary strengths of the public, private, and social sectors. • Mobilize capital across the global ecosystem. Ranked number one on Vault’s list of the best consulting ﬁrms to work for in Asia-Paciﬁc • Encourage companies to apply their formidable resources and scale to address societal issues. 1. “Narrowing the SDG Investment Gap: The Imperative for Development Finance Institutions,” BCG article, February 2018. BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP 8 Positively O ur social impact work is integral to our company’s purpose: to unlock the potential of those who advance the world. We are commitImpacting ted to finding and catalyzing effective solutions to pressing societal issues and prioritizing sustainability. BCG partners with others to make a difference in the world. We bring world-class expertise on the Society SDGs, help organizations develop and focus their social impact agendas, and help them build their capabilities to deliver with impact and effectiveness. As a result, our clients enhance their contributions to sustainable development and, by doing so, realize significant benefits to their own organizations. Contents Partnering with Our Clients to Drive Societal Impact Shaping the Global Agenda 9 MAKING A DIFFERENCE: 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Highlights Delivered more than 700 Elevated our longstanding Social Began embedding “SI Inside” social impact consulting Impact initiative and work into a throughout BCG, incorporating projects with more than 450 full practice, with a commitment societal impact—which organizations, catalyzing to rapidly expand our encompasses economic impact, progress across the private, capabilities to make an even social impact, and public, and social sectors on greater diﬀerence in the world environmental impact—into critical issues every part of our business, beginning with Digital Ventures’ commitment to include such impact as the 14th element in its innovation sprint methodology Partnering with Our Clients to Drive Societal • Local Social Impact Efforts. We have significantly Impact refined many of our local Social Impact investments and are building capability hubs for our global focus areas. Approach We achieve our greatest societal impact in collaboration • Global Social Impact Partners. We continue to supwith our clients. By maximizing the impact of these coopport our long-term strategic partners through increasing erative efforts, we accomplish far more than we ever could investments and secondments (temporary assignments alone. We believe that the only way to overcome complex of BCG staff to work with one of our partners). social and environmental challenges is in partnership— the heart of our social impact approach. By enriching and • Social Impact Topic and Sector Businesses. We drive expanding our partnerships and by fostering system-level progress with social impact consulting, helping clients coalitions, we are pursuing our ambition to be the most use their core business assets and operations to profitpositively impactful company in the world. ably achieve positive environmental and social impact. Our social impact work focuses on driving transformation • Embedding Social Impact Inside. We are embedding across four key topics: Social Impact as a lens throughout BCG, including in our alternative businesses. • Global Development. Accelerate inclusive growth. We are also committed to serving the local communities in • Global Health. Promote healthy lives for all. which we live and work, engaging in both pro bono work and volunteer activities. Many BCG offices organize com• Climate and Environment. Tackle climate change, and munity service days, in which staff members volunteer at respect and restore nature. local nonprofits or invite local nonprofits to BCG offices for full-day strategy sessions. We offer 12-month Social Impact • Education. Provide high-quality education and skills. immersion and secondment programs that enable our consultants to work on projects involving societal impact We are scaling up our Social Impact practice in response and sustainability with our clients, or to gain valuable to the varied imperatives of sustainability, societal impact, experience outside BCG with our global and local social and business: impact partners. BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP 10 2019 in numbers 50% $2B 700 $500M We work with apBCG investments In 2019, BCG In 2019, BCG proximately half of have enabled almost delivered over 700 delivered more than our firm’s largest $2 billion in consultsocial impact $500 million in clients on social ing on social impact projects with over social impact impact topics. in the past ten years. 450 organizations. consulting. ↓2019 Highlights Driving Sustainable Development in Rwanda Driving Total Societal Impact with Corporate Clients Since 2017, BCG has partnered with the Government of Social impact work with our corporate clients and investors Rwanda and its agency responsible for private-sector develgoes well beyond the legacy concept of corporate social opment, the Rwanda Development Board, on a transforresponsibility to deliver total societal impact (TSI). In mation effort to create jobs and reduce trade deficits today’s world, companies can no longer pursue societal through greater private investment. Our partnership has issues as a side activity. Instead, they must use their core led to a transformation of the Development Board combusiness to create both positive societal impact and greatpleted in 2019 with the setup of the Investment Acceleraer shareholder value. Customers, employees, and investors tor. This accelerator, which BCG continues to support, has alike care about TSI—the aggregate of a company’s ecoplayed a role in facilitating investments worth over $450 nomic, social, and environmental effects on the world. million and has created approximately 19,000 direct jobs. “We established joint BCG and Rwanda Development Board teams to rethink how to attract private investments in Rwanda, and brought in agile approaches and principles to rapidly test ideas with an investor-centric lens.” — Shalini Unnikrishnan, BCG Managing Director and Partner Watch this video to learn more about the companies that are making TSI pay off for society and for shareholders. Delivering Systemic Change in the Public Sector We work with country governments, aid agencies, developWatch this video to learn more about BCG’s ment finance institutions, and other funders to maximize work with the Rwanda Development Board. their positive social and environmental impact and deliver systemic change at scale. 11 MAKING A DIFFERENCE: 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Helping a Major Asset Manager Become a Leader in Sustainable Investing One leading asset manager committed to having 100% of The sustainable investing market is growing and generating its actively managed funds incorporate ESG factors into above-market financial performance: the core of its investment decision making. The firm engaged BCG to develop a plan and build internal capabilities • 53% of global investors select asset managers with exto deliver on this ambitious commitment. The BCG team pertise in ESG strategy.2 included leading global experts in asset management, sustainable investing, and advanced analytics. We worked • 63% of 2,200 studies found a positive relationship bein a highly integrated way with the client on an enterprise-­ tween ESG and financial performance.3 wide effort that included client insight analysis and internal capability for building ESG analysis into its core investment • 20% less downside deviation in market value exists for and decision-making processes. sustainable funds than for traditional funds.4 2. State Street ESG Institutional Investor Survey (2018). 3. Gunnar Friede, Timo Busch & Alexander Bassen, “ESG and Financial Performance: Aggregated Evidence from More than 2000 Empirical Studies” (2015). 4. Morgan Stanley Institute for Sustainable Investing, “Sustainable Investing’s Competitive Advantage” (August 2019). BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP 12 Helping UNICEF Close the Learning Poverty Gap Through Technology Although more children than ever before have access to The Learning Passport meets the needs of three key target education, research shows that school attendance does not audiences: necessarily result in learning. Many children, even if they attend school, are not acquiring fundamental skills. Conse• For learners, it provides a pathway to continuous learnquently, 53% of children in developing countries and 80% ing from high-quality materials and produces a record of of those in poor countries experience learning poverty.5 each child’s progress. Globally, 387 million primary-school children will not achieve minimum proficiency levels in reading and math, • For educators, it provides a curriculum framework with profoundly limiting their life prospects. curated content and teaching instructions. To address the critical need for better access to high-­quality • For governments, it provides resources and tools to supeducation and improved learning pathways, BCG partnered port the provision of education to all vulnerable children. with UNICEF to develop the go-to-market strategy and business plan for the Learning Passport, a new technology The Learning Passport has the potential to transform lives platform designed to close the learning poverty gap by across the world. If all students in low-income countries providing high-quality, flexible learning opportunities for acquired at least elementary-level reading skills, 171 milprimary-school children. lion people could be lifted out of poverty.6 This would represent a 12% reduction in global poverty. 5. UNESCO Institute for Statistics, World Bank Group: Education (2019). 6. UNESCO, Global Education Monitoring Report (2019). 13 MAKING A DIFFERENCE: 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT How Motivation Can Fix Public Systems Shaping the Global Agenda In a talk about motivating people to drive change, BCG managing director and partner Abhishek Gopalka disAPPROACH cussed how he helped improve the health system of RajasWe amplify our societal impact by researching solutions to than, a state in India that is home to more than 80 million global challenges and sharing them across sectors. Our people, by using the powers of transparency and public extensive Social Impact practice generates insights that we accountability. (See the video clip below.) employ to accelerate progress toward sustainability and societal impact, often in collaboration with clients and other stakeholders. As current commitments will not suffice for a sustainable future, BCG is urging organizations and governments to adopt much more ambitious goals for sustainable development. To support this progress, we supply new insights from business, science, technology, and society, and we engage leaders in provocative discussion and experimentation to expand the boundaries of Social Impact theory and practice. ↓2019 Highlights Watch this video to find out how motivation can Winning the ’20s: Optimizing for Both Social and fix public systems. Business Value At the turn of a decade and a tipping point for business, we have been asking “What will it take to win in the 2020s?” Seismic shifts in global context call for corresponding changes in the way we work, including redefined concepAdvancing Progress Through Social Sector Partners tions of a good company, a good investment, and a good Our global partnerships undergird our significant instituleader. To win in the 2020s and beyond, businesses will tional investment in Social Impact. We help these organihave to be about more than just business. Companies will zations develop their capabilities, improve their effectivehave to create value not only for shareholders but also for ness, and better deliver on their missions. We have society—by confronting humanity’s toughest challenges. long-term partnerships with the World Food Programme This means that they must optimize for both social and (WFP), Save the Children, the Bill & Melinda Gates Founbusiness value. Leaders must think beyond traditional dation, the WWF, Teach For All, and Yunus Social Business. initiatives for corporate social responsibility and instead center their organization’s purpose on doing good while doing well. Read the full BCG thought leadership article on Our Social Impact Partners: this subject here. BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP 14 Our thought leadership in 2019 spanned a diverse array of topics covering many of the SDGs: Shrimp Farmers What Companies Want to Boost the Six Ways to Speed Worldwide Must Can Learn from Global Economy by Progress on the Adopt Sustainable World Leaders in $5 Trillion? Support Health SDGs Practices—or Risk Societal Impact Women as Falling Behind Entrepreneurs How to Make How Asset Optimize for Both Innovation Is the Teacher Managers Can Social and Business Only Way to Win the Eﬀectiveness Seize the Lead in Value SDG Race Reforms Stick Sustainable Investing How Mobile Money Turning More Aligning Economic The Net-Zero Agents Can Expand Tassels Incentives to Challenge: Global Financial Inclusion Eradicate Diseases Climate Action at a Crossroads CEO Guide to the The Business Case Flipping the Script A Circular Solution Circular for Carbon Capture on Climate Action to Plastic Waste Bioeconomy 15 MAKING A DIFFERENCE: 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Protecting C ombating the climate crisis is a defining challenge of our time. At BCG, we recognize the urgent need to reduce emissions and address Our Planet systemic threats to our environment. To maximize our impact, we concentrate our efforts in three domains: partnering with clients to drive climate action, shaping the global agenda, and managing our own environmental impact. Contents Partnering with Clients to Drive Climate Action Shaping the Global Agenda Managing Our Own Environmental Impact BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP 16 2019 Highlights We launched the Center for BCG is helping to shape the We have retained Climate Action to support global response to the climate CarbonNeutral company businesses and governments crisis through our partnership certiﬁcation through a in preparing for a with the World Economic Forum combination of internal decarbonized world and to on the Net Zero Challenge, our emissions reductions and drive technological and support for climate negotiations purchase of carbon credits.7 economic transformations to at COP26 in Glasgow, and realize competitive industry-speciﬁc consortia advantage in a low-carbon helping develop sector-speciﬁc economy. solutions. Partnering with Clients to Drive Climate Action As a leading management consulting firm with global reach and intellectual diversity spanning every significant APPROACH industry and function, we achieve our greatest environAccording to the World Meteorological Organization, 2019 mental impact by working in collaboration with our clients. concluded a record-breaking decade of global warming, Our climate and environment team partners with clients retreating ice, and sea-level rise—driven by greenhouse from the private, public, and social sectors to help them gases from human activities.8 Already evident around the prepare for a decarbonized world, supporting them as they world, our changing climate poses severe and irreversible drive technological and economic transformations to realthreats to societies, economies, and ecosystems. The World ize competitive advantage in a low-carbon economy. Economic Forum 2019 Global Risks Report identified environmental risks as being three of the top five risks by We focus our commercial work on industry sectors that are likelihood and four of the top five risks by impact—a findmost essential to tackling climate change, including Energy, ing that emphasizes the threat that the climate crisis Industrial Goods, Public Sector, Consumer Goods, and Travel poses to our planet and to humanity.9 Additional environand Tourism. In 2019, we worked with and discussed climate mental challenges such as waste management, air polluand environment topics with clients in all of these sectors. tion, and ocean plastics further threaten the Earth and its ecosystems. 7. CarbonNeutral certification is achieved in accordance with The CarbonNeutral Protocol. 8. World Meteorological Organization, Provisional Statement on the State of the Global Climate in 2019. 9. World Economic Forum, The Global Risks Report 2019, 14th Edition. 17 MAKING A DIFFERENCE: 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 in numbers $300M 350 | 250 BCG has invested to enable almost $300 million BCG worked on more than 350 climate and environment in climate and environment consulting projects projects with more than 250 organizations in 2019. in 2019. ↓2019 Highlights Launching the Center for Climate Action Conscious of the urgent need for a coordinated response to the climate crisis, BCG in 2019 brought together the firm’s climate thought leadership, expertise, and tools to form the Center for Climate Action (CCA). Advancing the global drive for decarbonization, the CCA helps position organizations for success in a low-carbon world by focusing on three areas: business strategy, operations, and stakeholder engagement. It also works with local and national governments, NGOs, and social sector groups to develop and implement strategies to reduce carbon emissions. Watch the launch video for the Center for As companies reorient their strategy toward low-carbon Climate Action. transformation, the CCA evaluates business and portfolio impacts under a range of future climate scenarios. On the operations side, the CCA helps companies identify and realize the most cost-efficient path to reducing emissions in their own operations and in their supply chains, while navigating the dynamic policy environment. BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP 18 Disruption and Opportunities: Supporting a Mining Client on the Global Response to Climate Change Context Actions Over the past 25 years, the mining industry context was To get a better understanding of the disruptive force of heavily framed by the emergence and growth of China, climate change and to proactively drive an ambitious which triggered dramatic growth in demand for metals and sustainability agenda, a leading mining company partnered minerals. with BCG. While China is likely to remain firmly at the center of the Working with BCG, the client defined its strategic response industry context, the broad-based effort to decarbonize and to climate change by quantitatively assessing the resilience limit further global warming to a maximum of an additionof its portfolio to the effects of climate change abatement, al 2°C by 2050 is expected to transform the industry. Globidentifying strategic questions, and developing best-in-class al warming is likely not only to create strategic challenges disclosure on sustainability and the pathway to achieving it. but also to open up exciting opportunities. Companies need to consider the potential threats and their resilience toward them, as well as opportunities for growth and positive impact. In general, they need to take a more pro­active approach to understanding the climate change challenge, their role in it, and pathways of mitigation. 19 MAKING A DIFFERENCE: 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Outcomes Impact Together, over the course of nine months, BCG and the This project increased transparency for management on the mining company: financial impact of climate change across scenarios, provided a robust climate-related disclosure narrative for external • Framed the likely global response to climate change and stakeholders, and built a foundation for strategic discushow it may disrupt the mining industry sions on specific climate-related risks and opportunities. • Identified and addressed the major strategic questions arising from this disruptive dynamic, including identifying specific opportunity areas • Conducted deep dives into key end sectors (such as transport, steel, buildings, and power generation) that would be particularly impacted by climate action, and developed several abatement scenarios by analyzing the future makeup of end sectors and major countries through 2050 • Collaborated in deriving the impact of abatement scenarios on midand long-term commodity demand and price outlook • Defined strategic questions of climate action • Developed a detailed narrative for external disclosure of climate-change-related risks and opportunities BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP 20 Helping OGCI Climate Investments Refine a Low-Carbon Strategy Collectively, the energy and industrial sectors have a heavy • Reducing methane leakage during the production, delivcarbon footprint, accounting for approximately 75% of ery, and use of oil and gas global greenhouse gas emissions. For these sectors, identifying the investments that are most likely to lower this • Reducing the production of carbon dioxide by increasing impact is a priority. industrial energy efficiency and transportation efficiency In 2019, BCG worked with OGCI Climate Investments, a • Recycling carbon dioxide into useful products or putting voluntary CEO-led initiative whose members account for it into long-term storage via carbon capture, utilization, about 30% of global oil and gas production, to maximize and storage (CCUS) the impact of its $1 billion climate fund’s investments. The initiative established the fund to invest in technologies and solutions to lower the carbon footprint of energy and industries. The fund focuses on three areas: 21 MAKING A DIFFERENCE: 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Objectives Actions To maximize the impact of its fund, BCG worked with OGCI BCG supported the fund in designing a framework for meaClimate Investments to refine its investment strategy and suring the emissions impact of its portfolio and its investidentify a set of investment pathways within its three focus ment pathways, and developed a dashboard enabling it to areas. To determine the total potential impact that the visualize its portfolio along key strategic dimensions. This fund could make, BCG worked with the initiative to assess tool can be used to assess opportunities and to evaluate the emissions footprint for different sectors and value the fund’s investments. chains along four dimensions: For the fund’s CCUS investment strategy, BCG supported • Technological Solutions. We assessed existing technoits preparations for the CCUS investment day, helping it logical solutions. develop and refine the narrative so that it could attract interest from the financial community. • Demand. We determined the current state of demand, whether from the market or driven by policy. Impact • Business Models. We explored existing business models that could be used to deploy the technology. The project created a comprehensive scoping and assessment of the levers and opportunities needed to achieve • Infrastructure. We evaluated existing conditions to impact within the fund’s three investment focus areas. It determine whether necessary infrastructure and supply prioritized strategic pathways for using the fund to support chain structures were in place. favorable market conditions by removing barriers to the development of business models, infrastructure, and demand, and to promote technology breakthroughs. BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP 22 Helping Close the Loop on Waste with Circular Tackling Plastic Pollution in the Mediterranean Solutions Every year, 570,000 tons of plastic enters Mediterranean Corporate leaders are increasingly aware of the business waters, the equivalent of dumping 33,800 plastic bottles and societal value of strategies for reusing and recycling into the sea every minute.10 Working with a global non­ resources to move us toward a circular economy. This profit institution to reduce plastic pollution, BCG helped approach replaces the traditional take-make-dispose ecodesign an improved waste management model for the nomic model with a new one that is regenerative by Turkish Ministry for Environment and Urbanization. We design. provided expert analysis of waste management ecosystems in Turkey and around the world, and helped develop the The climate crisis demands that companies view the relabest-fit solution for the Turkish market—from waste genertionship between business and the environment from a ation to collection, processing, and recycling. Our work fresh perspective. Those that do so will be in the best included helping to devise the operating model and goverposition to combat climate change and ecosystem degranance structure design for the future Deposit Return Sysdation while also capturing valuable new business tem planned in Turkey. opportunities. Read our latest thought leadership on a circular solution to In 2019, our teams delivered several ground-breaking plastic waste. projects for clients embracing the circular economy. → MAKE → RN U RE SE T U → → 10. Dalberg Advisors, WWF Mediterranean Marine Initiative, “Stop the Flood of Plastic: How Mediterranean Countries Can Save Their Sea” (2019). 23 MAKING A DIFFERENCE: 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Shaping the Global Agenda Helping WWF Strike a New Deal for Nature and People Approach As part of a partnership established in 2012, BCG has BCG is helping to shape the global response to the climate supported the design, strategy, and implementation of the crisis by partnering with the World Economic Forum on the New Deal for Nature and People, the flagship 2020 proNet Zero Challenge and by supporting climate negotiations gram of the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF). The New at COP26 in Glasgow. Our CEO, Rich Lesser, is a member Deal is an integrated advocacy platform directed toward of the WEF CEO Alliance of Climate Leaders, helping guide heads of state, governments, businesses, investors, and the the global transition to a low-carbon, climate-resilient econ­ civil society in an effort to fully leverage the unique policy omy. We also take an active role in business-led forums, opportunities of 2020. Its mission is to reverse biodiversity such as the World Business Council for Sustainable Devel­ loss and put nature on a path to recovery, with the objecopment and the US Business Roundtable, dedicated to tive of zero net loss of nature by 2030. developing sector-specific climate solutions. The New Deal promotes an ambitious and robust set of We believe that solving complex climate and sustainability goals and targets covering pivotal environmental issues— issues requires cross-sector collaboration and diversity of in particular, fostering a convergence of the climate change thought. We foster strategic partnerships with organizaand biodiversity agendas through nature-based solutions. tions spearheading creative responses to climate change. In that endeavor, BCG consultants and experts support For example, our eight-year partnership with MIT Sloan WWF teams in strategy, program organization and goverManagement Review produced cutting-edge research and nance, and research, as well as in coordination of the 80+ analysis, including business cases for sustainability and offices of the network as they aim for global and transforsustainability-related profitability. mative impact. BCG’s environmental research provides a fact base for climate action, crucial to finding effective solutions to the climate crisis. We counsel clients to move beyond current emissions policies and adopt more ambitious emissions reduction strategies, informed by insights that we extract from business, science, technology, and society. We engage leaders in provocative discussion and experimentation to expand the boundaries of sustainability theory and practice. ↓2019 Highlights In collaboration with the World Economic Forum (WEF), BCG published the first half of a two-part series, “The Net-Zero Challenge,” assessing progress by corporations, governments, and civil society since the 2015 Paris Accord. WEF published the full report, which includes a set of proposals for accelerating climate action, in January 2020. We also released “Flipping the Script on Climate Action,” a new publication from the BCG Center for Climate Action dedicated to analyzing the economic impact of aggressive action to combat the climate crisis. Current research indicates that the economic costs of unchecked climate change would clearly exceed the economic impact of significant investment to decarbonize the economy, as advances in low-carbon technologies have made emission reductions in most sectors affordable. Read our latest thought leadership article, “The Net-Zero ChalRead the latest thought leadership from our Center for lenge: Global Climate Action at Climate Action. the Crossroads.” BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP 24 2019 in numbers 15% 100% 11 1000+ reduction in carbon renewable electricity climate mitigation green team emissions per full-time purchased carbon projects globally members globally equivalent (FTE) ­employee, versus the baseline year of 2018 Managing Our Own Environmental Impact Our internal carbon program focuses on four priorities: Approach • Measuring Our Footprint. We have established a We are committed to minimizing the negative environmenglobal process to measure our carbon footprint in accortal impacts of our business operations. We recognize that dance with the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard and our activities—primarily business travel and the energy to independently verify our emissions against the ISO consumed across our offices—adversely affect the climate 14064-3 standard. and environment, and we are determined to lessen these impacts. • Reducing Our Emissions. Using 2018 as our baseline year, we have developed global internal emissions reducTo stimulate firmwide efforts, BCG adopted a carbon-neutral tion targets and implemented a series of initiatives to goal in 2018. Since then, we have been certified for our drive progress toward these goals across our operations. compliance with The CarbonNeutral Protocol, which provides a transparent framework for addressing emissions through • Purchasing and Retiring Carbon Credits. On voluninternal abatement and through the retirement of carbon tary carbon markets, we purchase and retire a volume of credits equivalent in volume to our unabated emissions.11 carbon credits equivalent to our unabated carbon footAlthough this action was an important first step, we strive to print, in accordance with The CarbonNeutral Protocol. continuously reduce our gross emissions. We will learn and adapt to a changing global context in order to minimize our • Engaging with Stakeholders. We engage with internal emissions and employ the most effective approach available. and external stakeholders to continue to learn and to improve our strategy. Active engagement and agility are critical to optimizing our program. In particular, we Governance recognize that stakeholder perceptions of A steering committee consisting of managing directors and carbon neutrality and offsetting will evolve partners oversees our internal sustainability efforts, which with the global conversation and scientific our sustainability team leads day to day. Representatives consensus. Accordingly, we are committed to from our Center for Climate Action participate in the steercontinuously reviewing and adjusting our actions as we ing committee and help ensure alignment between our deepen our engagement. client programs and our internal programs. Participants in a global network of office green teams promote local environmental initiatives at the office level. 11. S ince 2018, BCG has been certified as a CarbonNeutral company, in accordance with The CarbonNeutral Protocol. Our certification covers our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions and all Scope 3 sources required by The CarbonNeutral Protocol (business travel, waste, and T&D losses). The CarbonNeutral Protocol is aligned with the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard (including the separate guidance on Scope 2 and 3 accounting). 25 MAKING A DIFFERENCE: 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Measuring Our Emissions Reducing Our Emissions Using the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol Corporate We are committed to reducing our global GHG emissions Standard, we established a global carbon accounting proat the source, focusing especially on emissions from busicess and independently verified our carbon footprint, first ness travel and office energy consumption. Overall, BCG’s in 2018 (our baseline year) and again in 2019.12 In 2019, GHG emissions decreased by 15% per full-time equivalent our total GHG emissions were 561,000 tCO2e, a 2% abso(FTE) employee against our 2018 baseline year. lute reduction against our 2018 baseline.13 Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions contributed only 1% of BCG’s total footprint in 2019.14 These emissions primarily stem from heating our offices. Scope 3 emissions made up the remaining 99% of our footprint, the largest source of which is business travel, which accounted for 82% of our total GHG emissions in 2019. –2% 573,000 561,000 –79% 7,000 31,000 +4% 438,000 457,000 –7% 104,000 97,000 2018 total GHG emissions (tCO2e) 2019 total GHG emissions (tCO2e) Scopes 1 and 2 Scope 3: business travel Scope 3: other 12. We take an operational control approach to consolidating our carbon emissions inventory. 13. t CO2e = tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent. For Scope 2, we calculate emissions using a market-based approach. Our Scope 3 methodology uses DEFRA conversion factors for business travel emissions sources, including radiative forcing for air travel emissions. Our reporting covers all material emission sources and complies with The CarbonNeutral Protocol criteria. Our GHG footprint was independently verified under the ISO 14064-3 standard. 14. We use the market-based approach to calculate Scope 2 emissions. BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP 26 In 2019 , we logged more than 2.5 million hours of videoconferences, a 25% increase from 2018 8% and our total number of virtual meeting hours per FTE increased by Business Travel • Restricted air travel for some internal events, meetings, The mobility of our people is integral to serving our clients, and training sessions in certain geographies providing our employees with diverse and rewarding experiences, and enabling BCG’s global collaborative delivery • Included a travel topic in our case team meeting temmodel. Nonetheless, given the adverse effects of business plate, to prompt routine consideration of requirements travel on the climate, we are committed to taking meaningand alternatives to travel for client work ful action to curtail travel emissions without compromising our client and employee offerings. As of the end of 2019, • Continued to invest in online collaboration technologies, we had reduced our reported business travel emissions by and encouraged digital teaming through targeted com9.5% per FTE against our 2018 baseline year. The reduction munications campaigns in business travel emissions per FTE is due primarily to a change in the conversion factors we use to calculate GHG We anticipate that airlines will continue to make advances emissions. The flight conversion factors declined, on averin low-carbon technology, which will reduce our Scope 3 age, by 8% in 2019 as a result of improved efficiencies flight-related emissions. We actively support companies within the aviation industry.15 that are leading this transition, both through investment in our consulting work with airline clients and through our In 2019, we began mobilizing our organization to reduce travel procurement decisions. travel emissions, starting with aligning BCG’s managing director and partner group on this objective. We hope to achieve rapid progress on this front, driving a broad program of activities across BCG regions to reduce the inten­ sity of business travel emissions. We have introduced several initiatives related to this 9.5% objective: reduction in business travel emissions per FTE • Reduced the frequency of our global practice area meetings against our 2018 baseline 15. W  e use conversion factors supplied by the UK’s Department for Environment, Food & Rural Affairs (DEFRA) that include radiative forcing uplift for flights. 27 MAKING A DIFFERENCE: 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Office Energy engage a new waste control supplier, enabling the introducThe energy used to heat and power our offices constitutes tion of a composting program. This year we will install two a relatively small portion of our total carbon footprint, but beehives on the roof terrace; the bees will be capable of we consider it important to reduce emissions from these producing 10 pounds of honey in their first season while sources, as well. We are working toward reducing Scope 1 also contributing to pollination of the local ecosystem and and Scope 2 emissions by 90% per FTE by 2025 (against to sustainability. our 2018 baseline). We achieved an 82% reduction in our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions per FTE in 2019, primarily Lease Car Fuel Efficiency by transitioning to 100% renewable electricity in our offices. We are improving the fuel efficiency of our lease car fleet in order to further reduce our Scope 1 emissions. We inIn offices where we can select the electricity supplier, we creased the number of hybrid and electric vehicles in our have begun transitioning to renewable electricity tariffs. In fleet by 11% in 2019; in Italy—where we have our largest offices where landlords manage the electricity supply, we fleet of lease cars—the average fuel efficiency improved by engage with them to make this switch. Where it is not yet 3 kgCO2/Km, and the number of electric and hybrid cars in possible to switch our direct supply, we buy energy attrithe fleet increased by over 50%. bute certificates equal to our consumption in each energy market, to support the development of renewable electri­ Engaging with Stakeholders city and send a demand signal to the market. We engage with a range of internal and external stakeholders, often with our client-facing teams, to identify new We are taking steps to improve the energy efficiency of our reduction opportunities, strengthen partnerships, raise real-estate portfolio. Currently, more than 40 of our offices awareness of the latest developments, and build momenare LEED, BREEAM, or equivalent certified; 60% of them tum to catalyze action at scale. are LEED Gold Certified or above. We have also made progress with our TeamScape program, which minimizes Our vibrant and growing green team network designs and excess space within offices while allowing for future growth. implements initiatives to reduce our environmental impact We have deployed TeamScape in more than 80% of our at the local level. Across 79 of our offices, more than 1,000 offices, reducing the physical space in newer offices by 25% members of the BCG community have become active in per person over the past five years and curtailing the conlocal green teams. We have seen significant growth in the sumption of resources and energy. engagement and action of our network, with many inspiring projects in 2019. Case Study: Creating a Sustainable Headquarters We designed and built our new headquarters in Boston Case Study: Paris Green Team Week with sustainability at its core. Certified as a LEED Gold The Sustainability Week hosted by the Paris office green Standard building, this office is designed to use less energy team was a highlight of 2019, featuring six presentations, and water, minimize waste, increase efficiency, and imseven workshops, and five newsletters. More than 500 prove employees’ health and productivity. The electricity employees engaged on topics ranging from sustainable comes entirely from a renewable source, and the building cooking to ocean preservation. The week, which included received an Energy Star Score of 100. presentations by guest speakers from WWF and Entreprises pour l’Environnement (EpE), informed BCG staff about Once we occupied the office, the Boston office green team the climate crisis and inspired them to help adopt and act collaborated with the landlord’s management team to on solutions. The following numbers reflect the scope of our efforts in this area: 79 1,000+ oﬃce green teams green team members BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP 28 Purchasing and Retiring Carbon Credits Keo Seima REDD+, Cambodia: Protecting 716,000+ In achieving CarbonNeutral company certification, we first Acres to Enhance Local Livelihoods lower our emissions in line with our internal reduction Covering over 716,000 acres of forest in eastern Cambodia, targets. For emissions that we cannot yet eliminate, we this project seeks to mitigate drivers of deforestation while purchase and retire an equivalent volume of carbon credits also enhancing local livelihoods. It works with approxion the voluntary carbon market.16 These credits finance mately 12,500 people within the 20 participating villages. important climate mitigation projects around the world, Activities include patrolling to monitor risks of deforestadelivering verified emission reductions and contributing to tion, and clarifying and securing indigenous community the global goal of keeping temperature rise below 2°C. tenure. Sustainable development co-­benefits include creating new income generation opportunities, literacy and All of our carbon credits must meet core quality criteria numeracy education to support off-farm livelihoods, and including monitoring, reporting, and verification by indecapacity-building to support sustainable agriculture. pendent third-party auditors; avoidance of leakage; additionality; and permanence. Mississippi Valley Reforestation, US: Reforesting 1 Million Acres in the Mississippi Alluvial Valley We prioritize natural climate solutions, including those that This project aims to reforest 1 million acres of the Lower remove carbon from the atmosphere and those that seek to Mississippi Alluvial Valley. Decades of deforestation and protect and restore existing forests. We also try to select agricultural land use conversion have reduced the forest projects that deliver additional benefits, such as employarea by more than 80%. Landowners who enroll in the proj­ ment and education, and help to support the UN SDGs. We ect agree to plant and protect trees, reducing carbon di­ are committed to continuously reviewing and adjusting our oxide emissions by an estimated 200 tCO2e per acre. The actions to achieve maximum climate impact, based on the project creates revenue for landowners, brings jobs to the latest available guidance. area, and enhances local water quality and biodiversity. Canada Conservation of 156,000 acres of Boreal forests in British Columbia Cambodia Protecting 716,000+ US acres to enhance local Reforesting 1 million livelihoods acres in the Mississippi Alluvial Valley Mexico Aﬀorestation project with Indonesia sustainable timber Kenya Preventing deforestation production Building sustainable from palm oil plantations livelihoods through community reforestation Guatemala Brazil Uganda Preventing Solar lighting systems for Providing health beneﬁts through deforestation of East African households water ﬁlters and improved the Amazon cookstoves rainforest Australia Malawi Fire management to prevent Reducing deforestation large wildﬁres through more eﬃcient cookstoves 16. Since 2018, BCG has been certified as a CarbonNeutral company in accordance with The CarbonNeutral Protocol. Our certification covers our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions and all Scope 3 sources required by The CarbonNeutral Protocol (business travel, waste, and T&D losses). The CarbonNeutral Protocol is aligned with the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard (including the separate guidance on Scope 2 and 3 accounting). 29 MAKING A DIFFERENCE: 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Empowering B CG’s ability to attract and retain the best talent from all backgrounds—to fully reflect the diverse world in which we live and work—is Our People fundamental to our success in delivering value to our clients. We prioritize our people with sustained investments in talent acquisition, diversity and inclusion, employee well-being, learning and development, and safety and security. Contents Attracting the Best Talent Diversity and Inclusion Employee Well-Being Learning and Development Safety and Security BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP 30 2019 Highlights For the sixth consecutive We achieved equal We launched Wellbeing at We enhanced our online year, BCG topped Consulting retention and promotion BCG to provide global learning library with Magazine’s Best Firms to rates for men and women coordination of our downloadable programs, Work For list, ranking globally at all career steps extensive network of both internally developed number one in a survey of in the consulting team, and supportive programs, built and externally sourced, more than 11,000 the number of female on six key pillars of leading to an increase of consultants across 300 ﬁrms managing directors and well-being: body, mind, more than 50% in online covering all major industries. partners has increased at ﬁnance, place, community, training registrations. three times the rate of the and work-life harmony. number of male equivalents over the past ﬁve years. Attracting the Best Talent Our approach varies in accordance with the recruiting norms in the 50+ countries and across the businesses Approach where we operate and seek talent with suitable skills and BCG’s success depends on its ability to acquire and retain experiences. We respond to changes in market competiintellectually curious, diverse, and accomplished individuals. tiveness and meet the needs of prospective candidates. We invest considerable time to find those who will best Throughout the recruiting process, we give candidates contribute to our clients and our culture, recruiting experiopportunities to experience our culture in order to help enced professionals and new graduates from around the them make an informed decision. Our internship proworld. grams, for example, offer students from many disciplines and backgrounds the chance to experience BCG first-hand. We have four primary goals in this area: Our manifold employee-focused programs, many of which are detailed in this report, help maintain BCG’s position as • To be the consulting employer of choice, by offering an a leading employer of choice. unparalleled experience, as articulated by our employer brand: Build. Connect. Grow. — Building Impact. Connecting ↓2019 Highlights Aspirations. Growing Leaders. • In 2019, we had our largest intake of new hires to date. • To optimize BCG’s growth and ability to deliver long• For the sixth consecutive year, BCG maintained the lasting client impact by anticipating and adapting to number one ranking in Consulting Magazine’s Best Firms changes in consultant profiles to Work For list, based on a survey of more than 11,000 consultants across 300 firms covering all major industries. • To bring diversity of perspective to our clients’ biggest challenges • For the thirteenth consecutive year, Working Mother magazine named BCG one of its 100 Best Companies • To recruit as one firm, with local flexibility, considering for parents in the US. marketand business-based differences in approaches and hiring pools • Vault’s top-50 prestigious consulting firms, chosen by practicing consultants, ranked BCG number two. 31 MAKING A DIFFERENCE: 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 in numbers According to our annual internal People Survey: 89% 87% 89% of our consultants would choose BCG again, knowing 87% of our consultants think that BCG is doing a what they know now about the company. good job of hiring the most talented consulting staff. Diversity and Inclusion In order to attract and retain diverse employees who are representative of the society in which we live and do busiApproach ness, we cultivate leaders committed to making BCG a Diversity is one of BCG’s core founding values. Passionate, company in which all individuals have an opportunity to open-minded people of all genders, gender identities, flourish and succeed. We run a set of global networks with sexual orientations, ethnicities, expertise, and experience associated initiatives, such as Women at BCG and Pride at are fundamental to our success, as they enable us to proBCG, as well as regionally managed affinity groups, such as vide fresh perspectives, challenge established norms, and AccessAbility Network, Veterans Network, Asian Diversity devise innovative solutions. Our diversity makes us stronNetwork, and Black and Latinx Network. ger and more successful in everything we do. In addition to the work we do to build diversity and inclu“BCG partners with our clients in solving the hardest sion inside BCG, we invest heavily in original research to problems challenging their businesses—and the world. develop insights that will advance the issue in our client We do this by channeling the diversity of our people and organizations and throughout society. Related reports their thinking, as well as our shared commitment to address such topics as ambition, mobility, engagement, uncovering the truth. The solutions we develop in partand overall career satisfaction. From our practice and nership with our clients transform not just companies research, we have learned how to create a diverse, inclusive but also entire industries and even segments of society.” culture that helps organizations thrive, improving financial  —Rich Lesser, Chief Executive Officer performance and innovation. “Our goal is to increase diversity, unlocking the potential of every BCGer and client team member. To do so, we invest in people and in the research that reveals which tools, programs, and cultural changes are necessary to deliver sustainable impact.” —Matt Krentz, Managing Director and Senior Partner and Global Diversity and Inclusion Chair Diversity and Inclusion Governance Our global diversity and inclusion chair and our global people chair oversee our diversity and inclusion initiatives, assessing progress and priorities regularly at executive committee meetings. A dedicated global team leads Women at BCG, along with regional teams composed of a managing director and partner and a dedicated manager, as well as nodes in each local office. A managing director and partner leads Pride at BCG globally, supported by a network of nodes across many of our offices. The network will soon have a dedicated global manager. Other networks are run regionally or locally to best meet the needs of the group. BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP 32 ↓2019 Highlights Supporting Women in STEM In 2019 we continued to elevate the role and effectiveness Our recent research shows that women make up 36% of of our diversity networks. Aiming to create a sense of beuniversity graduates in the science, technology, engineerlonging for all employees, we offered a wide variety of ing, and math (STEM) disciplines, but only 25% of the inclusion activities, trainings, and dialogues about culture STEM workforce.17 We invested in increasing gender diverand identity. We expanded our already robust affinity sity in our digital businesses and in upskilling digital comnetworks. petencies for our female consultants. Women at BCG We are the Research Partner for the Women’s Forum for This is our largest diversity network—as women represent the Economy and Society’s STEM Daring Circle, providing 43% of our staff—and one of our most well-developed thought leadership and support to a committee of 10 programs. It seeks to increase the number, success, and companies collaborating to boost women in STEM. satisfaction of women at the firm. Specific goals include: Find out more about the ways we are supporting women in • Maintaining female representation of at least 40% technology here. • Recruiting at least 40% female entry-level associates 2019 in Numbers and consultants worldwide Our Women at BCG agenda—to increase the number, • Achieving equal promotion and retention rates for womsuccess, and satisfaction of women at the firm—is making en and men (in accordance with their representation strong gains. We have equal retention and promotion rates vis-a-vis the total number of consultants) for men and women globally at all career steps in the consulting team. The number of female managing directors and partners has grown at three times the rate of the number of male managing directors and partners over the past five years. In 2019, women represented... In 2019, women represented... 23% of our ﬁrm’s 23%leadership of our ﬁrm’s 36% of 35% of our leadership 43% of our entry-level Executive global staﬀ 36%new of joiners 35%Committee of our 43% of our entry-level to the Executive global staﬀ new joiners consulting Committee to theteam consulting team 17. “Winning the Race for Women in Digital,” BCG article, November 2018. 33 MAKING A DIFFERENCE: 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Pride at BCG In the US, about 21% of top leadership, 24% of managing The Pride at BCG network strives to lead in workplace directors and partners, and 37% of total consulting team equality for LGBTQ+ employees. Members represent all of staff are racial or ethnic minorities. BCG’s geographic regions, industries, and functional topics across the firm. “I liked being able to openly discuss identity and culture in the workplace with one another without judgment. It In 2019, we established new global mentoring programs for turns out that a lot of us face the same fears and insecuPride members in the consulting team. We also piloted rities, and it was nice to hear everyone talk about those Pride ally trainings and launched Pride at BCG ally comthings from a place of understanding.” mittees to educate and inform employees about this net —Anonymous consultant work. Recognizing our long-standing commitment to Pride at BCG, the Human Rights Campaign awarded BCG a In some geographies, particularly in North America, a perfect 100% rating on its Corporate Equality Index for the Diversity and Inclusion Council coordinates additional 12th consecutive year. networks: “I know I am welcome and even celebrated here, with a • Black+Latinx at BCG consists of consulting team large network of over 500 Pride at BCG global members members from a wide range of backgrounds, including and thousands of amazing BCG allies. My office is a safe African American, African, Afro-Caribbean, Hispanic, environment.” Latin American, and Latinx communities. We bring  —Anonymous consultant together individuals from these communities to build on common experiences, address challenges, and inspire Our Pride at BCG network grew by 21% globally in 2019, commercial excellence. In 2019, the network launched and has grown by 19% annually overall since 2012. a champions program to pair partners, principals, and project leaders at the regional level with a managing Inclusion and Other Networks director and partner to support their success. Many local offices are organizing Inclusion Committees and initiating an Authentic Conversations program. These • Veterans at BCG, a group of former military and/or inconversations provide another opportunity for all of our telligence employees from across offices in the US, aims people to feel respected and supported. In 2019, we quato support and empower BCG veterans. drupled the number of offices hosting these dialogues— most of them in North America, but some in other geogra• AccessAbility at BCG connects employees dealing phies as well. with chronic illness, neurodiversity, physical disability, or mental health concerns, among other issues. BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP 34 • Asian Diversity Network provides a supportive and inwomen as they strive to fulfill their professional and perclusive environment for consulting team members from sonal ambitions, and Partner Pairings to provide mentoracross the Asian diaspora (Asian American, East Asian, ship opportunities at the most senior level Asian Pacific Islander, and South Asian). Advancing the Conversation Activities to Drive Change We are helping to shape the diversity dialogue internally at Global Diversity and Inclusion activities include mandatory BCG, with our clients, in public forums, and in the wider anti-harassment and cultural awareness training. We society. Our cutting-edge research yields insights into the provide periodic unconscious bias training for employees, challenges and opportunities involved in cultivating diversibeginning at the entry level and recurring as people rise ty and inclusion. In 2019, we shared results of our research through the ranks. The training sessions explain the oriwith more than ten publications in the business communigins, occurrence, and behavioral consequences of unconty. Read our latest research here. scious bias; they also give participants tools for identifying when they may be at risk of acting on such bias and for To generate lasting impact across the business environminimizing its impact in the workplace. ment and in the wider world, we also collaborate with a number of other organizations, including the following: We run several initiatives to increase the diversity of our employee pool: • Forte Foundation. We are a sponsor of the foundation, which is dedicated to directing women toward leadership • Focus on recruiting diverse talent, with structured protoroles in business and industry. cols to eliminate bias from the recruiting process • Tina Brown’s Women in the World. We sponsor this • Formal flexibility policies to improve predictability and organization’s annual summit and related activities to employee sustainability support a series of important conversations about women’s issues in society and in business. • Regional and local conferences and affiliation events to bring together members of our diversity networks • TEDWomen. We co-sponsor and host workshops to promote women and girls as change makers. • Tailor-made talent development, mentoring, and sponsorship; Women at BCG, for example, offers Apprentice• Women’s Forum for the Economy & Society and ship in Action to improve the quality of the day-to-day Grace Hopper. We are a sponsor and thought partner, apprenticeship experience, Segment of One to support advocating for gender diversity in STEM fields. 35 MAKING A DIFFERENCE: 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • UN Women. We co-host a gender diversity roundtable Wellbeing at BCG, an initiative that we launched in 2019, in Denmark that assembles leaders of the Danish supports the delivery of solutions suitable for each locale private sector, educational institutions, and societal through common channels that make well-being resources organizations to share experiences and best practices accessible to all employees and their families. We encourfor advancing gender diversity. age innovation in program design, empower employees to take care of their whole selves, and aim to support people • Catalyst. We are a key research partner and sit on the at all life and career stages. board of advisors and the board of experts, helping build workplaces that work for women. To promote sustainable work-life harmony, we introduced Predictability, Teaming, and Open Communication (PTO), • HRC, Open for Business, GiveOut, and OUTstanda global support mechanism to promote sustainable teaming. BCG partners with these organizations to create ing for our consultants worldwide. All consultants comLGBTQ+-inclusive business environments and societies. plete a weekly “pulse check” survey that flags excessively long work hours. Since the launch of PTO, we have seen a Our CEO, Rich Lesser, is a Catalyst CEO Champion for 10-percentage-point increase in the number of consultants Change and a member of the 30% Club, a group of organiwho consider their workload sustainable: 77% of employzations dedicated to achieving 30% female representation ees agreed that the PTO program has improved the preon the boards of public companies. dictability and sustainability of their work, while 85% agreed that PTO helps them achieve their “personal protected time goals.” Employee Well-Being 2019 in Numbers Approach We strive to ensure that all employees are physically and emotionally fit, in good financial health, comfortable and safe in the workplace, connected to their communities, and 100% 100% of BCG employees now have access to services that span the six pillars of our Wellbeing at BCG harmonious in their home and work life. To that end, we framework. offer high-quality benefit and family support programs, flexibility, time off to recharge and pursue personal interests, and extensive opportunities for personal and professional development. BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP 36 2019 Highlights Wellbeing at BCG Body Mind Finance Place Community Work-life harmony During 2019, we launched Wellbeing at BCG, a global developed a dedicated microsite, training playlists, a venframework that provides flexibility for well-being programs, dor toolkit, a well-being calendar of events, and communibenefits, and initiatives at the local office level in response cation templates—all to disseminate well-being knowledge to employee needs and interests. Our global benefits cenas widely as possible. ter offers expert advisory services to local HR teams on all topics related to well-being. In consultation with internal Supporting Mental Health and external partners, advisors facilitate initiatives to We identified key priorities, including reducing the stigma enhance BCG’s well-being programs and services, drive associated with mental health issues, increasing access to greater efficiencies in cost management and process, and mental health services through alternate channels such as support our diverse workforce. With Wellbeing at BCG, our onsite and virtual counseling, and helping individuals build firm, already widely recognized as a desirable workplace, resiliency skills. Related initiatives include the following: becomes even more appealing. • In Australia, BCG’s 12-week Personal Sustainability Wellbeing at BCG is configured on six pillars: body, mind, Program helps new hires build skills and strategies for finance, place, community, and work-life harmony. To enresilience, sustainability, and mental fitness. sure that every office provides support for all six pillars of the framework, we introduced an Employee Assistance • In London, mental health awareness training prepares Program (EAP) that offers mental health, financial, and leaders to discern signs of mental health issues and legal counseling, along with well-being and work-life serto conduct supportive conversations. London employvices. We increased employee access to these options from ees also have access to onsite mental fitness coaching 50% to 100% by the end of 2019. We hired a Wellbeing at services. BCG senior manager to provide expert advice to our local HR teams on all topics related to well-being, including • In the US, employees can engage with a mental health formulating strategy, enhancing existing offerings, vetting provider virtually, giving them access to the right profesnew proposals, and designing communications. We also sional whenever and wherever they need such support. 37 MAKING A DIFFERENCE: 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 in numbers 15 1WK 89% 15 online modules completed One week of formal training 89% attendance at annually per learner completed annually per career step training average employee Learning and Development Our Global Learning Council assesses progress and sets priorities. The Council guides the evolution of our learning Approach and development approach in response to new business To best serve our clients, we facilitate continuous learning needs, BCG’s overall strategy, a varying and diverse skills for our employees. Offering multiple delivery channels base, and employee demand. (including in-person, virtual, online, and team-based) for ease of access, we help our people hone the skills needed ↓2019 Highlights to perform in their current roles and to develop their future In 2019, we enhanced our online library with many new potential and personal growth. We follow the 70/20/10 learning assets and more convenient access modes. The principle to help our people determine how to structure material is downloadable, available 24/7, and offered in their development plan: 70% of learning should be through multiple formats (such as quizzes, videos, and podcasts). on-the-job experiences, 20% through reflection on those These improvements brought an increase of more than experiences (including team retrospectives, coaching, and 50% in online registrations. On average, our learners used mentoring), and 10% through formal education. 15 online resources per year in addition to our rigorous and extensive in-person training. Our approach centers on three core elements: We foster a culture of continuous learning throughout our • Career step-based educational programs—typically a firm. Our extensive onboarding program for new hires multidimensional learning journey that uses a range of often lasts three weeks or longer. Every year, our average tools and techniques, including digital learning primers, employee invests about a week in formal on-the-job trainclassroom-based learning and discussion, and posting, in addition to training in informal settings. Our senior program learning reviews leadership, too, demonstrates a commitment to lifelong learning. This ethos of ongoing education enables us to • An extensive repository of internally developed learning devise state-of-the-art solutions and deliver the best value resources, including more than 3,000 modules for core to our clients. skills and expert knowledge, along with access to a wide selection of external libraries such as LinkedIn Learning • Upskilling campaigns that rapidly train a large number of employees across many different cohorts or career steps on specific skill sets through intensive targeted programs that typically combine digital learning primers and classroom sessions BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP 38 Safety and Security audit team visits every office on a three-year cycle and conducts an onsite review that includes an assessment of Approach building safety and security. BCG is committed to providing a safe, secure work environment for all of our colleagues, as well as for visitors to our Maintaining a safe, secure, and professional workplace is a offices. core element of our Code of Conduct, which specifies our commitment to creating an environment free of all forms Staying Safe on the Road of violence, including verbal and physical threats, intimidaOwing to the nature of BCG’s work, travel poses the most tion or abuse, or any type of physical assault. To cultivate material risk to our people’s health and safety. Our dedicated awareness among our employees, we include health and Global Security team monitors all locations where we have safety procedures as a standard module in our new-hire employees, and it oversees measures to keep our staff safe induction process. In addition, employees visiting a new and secure on the road. The team also tracks and reports office for the first time have access to the local health and adverse incidents, and it takes the actions necessary to safety procedures. protect our employees from harm. The objective of the security program is to make a significant, positive impact on the ↓2019 Highlights safety and well-being of our employees through our awareIn 2019, we began physical security site assessments and ness, travel, physical security, incident response, and busigap analysis to evaluate and catalogue all of our office ness continuity programs. The response to incidents is manaccess control systems in order to standardize and improve aged by our Incident Response Team, which is led by a our site security. We launched a joint global initiative with managing director and partner and supported by a globally IT for business continuity and service recovery, a multidispersed team to ensure around-the-clock support. phase project designed to improve the service continuity of critical business service processes. To provide our people with the latest travel safety and security information, we leverage a mobile application that To ensure that all of our employees are aware of our safety empowers them to make informed decisions to avoid and security procedures, we updated the safety and securijeopardizing their health and well-being. The mobile applity sections of the training for all new hires, thereby improvcation provides situation alerts, one-touch connections to ing employee engagement with and awareness of this our 24/7 response center, and access to our procedures for topic. To enhance access to support, we introduced the incident response and business continuity. WorldCue mobile app, which offers one-touch assistance and location-based alerting for business travelers; we also Creating a Safe and Secure Workplace expanded our team and placed security personnel strategiAll of our offices have programs in place to ensure the cally across all of our operational regions to provide health and safety of employees and guests. These proaround-the-clock safety and security support. grams also follow minimum physical security standards that establish criteria for securing the building, the office, and the operations. All of our offices seek to maximize natural light and provide ergonomic workstations to improve employee well-being and safety. New office buildings are subject to comprehensive risk assessment to mitigate our employees’ and BCG’s exposure to risk. Our internal 2019 in numbers 100% 22 40 Provided a risk assessment, Conducted 22 onsite office Offered 40 training sessions globally including a safety and security audits in 2019, covering safety on safety and security topics ranging module, to 100% of offices and security and emergency from preparing office-level incident opened in 2019 planning response plans to training employees on Everbridge, our crisis communication platform 39 MAKING A DIFFERENCE: 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Promoting D edication to responsible and ethical practices defines BCG’s approach to business. We consider this commitment critical to our success Responsible and to the reputational integrity of our clients and our company. We strive to transform business and society for the better, both in collaboration with Business clients and in our own operations, guided by our values and purpose. Practices Contents BCG Code of Conduct Anti-Bribery and Corruption Human Rights Supply Chain Sustainability Data Privacy Information Security Risk Management (ISRM) BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP 40 2019 Highlights As part of their onboarding We updated 100% of our We completed a process, 100% of new supplier contract templates to three-year-modernization of employees completed include a commitment to our information security e-learning on business ethics adhere to the Supplier Code of protocols and commenced a issues covering the topics of Conduct, and we incorporated three-year follow-up plan to bribery and corruption, a new supplier sustainability further improve maturity information security and questionnaire into 100% of along all security domains. data privacy, and the BCG supplier Request for Proposal Code of Conduct.18 templates. BCG Code of Conduct at BCG is encouraged to raise concerns about potential misconduct without fear of adverse repercussions. We offer multiple channels of communication, including our confiApproach dential ombudsperson program, which is designed specifiOur Code of Conduct (the Code) sets expectations for the cally to support this approach. Further, everyone at BCG is behavior of all members of BCG, complements the ethos responsible for reporting known or suspected violations of underlying our UN Global Compact (UNGC) commitment, our Code of Conduct and of any law, regulation, or policy. and serves as a bridge connecting our firm’s values, our poliWe address all such concerns appropriately in accordance cies and norms, and each individual’s actions. It is designed to with our internal policies. foster ethical decision making and ensure that our behavior meets the highest standards of professional conduct. The internal risk review process assesses BCG local offices’ adherence to the Code. All instances of discrimination or The Code covers a wide range of important topics, includharassment are subject to reviews that ensure appropriate ing providing client services ethically and with transparenescalation and resolution. cy, protecting confidential information and ensuring information security, competing fairly, and maintaining a safe Everyone at BCG must agree to the Code as a condition of environment free of harassment and discrimination. It their employment and must reaffirm their compliance underscores our commitment to achieving positive and every year. Web-based training on the Code is mandatory lasting impact on society and our commitment to environand is delivered and tracked via our online learning platmental sustainability. The Code also affirms our adherence form. The Code is also a key subject included in the inducto the laws and regulations of the countries where we do tion program for new joiners and in the recurring training business. of our various cohorts. The Code conveys to the BCG community the importance of the “see something, say something” principle. Everyone 18. Because new people routinely join BCG, and some of them may not have completed the training at the time of reporting, compliance is marginally under 100%. 41 MAKING A DIFFERENCE: 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 in numbers 100% 100% 100% of new BCG employees completed our Code of Con100% of active BCG full-time employees completed duct and anti-bribery and corruption online training as part the annual acknowledgment of the Code of Conduct of their onboarding process.19 confirming their understanding of and compliance with its terms.20 Anti-Bribery and Corruption policy. Channels for employees to raise concerns include our legal team, our confidential ombudsperson channel, Approach and our office, regional, and executive leadership. Our risk BCG’s culture of integrity entails zero tolerance for corrupreview audit process assesses BCG local offices against the tion of any kind. We consider this high standard essential standards and expectations outlined in our Anti-Bribery for performing our role in society and for preserving our and Corruption policy. reputation as trusted advisors of our clients. Our Code of Conduct defines our commitment, expectations, and apIn addition to our mandatory Code of Conduct training, all proach. We abide by all laws, treaties, and regulations that new BCG employees must complete an interactive prohibit bribery and other corruption, including the Foreign Anti-Bribery and Corruption learning module, which Corrupt Practices Act of the US and the Bribery Act of the explains the principles of our Anti-Bribery and Corruption UK, which are international in their reach. Accordingly, policy and identifies potential risks. BCG will not, either directly or indirectly through the use of third parties, offer, attempt to offer, solicit, authorize, or Our zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption promise any type of bribe or kickback to obtain business or extends beyond our own employees to our suppliers. BCG unfair advantage. In addition, we prohibit facilitation payexpects all suppliers to operate in full compliance with all ments to individuals in order to expedite routine governapplicable laws and regulations while conducting business ment actions such as issuing permits. This policy pertains with and/or on behalf of BCG, including those with extrato all members of the BCG community, including officers, jurisdictional application, such as the US Foreign Corrupt employees, contractors, clients, and others with whom we Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act. These criteria are conduct business. We also adhere to the fair-competition clearly specified in our Supplier Code of Conduct, which is laws in the countries where we do business. publicly available and communicated to all BCG suppliers. (For more details, see the “Supply Chain Sustainability” BCG’s Anti-Bribery and Corruption policy provides guidesection below.) lines for hospitality, gifts, and other forms of giving. We expect our people to seek guidance if they encounter a quandary without a clear resolution that conforms to our Code of Conduct and our Anti-Bribery and Corruption 19. Because new people routinely join BCG, and some of them may not have completed the training at the time of reporting, compliance is marginally under 100%. 20. Because active employees routinely depart BCG, and some of them may not have completed the annual acknowledgment at the time of reporting, compliance is marginally under 100%. BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP 42 Human Rights ↓2019 Highlights In 2019, we released our UK Modern Slavery Act Report, Approach which explains our process for preventing slavery and Respect for the individual is a core value at BCG, as reflecthuman trafficking in any part of our business or supply ed in our Code of Conduct and our company history. We chain. We also incorporated our Supplier Code of Conduct have zero tolerance for any use of child-labor or forcedinto our supplier contract templates, and continued our labor practices. In all of our work, we uphold individual negative news searches on new suppliers for red flags relathuman rights without compromise. Our respect for human ed to modern slavery and human rights abuses, in addition rights includes a deep appreciation of diversity. We provide to regularly monitoring critical suppliers. equitable base pay and award bonuses based on performance, both of which we monitor worldwide. For the 12th time, BCG achieved a 100% score in the Human Rights Campaign BCG is a Participant of the United Nations Global Compact Foundation’s Corporate Equality Index. (UNGC) and has made a public commitment to adhere to the UNGC’s ten principles. Notably, this includes a commitment to support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and to ensure that we are not complicit in human rights abuses. The UNGC’s ten principles are derived from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles, both of which accord with BCG’s values. BCG expects suppliers to share its commitment to human rights and equal opportunity, and we will not knowingly do business with any partners or suppliers that violate our policies or standards. Our Supplier Code of Conduct defines these expectations as minimum requirements for suppliers seeking to conduct business with us. (For more information on our engagement with suppliers, see the “Supply Chain Sustainability” section below.) 43 MAKING A DIFFERENCE: 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Supply Chain Sustainability Supplier Governance Policy Our Global Supplier Governance Policy ensures that we Approach source and manage suppliers in compliance with all appliBCG’s commitment to the highest ethical and professional cable BCG policies and legal requirements. It also details standards extends beyond our own operations to our supour approach to delivering the best value for our business ply chain. As a leading global company, we recognize our and clients. The policy applies to all BCG staff and third obligation to support sustainable and responsible value parties involved in the sourcing, selection, and managechains and the protection of human rights, labor rights, ment of suppliers. It outlines processes and practices for and the environment. Our zero-tolerance policy toward the full life cycle of supplier engagement in order to effeccorruption encompasses our suppliers as well. Mindful of tively identify and mitigate risk. our economic impact as a purchaser of goods and services, we encourage a more economically inclusive supply chain Managing Sustainability in the Supply Chain wherever possible. BCG promotes both sustainability and diversity in its supplier sourcing and selection process. Our risk-based analySupplier Code of Conduct sis has identified supplier screening as a key priority, given Our Supplier Code of Conduct (SCoC) outlines the minithe nature of our business and our supplier base. Accordmum requirements that suppliers must meet in order to ingly, we have reinforced our management systems to do business with BCG. The SCoC forms the foundation of prioritize diligence checks on suppliers, including bribery our systematic approach to cultivating a more sustainable and corruption, financial, and sanctions screening. and responsible supply chain. To that end, in 2019, BCG added the SCoC to all of our standard contract templates. The SCoC establishes minimum requirements across four broad categories: business practices and ethics; labor practices and human rights; environmental regulations and protection; and protection of assets, intellectual property, and data. It also delineates the process for suppliers to use in reporting on their compliance, as well as the range of potential BCG responses to supplier failure to meet SCoC requirements. BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP 44 2019 in numbers 100% 100% 100% 100% of BCG written supplier con100% of supplier Request for 100% of new suppliers tract templates have been updated Proposal templates have with operations in highto include a commitment to adhere been updated to include a risk regions have been to the Supplier Code of Conduct. supplier sustainability screened for instances of questionnaire. bribery and corruption, as well as sanctions related to these. Our Risk, Legal, and Procurement Service Center teams Promoting Supplier Diversity are developing and operationalizing a screening program, BCG encourages the selection, where possible, of historcomplemented by education of targeted stakeholders to ically underutilized and diverse suppliers. Our standard drive implementation. These teams have also established supplier Request for Proposal template encompasses supa protocol for red flags, escalations, and situations that plier diversity questions. In the US, where these efforts are raise the need for additional screening. A periodic report most advanced, diverse suppliers include minority-owned, shares screenings, red flags, and escalations with relevant woman-owned, veteran-owned, and LGBTQ-owned busibusiness stakeholders and internal control groups. As we nesses, as well as certain small and medium-size enterroll out the program, we perform operational refinements prises (SMEs). Our procurement team maintains a master and provide additional education to support engagement list of all diverse suppliers, and it reports and monitors and successful implementation. In addition, we conduct six spending with these suppliers quarterly. months of negative news searches on new suppliers for red flags related to slavery and human rights abuses, and we ↓2019 Highlights continuously monitor critical suppliers for negative news. In 2019, we released our Global Supplier Governance Policy, which describes our procedures for sourcing and managIn 2018, BCG integrated a supplier sustainability questioning a supplier throughout the life cycle of the supplier naire into our standard supplier Request for Proposal engagement. The policy covers supplier selection, due template. The questions posed in this questionnaire raise diligence, contracting, supplier management, risk activities, awareness of our commitment to sustainability in the and supplier termination. We are in the process of refining supply chain, provide options for our sourcing teams to use and rolling out policy training, which will be available to all sustainability criteria in evaluating new suppliers, and staff. improve the quality of data we collect about the sustainability commitments and performance of new suppliers. As We also developed a sustainability roadmap for 2020, part of our commitment to carbon neutrality, we are also which will serve as the foundation for a best-in-class susevaluating the carbon emissions associated with material tainable procurement program. The roadmap details sussupplier categories to inform future engagement with tainable procurement action plans, as well as KPI developsuppliers on the subject of carbon emissions. ment over the next 12 to 18 months to monitor and report our supply chain sustainability performance. We have explored available tools to evaluate suppliers’ sustainability performance, which we are currently assessing in order to develop clear KPIs for monitoring the sustainability performance of our supply chain. 45 MAKING A DIFFERENCE: 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Data Privacy Precise procedures promote compliance with global regulations. Among these procedures are the following: Approach We respect and adhere to all local laws and regulations • A comprehensive record of how BCG processes personal pertaining to the protection of personal information and data the rights and freedoms of individuals. Privacy and data protection are essential to preserving the trust of our • Data protection impact assessments to determine clients and employees. Our global privacy and data whether high-risk information systems have proper conprotection program ensures legal compliance and effective trols in place to mitigate risks to individuals privacy risk management in the countries where we do business. • Data processing agreements with vendors, outlining security and privacy responsibilities BCG policies governing the use and protection of personal information include our global data protection policy, • Controls to ensure lawful transfer of data within BCG global privacy policy, global personal data classification and with BCG data processors policy, global data retention policy, global personal data breach notification policy, and employee privacy policy, • Methods to guarantee that BCG employees manage among others. We also provide legal guidelines to help personal data appropriately staff interpret these policies. These policies and guidelines are binding for every BCG employee and facilitate compli• Processes to escalate and notify the appropriate authoriance across our operations. ties in the event of a personal data breach BCG’s data protection office oversees our global privacy • Dedicated staff to handle data access, correction, or and data protection program and reports to our Chief Risk deletion requests Officer. The data protection office serves as the contact point for data protection authorities, handles internal and ↓2019 Highlights external data privacy requests, provides advice on adherIn 2019, we conducted an annual review of BCG’s global ence to data privacy regulations, monitors compliance, and data protection policies to ensure compliance with local manages the network of local data protection contacts. The regulations and business requirements. All employees data protection office is an escalation point in the event of must complete our mandatory and strictly enforced data a personal data incident that may have compromised the privacy and information security training as part of their rights and freedoms of individuals. In partnership with our onboarding process and must annually certify their underrisk team, the data protection office also administers standing of and compliance with the appropriate policies. BCG’s data privacy training and awareness program. We also produce monthly targeted communications to highlight data protection precautions and to share best practices. 2019 in numbers 100% 100% 0% 100% of new employees completed All employees annually BCG experienced 0% our mandatory data privacy and certify their understanding of cybersecurity incidents information security training as part and compliance with the of severity 1.23 of their onboarding process.21 appropriate policies.22 21. Because new people routinely join BCG, and some of them may not have completed the training at the time of reporting, compliance is marginally under 100%. 22. Because active employees routinely depart BCG, and some of them may not have completed the annual acknowledgment at the time of reporting, compliance is marginally under 100%. 23. Incidents are rated on a severity scale from 1 to 4, where 1 indicates highest severity and 4 indicates lowest severity. BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP 46 Information Security Risk Management (ISRM) MANAGE Approach We proactively manage our information security by establishing proper governance and Our ISRM program safeguards BCG’s brand and intellecturobust internal policies and standards. We also al property, as well as employee and client information, emphasize secure management of our from misuse, damage, and unauthorized access. We use a suppliers. multilayered, proactive approach to guarantee the confidentiality, integrity, availability, and non-repudiation of informaPREVENT tion, while maintaining cost-effective security that protects We prevent cyber events by ensuring we have the firm, our people, and our clients. We comply with all the necessary technical controls in place and contractual requirements, laws, and regulations related to by building our security layers on the most information security in the countries where we operate. adavanced technologies. We also cultivate security awareness among our employees through communications and training. BCG’s information security policies and practices are risk-sensitized and follow the framework established by the International Standard ISO/IEC 27002 (Information techDETECT We continuously monitor BCG’s environment nology – Security techniques – Code of practice for inforin order to detect any threats, and we conduct mation security controls). We employ best practices for regular testing of our environment for optimal management of business risks, weighing costs, possible weaknesses. tradeoffs, impact, and likelihood, while also focusing on processes, technologies, and people. RESPOND We have robust business continuity and To support our ISRM program, we have developed a fourdisaster recovery plans, as well as incident step approach: Manage, Prevent, Detect, Respond. response guidance in case of an event. For effective governance, BCG’s Chief Information Security Officer reports directly to BCG’s Chief Risk Officer and Chief Information Officer, as well as to the audit and risk committee and the information security committee. ↓2019 Highlights In 2019, BCG completed a three-year modernization of our information security protocol. We upgraded our information security management system setup, supplier risk management, application assurance, cloud governance, data loss prevention extension to cloud, computer security incident response plan, incident response, and security operations team implementation. We have since received approval for a follow-up three-year plan to further improve maturity up to 3.0+ (CMMI) along all security domains. We also established a new business continuity function, which conducted simulations of cyber incidents to test the readiness of the cyber crisis management team and technical teams. 47 MAKING A DIFFERENCE: 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendix Contents Greenhouse Gas Reporting Methodology Global Reporting Initiative Content Index UN Global Compact Content Index BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP 48 Greenhouse Gas Reporting Methodology transport, as provided by our travel agent, and multiply those figures by the Department for Environment, Food & BCG creates a greenhouse gas (GHG) inventory annually. We Rural Affairs (DEFRA) emission factors, including radiative take an operational control approach to defining our reporting forcing uplift for flights. To account for travel booked by indiboundary and compile our inventory in line with the requireviduals outside our travel agent system, we apply a small ments of the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard, covering all uplift to flight, rail, and hotel emissions. For hotel emismaterial emission sources across Scopes 1, 2, and 3: sions, we take the hotel nights booked per country, as provided by our travel agent, and multiply those numbers • Scope 1 – Direct emissions from BCG-owned or by DEFRA emission factors. For our taxi emissions, since we BCG-controlled sources do not know the exact mileage, we convert cost data into mileage using agreed-upon internal conversion rates and • Scope 2 – Indirect emissions from the production of then apply DEFRA emission factors to those numbers. electricity Other Scope 3 Emissions • Scope 3 – Indirect emissions from all the other activities To calculate supply chain emissions, we collect data on the in which BCG engages economic value of goods and services and multiply those figures by third-party emission factors (tCO2/$ spending) to Scope 1 and Scope 2 Emissions estimate the full life-cycle emissions of purchased goods. We gather energy consumption data from our offices globFor purchased services, we obtain supplier-specific data via ally. Where possible, we collect actual consumption data public CDP disclosures, where possible, and allocate these from invoices or directly from our suppliers. Where energy to BCG using a tCO2/$ spending allocation method. Where utilities are supplied by the landlord, we seek to obtain supplier-specific information is not available, we use averenergy usage data through the landlord. Where it is not ages from the supplier-specific data to estimate emissions possible to obtain this data, we use industry benchmarks for the remaining service suppliers. to estimate energy consumption. We follow the Scope 2 market-based accounting approach to account for our We calculate fueland energy-related activities that are not purchase of renewable electricity. included in Scope 1 or Scope 2—such as well-to-tank (WTT) emissions, and transmission and distribution (T&D) Business Travel Emissions losses—by measuring our electricity and fuel consumption Business travel is our most material emissions source and and applying the relevant DEFRA emission factors. We makes up the majority of our GHG footprint. Our business estimate other smaller emissions sources—such as emtravel emissions include flights, hotel nights, rail, rental ployee commuting, waste, and upstream transportation cars, and taxis. We take the distances traveled per mode of and distribution—on the basis of the best available data. GHG emissions (in thousand tCO2e) Source 2018 2019 Difference (%) Scope 1 6 7 +16% Scope 2 (market-based)24 25 0 –100% Scope 2 (location-based)25 24 22 –5% Scope 3 542 554 +2% Business travel 438 457 +4% Other26 104 97 –7% Total emissions (market-based) 573 561 –2% 24. Scope 2 market-based accounting approach factors in the purchase of renewable electricity; hence the lower emissions total. In 2019, we shifted to 100% renewable electricity for our offices. 25. Scope 2 location-based accounting approach uses the country-specific electricity grid emission factor provided by the International Energy Agency. 26. Other Scope 3 includes supply chain emissions, waste, commuting, upstream fuel-related emissions, and upstream transport and distribution. 49 MAKING A DIFFERENCE: 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Global Reporting Initiative Content Index BCG’s 2019 Annual Sustainability Report and UN Global Compact Communication of Progress has been prepared referencing the GRI Standards. All of the referenced disclosures detailed in the report are listed in the table below. For more information about these standards, please visit the GRI website, https://www.globalreporting.org/. GRI # Disclosure FY19 Response Reference General Disclosures 102-1 Name of the BCG 2019 Annual Sustainability Report—About BCG page 3 organization The Boston Consulting Group Inc. 102-2 Activities, brands, See the “About Us” section of BCG.com. About Us products, and services 102-3 Location of BCG 2019 Annual Sustainability Report—About BCG page 3 headquarters Headquarters – 200 Pier Four Blvd., Boston, MA 02210 102-4 Location of operations BCG has offices in more than 90 cities in over 50 countries and BCG Offices operates as one firm worldwide. See the list of offices on BCG.com. 102-5 Ownership and legal BCG 2019 Annual Sustainability Report—About BCG page 3 form The corporation is wholly owned by the members of its partnership. BCG’s offices are owned directly or indirectly by The Boston Consulting Group, Inc. 102-6 Markets served See the “Industries and Capabilities” section of BCG.com. Industries Functional practice areas (FPAs): Corporate Finance and Strategy; and Global Advantage; Marketing, Sales & Pricing; Operations; People & Capabilities Organization; Social Impact; Technology Advantage. Industry practice areas (IPAs): Consumer; Energy; Financial Institutions; Health Care; Industrial Goods; Insurance; Public Sector; Principal Investors & Private Equity; Technology, Media & Telecommunications. 102-7 Scale of the BCG 2019 Annual Sustainability Report—About BCG page 3 organization BCG 2019 headcount: 21,000 BCG 2019 revenue: $8.5 billion 102-8 Information on BCG 2019 Annual Sustainability Report—Empowering Our page 30 employees and other People workers We report diversity statistics at a global level only. We consider information regarding the number of employees per contract and employment type to be company confidential. See the “About BCG” section for global headcount. 102-9 Supply chain BCG 2019 Annual Sustainability Report—Supply Chain page 44 Sustainability 102-10 Significant changes to There were no significant changes to BCG's size, structure, supply page 44 the organization and chain, or ownership during 2019. its supply chain BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP 50 102-11 Precautionary BCG 2019 Annual Sustainability Report—Protecting Our page 16 principle or approach Planet This section of the report outlines our commitment to managing environmental risks and avoiding environmental degradation. 102-12 External initiatives BCG 2019 Annual Sustainability Report—UN Global Compact page 55 Content Index See examples throughout the Annual Sustainability Report: Positively Impacting Society, Protecting Our Planet, Empowering Our People, Promoting Responsible Business Practices. 102-13 Membership of BCG fosters long-term relationships with a number of today’s most Global associations relevant and innovative organizations. Details about our main Partnermemberships are available in the “Global Partnerships” section of ships BCG.com. 102-14 Statement from senior BCG 2019 Annual Sustainability Report—Executive page 1 decision maker Introduction 102-16 Values, principles, BCG 2019 Annual Sustainability Report—Our Purpose page 4 standards, and norms BCG 2019 Annual Sustainability Report—Our Values page 5 of behavior BCG 2019 Annual Sustainability Report—BCG Code of Conduct page 41 102-17 Mechanisms for BCG 2019 Annual Sustainability Report—BCG Code of Conduct page 41 advice and concerns about ethics 102-18 Governance structure BCG 2019 Annual Sustainability Report—About BCG page 3 See our website for more information about BCG’s leadership (ExecuBCG’s tive Committee, Chairman, and Global Practice Area Leaders). Leadership 102-40 List of stakeholder BCG 2019 Annual Sustainability Report—Materiality and page 6 groups Stakeholders 102-41 Collective bargaining BCG does not currently report on the percentage of employees covagreements ered by collective bargaining agreements. 102-42 Identifying and selectBCG 2019 Annual Sustainability Report—Materiality and page 6 ing stakeholders Stakeholders 102-43 Approach to stakeBCG 2019 Annual Sustainability Report—Materiality and page 6 holder engagement Stakeholders 102-44 Key topics and conBCG 2019 Annual Sustainability Report—Materiality and page 6 cerns raised Stakeholders 102-45 Entities included in BCG 2019 Annual Sustainability Report—About This Report page 2 the consolidated financial statements 102-46 Defining report conBCG 2019 Annual Sustainability Report—About This Report page 2 tent and topic BCG 2019 Annual Sustainability Report—Materiality and page 6 boundaries Stakeholders 102-47 List of material topics BCG 2019 Annual Sustainability Report—Materiality and page 6 Stakeholders 51 MAKING A DIFFERENCE: 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 102-48 Restatements of This is our first year publicly disclosing our emissions, so we have no information restatements for 2019. 102-49 Changes in reporting This is our first year publicly disclosing our emissions, so we have no changes for 2019. 102-50 Reporting period BCG 2019 Annual Sustainability Report—About This Report page 2 102-51 Date of most recent This is our first Annual Sustainability Report. report 102-52 Reporting cycle BCG 2019 Annual Sustainability Report—About This Report page 2 102-53 Contact point for BCG 2019 Annual Sustainability Report—About This Report page 2 questions regarding the report 102-54 Claims of reporting in BCG’s 2019 Annual Sustainability Report and UN Global Compact accordance with the Communication of Progress has been prepared referencing the GRI GRI Standards Standards. All of the referenced disclosures that have been applied in the report are listed in this table. 102-55 GRI content index BCG 2019 Annual Sustainability Report—Global Reporting page 50 Initiative Content Index 102-56 External assurance Our reported GHG emissions have been independently verified under the ISO 14064-3 standard. We have not sought external assurance for the full report. Economic Standards GRI 205: Anti-Corruption 103-1 Explanation of the BCG 2019 Annual Sustainability Report—Anti-Bribery and page 42 material topic and its Corruption boundary For more information about how we determine our material topic, see the “Materiality and Stakeholders” section of the Annual Sustainability Report. 103-2 The management BCG 2019 Annual Sustainability Report—Anti-Bribery and page 42 approach and its Corruption Supplier components Code of Conduct 103-3 Evaluation of the BCG 2019 Annual Sustainability Report—Anti-Bribery and page 42 management Corruption approach 205-2 Communication and BCG 2019 Annual Sustainability Report—Anti-Bribery and page 42 training about antiCorruption Supplier corruption policies 100% of new BCG employees completed our Anti-Bribery and CorCode of and procedures ruption online training as part of their onboarding process. We also Conduct communicate our anti-bribery and corruption expectations to our suppliers through our Supplier Code of Conduct. BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP 52 Environmental Standards GRI 305: Emissions 103-1 Explanation of the BCG 2019 Annual Sustainability Report—Managing Our Own page 25 material topic and its Environmental Impact boundary For more information about how we determine our material topic see the “Materiality and Stakeholders” section of the Annual Sustainability Report. 103-2 The management BCG 2019 Annual Sustainability Report—Managing Our Own page 25 approach and its Environmental Impact components 103-3 Evaluation of the BCG 2019 Annual Sustainability Report—Managing Our Own page 25 management Environmental Impact approach 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG BCG 2019 Annual Sustainability Report—Measuring Our page 26 emissions Emissions Scope 1 gross emissions in 2019 = 7,000 tCO2e. For information regarding our calculation methodology, see “Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Reporting Methodology” in the report’s appendix. 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope BCG 2019 Annual Sustainability Report—Measuring Our page 26 2) GHG emissions Emissions Scope 2 gross emissions (location-based) in 2019 = 22,000 tCO2e. Scope 2 gross emissions (market-based) in 2019 = 0 tCO2e. For information regarding our calculation methodology, see “Greenhouse Gas Reporting Methodology” in the report’s appendix. 305-3 Other indirect (Scope BCG 2019 Annual Sustainability Report—Measuring Our page 26 3) GHG emissions Emissions Scope 3 gross emissions in 2019 = 554,000 tCO2e. For information regarding our calculation methodology, see “Greenhouse Gas Reporting Methodology” in the report’s appendix. Social Standards GRI 404: Training and Education 103-1 Explanation of the BCG 2019 Annual Sustainability Report—Learning and page 38 material topic and its Development boundary For more information about how we determine our material topic, see the “Materiality and Stakeholders” section of the Annual Sustainability Report 103-2 The management BCG 2019 Annual Sustainability Report—Learning and page 38 approach and its Development components 103-3 Evaluation of the BCG 2019 Annual Sustainability Report—Learning and page 38 management Development approach 53 MAKING A DIFFERENCE: 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 404-1 Average hours of BCG 2019 Annual Sustainability Report—Learning and page 38 training per year per Development employee In 2019, our people completed one week of formal training per average employee. We provide a global average for learning and development time. We do not report further cohort or gender breakdown of training hours. 404-2 Programs for upgradBCG 2019 Annual Sustainability Report—Learning and page 38 ing employee skills Development and transition assisAs outlined in our approach, we focus on providing career step-based tance programs educational programs as well as upskilling campaigns to facilitate continuous career progression. GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 103-1 Explanation of the BCG 2019 Annual Sustainability Report—Diversity and Inclusion page 32 material topic and its For more information about how we determine our material topic, boundary see the “Materiality and Stakeholders” section of the Annual Sustainability Report 103-2 The management BCG 2019 Annual Sustainability Report—Diversity and page 32 approach and its Inclusion components 103-3 Evaluation of the BCG 2019 Annual Sustainability Report—Diversity and page 32 management Inclusion approach 405-1 Diversity of goverBCG 2019 Annual Sustainability Report—Diversity and page 32 nance bodies and Inclusion Leadership employees We currently provide only the global gender percentage figures for page entry-level new hires, BCG leadership, Executive Committee, and global headcount. Other diversity indicators such as age and minority or vulnerable groups are company confidential and are excluded from this report. See the Leadership page of BCG.com for more information regarding the diversity of our firm’s leadership. 405-2 Ratio of basic salary We currently disclose information about our gender pay gap only BCG UK and remuneration of for our UK operations, where there is a regulatory requirement to Gender Pay women to men externally report this information. Globally this information is not Gap Report currently reported externally. BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP 54 UN Global Compact Content Index operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects that advance the broader development goals In November 2018, BCG became a Participant in the Unitof the United Nations, particularly the Sustainable Develed Nations Global Compact (UNGC), a set of ten principles opment Goals. covering the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. This report serves as our Communication on Progress in implementing the principles of the UNGC and supporting We are committed to making the UN Global Compact and broader UN goals. The table shows where relevant content its principles part of the strategy, culture, and day-to-day can be found in this report. Topic Principle Principle Section Page Human Principle 1 Businesses should support and Human Rights page 43 Rights respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Supply Chain Sustainability page 44 Principle 2 Make sure that they are not Human Rights page 43 complicit in human rights abuses Labor Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freeEmpowering Our People page 30 dom of association and the effective Promoting Responsible Busipage 40 recognition of the right to collective ness Practices bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced Empowering Our People page 30 and compulsory labor Promoting Responsible Busipage 40 ness Practices Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labor Empowering Our People page 30 Promoting Responsible Busipage 40 ness Practices Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in Empowering Our People page 30 respect of employment and Promoting Responsible Busipage 40 occupation ness Practices Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precauProtecting Our Planet page 16 tionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote Protecting Our Planet page 16 greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Encourage the development and Protecting Our Planet page 16 diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies AntiPrinciple 10 Businesses should work against Promoting Responsible Busipage 40 Corruption corruption in all its forms, including ness Practices extortion and bribery 55 MAKING A DIFFERENCE: 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Add Co-Sponsor logo here Boston Consulting Group partners with leaders Uciam volora ditatur? Axim voloreribus moluptati in business and society to tackle their most autet hario qui a nust faciis reperro vitatia important challenges and capture their greatest dipsandelia sit laborum, quassitio. Itas volutem opportunities. BCG was the pioneer in business es nulles ut faccus perchiliati doluptatur. Estiunt. strategy when it was founded in 1963. Today, we Et eium inum et dolum et et eos ex eum harchic help clients with total transformation—inspiring teceserrum natem in ra nis quia disimi, omnia complex change, enabling organizations to grow, veror molorer ionsed quia ese veliquiatius building competitive advantage, and driving sundae poreium et et illesci atibeatur aut que bottom-line impact. consequia autas sum fugit qui aut excepudit, omnia voloratur? Explige ndeliaectur magnam, To succeed, organizations must blend digital and que expedignist ex et voluptaquam, offici bernam human capabilities. Our diverse, global teams atqui dem vel ius nus. bring deep industry and functional expertise and a range of perspectives to spark change. Nem faccaborest hillamendia doluptae BCG delivers solutions through leading-edge conseruptate inim volesequid molum quam, management consulting along with technology conseque consedipit hillabo. Imaio evelenditium and design, corporate and digital ventures— haribus, con reictur autemost, vendam am ellania and business purpose. We work in a uniquely estrundem corepuda derrore mporrumquat. collaborative model across the firm and throughout all levels of the client organization, generating results that allow our clients to thrive. For information or permission to reprint, please contact BCG at permissions@bcg.com. To find the latest BCG content and register to receive e-alerts on this topic or others, please visit bcg.com. Follow Boston Consulting Group on Facebook and Twitter. © Boston Consulting Group 2020. All rights reserved. 4/20 bcg.com
