Communication On Progress 2020 Our engagement Since June 29, 2011, IEC Telecom Group has supported the Global Compact. Since last year, in order to best meet the commitments set out by Global Compact, we have decided to write a Communication on Progress (COP) for IEC Telecom Europe, on behalf of the IEC Telecom group and its subsidiaries. Indeed, this change of situation allows us to understand the expectations of the United Nations in our society at a more suitable level. So, in a few years, once the CSR approach has been implemented for our Business Unit, we will be able to apply it more easily to the group. Joining the Global Compact allows us to express our desire to integrate the 10 principles and the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and to continue to develop them to the best of our society. Management and employees want to share their convictions and transmit them to their environment at the same time. All stakeholders must integrate the principles that allow us to move forward in common ethical, commercial and corporate culture practices. Our work with humanitarian actors reminds us daily of the need for transparency and support. Thus, we commit each year to carry out our COP and to put forward our objectives, solutions and results in the context of human rights, working conditions, the environment and the fight against corruption. These COPs will be published on our website and thus be available to anyone wishing to do so. Our Company IEC Telecom is an SME that has offered solutions based on satellite transmissions for more than 20 years and offers voice and data communication services. IEC Telecom solutions are aimed at customers operating in a wide variety of fields: humanitarian organizations, energy sector (oil, gas and mining industries, fossil and renewable energies), media, shipping companies, governments, public administrations, etc. IEC Telecom Europe is made up of a multidisciplinary team of 18 employees, divided into different departments such as sales, finance, technical, marketing and management. Our CSR Approach Due to its modest size, IEC Telecom Europe does not yet have a CSR manager or referent in its staff. A CSR approach is, however, implemented by all staff under the leadership of Management. Being a signatory to Global Compact France allows you to highlight the effective actions carried out within the company without being labeled CSR. This year, we decided to integrate the SDGs into our approach. This enhances the activities that all team members carry out on a daily basis, whether in terms of human rights, international labor standards, the environment or the fight against corruption. Human Rights 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses TARGETS Respect human rights Participate in actions in favor of human rights SOLUTIONS IEC Telecom Europe affirms its respect for the protection of international human rights law. We thus adhere to the principles of the International Charter of Human Rights. We are careful not to be complicit in human rights violations. Respect for human rights is present on a daily basis and is valued by the entire multidisciplinary team. In order to help employees who, in a precarious situation, need ad hoc financial assistance, a salary advance of up to 1000 € repayable in ten installments can be offered. Our commitment to the humanitarian sector is not only commercial. Actions are put in place to help them during the year, such as participation in the Challenge against hunger set up by Action Contre la Faim or the purchase of solidarity greeting cards. The company’s code of ethics was updated this year and sent to all staff for a better understanding and implementation. In addition, it remains searchable via our common server. RESULTS Spreading of information about our participation on social networks and in the News section of the website in order to publicize the Challenge and encourage other businesses and individuals to participate in Action Against Hunger activities. 2021 TARGETS Continue to develop our commitment to charities Make employees aware of the company's human rights initiatives Labour 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation TARGETS Promote the indications of the International Labor Organization (ILO) Valuing diversity at work, both between employees and in terms of the way of working Fight against discrimination Create a team cohesion SOLUTIONS IEC Telecom Europe respects the fundamental conventions of the ILO. Thus, the company fights against discrimination by promoting, among other things, gender equality. The company will never be against collective representation of employees or against freedom of association. All our employees are recruited according to the standards of the International Labor Office and are free to move without hindrance from competition. In addition, we will never hire an employee below the legal age in France. Each year, individual interviews are held to discuss employees' plans and their goals for the coming year. Support for € 4 per meal takes place at the inter-company restaurant near the company. Thus, the majority of employees meet for lunch together, a presence at the office is still required to ensure telephone permanence. The whole team can be regularly informed of new products and services, company news in France and abroad via Workplace, a social network platform allowing the development of internal communication. Each employee has their personal page which allows them to send the desired information to the rest of the team Training plays an important role at IEC Telecom, both in terms of employees and internships or work-study contracts. Whether for refresher courses, technical training, project development, or even the supervision of trainees or work-study students, employees are free to request the training that they think is best suited to their needs. Health and well-being at work are recurring themes. First aid training was offered to employees. The workspaces are adapted to allow teams to work in the best possible conditions: possibility of working remotely, office equipment, air conditioning. Computer chairs and screens have been updated for better ergonomics. RESULTS + 15% per meal for employees 70% employees have lunch at the intercompany restaurant 60% of the employees were able to work from home 2 rescuers are trained in the company 55% 45% There is therefore a majority of women in society. The proportion of women in society has increased compared to last year. 100% of employees are registered on Workplace this year while the platform was not implemented in 2018. Work from home: 2018 2019 from January to July from January to July 402 hours 447 hours 2021 TARGETS Develop internal communication within the company by implementing new tools Continue to fight against discrimination Allow employees to work in the best conditions Environment 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies TARGETS Promote environmental protection initiatives Prepare for new European directives on climate change Promote an ecological approach with the company's employees SOLUTIONS The environment plays an important role at IEC Telecom Europe. The company's environmental impact is tending to decrease. Management and employees are following a common path in this direction. The next environmental regulations lead to internal reflections in order to put in place all the elements necessary for a proper implementation of these. Through various information actions, employees were made aware of eco-citizen gestures. Two water fountains are present on the company's office allowing the consumption of plastic bottles to be limited. To complete this arrangement, water bottles and glasses were provided to all employees of the company. In addition, cardboard cups for guests are now replacing plastic cups. Awareness information is available following signature in emails to indicate the need to limit their impressions. In order to reduce paper printing in the context of commercial brochures or catalogs, all documents are put on USB keys and then supplied to customers. In addition, the Ecosia search engine has been installed on the company's computers to allow trees to be planted using internet searches. Within the framework of the exhibitions, IEC Telecom Europe takes part, for example, during Euromaritime, a maritime trade fair which highlights sustainable development and its importance for the oceans. IEC Telecom works with service providers (printer, communication agency, ...) located less than 10 km around the company, promoting the reduction of the carbon index. Air conditioning has been installed in all offices, which allows better temperature management in the premises and thus reduces the final cost of electricity consumption. Printing documents is often a negative point. To begin to remedy this, various elements have been put in place and will subsequently have to be reassessed to verify their effectiveness. All prints are automatically configured to be black & white and front / back. RESULTS The hunt for waste has started! The graph below on the consumption of copies on the main printer of the company shows fluctuations according to the quarter but also a higher consumption of black and white (B / W) copies than of colors. 1 tree planted thanks to the purchase of cardboard cups 0% of plastic cups used During the last event, 70% of the documents were transmitted on USB key. . 2021 TARGETS Reduce paper prints, both on printer and for ordering documentation and catalogs by around 20% Increase the distribution of USB keys to 80% Develop recycling zones for paper but also for coffee pods Anti-Corruption 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery TARGETS Fight against corruption in all its forms Respect a maximum amount for end-of-year gifts SOLUTIONS IEC Telecom Europe has decided to fight corruption in all its forms. A code of business conduct has been updated this year and is sent to all those in contact with customers and prospects. It covers various themes such as ethical business practices, fraud and similar irregularities, as well as conflicts of interest. In addition, the ecommerce website uses modules that comply with the Law against VAT fraud (Article 88 NF525 certification) RESULTS Maximum amount for a customer gift 100% of site modules comply with anti law fraud 80% of employees are aware of the conducting business 2021 TARGETS Pass on the code of business conduct to newcomers Establish a written policy regarding the fight against corruption www.iec-telecom.com IEC Telecom Europe Immeuble Le Cérame, Hall 4 47 avenue des Genottes 95 895 CERGY-PONTOISE Cedex FRANCE +33 (0)1.40.17.08.03. info-ea@iec-telecom.com SIRET 812 869 873 000 24
