Courage Excellence Courage Excellence Equity Courage Courage Excellence Excellence Equity Fairness Joy Joy P F I Z E R A U S T R I A 2 0 19 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Pfizer Austria at a glance Workforce (as at November 2019) 480 50% 10,199 employees of management positions home office days held by women Family-friendly Our core business employer 138 6 93.8% medicinal products new approvals delivery capacity berufundfamilie Diversity Charter “Company Health (522 articles) [work and family] Promotion” seal of 11.2m 14.1m audit certificate approval packages sold vaccine doses Clinical trials produced in Orth/Donau 13 81 clinical and nonpatients interventional studies in total Transparency ~€1.2m ~€3.2m Corporate volunteering in payments to members of in payments to institutions of the medical profession (MMP) the medical profession (IMP) ~€22m 14 481 46 10 in research & development (R&D) Ecological days hours internal participants external participants footprint Donations 21.5% 0.9% 10.4% 1.5% €117,522.00 481 h €169,951.18 air travel material input vehicle fleet parcel delivery total monetary donations donated time in donated medicines 9.4% 55.1% 0.1% 1.1% €56,689.00 €13,612.72 employee commuting energy input paper consumption IT sponsoring in total in other donations Foreword Our Our Environment Pfizer as an Products Goals Appendix mission sustainability strategy & production employer & society & actions Foreword (GRI 102-11, GRI 102-14) Prof. Dr. Robin Rumler has been Country Manager We asked both executives about the challenges Pfizer Corporation Austria GmbH since 2009. Martin ahead in the health sector. Pfizer’s contribution to Dallinger has been Managing Director of Pfizer sustainable development in Austria was a topic of Manufacturing Austria GmbH, Pfizer's vaccines manudiscussion, as was the pandemic caused by the facturing plant at Orth an der Donau, since 2019. COVID-19 virus. One environmental topic has taken center stage since the last sustainability report in 2017—the climate crisis. How does climate change affect the health of us humans? Robin Rumler: We are affected in different ways: In Europe, we already have a higher incidence of cardiovascular and respiratory diseases because of more frequent heat waves and high levels of particulate matter. Other regions of the world are seeing more frequent floods, droughts and the often associated occurrence of contaminated water. Failed harvests are becoming ever more common. The risk of contracting diarrheal and infectious diseases has continued to rise in many countries. So the climate crisis does indeed have a huge impact on our health. What is your company doing to reduce greenhouse gas emissions? Martin Dallinger: In 2019, we drew up a climate action plan with the Environment Agency Austria, which is to be put into practice in the years ahead. But we are already taking action to improve our ecological footprint. We are going to increase the energy efficiency of our production site at Orth an der Donau by 2021 in the course of ongoing modernization and have already reduced energy requirements by 20 percent by installing a state-of-the-art ventilation system. Robin Rumler: Air travel accounts for a sizable share of our Prof. Dr. Robin Rumler CO2emissions in marketing and sales, so we will continue to cut back on it. One of the United Nations’ sustainable Pfizer Corporation Austria 2019 Sustainability Report 3 Foreword Our Our Environment Pfizer as an Products Goals Appendix mission sustainability strategy & production employer & society & actions development goals is to “ensure healthy lives and promote international quality control center for vaccines, to build Pharmaceutical companies have invested 2.6 billion euros in well-being for all at all ages.” modern offices and to modernize and expand legacy vaccine Austria over the last six years (2013 to 2018). We want a production infrastructure. This way, Pfizer is securing jobs in the pharma-friendly environment that recognizes the value of the region for the long term and improving the plant’s ecological pharmaceutical industry and the benefits of pharmaceuticals. What is Pfizer doing to help achieve this goal? footprint. With the new quality control center, we will not only The healthcare system is all about working together to find the produce two vaccines from 2021; we will also be responsible for best solutions for patients. All partners have to pull together as Robin Rumler: In March of this year, we joined an internathe safety and quality of vaccines from the Pfizer pipeline. Our a team for that to work. The long-term viability of the healthtional initiative to fight COVID-19 with 15 other prestigious employees are thus playing a decisive role in ensuring that new care system is a matter of concern to us—as an industry and companies and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. This vaccines will be able to prevent even more occurrences of of course also as citizens of this country. We can clearly see global pandemic requires global commitment. In addition, we serious infectious diseases. how important it is to have research, development and pharare working in a special alliance with the German company maceutical manufacturing capabilities in Europe, particularly BioNtec on a vaccine for COVID-19, which is already being Robin Rumler: We provide more than 130 different medicines now in times of the corona crisis. tested in clinical trials. “Breakthroughs that change patients to Austria today. Around 1.5 million people in this country rely lives” is our credo. We want to develop ultra-advanced theraon our medicines every year. This is a very big responsibility, pies that sustainably improve the lives of patients. Our which we are happy to shoulder. Accordingly, we collaborate How is the health sector going to change in the future? research focuses on therapies for cancer and cardiovascular closely with nearly all medical universities and hospitals. And and metabolic diseases. We also develop new drugs to treat we are also looking to the future: Some 15 of our company’s Robin Rumler: The future has already begun. The world’s immune-mediated inflammatory disease and rare diseases, as clinical studies are underway at Austrian centers. And that, in biggest IT corporations have been working on data-based, well as new anti-infectives and vaccines. Pfizer is currently turn, has great economic significance: In 2018, for example, we computer-assisted medicine for years. New diagnostic tools researching more than 90 potential new therapies. We are invested over 46 million euros locally in research. guided by artificial intelligence (AI) are making it possible to confident that many of these therapies will clear the final detect changes in the body before they become diseases. And hurdle to approval and will thus soon be available to the spectacular new therapies promise us that we will soon enjoy medical community and patients. What are your hopes for the future of Austria as a life an even healthier, longer life. sciences hub? Martin Dallinger: Pfizer produces a vaccine to protect against Precision medicine, today also known as personalized mediTBE (tick-borne encephalitis) at Orth an der Donau and a Robin Rumler: We need a resounding YES to Austria as a hub cine, will increasingly gain purchase in the future. This means vaccine to protect against meningitis C to meet global of pharmaceutical research and production from policymakers that more and more often the patient will be given medication demand. Around 14 million vaccine doses leave the plant and all relevant stakeholders in our country! Especially in the that exactly matches his or her genetic code. At times, just one a year. field of research, we have to push ahead with efforts towards therapy will cure his or her disease. Gene and immune therade-bureaucratization and digitalization, and deploy more pies are along these lines. Pfizer is also intensively researching specially trained staff, particularly for trials. The idea is that these areas. Pfizer is one of the world’s leading pharmaceutical doctors should be free to work on the science rather than companies. How important is Austria as a business administrate. Clinical studies have to be better acknowledged The trend from remedial medicine to prevention will also usher location for a global company like Pfizer? and funded as the foundation for tomorrow’s medicine. They in a paradigm shift. As people’s health awareness continues to afford early access to new, often life-saving drugs; the costs of grow, they will focus much more on staying healthy, and not Martin Dallinger: The plant at Orth an der Donau has the studies are borne by pharmaceutical companies and not just consult a doctor when they are ill. However, this trend still established its credentials in the global Pfizer network with its by the Austrian healthcare system. requires a lot of support from all partners across our society. expertise in the production, testing and test development of “Health in all policies” is the motto here. viral and bacterial vaccines. Pfizer is investing a total of 50 The pharmaceutical industry in Austria employs 18,000 people million euros until 2021 to set up new laboratories for an and generates 2.8 percent of gross domestic product (GDP). Pfizer Corporation Austria 2019 Sustainability Report 4 Foreword Our Our Environment Pfizer as an Products Goals Appendix mission sustainability strategy & production employer & society & actions What skills do employees need to bring to the table? A personal question in closing: Mr. Rumler, you have been to constantly improve the quality of life and increase life working in the pharmaceutical industry for more than 25 expectancy has fascinated me ever since. The most rewarding Martin Dallinger: Alongside strong science and technical years and have been managing director of Pfizer Corporaaspect of my work has been and still is that I am able to know-how, we need employees who have that team spirit. We tion for more than ten. What do you believe sets this experience the many successes in healthcare from the are looking for employees who are willing to break new ground industry apart? perspectives of different jobs in the industry. and advocate change, who enjoy working with people for people, who act responsibly and disciplined in a regulated Robin Rumler: Since I started in 1992, life expectancy in And what is the best thing about this business for you, environment, and who identify and grow with the cornerstones Austria has increased by six years from 75 to 81. The fact that Mr. Dallinger? of our culture—courage, excellence, fairness and joy. cutting-edge medicine and state-of-the-art drugs are helping Martin Dallinger: Vaccines have the power to protect people preventively, thereby precluding diseases from arising in the first place and avoiding suffering and pain. Especially these days, I see biotechnology as a spearhead for preventive solutions—and that gives cause for pride and humility. Ensuring that our patients have access to high-quality vaccines and protecting their lives—this motivates me anew every day. May 2020 Martin Dallinger Pfizer Corporation Austria 2019 Sustainability Report 5 7 Our mission: Breakthroughs that change patients’ lives 8 Therapeutic areas Protecting patients’ health & safety Patient impact: What Pfizer does for health in Austria 9 Access to essential medicines Actions to ensure access to pharmaceuticals Research at Pfizer in Austria 10 The path from the development to the use of a drug Our priority SDGs Our mission Foreword Our Our Environment Pfizer as an Products Goals Appendix mission sustainability strategy & production employer & society & actions Our mission: Breakthroughs that change patients’ lives Many things can change for people when they get sick; it is the cardiovascular diseases, chronic inflammatory diseases, rare important partner to the country's medical research and start of an often difficult journey. Nearly 500 people at Pfizer diseases, infections and vaccines to protect against tick-borne develop­ment community. Pfizer is headquartered in New York Austria are working to help people on this journey. We produce encephalitis (TBE) and meningitis caused by serogroup C and has branches worldwide, including in Austria. and market patented and off-patent medicines to treat cancer, meningococci (MenC). Beyond that, Pfizer Austria is also an (GRI 102-2, GRI 102-3) The company operates as two entities in Austria: (GRI 102-1, GRI 102-2, GRI 102-4, GRI 102-5, GRI 102-6, GRI 102-7, GRI 102-18, GRI 102-22, GRI 102-23, GRI 102-45) Pfizer Austria Pfizer provides Companies Pfizer Corporation Austria GmbH Pfizer Manufacturing Austria GmbH some 150 drugs Activities Supplies patients with prescription drugs and Produces vaccines to meet global demand for in Austria. I help vaccines vaccines to protect against tick-borne encephamake sure that litis (TBE) and meningitis caused by serogroup C meningococci (MenC) patients who can Locations Vienna, Floridotower Orth an der Donau, Lower Austria benefit from these Management Prof. Dr. Robin Rumler Martin Dallinger drugs also have Employees 215 265 the opportunity to Departments Medicine, Drug Approval and Safety, Product Production, Quality Control and Engineering, access them. Quality Finance, Communication and Purchasing, Environment, Health & Safety Marketing, Compliance, Market Access, International Hubs Shareholder Pfizer Luxembourg SARL (100%) Pfizer Luxembourg SARL (100%) Dieter Hackl, Market Access Director Take a tour of Pfizer Austria Pfizer Corporation Austria 2019 Sustainability Report 7 Foreword Our Our Environment Pfizer as an Products Goals Appendix mission sustainability strategy & production employer & society & actions Therapeutic areas (GRI 102-2) Protecting patients’ health & safety Patient impact: What Pfizer does for health in Austria 138 medicinal products [GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 416-1] (522 articles) Pfizer provides drugs for a number of theraMore than one and a half million people in 6 peutic areas. The aim is to prevent illnesses, It is our ethical and legal responsibility to Austria rely on our medicines. This is of course heal or alleviate complaints, and control assure the quality of our products and thus a great responsibility to bear, as we are well diseases at all stages of life. Our portfolio the safety of patients—especially in an area aware. But we are also very proud of our encompasses the following therapeutic areas: as sensitive as health. We manufacture and contribution towards health in Austria. market our products in a responsible way, and new approvals 11.2m inform patients, physicians and pharmacists Ophthalmic diseases about benefits and risks. The legal underpinning for Pfizer’s activities in Austria includes: Skin conditions packages sold Women’s health > the Medicinal Products Act (AMG) > the Medicinal Products Import Act Vaccines (AWEG) > the Arzneimittelbetriebsordnung cancer. We also provide therapies for hemoCancer (Medicinal Product Plant Regulations; philia, polyneuropathy, growth disorders or 1.5m AMBO) even very rare lung diseases to some 400 Men’s health > good manufacturing practice (GMP) patients a year. > good distribution practice (GDP) Smoking cessation Patients treated by therapeutic area (Chronic) Pain Compliance with these requirements is (estimated figures for 2019) continuously monitored by way of audits and people trust in Pfizer drugs Cancer 1,140 Inflammatory diseases inspections. (GRI 103-3) Rare diseases 700 Cardiovascular, metabolic Pfizer’s quality management system is central Vaccines 835,000 and endocrine diseases to our work. Pfizer collects and continually Our vaccines can protect over 800,000 Pain > 1 million assesses safety-relevant information, from people in Austria against infectious diseases Infectious diseases researching the active ingredient in the lab to every year. We also provide treatments for Anti-infectives 610,000 the product's approval and market launch. 80,000 patients with atrial fibrillation to help Cardiovascular diseases 200,000 Gastrointestinal diseases For example, we obtain this type of informaprevent the worst outcome, stroke. Patients tion in clinical trials and from reports on with chronic inflammatory diseases can count Inflammatory diseases 7,000 Nervous system disorders adverse drug reactions or quality complaints. on us. This includes 7,000 a year with rheuSmoking cessation 5,000 matism, intestinal diseases or psoriasis. Every Rare diseases year, our drugs support more than 2,000 people in Austria in their battle against Watch video Pfizer Corporation Austria 2019 Sustainability Report 8 Foreword Our Our Environment Pfizer as an Products Goals Appendix mission sustainability strategy & production employer & society & actions 50 patients in clinical 13 studies Access to essential medicines Actions to ensure access to (GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3) pharmaceuticals clinical studies and 31 one noninterventional study Drugs are an important part of medical care. Pfizer works proactively with all stakeholders patients in nonOur products must be available quickly when from internal departments to wholesalers interventional studies they are needed. As a manufacturer, we strive and pharmacies to ensure an optimum supply to ensure that we are always able to deliver. and to prevent critical situations. Although we analyze market demand in great Clinical studies play a key role in the developdepth and plan accordingly, there may be A regulation came into force on April 1, 2020, Research at Pfizer ment of a drug. It can only be submitted for situations where medicines are not available. to assure even greater transparency in the in Austria approval after successfully completing all Our delivery capacity in 2019 was supply of pharmaceuticals. This ordinance (GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3) phases of clinical research. 93.8 percent. calls for the marketing authorization holder to report any prescription drug that is likely to be Whatever the condition may be, cancer, Pfizer’s clinical studies worldwide are posted unavailable for two weeks or more to the rheumatism or an infectious disease, patients at www.clinicaltrials.gov. Reasons for supply bottlenecks*: BASG (Federal Office for Safety in Health and their loved ones pin their hopes on new Care) for it to be included in this authority’s treatment options. Joining forces with For the latest information about our pipeline, > Scarcity of raw materials in production publicly accessible register. partners from all over the world, we search for visit pfizer.at/unternehmen/forschung-ent­ > Quality issues during production (impurinew drugs and therapies. wicklung ties in the production process, defects in The authority can then impose a temporary packaging, etc.) export ban on these products. This prohibi> Quality issues in distribution (failure of tion is to be imposed when the supply line for refrigeration units during transport, etc.) the Austrian population is seriously and Our research priorities > Unexpected spike in demand substantially in jeopardy. (more products are needed than Rheumatism Non-alcoholic anticipated because of a sudden Psoriasis fatty liver disease outbreak of a disease affecting many Lupus Obesity people or disruption of a competitor’s Immunological Crohn’s disease Cardiovascular Diabetes production) & inflammatory Ulcerative colitis & metabolic Cachexia diseases Atopic dermatitis diseases > Unpredictable outflow of goods abroad brought on by parallel trade (dealers sell Breast cancer Sickle cell anemia products to another EU country because Lung cancer Hemophilia they can get higher prices there than in Leukemia Growth disorders Austria) Oncological Kidney cancer Rare Achondroplasia diseases Gastrointestinal tumors diseases and other diseases 93.8% Treatment of infections For the prevention of caused by gram-negative infections caused by bacteria for which therapy pneumococci, meningo* Source: https://www.pharmig.at/themen/versorgung/ Anti-infectives options are limited or Vaccines cocci, Clostridium difficile or arzneimittelversorgung-loesungen-fuer-lieferengpaessenonexistent streptococci gemeinsam-finden/ delivery capacity Pfizer Corporation Austria 2019 Sustainability Report 9 Foreword Our Our Environment Pfizer as an Products Goals Appendix mission sustainability strategy & production employer & society & actions The path from the development to the delivery of a drug (GRI 102-2, GRI 102-9) 7 years 11 years 1 Things to do before developing a drug Understand the disease 5 Clinical trials Determine if the medicine helps people 7 Production & quality assurance Make the medicine Scientists specializing in many different disciplines work The next step is for researchers to find out if the drug actually The production, packaging and distribution with various companies and universities. Before these helps the people for whom it is intended. Clinical trials serve of the drug are constantly monitored and researchers can set out to develop a drug for a disease, to test the drug on patients for the first time to see how they have to meet the strict criteria of they have to learn as much as they can about that disease. tolerate it. These trials take place in many hospitals and good manufacturing practice (GMP). They need to understand what takes place in the course of research institutions and involve thousands of patients. Very the disease, what causes it, and how to detect it. specific rules have to be followed. And that is exactly how it ought to be. Researchers want to learn many things in clinical Orth an der Donau: Pfizer operates many trials, including if the body absorbs and tolerates the plants worldwide. One is in Austria. It medicine well, how often patients need to take it to get the makes vaccines for use around the world. best results, and what advantages the new drug has over 1 year other treatments. The long research effort will have achieved its aim only if they succeed in doing this. 2 Discovery Find the right treatment Researchers, technicians and other experts are striving 8 Distribution Make the medicine accessible to the patient to develop new drugs at research facilities in Andover Once the researchers know what triggers the disease, and Cambridge, Massachusetts, Groton, Connecticut, they have to find a drug to treat it. They have to test La Jolla, California, Pearl River, New York, San FranThe drug is delivered to hospitals, anywhere from 5,000 to 10,000 different molecules to cisco, California and St. Louis, Missouri, in the USA and doctors and pharmacies. identify one that could actually help. Sandwich and Cambridge in the UK. 12 years 4 years 9 Application 3 Molecule development Test and test again 8 years Knowledge about the disease and its treatment Researchers conduct various tests to investigate if a certain active ingredient—that is, a specific molecule—really is beneficial. They also test if it is safe. 6 Approval by the authorities Make the medicine available is gained when the new drug is put to use. This insight is helpful when developing other new drugs. After all, the drug should just fight the disease and not The pharmaceutical company needs permission from inadvertently change other things in the body. authorities in the EU and Austria to sell the new drug. The Researchers can run many tests with a computer; for authorities review the results of all trials and then decide if others, they use cell cultures. the drug benefits patients. Then the determination is made if health insurance funds will cover the costs of the drug. 5 years 4 Drug development Develop a drug Once researchers have found a suitable molecule, they consider how it can best be administered or ingested. Can it be delivered in a tablet or will it have to be a syringe? And what will be the easiest way for patients to use it? From 5,000 to 10,000 different molecules are tested to identify one effective molecule. Pfizer Corporation Austria 2019 Sustainability Report 10 Foreword Our Our Environment Pfizer as an Products Goals Appendix mission sustainability strategy & production employer & society & actions The making of a TBE vaccine 1 2 3 The story of a vaccine’s origin at Orth an der Donau Grow the viruses Infect the cell culture Harvest the viruses Viruses do not have a metabolism. They need This cell culture is infected behind hermetiThe viruses are then harvested by centrifugaliving host cells to reproduce, so a primary cell cally sealed doors. The active virus is tion and chemically inactivated in special culture is derived from hens’ eggs. It is then conveyed from a biosafety cabinet through tanks. The vaccine thus contains the entire supplied with a liquid nutrient medium, stainless steel piping into eight 100-liter virus, but it is no longer active. This means mainly amino acids and glucose. bio­­reactors for cells to grow and viruses to viruses can no longer replicate and cause multiply upstream. infections, but they can stimulate the immune system to respond to the pathogen. 14.1m Vaccine doses (2019) 4 5 6 Purify the vaccine Store the suspension Fill it into syringes This chemical compound is purified downThe liquid is stored at minus 30°C until it goes The viral suspension is diluted and filled into stream along with the other byproducts of to the bottling line in Vienna. syringes at Vienna. Then the vaccine is the biotechnological process in an ultracentrishipped out in strict compliance with cold fuge that spins at 110,000 times the standard chain standards. acceleration of gravity. This produces a highly purified, highly concentrated viral suspension. Pfizer Corporation Austria 2019 Sustainability Report 11 13 Our sustainability strategy 14 Materiality analysis Our target areas and material topics 15 Materiality matrix 16 Impact on various core processes 17 Anchor points for sustainability in the Pfizer organization Stakeholder engagement Our sustainability strategy Foreword Our Our Environment Pfizer as an Products Goals Appendix mission sustainability strategy & production employer & society & actions Our sustainability strategy All our business activities are guided by our purpose blueprint, our corporate purpose and our goals. And our actions are guided by our imperatives and values, which contribute materially to the company's success and further development. Purpose blueprint OUR PURPOSE Breakthroughs that change patients’ lives Our corporate purpose Breakthroughs that change patients’ lives OUROurBOLD5 bold moves MOVES 1. Unleash 2. Deliver 3. Transform 4. Win the 5. Lead the the power first-in-class our go-todigital race in conversation of our people science market model pharma Pfizer Corporation Austria 2019 Sustainability Report OUR BIG IDEAS 13 Foreword Our Our Environment Pfizer as an Products Goals Appendix mission sustainability strategy & production employer & society & actions Our sustainability management is based Materiality analysis Our target areas and material topics on: (GRI 102-44, GRI 102-46, GRI 102-49) (GRI 102-47) > Pfizer's corporate strategy, “Breakthroughs As a pharmaceutical company, we are aware We have defined another target area alongside “Environment & production,” “Pfizer as an that change patients' lives” of the material topics in relation to our core employer,” and “Products & society —“Key issues.” These are the most important issues that > Pfizer’s Environment, Health & Safety business. These include: have the highest priority for us as a responsible pharmaceutical company. (EHS) Management Systems (EHSMS) > the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 1. Protecting patients’ health and safety, and Target areas Material topics of the United Nations drug safety > the ten principles of the United Nations 2. Researching and developing drugs in Key issues > Protecting patients’ health and safety, and drug safety Global Compact Austria > Research & development in Austria > the Global Diversity & Inclusion 3. Ensuring access to essential medicines and > Access to essential medicines and delivery capacity benchmarks delivery capacity > the target areas and material topics Environment & > Energy & emissions production > Employee mobility defined by our employees and These key issues have the highest priority for > Water stakeholders us as a responsible pharmaceutical company. > Waste & effluents > Sustainable procurement and on the following internationally As in 2017, we have reviewed material topics Pfizer as an employer > Conditions of work recognized standards: for the current Pfizer report for their relevance > Diversity & inclusion and importance. In 2019, these topics were > Health & safety at work > ISO 14001, ISO 45001 (2018) and OSHA revised in a strategy and goal development VPP for the environment and occupational workshop, assessed in an online survey of Products & society > Promote education & awareness > Transparency & ethics safety and health internal and external stakeholders, and > Create benefits for the surrounding region > ISO 26000 for corporate social analyzed by the members of the Sustainresponsibility ability workgroup at Pfizer Austria to deter> ISO/DIS 30415 (draft) on HR, diversity & mine their potential economic, eco­­logical and inclusion social impacts. The topics from 2017 are now (GRI 102-12) summarized as 14 material topics and grouped in four target areas. No. 1 In addition to our three key issues, we now have three target areas encompassing eleven important topics. of the material topics: Drug safety Pfizer Corporation Austria 2019 Sustainability Report 14 Foreword Our Our Environment Pfizer as an Products Goals Appendix mission sustainability strategy & production employer & society & actions Materiality matrix 5.6 5.5 8 1 Material topics at Pfizer Austria: 5.4 1 Drug safety 2 2 Health & safety at work 3 Promote education & awareness 5.3 4 Waste & effluents Significance from stakeholders’ perspective 9 5 Sustainable procurement 10 3 6 Energy & emissions 5.2 4 7 Create benefits for the surrounding region 11 8 Access to essential medicines 5 12 6 9 Research & development in Austria 5.1 10 Water 11 Conditions of work 12 Diversity & inclusion 5.0 13 Transparency & ethics 14 Employee mobility 4.9 13 7 4.8 14 4.7 4.6 3.2 3.4 3.6 3.8 4.0 4.2 4.4 4.6 Significance of the economic, ecological and social impacts Pfizer Corporation Austria 2019 Sustainability Report 15 Foreword Our Our Environment Pfizer as an Products Goals Appendix mission sustainability strategy & production employer & society & actions Impact on various core processes We are aware that our actions have an impact on society and the environment. We always strive to avoid or reduce negative impacts and reinforce positive ones. (GRI 102-15, GRI 416-1, GRI 308-2) Core processes Economic impact (example) Environmental impact (example) Social impact (example) Research + Creates direct and indirect jobs + New therapy options that could mark a significant & development + Investments in research & development advance in the treatment of diseases + Clinical trials in Austria + Patients take part in clinical trials in Austria + Free medication for subjects + Free medication for subjects (cost savings) Approval + Approval of drugs and vaccines + New therapy options that could mark a significant Austria/EU advance in the treatment of diseases + Steady supply of proven therapies & medicinal products Production + Creates jobs in Orth/Donau – Emits CO2/greenhouse gases + Makes major contribution to the global supply of vaccines + Regional benefits in Orth/Donau – Consumes energy and water to protect against diseases caused by serogroup C – Produces waste & effluents meningococci and tick-borne encephalitis (TME) – Uses biohazards + Produces safe products with assured quality – Involves animal-based biomedical research Marketing, Medical + Creates jobs in Orth/Donau – Consumes resources with (printed) marketing collateral + Provides information for patients and medical staff & Sales + Provides information on medicines – Causes CO2/greenhouse gases by traveling (scientifically sound and balanced information) + Provides information on diseases for patients + Supports further training for medical staff + Supports advanced training for doctors + Sells safe medicines + Supports further training for medical staff + Sells medicines Distribution + Creates jobs in Orth/Donau – Emits CO2/greenhouse gases + Ensures access to medicines by delivering to wholesalers, & warehousing + Ensures access to medicines by delivering to wholesalers, – Destroys unused medicinal products hospitals, pharmacies hospitals, pharmacies – Destroys unused medicinal products Use of therapies + Maintains, restores or enhances productivity, – Disposes of unused medicines + Maintains, restores or enhances productivity, & medicinal products health and quality of life – Disposes of expired medicines health and quality of life + Savings for health insurance funds – Excreted drugs in effluents pollute the environment + Efficacy/desired therapeutic effect + Benefits patients – Improper disposal of medicinal products pollutes the + Treatment with affordable therapies & drugs + Costs for health insurance funds environment + Donated medicines + Costs for patients – Potential side effects – Potential drug abuse Pfizer Corporation Austria 2019 Sustainability Report 16 Foreword Our Our Environment Pfizer as an Products Goals Appendix mission sustainability strategy & production employer & society & actions Anchor points for Pfizer defines its interest groups in the course sustainability in the Pfizer of stakeholder analyses. This was done for organization the first time in a structured process in 2015 when several workshops took place to define, The Sustainability Officer manages and group and analyze all Pfizer stakeholders. Transparency and coordinates the sustainability agenda, which is under the auspices of the Corporate Affairs These findings have since been reviewed and respectful relationships department. updated at regular intervals. Because our are prerequisites for The Managing Directors are involved in all society's healthcare is such a complex matter, our daily work. It is decisions and part of the Sustainability Pfizer has many heterogeneous stakeholders. workgroup consisting of representatives from In keeping with our global diversity & inclusion with integrity that we all relevant departments such as Medical, strategy, we have ordered our stakeholders in create an excellent Quality, Compliance, HR, Works Council, the following categories: patients, colleagues, Environment, Health & Safety (EHS), Health & communities and partners. basis for cooperation Value, Procurement, as well as representatives with doctors, patients from the business units and the Sales force. and our partners. Meetings are held regularly in a coordinated effort to analyze the sustainability agenda, develop it strategically, and put those strategies into action. (GRI 102-19, GRI 102-20, GRI 102-33, GRI 102-26) Stakeholder engagement (GRI 102-40, GRI 102-42, GRI 102-43, GRI 102-21) Our business activities have an impact on many people’s interests and lives. We take this responsibility seriously and attach great Jasmina Dzinic, importance to maintaining a dialog and a Certified Compliance Manager strong relationship with our stakeholders. We use a wide range of communication tools and channels to systematically engage with our stakeholders, regularly sharing information and offering various services such as round­ tables with actors in the supply chain and with patient organizations. Pfizer Corporation Austria 2019 Sustainability Report 17 Foreword Our Our Environment Pfizer as an Products Goals Appendix mission sustainability strategy & production employer & society & actions Stakeholder Patients Colleagues Community groups Stakeholders Patients & their Employees Municipalities & NGOs Policymakers & Authorities Educational loved ones, the public neighbors legislators institutions Self-help groups > Employees > City of Vienna > Charitable > European Union > AGES – Österreichi­ > Schools > Contractors > Town of organizations > Federal government sche Agentur für > Universities > Partner companies Orth/Donau > Animal & > Federal ministries Gesundheit und (e.g. B. BMS, Merck) > Donau-Auen environmental > State government Ernährungssicherheit National Park protection > Municipal GmbH [Austrian organizations government Agency for Health and > Transparency Food Safety] International > Labor Inspectorate Significance for These are the end-users* of our The workforce at Pfizer With the support and Pfizer Austria lives up Policymakers and These authorities This is where Pfizer Pfizer therapies and medicines. Pfizer Austria strives to provide tolerance of to its great social legislators set the monitor and inspect Austria meets potential Austria researches, develops the best possible municipali­ties and and societal framework for Austria the products of Pfizer future employees, a and makes products for these therapies and medicines neighbors, we are able responsibility in a and thus also for the Austria and are target group for which consumers. to Austrian patients and to smoothly execute joint and mutually business activities of responsible for their the company wishes to produce vaccines for the our business activities. enriching effort with Pfizer Austria. approval and assuring promote health literacy entire world. those organizations. quality and patient at a young age. safety. Communication > Direct contact and dialog > Direct contact and > Direct contact and > Direct contact > Events > Direct contact and > Apprenticeship > Pfizer.at/patient service dialog dialog and dialog > Visits dialog programs > Bilingual leaflets > Discussions with > Healthy community > Donations and > Via FOPI > Inspections > Teach for Austria > Pfizer Medical Info employees > Volunteering sponsorships > Pharmig school project > Mobile apps > Surveys > Volunteering > WKO > Vienna Children’s > Patient videos > Events > Communication via Health Week > Adverse event reports, > Intranet social media > Presentations for AHS complaints > Yammer teachers > Social media channels > Mail > Work experience days > Awareness campaigns > Newsletter & social > Competently > Events media channels sustainable > Dialogs > Training & mentoring > Diploma theses > Brochures > Works Council > Vacation internships > Online information > Factory tours > Advisory board with patients > Networked self-help groups Pfizer Corporation Austria 2019 Sustainability Report 18 Foreword Our Our Environment Pfizer as an Products Goals Appendix mission sustainability strategy & production employer & society & actions Stakeholder Partners groups Stakeholders Customers Partner Suppliers Advocacy groups Competitors Insurance Media organizations organizations > Hospitals > Patient > Staffing > Pharmig (Association of the > Pharmaceutical > Main Association > Specialized and > Wholesalers organizations > Disposal companies Austrian Pharmaceutical companies of Austrian Social consumer media > Pharmacies > Research institutes, > Fleet management Industry) Security > Physicians medical > Event & convention > Federation of Austrian Industry Institutions associations management > European Federation of > Private > Landlords > Material suppliers Pharmaceutical Industries and insurance > Agencies Associations (EFPIA) companies > Software/hardware > IGEPHA – Austrian Self Care service providers Association > Occupational health > FOPI – Forum of the Researchphysicians Based Pharmaceutical Industry > Water and power > ÖVIH – Austrian Association of companies Vaccine Manufacturers > Consentiv > Pharma Marketing Club Austria > Austrian Biosafety Network Significance for These organizations are the Our partner Pfizer Austria’s These advocacy groups are Pfizer Austria and its Insurance funds The media are Pfizer link between Pfizer Austria as organizations play a suppliers not only play important to Pfizer Austria in that competitors provide carry the costs for important to Pfizer a pharmaceutical company key role in shaping the a decisive role in the we can join forces to speak to medicines in the majority of our Austria as the means and the consumers who portfolio of Pfizer success of our business policymakers with a unified voice. Austria. products. of reaching our target depend on these products. Austria by sharing by providing resources; groups with information about they enable various information and what patients need. processes to flow health awareness smoothly. messages. Communication > Direct contact and dialog > Research grants > Direct contact and > Direct contact and dialog > Direct contact > Direct contact > Direct contact and > Portal for physicians: > Training dialog > Events and dialog and dialog dialog pfizermed.at > Regular gatherings > Regular meetings > Meetings > Cooperation in > Visits > Interviews > Pfizer Medical > Collaboration > Working groups associations > Negotiations > Press conferences Information: pfizer.at/ > WebEx > Networking such as FOPI, > Joint events > Media inquiries medinfo > Phone Pharmig, WKÖ > Application > News > Mail > Sharing of > Visits (sales force) adverse reaction > Medical Affairs reports and > Printed brochures product > Events complaints > Training > Advisory boards > Annual wholesaler meetings > Customer Service Pfizer Corporation Austria 2019 Sustainability Report 19 21 Pfizer’s environmental actions in Austria at a glance 22 Greenhouse gas emissions of the Pfizer locations in Vienna and Orth/ Donau 23 Pfizer’s environmental actions in Austria in detail Reducing CO2 emissions & energy consumption Conscientious use of water 24 Minimizing waste and effluents 25 What do we do with our waste? Sustainable procurement Our priority SDGs Environment & production Foreword Our Our Environment Pfizer as an Products Goals Appendix mission sustainability strategy & production employer & society & actions Environmental responsibility extends Pfizer is producing more and more active mental strategy focuses on three areas – across our medicines' entire product ingredients in green chemical processes. For reducing GHG emissions, using water effilifecycle. Pfizer strives to understand example, wherever possible we strive to ciently and conscientiously, and searching for Video: Water treatment plant & and effectively manage all environdevelop new tablets and capsules with innovative ways of minimizing waste. This new ventilation system at Orth formulations that can be produced without effort is ongoing, and we are pursuing it ment, health and safety (EHS) risks using water. jointly with all our contractual partners and Watch video associated with the discovery, developOriented on the United Nations' Sustainable suppliers. ment, manufacture, use and disposal Development Goals, Pfizer's global environ(GRI 102-11, UNGC 9) of our products for each of our active ingredients. Pfizer’s environmental actions in Austria at a glance Our efforts to this end are guided by our global Environment, Health & Use modern meeting technologies Green manufacturing Safety Management Systems Pfizer is increasingly relying on video and phone conferences. This has already enabled Pfizer Manufacturing Austria keeps a watchful eye on a us to reduce air travel and journeys by car. We aim to continue pursuing this goal. Every vaccine’s entire journey from the raw materials to manufac(EHSMS), which take into account the time employees go to book a flight they are asked if they can make their appointment turing and logistics. The company strives to operate sustainISO (International Organization for without traveling by air. ably every step of the way. Our local Green Saves program enables employees to submit proposals to conserve resources Standardization) 14001, ISO 45001 on site at any time. Condense transport routes (2018) standards, OHSA VPP environPfizer does not operate trucking fleets or logistics facilities of its own; we have orgamental standards, and occupational nized distribution in its entirety with our partner company Kwizda since 2014. At the Energy-efficient laboratories health and safety standards. time, we also relocated Pfizer Austria’s main warehouse from Germany to Austria, taking the first important step to condense transport routes. We are working on further Manufacturing and testing vaccines in biotechnological laboratories is an energy-intensive undertaking. A biosafety measures in a joint effort with Kwizda. cabinet* consumes about as much energy in a year of lab We combine data collection and operation as a three-person household. Pfizer Manufacturverification, internal audits, facility Recycle ing Austria has invested in an efficient ventilation system at the site to significantly reduce energy consumption. Sustainable use of resources means avoiding waste wherever possible and, where not, self-assessments and management handling it properly. Pfizer Manufacturing Austria recirculates residual materials for system reviews of the site, functions recovery and further use. Pfizer Corporation Austria also vigorously pursues its Pfizer Corporation Austria, Vienna Sustainable product waste separation and recycling program. and company to this end. and process development (GRI 103-3) Even in the early stages of vaccine development and producPromote green commuting Pfizer Manufacturing Austria, tion, Pfizer focuses on ecofriendly and energy-efficient soluOrth/Donau, Lower Austria tions. The R&D department also works with outside experts Pfizer motivates its employees to leave the car behind when they travel to the office. The company offers monthly allowances for to find future-minded processes. Pfizer Manufacturing public transport. Many employees cycle to work and can use the Austria optimizes its processes so individual steps require bicycle parking spaces on the company premises. A factory less water. shuttle bus is also available for the commute to Orth/Donau. Hydroelectricity Electric charging station Employees of Pfizer Manufacturing Austria have access to an electric charging station on the premises. * Sterile workbench for tasks involving cell cultures or sensitive materials Pfizer Corporation Austria 2019 Sustainability Report 21 Foreword Our Our Environment Pfizer as an Products Goals Appendix mission sustainability strategy & production employer & society & actions Greenhouse gas emissions of the Pfizer locations in Vienna and Orth/Donau 2,533t 4,582t GHG emissions GHG emissions at the Vienna location at the Orth/Donau location Percentage share of GHG emissions at the Vienna location Savings since 2017: energy input (electricity and heat/steam) still 0% 5% 6% 1% 1% Energy input Total GHG emissions have dropped by around accounts for the largest share of GHG emis4% nine percent to 7,115 metric tons of CO2 sions. GHG emissions attributable to this Material input emissions in just two years. This is largely energy input have increased by twelve Paper consumption attributable to the fact that staff flew a lot percent. However, it should be noted that the less than in 2017. The share of GHG emissions amount of vaccines produced by the facility 26% Vienna IT from air travel has come down from a total of increased by well over 40 percent from 10 2,533t Air travel 33 percent to less than 22 percent. However, million to 14.1 million. Vehicle fleet Parcel delivery 57% Employee commuting Pfizer Orth/Donau Change in GHG Pfizer Vienna Change in GHG location from 2017 to 2019 location from 2017 to 2019 Energy input Energy input Electricity 24% Electricity -10% Heat 3% Heat 8% Percentage share of GHG emissions at the Orth/Donau location Material input Material input Refrigerant -22% Refrigerant 60% 12% Disinfectants and 4% Cleaning agents 37% 2% 2% Energy input gloves 0% 1% Material input Paper consumption 0% Paper consumption -90% 1% Paper consumption IT 8% IT -22% Orth IT Air travel -66% Air travel -37% 4,582t Air travel Vehicle fleet 58% Vehicle fleet 0% Vehicle fleet Parcel delivery -6% 82% Employee commuting Employee commuting 1% Employee commuting -15% Total 6% Total -27% Pfizer Corporation Austria 2019 Sustainability Report 22 Foreword Our Our Environment Pfizer as an Products Goals Appendix mission sustainability strategy & production employer & society & actions Pfizer’s environmental actions in Austria in detail Reducing CO2 emissions & Conscientious use of water Water consumption (m3) energy consumption (GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2) at the Orth/Donau location (GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2) Clean water is a precious commodity. An As a company in the healthcare sector, we are important part of our responsibility as a 25,764 concerned about the effects of global climate global healthcare company is to help ensure change on health. Pfizer also has to do its our water consumption does not adversely 2017 part to help mitigate climate change and its impact the public water supply and quality of effects. water in the communities where we operate. We are working on a climate action plan for Pfizer Austria with the Environment Agency We comply with the UN Global Compact Water Mandate and use the six core elements 2018 26,544 Austria. In Austria, we want to achieve a as guidelines for our water sustainability 35 percent reduction of our CO2 emissions by program. Our goal for 2025 is to reduce our 2025 compared to the baseline year 2017. consumption of public water (excluding noncontact cooling water) by five percent from the baseline year 2015. 2019 21,435 The key actions we take to reduce our CO2emissions and energy consumption include: The key actions we take to use water conscientiously include: Green manufacturing Employee mobility Build an additional water treatment plant in Orth/Donau by 2021 Take improvement measures based on the Use innovative technologies such as video, Regularly inspect for leaks and repair water pipes results of energy efficiency audits WebEx and teleconferencing to reduce air travel Recover and return condensate With a new ventilation system installed at Orth/ Grant a monthly allowance for employees who Optimize boiler operation and maintenance Donau, we can cut energy consumption by commute with public transportation around 20 percent from 2021 forward -5 % Convert interior and exterior lighting to LED lamps The company provides a factory shuttle bus at at Orth/Donau the Orth/Donau site to reduce commuter car use. Goal for Consume less public water than It makes several runs to and from Vienna on weekdays 2025: in the baseline year 2015 Pfizer Corporation Austria 2019 Sustainability Report 23 Foreword Our Our Environment Pfizer as an Products Goals Appendix mission sustainability strategy & production employer & society & actions Minimizing waste and To this end, Pfizer set up a team to assess effluents at Orth/Donau existing waste indicators and investigate the (GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2) most suitable option for the company. The key figure established by Merck KGa served as Taking responsibility for the environment a reference for comparing pharmaceutical 2018 2019 includes taking a responsible approach to companies. This key figure indicates the waste. With the Green Journey, our holistic respective waste disposal methods and Total waste score 395 374 The total waste score is based on the approach to waste management, we aim to clearly shows the progress of individual amount of waste and the waste minimize the environmental impact of our operating sites and of the various pharmaAvoidance 0 0 disposal method. The waste score products and processes all along the value ceutical companies. came down and the performance chain. We are focusing on using raw materials improved in 2019 as the company Recycling 83 77 efficiently, minimizing waste and increasing As it stands, landfills are the most common employed more resource-sparing our recycling rates. means of waste disposal method. The plan is methods (a higher rate of incineration to reverse this trend as depicted in the chart Incineration with recovery). with energy 268 298 After committing to the UN’s Sustainable below. recovery Development Goals in 2012, Pfizer Global established a key figure for waste minimizaIncineration tion in 2013 to achieve the goal of a 15 without energy 44 0 percent reduction. Pfizer production sites recovery adapted this goal for themselves and rolled out objectives and programs of their own to Landfill 0 0 achieve it. Most preferred option Avoidance Recycling Goal for 2025: Quality level +3 % Incineration with energy recovery Incineration without energy recovery Recycling rate at Orth/Donau Least preferred option Landfill compared to the baseline year 2015 Pfizer Corporation Austria 2019 Sustainability Report 24 Foreword Our Our Environment Pfizer as an Products Goals Appendix mission sustainability strategy & production employer & society & actions What do we do with our waste? Rigi-Box Decontamination autoclaves Collection containers Waste incineration The Vienna location set up a depot service in management certifications play a weighty 2017 for employees to drop off expired or role in our deliberations. Pfizer regularly unused medication during working hours for monitors compliance with stipulated quality proper disposal. The Orth/Donau location is criteria and standards. expected to follow suit in 2020. I am in charge of Pfizer Austria has the following goals for the operational environmental Sustainable procurement years ahead: protection in our vaccine (GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2) > Ensure all suppliers support Pfizer’s Supplier production facility. Pfizer rigorously screens candidates when Code of Conduct I am also the representative selecting partner companies. Compliance > Raise awareness for sustainability among for this in international with local and international legal requireevery year’s top-3 suppliers ments is a prerequisite for collaboration. teams with Pfizer colleagues Occupational safety and environmental > Incorporate sustainability in tendering criteria tasked to minimize waste protection as well as health and safety and conserve energy. 395 374 Michaela Eder, Head of Environment, Health & Safety Total waste score 2018 Total waste score 2019 Pfizer Corporation Austria 2019 Sustainability Report 25 27 Achieving more together Conditions of work Corporate culture & values Family-friendly employer 28 Diversity & inclusion Fair Play team 29 Health & safety at work 26 Training Our priority SDGs Pfizer as an employer Foreword Our Our Environment Pfizer as an Products Goals Appendix mission sustainability strategy & production employer & society & actions Achieving more together OUR VALUES AND BEHAVIOR Pfizer Austria’s success is attributable In their day-to-day work, all Pfizer employees to our engaged employees. In keeping are committed to helping people to healthier, with our corporate responsibility, we longer lives with a better quality of life. At Courage Excellence Equity Joy want to offer every employee the best Pfizer Austria, we respect and uphold the Think big. Focus on what matters. Be inclusive. Take pride. possible professional and personal values of our company, living by them day in Speak up. Agree who does what. Act with integrity. Recognize one another. and day out. Be decisive. Measure outcomes. Reduce healthcare disparities. Have fun. development prospects. Pfizer also (GRI 102-16, UNGC 1) attaches great importance to employees’ health and safety. To this Family-friendly employer end, the two sites in Vienna and Orth an der Donau are constantly pursuing Every stage of a person’s life brings with it a host of programs to ensure a safe different needs. Pfizer aims to cater to these working environment, actively promote diverse demands placed on its employees in It gives me great joy the best way possible. We take the following employees’ health and enable staff to that the work I do helps actions to this end: find a good work/life balance. our employees apply Berufundfamilie [work and family] audit all of their skills and Conditions of work certificate acknowledges us as a family-friendly abilities every day to employer (GRI 103-3) (GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2) serve our purpose, which Enable people to work at home, job allowing is to produce first-class Offer working time models based on life Corporate culture & values phases vaccines. Pfizer is committed to treating all employees Support employees in various areas of life (via and applicants with fairness and respect. Our Consentiv, an outside counseling service that policies prohibit discrimination, harassment helps people cope with various professional and personal disadvantagement. These apply and private challenges) worldwide and are intended to create a positive and productive working environment. Cooperation, teamwork and trust are very important to us. Eva Berger HR Manager 10,199 home office days in 2019 Pfizer Corporation Austria 2019 Sustainability Report 27 Foreword Our Our Environment Pfizer as an Products Goals Appendix mission sustainability strategy & production employer & society & actions Diversity & inclusion (GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2) >25 % 28 of Pfizer employees are nations are represented 3 people with disabilities Our goal at Pfizer is to be as diverse as the patients and communities we serve. over 50 years old in the company work at Pfizer Nearly 50% of supervisors are women Patients Colleagues Communities Partners Reasons why A diverse workforce has a more We position ourselves as an We want to be a good corporate We want to be a powerful personal understanding of the attractive employer and want to citizen multiplier for diversity & needs and concerns of our recruit and retain the best inclusion patients talents Impacts Reduces healthcare disparities Ensures many talented people are represented in and committed to our company Supports policies that promote fairness, equality and respect for all people Work with partners, suppliers and vendors who share our D&I values Top marks Pfizer Global was again ranked at the top of the Human Rights Our success is not only borne of our respect We aim to step up our measures to promote improve our efforts towards diversity, incluCampaign Foundation's 2020 for one another; we also champion diverse the inclusion and participation of people with sion and equal opportunities since 2008. We Corporate Equality Index for characteristics and identities and ensure disabilities in society. Examples include the base all our activities and measures on the equal opportunities. design of our website at www.pfizer.at to Global Diversity and Inclusion Benchmarks its policies and practices pertiWCAG guidelines, initiatives to raise the and the current draft version of ISO/DIS nent to lesbian, gay, bisexual, Everyone at Pfizer Austria is to be encouraged awareness of our employees, and our efforts 30415 on the subject of HR and divertransgender and queer (LGBTQ) and supported in their efforts to make the in the context of recruiting. sity & inclusion. All our efforts are verified by employees. most of their potential and talent. Employees an external entity as part of the audit for the with different backgrounds and skills bring Fair Play team berufundfamilie certificate. unique perspectives and prospects to all (GRI 103-3) aspects of the company. Our Fair Play team is part of the global Diversity & Inclusion group. It has been developing proposals and identifying ways to Pfizer Corporation Austria 2019 Sustainability Report 28 Foreword Our Our Environment Pfizer as an Products Goals Appendix mission sustainability strategy & production employer & society & actions 0 Vienna 1Orth 7.53 15.39 Vienna Orth Training (GRI 404-2) 14 12 Access to modern technological resources Vienna Orth Number of accidents at work Average days of sick leave in and exposure to a wide range of functions, Mentoring pairs in 2019 2019 2019 cultures and countries are all part of working 3.03 5.96 at Pfizer. All employees can bring their talents to bear and seize opportunities for personal and professional growth. These include: Health & safety at work > Workplace health services such as free (GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3) checkups, vaccinations, burnout and addiction prevention, and anonymous Individual development and Vienna Orth training programs Employee health is our top priority. Pfizer is counseling provided by Consentiv, an Hours of external training committed to actively promoting the mental outside counseling service that helps Training and seminars and physical well-being of its workforce. The people cope with various professional and in 2019 International career opportunities following preventive measures are taken in personal challenges Austria: > Vienna and Orth locations offer yoga, Mentoring program Pilates classes and training to help prevent Apprenticeship slots > Pfizer’s global Environment, Health & back injuries (As of September 2020) Safety (EHS) Management Systems (EHSMS), which take into account the ISO The high number of sick days at our Orth/ (International Organization for StandardDonau location is attributable to the strict Pfizer Austria also affords young people ization) 14001, ISO 45001 (2018) stanstipulations for working under Biosafety Level insight into the working day at our company. dards, OHSA VPP environmental standards, 2 or Biosafety Level 3 and good manufacStudents with various majors have enrolled in and occupational health and safety turing practice for pharmaceutical compathe Summer Student Program every standards nies. summer since 2008. > The Good Saves program to prevent occupational accidents and promote We will also launch an office administration safety awareness among employees apprenticeship program in fall of 2020. > Both locations have an Environment, Health & Safety (EHS) Officer > Pfizer has earned the Company Health Promotion seal of approval Pfizer Corporation Austria 2019 Sustainability Report 29 31 Promote education & awareness Responsible handling of pharmaceuticals Adverse event reports Protection against counterfeits 32 Ethics & transparency Anticorruption & compliance Transparency in our cooperation with medical professionals Site expansion at Orth/Donau 33 Treatment of animals Create benefits for the surrounding region Pfizer corporate volunteering Child and adolescent advocacy Donations and sponsorships Our priority SDGs Products and society Foreword Our Our Environment Pfizer as an Products Goals Appendix mission sustainability strategy & production employer & society & actions As a pharmaceutical company, we are Video: Information on the committed to health. Our day-to-day proper handling of antibiotics business decisions focus on patients. It Watch video is for their benefit that we research and develop medicines and vaccines to Responsible handling of pharmaceuticals prevent, cure or alleviate diseases. When people get sick, they need more than just medicine. This why Pfizer strives to make a contribution that goes beyond the development and delivery of medicines. Proper sourcing Proper storage Proper ingestion Proper disposal Promote education > Obtain prescription drugs from > In the original packaging with > Take as prescribed by your doctor > Return to the pharmacy or a & awareness public pharmacies/ dispensaries insert or as described in the package hazardous waste collection point (GRI 417-1, GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2) only > Protect against heat, moisture insert > Do not discard in the trash at > Do not hoard medicines and sunlight > Do not self-medicate home or flush down the toilet or All products approved in Austria are subject > Keep out of reach of children sink to strict statutory informational requirements. Danger of Improper storage may impair the Consequences of medication errors: Improper disposal can harm the The currently valid package inserts for all counterfeit medicines effectiveness of the medication Ineffective, excessive or interactive environment Pfizer products as well as information on action, an overdose or side effects therapeutic areas may be viewed on the company's website. Information on proper use in various languages Medicines have to be handled properly so they can best achieve the desired effects. Everyone can do their part to help with that. One goal of the current sustainability Adverse event reports authorities worldwide, and to notify number. Before a drug may be delivered to a program is to raise awareness among the (GRI 103-3) prescribing physicians accordingly. pharmacy, its authenticity must be verified by public and our partners on how to use, store means of a scan. In addition, a security seal is and dispose of medicines properly. Pfizer’s The safety profile of a drug is not yet fully Protection against counterfeits to ensure the integrity of the original packagshare of the Austrian market for antibiotics clear at the time of its market launch, as (GRI 103-3) ing's contents. comes to around 15 percent, so efforts to some adverse events may only be detected raise awareness on antibiotics and antibiotic after it is used by very many patients. It is New safety features for prescription drugs are resistance are very important to us. therefore our ethical duty and legal obligarequired throughout the EU since February We are going to launch a campaign in 2020 on tion to collect and evaluate safety-relevant 2019. Each pack has to have a 2D code the responsible handling of pharmaceuticals. information, to pass it on to regulatory alongside the expiration date and batch Pfizer Corporation Austria 2019 Sustainability Report 31 Foreword Our Our Environment Pfizer as an Products Goals Appendix mission sustainability strategy & production employer & society & actions 50 million Site expansion at Ethics & transparency Anticorruption & compliance Orth/Donau euros We pledge to market our products responsibly and report transparently on our business As a subsidiary of a US corporation, we comply with the Federal Foreign Corrupt 3,000 m2 practices. Pfizer is committed to conducting Practices Act (FCPA) as well as with the Code labs all business with integrity and complying with all applicable laws and regulations from both of Conduct (VHC) of the Austrian Pharmaceutical Industry Association (Pharmig). In 1,600 m2 ethical and legal vantage points. This applies addition, we base our lobbying activities on offices to all employees without exception. We the Code of Conduct of the Austrian Public expect the same commitment from our Affairs Association. business partners. behavior. Our binding corporate guidelines (GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2) The Blue Book, our Code of Business Conduct, surpass industry standards in many areas. provides the under­pinning for our principled Pfizer also has a whistle-blowing system in place. Both locations in Austria are regularly Benefits-in-kind include support for: ~€1.2m ~€3.2m ~€22m audited internally by Pfizer Inc. (GRI 102-16, GRI 102-25, GRI 102-17, GRI 103-3, > Research and development (e. g. clinical or UNGC 10) non-interventional studies) in payments to in payments to Research & > Service and consulting members of the institutions of the development (R&D) Learn more about the Code of Conduct (e. g. lectures, medical/science advisory) medical profession medical profession > Functions and events (e. g. participation Transparency in our fees, travel expenses for advanced (MMP) (IMP) cooperation with medical training) professionals > Donations and grants for the purpose of education, training, research or scientific Pfizer works with doctors, pharmacists, work scientists and other members of the medical I make every effort to bring clinical profession as well as with institutions in the Learn more about this trials to Austria and make sure they Austrian healthcare system. The goal is to are carried out safely and ethically. achieve medical advances in a joint effort. Site expansion at Orth/Donau Patient safety comes first! We support the initiative of the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Pfizer is investing a total of 50 million euros to Associations (EFPIA) and Pharmig for greater set up new laboratories for an international transparency, and disclose annually all quality control center for vaccines, to build Alexander Celedin benefits-in-kind granted to partners in modern offices, and to modernize and Site Oversight and healthcare. Disclosure by name requires the expand legacy vaccine production infrastrucOperations Relationship consent of the beneficiary. Unfortunately, ture. This way, Pfizer is securing jobs in the Lead only around 25 percent of physicians are region for the long term and improving the currently prepared to have the benefits they plant’s ecological footprint. The new premises receive from Pfizer disclosed by name. are slated to open in 2021. Pfizer Corporation Austria 2019 Sustainability Report 32 Foreword Our Our Environment Pfizer as an Products Goals Appendix mission sustainability strategy & production employer & society & actions Corporate volunteering in 2019 Prof. Dr. Robin Rumler (left) and Martin Dallinger (right) appear in a video that provides insight into this project at Orth. garbage collection drives in the Donau-Auen National Park, sort food donations, cook for the homeless and much more. 481 14 46 10 hours days internal external participants Take video tour Pfizer staff in action with the Canisibus soup truck Treatment of animals Child and adolescent advocacy health topics to students and share their tips Watch video on applications. Pfizer endeavors to carry out as few animal Joining forces with the Caritas organization of experiments as possible. However, animal Pfizer’s volunteer program celebrated its tenth the Archdiocese of Vienna, Pfizer Austria Around 2,000 children and adolescents in studies are frequently critical to drug assessanniversary in 2018. This was an occasion not launched the Pfizer Kids project in 2004. Austria suffer from juvenile rheumatoid ments and are required by regulatory authorionly to look back; but also and especially to Caritas's professionals have since devoted arthritis. Pfizer has supported the annual ties to ensure the quality, efficacy and safety look ahead. their efforts to children who are growing up Rheumacamp in Warmbad Villach, of a medicine. under adverse conditions and have experiCarinthia, since 2007. As part of a stakeholder dialog, Pfizer met enced childhood trauma. These specialists In cooperation with the Federal Office for with representatives of non-profit organizaoffer therapies as well as accompanying Donations and sponsorships Safety in Health Care (BASG), Pfizer is develtions to talk about where demand for volunsupport for parents. oping a method that will in future make teer work will grow, what type of support will We support patient organizations, charitable animal experiments unnecessary when be needed, and how Pfizer can best help in Educational opportunities still very much organizations, and registered institutions and testing the efficacy of the TBE vaccine. the years ahead with its corporate volundepend on the parental home. Education associations with monetary donations, teering program. In 2019, our business should not be a privilege. We want to do sponsorships and, when necessary, with Create benefits for the partners also had the opportunity to take something about that, which is why Pfizer drug donations in compliance with the Drug surrounding region part in our corporate volunteering program partners with Teach For Austria, an organiDonation Guidelines of the World Health (GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3) for the first time. We had ten external particization that champions equal educational Organization, the Pharmig Code of Conduct, pants join us in 2019. opportunities. Pfizer staff explain various and the nation’s laws We want to do our part to contribute to society. We strive to enhance people's wellbeing by acting responsibly, by continuing to engage in the community, and by improving Other donations, access to medicines and health care. Monetary donations Sponsorships Donated medicines Donated time costs for corporate volunteering Pfizer corporate volunteering Total (incl. charitable €117,522.00 €56,689.00 €169,951.18 481 €13,612.72 Every month, the corporate volunteering organizations) program affords two to four colleagues the To patient opportunity to perform a voluntary commuorganizations €50,922.00 €36,689.00 €142,289.83 0 0 nity service. Pfizer’s doctors support physicians in the Caritas Louisebus and share their knowledge in the WKO mentoring program for migrants. We also join in to help with Pfizer Corporation Austria 2019 Sustainability Report 33 Foreword Our Our Environment Pfizer as an Products Goals Appendix mission sustainability strategy & production employer & society & actions Environment & production goals & actions Goals Actions Vienna Orth Status Time Organizational anchor points Raise awareness of environmental Raise public awareness for the responsible use of medication x TBD 2020 protection Set up new Sustainability workgroup for Orth/Donau x Done 2018/19 Further develop the measures for the Orth/Donau site Underway 2020/21 Roll out Green Saves environmental suggestion scheme x x Underway 2018/19 Install local Environment, Health & Safety coordinator for Vienna location x Done 2018/19 Energy & emissions Combat climate change and its effects Buy green electricity/change over to ecolabel-certified electricity x Postponed 2020/21 Install a photovoltaic system at Orth/Donau x Canceled, not 2018/19 possible Reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 1% compared to the amount produced x Done 2018/19 Conduct another energy efficiency audit at Orth/Donau & Vienna x x Done 2018/19 Draft climate action plan Implement the climate action measures that the Environment Agency Austria drew up for Pfizer in Austria x x New 2025 Promote green commuting and Launch pilot project where the wholesaler destroys returned medicines directly to reduce trips to the plant x Canceled, not 2018/19 transport possible Extend the ÖBB rail ticket for employees from 25% to 50% x New 2021 Reduce flights Reduce flights to conventions where possible and time allowing x New 2020/21 Use virtual communication tools more frequently x New 2021 Increase sustainable employee mobility Analyze mobility behavior: Survey the current mode of transportation for commuting to and from work and x x New 2021 by 5% (public transport, company bus, the willingness to change to another means of transport carpools) Analyze the options for supporting Pfizer carpools Water Manage water resources Reduce water consumption by 1% compared to the amount produced x Done 2018/19 with care Maintain current level of water consumption compared to the amount produced x New 2020 Improve water consumption Assess water consumption with specific indicators (Orth) x New 2021 management (Orth) Waste & effluents Promote responsible waste handling Reduce water consumption by 2.3% at Orth/Donau compared to the amount produced x Done 2018/19 Improve waste management at Orth/ Assess the waste management system with specific indicators (Orth) x New 2020/21 Donau Pfizer Corporation Austria 2019 Sustainability Report 34 Foreword Our Our Environment Pfizer as an Products Goals Appendix mission sustainability strategy & production employer & society & actions Goals Actions Vienna Orth Status Time Sustainable procurement Sustainable procurement Create supplier guidelines for Vienna x Postponed 2020/21 Create guidelines for sustainable procurement based on ISO 20400 for Vienna x Postponed 2020/21 Give preference to local suppliers wherever possible at Orth/Donau & Vienna x x Underway 2020/21 Foster dialog/exchange with internal Host stakeholder dialog with suppliers on sustainable procurement and the Supplier Code of Conduct x Postponed 2020/21 and external stakeholders Take responsibility in the value chain Amend contractual clauses in supplier agreements to stipulate respect for human rights, etc. x Postponed 2020/21 Evaluate and define measures to promote sustainable procurement x Postponed 2020/21 Improve terms of payment for Pfizer’s suppliers x Canceled, not 2020/21 possible Raise awareness among three Analyze suppliers (using an impact/volume supplier matrix) x x New 2020/21 strategically important suppliers Hold talks with three suppliers (pharmaceutical logistics, cafeteria, egg supplier) on sustainability criteria (Orth) Benchmark the organization’s sustainable procurement practices Continue reducing paper consumption Continue reducing paper consumption and transition to online invoicing (travel expense accounting, contracts, x New 2020/21 in the office DocuSign) Transition to paperless lab in Orth Circulate documents online for validation and signing x New 2020/21 Set out sustainability criteria in Include sustainability criteria in invitations to tender x New 2020/21 tenders Pfizer Corporation Austria 2019 Sustainability Report 35 Foreword Our Our Environment Pfizer as an Products Goals Appendix mission sustainability strategy & production employer & society & actions Goals and actions for Pfizer as an employer Goals Actions Vienna Orth Status Time Conditions of work Maintain and promote employee satisfacConduct regular Pfizer Voice employee survey to analyze opportunities for improvement x x Done 2018/19 tion Drive on with the OWN IT! initiative for cultural change at Pfizer x x Underway 2018/19/20 Harmonize the Sales force's days off Support employees' work/life balance x Done 2018/19 Offer home office option Every two Organize a Family Day at Pfizer x 2020 Family-friendly employer years Provide childcare at Orth on working days when school is out x Done 2018/19 Launch Rep2020 training program for the Sales force x Done 2018/19/20 Pfizer Academy: Set up internal training program for office staff and Sales force Underway 2018/19/20 Train and educate employees well Run mentoring program for Vienna and Orth/Donau x x Done 2018/19 Set up apprenticeship program x New 2020 Keep employee turnover rate below 5% Analyze the corporate culture: Why do people stay at the company; why do they leave? x New 2020 Keep key personnel turnover rate below 3% Train specialists x New 2020 Recruit key talent Assess universities, schools, polytechnics, etc. to address talent target groups x New 2021 Build an employer brand Collaborate with institutions, universities and schools for Orth/Donau x New 2021 Become a top employer Rank among the top-3 pharma companies x x New 2021 Diversity & inclusion Conduct inclusion training for managers and employees x x Done 2018/19 Assure equal opportunity and prevent Take part in ‘All Manager Forum 2020’ on generation management Underway 2020 discrimination at the workplace Make fair play a focus topic for the Sales force x Done 2018/19 Expand our diversity strategically Draft/develop a local diversity strategy x x TBD 2020 Reduce the compensatory quota Work and recruit with MyAbility, a management consultancy for people with disabilities x New 2021 Set up barrier-free website Submit site for the Web Content Accessibility certificate x x New 2020 Pfizer Corporation Austria 2019 Sustainability Report 36 Foreword Our Our Environment Pfizer as an Products Goals Appendix mission sustainability strategy & production employer & society & actions Goals Actions Vienna Orth Status Time Health & safety at work Step up the 'Fit and Healthy' workplace health campaign x Underway 2020/21 Focus on burnout prevention / raise awareness for mental health x Done 2018/19 Promote employees' health Take measures to prevent all types of accidents and boost employees' awareness on the job at Orth/Donau x Done 2018/19 (Good Saves) Earn “Company Health Promotion” seal of approval x x Done 2018/19 Strive for zero accidents Conduct driver safety training, launch an online driver safety training tool x Done 2019 Improve occupational safety Boost occupational safety awareness x Underway 2021 management with leading safety indicators at Orth/Donau Assess occupational safety with leading safety indicators x Underway 2020/21 Pfizer Corporation Austria 2019 Sustainability Report 37 Foreword Our Our Environment Pfizer as an Products Goals Appendix mission sustainability strategy & production employer & society & actions Goals and actions for products & society Goals Actions Vienna Orth Status Time Protect patients’ health and safety Equip all packaging with a 2D security code by 2019 allowing every Pfizer medicinal product to be identiAssure patient health and safety fied and traced individually. This goes to keep counterfeit drugs out of the legal supply chain x Underway 2019/20 (to be implemented step by step) Protect customer privacy Introduce new data protection and privacy rules in the company x Done 2018/19 Afford access to essential medicines Continue to improve access to Pfizer medicines for patients x x Underway 2020/21 Transparency & ethics Train 100% of employees in relevant business units on Pfizer’s Blue Book anticorruption guidelines x x Underway 2020/21 Anticorruption Implement suggestions for improvement gleaned from the audit to continue developing the company x Done 2018/19 Regularly disclose benefits granted to members of the medical profession (MMP) and to institutions of the x Underway 2019/20 medical profession (IMP) (EFPIA Disclosure Initiative) Create transparency Regularly disclose all benefits and donations granted to patient organizations, self-help groups and x Underway 2019/20 charitable organizations Have Compliance Officers collaborate and network internationally across the group x Done 2018/19 Increase the number of by-name Raise awareness among the Sales force and physicians to increase by-name disclosures of payments x New 2020/21 disclosures of payments to doctors to 30% Win Pharmig and the Medical Association over to this topic and work together to raise awareness x New 2020/21 Promote education & awareness Offer more digital information options to customers, for example, innovative virtual customer Raise awareness x New 2020/21 communication channels & inform Raise public awareness of counterfeit medicines x Done 2018/19 Foster dialog/exchange with internal Engage in dialog with patient organizations about patients' rights and patient-centric information x Underway 2020/21 and external stakeholders Promote responsible handling Roll out “My Medicine – My Contribution” campaign on responsible handling of pharmaceuticals x New 2020/21 of pharmaceuticals Pfizer Corporation Austria 2019 Sustainability Report 38 Foreword Our Our Environment Pfizer as an Products Goals Appendix mission sustainability strategy & production employer & society & actions Goals Actions Vienna Orth Status Time Create benefits for the surrounding region Create benefits for the surrounding region Survey employees on the status quo and expansion of Corporate Volunteering Days x Done 2018/19 Foster dialog/exchange with internal Engage in stakeholder dialog on the topic of “10 years of Pfizer Corporate Volunteering quo vadis?” x Done 2018/19 and external stakeholders Work with charitable organizations Continue to nurture long-term relationships and collaborate with social services such as Caritas and the x Underway 2020/21 in the spirit of partnership Austrian Youth Red Cross Make social investments Raise awareness for R&D in Austria x Underway 2020/21 Reduce pharmaceutical waste, e.g. by Identify the amount of pharmaceutical waste in 2019 and reduce future waste donating drugs Identify organizations’ demand for short-dated pharmaceuticals x New 2020 Offer traineeship slots to apprentices Launch an office administration apprenticeship program x New 2020 Pfizer Corporation Austria 2019 Sustainability Report 39 Foreword Our Our Environment Pfizer as an Products Goals Appendix mission sustainability strategy & production employer & society & actions Key figures for responsible organizational governance GRI Key figures PCA 2017 PCA 2018 PCA 2019 PMA 2017 PMA 2018 PMA 2019 201-1 Sales revenues / net revenue [€] 211,879,083.30 200,635,824.54 199,602,968.25 51,624,573.60 55,051,585.83 43,060,983.28 Net profit [€] 1,730,339.18 6,185,694.95 3,157,772.71 3,647,457.58 4,182,308.52 3,860,547.21 Personnel expenses [€] 24,219,642.51 23,976,824.22 30,580,202.48 17,360,991.89 19,294,969.13 20,429,300.91 Operating costs [€] 24,754,519.17 21,942,034.18 24,621,715.74 12,973,725.73 10,572,024.10 12,088,364.02 Depreciation [€] 8,572,288.34 2,966,825.12 2,964,534.42 6,502,914.45 6,698,401.06 6,006,492.34 Balance sheet total [€] 106,186,104.32 121,850,745.51 135,594,410.37 86,769,008.56 87,123,309.56 96,008,900.13 Equity [€] 39,371,222.57 45,556,917.52 48,714,690.23 17,500.00 16,561,494.02 20,422,041.23 Profit before taxes [€] 2,592,691.93 8,839,651.94 4,514,379.88 4,867,496.67 6,029,745.42 5,413,010.89 Income tax [€] 862,352.75 2,653,956.99 1,356,607.17 1,220,039.09 1,847,436.90 1,552,463.68 201-3 Expenses for social benefits [€] 647,002.48 759,786.19 563,499.73 159,837.19 201,727.82 145,775.00 201-4 Financial assistance received from government [€] 0 0 0 0 0 0 Significant identified indirect economic impacts: 203-2 ≈ 54m 46.2m ≈ 22m NS NS NS Research expenditure [€] Scale of the organization: 102-7 12,111,816 11,624,492 11,296,232 ≈ 10m vaccine doses 13.7m vaccine doses 14.1m vaccine doses Packages sold PCA = Pfizer Corporation Austria PMA = Pfizer Manufacturing Austria *NS = not specified: These figures were not documented at that time. Pfizer Corporation Austria 2019 Sustainability Report 40 Foreword Our Our Environment Pfizer as an Products Goals Appendix mission sustainability strategy & production employer & society & actions Key figures for fair business practices (UNGC 10) GRI Key figures PCA 2017 PCA 2018 PCA 2019 PMA 2017 PMA 2018 PMA 2019 205-1 Locations audited for corruption 1 0 0 0 0 0 205-3 Confirmed corruption cases and action taken 0 0 0 0 0 0 415-1 Political donations [€] 0 0 0 0 0 0 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, 206-1 0 0 0 0 0 0 and monopoly practices 419-1 Fines [€] 0 0 0 0 0 0 Solidarity payments, Framework Pharmaceutical ≈ 2.5m Not yet available 0* 0 0 0 Contract [€] Benefits-in-kind granted to members of the medical 1,273,299 1,200,000 0 0 0 profession (MMP) for training and fees [€] 203-2 Research & development (R&D) 54,178,442 46,200,000 0 0 0 102-9 Total budget, procurement [€] 23,431,515 18,420,784 16,942,403 15.2m 14.8m 20.3m 204-1 Share of expenditure on local suppliers (€) 1,111,689 17,177,963 14,089,099 10.3m 9.7m 13.8m 102-9 Total number of suppliers 1,049 293 269 478 515 525 102-9 Number of new suppliers 29 22 9 35 37 24 205-1, Audits Number of audits focused In 2018, CCR Germany A Senior Manager Financial Audit > Audited by > Energy efficiency 103-3 on corruption: An internal conducted an FCPA/ and a Senior Financial Auditor from Gentechnik­ audit (external) corporate audit was MAPP review. A business Pfizer’s Corporate Audit department behörde, the > Environmental conducted from February 20 analyst from Com­­ conducted an audit/monitoring in genetic inspection to March 10, 2017. A team of pliance, Controls and November/December 2019. They engineering (external) six Pfizer auditors spent three Risk (CCR) carried out an audited two areas: oversight weeks on site auditing the audit based on our ACM For one: MAPP (My Anti-Corruption authority cooperation with HCPs, documentation for Policies & Procedures) with an audit (external) compliance with FCPA/ third-party transactions of our internal approval system > Audited for animal GPIHP (conventions, and meetings. He made (ACM). It addressed transactions welfare (internal) invitations, etc.) and travel around 100 spot-checks with third parties (speaker’s fees, > EHS audit expense reports. Several and contacted a number consulting, etc.) as well as conven(internal) hundred spot-checks were of colleagues with tions, meetings, etc. made. Pfizer Austria requests for detailed For the other: Travel expense reports achieved good information. We with an audit based on Concur, our results in all audited areas achieved a good result expense reporting program We achieved a good result that compares well on an international level 205-2 Training and actions taken Information and training on measures and identified significant risks: Mandatory training and communication for all employees (including contractors and summer students). Every employee was trained within a year PCA = Pfizer Corporation Austria PMA = Pfizer Manufacturing Austria * No payment because there was no framework agreement in 2019 Pfizer Corporation Austria 2019 Sustainability Report 41 Foreword Our Our Environment Pfizer as an Products Goals Appendix mission sustainability strategy & production employer & society & actions Key figures for the community engagement GRI Key figures PCA 2017 PCA 2018 PCA 2019 PMA 2017 PMA 2018 PMA 2019 413-1, Drug donations [€] 62,385.47 86,657.00 169,951.18 0 0 0 201-1 to patient organizations [€] 36,191.05 57,943.00 142,289.83 0 0 0 Social sponsoring [€] 5,560.23 5,775.39 13,612.72 0 0 0 Sponsoring [€] 33,762.00 54,039.00 56,689.00 0 0 0 for patient organizations [€] 33,762.00 41,039.00 36,689.00 0 0 0 Donations [€] 119,000.00 124,530.00 117,522.00 0 0 0 to patient organizations [€] 36,000.00 44,500.00 50,922.00 0 0 0 Donated time* [h] 176.1 625 481 0 0 0 to patient organizations* [h] 15 35 0 0 0 0 PCA = Pfizer Corporation Austria PMA = Pfizer Manufacturing Austria * Includes time donated by PMA Pfizer Corporation Austria 2019 Sustainability Report 42 Foreword Our Our Environment Pfizer as an Products Goals Appendix mission sustainability strategy & production employer & society & actions Key figures for product stewardship GRI Key figures PCA 2017 PCA 2018 PCA 2019 PMA 2017 PMA 2018 PMA 2019 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and 416-1 100 100 100 100 100 100 safety impacts are assessed for improvement [%] Delivery capacity (product availability) [%] 98.80 97.40 93.80 NS NS NS Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary 416-2 codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services in 0 0 0 0 0 0 the reporting period Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary 417-2 0 0 0 0 0 0 codes concerning product and service information and labeling 102-2 Sale of banned or disputed products 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary 417-3 codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, 0 0 0 0 0 0 promotion, and sponsorship Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of 418-1 0 0 0 0 0 0 customer privacy and losses of customer data Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and 419-1 0 0 0 0 0 0 economic area PCA = Pfizer Corporation Austria PMA = Pfizer Manufacturing Austria *NS = not specified: These figures were not documented at that time. Pfizer Corporation Austria 2019 Sustainability Report 43 Foreword Our Our Environment Pfizer as an Products Goals Appendix mission sustainability strategy & production employer & society & actions Key figures for the environment (UNGC 7) GRI Key figures PCA 2017 PCA 2018 PCA 2019 PMA 2017 PMA 2018 PMA 2019 Scope 1-3 Total CO2e emissions [t] (location-based) 3,469 NS 2,537 4,327 NS 4,582 Total CO2e emissions [t] (location-based) per produced quantity (in millions) 286 NS 225 432.7 NS 325 305-1 (Scope 1) CO2e emissions of the overall fleet in accordance with actual mileage [t] 459 NS 382 36 NS 29 CO2e emissions, refrigerants [t] 7 NS 11 51 NS 40 CO2e emissions, natural gas heating [t] 0 NS 0 1,387 NS 1,429 Total CO2e emissions [t] 466 0 393 1,474 0 1,498 305-2 (Scope 2) CO2e emissions, electricity [t] (location-based) 72 NS 65 1,296 NS 1,607 CO2e emissions, electricity [t] (market-based) 44 NS 38 736 NS 877 CO2e emissions, district heating [t] (location-based) 57 NS 62 0 NS 0 CO2e emissions, district heating [t] (market-based) 59 NS 64 0 NS 0 Total CO2e emissions [t] (location-based) 129 NS 127 1,296 NS 1,607 Total CO2e emissions [t] (market-based) 103 NS 102 736 NS 877 305-3 (Scope 3) CO2e consumption, paper [t] 52 NS 5 3 NS 3 CO2e emissions, package deliveries [t] 115 NS 108 NS NS NS CO2e emissions, air travel [t] 2,289 NS 1,440 262 NS 90 CO2e emissions, employee commuting [t] 162 NS 137 543 NS 535 CO2e emissions, hygiene (disinfectants) [t] 1 NS NS 9 NS 10 CO2e emissions, IT [t] 44 NS 34 38 NS 41 CO2e emissions, energy consumption (electricity, heat, fuel) and vehicle 212 NS 291 700 NS 799 production [t] Total CO2e emissions [t] (location-based) 2,874 NS 2,016 1,555 NS 1,477 Total CO2e emissions [t] (market-based) 2,889 NS 2,030 1,648 NS 1,578 Energy 302-1 Electricity [kWh] 332,221 309,702 286,243 6,005,860 6,303,316 7,158,040 Steam [kg] – – – 8,336,804 7,525,954 8,585,605 Steam [kg natural gas] – – – 6,947,337 6,271,603 7,154,671 District heating [kWh] 317,473 317,472 340,469 – – – District cooling [kWh] 2,090 2,895 2,531 – – – Diesel [kWh] 1,840,920 1,689,558 1,488,754 148,890 142,213 120,048 Gasoline [kWh] 41,346 72,059 79,508 – – – Natural gas in boilers [Nm³] – – – 8 8 8 Natural gas in boilers [kWh] – – – 83 80 80 Compressed air sold to Shire [m³] – – – 120,734 131,296 133,237 Total energy consumption, renewable [kWh] (electricity) 406,970 390,514 380,450 3,370,726 3,536,968 4,014,505 Total energy consumption, nonrenewable [kWh] 2,127,081 2,001,172 1,817,055 9,731,444 9,180,245 10,418,335 Total energy consumption, renewable + nonrenewable [kWh] 2,534,050 2,391,686 2,197,505 13,102,170 12,717,213 14,432,839 Share of renewable energy [%] 16 16 17 26 28 28 Materials and water 301-1 Paper consumption [t] 2 NS 4 3 NS 2 Eggs [kg] 0 0 0 1,338 NS 2,087.4 Auxiliary materials: Gloves [pair] 0 0 0 186,636 NS 186,636 Auxiliary materials, disinfectants [l] 0 0 0 5,000 NS 5,300 Pfizer Corporation Austria 2019 Sustainability Report 44 Foreword Our Our Environment Pfizer as an Products Goals Appendix mission sustainability strategy & production employer & society & actions Key figures for the environment (UNGC 7, UNGC 8) GRI Key figures PCA 2017 PCA 2018 PCA 2019 PMA 2017 PMA 2018 PMA 2019 303-1 Water consumption [m³] (PCA: public water supply; PMA: wells) 1,162 1,172 1,123 25,764 26,544 21,435 Water consumption compared to the amount produced (millions) 96 101 99 2,576 1,938 1,520 Effluents [m³] 0 0 0 33,304 27,787 24,563 301-1 Refrigerant [kg] 4 NS 7 36 34 28 Mobility 302-1 Gasoline [l] 5,317 8,007 8,834 0 0 20 Diesel [l] 184,189 168,956 148,875 14,926 14,221 12,005 Total fuel consumption [l] 189,507 176,962 157,710 14,926 14,221 12,024 305-3 Packages (2–8°C) to wholesalers [no.] 7,095 6,596 6,958 0 0 0 Packages (15–25 °C) to wholesalers [no.] 17,682 19,603 22,458 0 0 0 Intercontinental air travel [passenger km] 2,538,943 1,061,187 884,212 329,432 138,368 33,207 Intra-European air travel [passenger km] 2,495,662 1,099,706 1,241,757 247,197 90,639 101,443 Intra-country air travel [passenger km] 43,452 12,837 18,044 4,613 0 0 Business travel in privately owned vehicle, gasoline [km] 59,504 82,635 125,026 0 0 0 Business travel in privately owned vehicle, diesel [km] 3,592,104 2,891,958 2,370,944 235,330 210,093 187,716 305-5 Public transport allowance [no. of people] 13 12 11 0 0 0 Job tickets [no. of people] 51 47 39 0 0 0 Pfizer Cycles to Work [participants] 11 NS NS 9 NS 4 Pfizer Cycles to Work [km] 461 NS NS 10,224 NS 3,018 Nonhazardous & hazardous waste 306-2 Paper waste [t] 2.95 3.67 4.7 2.5 3.06 3.17 Residual waste [t] 3.8 4.73 4.93 0 0 0 Colored glass [t] 0.11 0.13 0.16 1.45 0.25 0.05 White glass [t] 0.1 0.13 0.1 1.45 0 1.32 Plastics [t] 0.28 0.32 0.23 0 0.08 0.74 Metal [t] 0.12 0.15 0.12 0 0 0 Medical waste (nonhazardous/ incinerated) [t] 0 0 0 53.36 87.91 85.58 Carcass waste (nonhazardous/ incinerated) [t] 0 0 0 0.30 0.31 0.28 Egg waste (nonhazardous/recycled) [t] 0 0 0 25.91 32.76 22.86 Laboratory chemicals (hazardous/recycled) [t] 0 0 0 1.3 4.32 0.36 Small electronic devices (hazardous/recycled) [t] 0 0 0 0.7 4 1.25 Pharmaceutical waste (hazardous/incinerated) [t] 0 0 0 0 0 0 Cooling and air conditioning units [kg] 0 0 0 0 2.11 0 306-4 Total hazardous waste 0 0 0 2 8.32 1.61 Total waste materials 0.61 0.73 0.61 2.9 0.33 2.11 Total medical waste 0 0 0 53.36 87.91 85.58 Total 7.36 9.13 10.24 86.97 134.8 115.61 Spills 0 0 0 0 0 0 Compliance & investments Fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance 307-1 0 0 0 0 0 0 with environmental laws and regulations PCA = Pfizer Corporation Austria PMA = Pfizer Manufacturing Austria *NS = not specified: These figures were not documented at that time. Pfizer Corporation Austria 2019 Sustainability Report 45 Foreword Our Our Environment Pfizer as an Products Goals Appendix mission sustainability strategy & production employer & society & actions Key figures for labor practices (UNGC 6) GRI Key figures PCA 2017 PCA 2018 PCA 2019 PMA 2017 PMA 2018 PMA 2019 102-7, 102-8, 405-1 Total number of employees 271 236 215 282 279 265 Men 81 65 60 129 126 117 Men [%] 29.89 27.54 27.91 45.74 45.16 44.15 Women 190 171 155 153 153 148 Women [%] 70.11 72.46 72.09 54.26 54.84 55.85 102-8, 405-1 Contractors (headcounts) 53 28 23 9 15 9 Men 15 8 5 5 5 3 Women 38 20 18 4 10 6 102-8, 405-1 Pfizer employees (headcounts) 212 208 192 263 264 256 Men 64 57 55 119 121 114 Women 148 151 137 144 143 142 Full-time 160 152 150 214 212 202 Full-time women 98 97 97 106 101 98 Full-time men 62 55 53 108 111 104 Part-time 52 56 42 49 52 54 Part -time women 50 54 40 38 42 44 Part -time men 2 2 2 11 10 10 Temporary (fixed-term) 12 6 2 20 27 16 Temporary women 9 6 2 13 19 8 Temporary men 3 0 0 7 8 8 Temporary (fixed-term) 200 202 190 243 237 240 Temporary women 139 145 135 131 124 134 Temporary men 61 57 55 112 113 106 102-8, 405-1 Summer students 6 8 6 10 10 10 Men 2 1 2 5 4 5 Women 4 7 4 5 6 5 Full-time 5 7 4 10 10 10 Maternity leave 13 13 7 14 18 12 Paternity leave 1 0 0 3 5 7 Return rate women [%] 100 100 100 86 NS 80 Return rate men [%] 100 0 0 100 NS 100 Employees exempted from normal duties 6 NS 12 3 NS 1 Employees on sabbatical 0 NS 0 0 NS 1 405-1 Age (Pfizer only; contractor ages not on file) Under 30 26 16 7 30 44 38 Under 30 [%] 12.26 7.69 3.65 11.41 16.67 14.84 30–50 142 128 116 169 165 161 30–50 [%] 66.98 61.54 60.42 64.26 62.5 62.89 Over 50 44 64 69 64 55 57 Over 50 [%] 20.75 30.77 35.94 24.33 20.83 22.27 405-1 Austrian citizens 173 NS 164 239 NS 217 Austrian citizens [%] 81.6 NS 85.42 90.87 NS 84.77 Other nationality 38 NS 28 24 NS 39 Born in Austria 169 NS NS 231 NS NS Born outside of Austria 43 NS NS 32 NS NS 405-1 Persons with disabilities 1 NS 2 4 4 4 405-1 a Persons with supervisory responsibility 40 34 72 41 41 75 Men 21 16 26 23 23 44 Men [%] 52.5 47.06 36.11 56.1 56.1 58.67 Women 19 18 46 18 18 31 Women [%] 47.5 52.94 63.89 43.9 43.9 41.33 Under 30 5 0 0 5 1 3 Under 30 [%] 12.5 0 0 12.2 2.44 4 30–50 30 16 41 26 33 48 30–50 [%] 75 47.06 56.94 63.41 80.49 64 Over 50 5 18 31 10 7 24 Over 50 [%] 12.5 52.94 43.06 24.39 17.07 32 202-2 Percentage of locally recruited leaders in the management team [%] 100 NS 23 100 NS 39 401-1 Total employee turnover (exits) 31 31 37 26 37 45 Men 11 9 11 12 20 18 Women 20 22 26 14 17 27 Under 30 7 10 11 12 16 17 30–50 21 14 19 11 17 21 Pfizer Corporation Austria 2019 Sustainability Report 46 Foreword Our Our Environment Pfizer as an Products Goals Appendix mission sustainability strategy & production employer & society & actions Key figures for labor practices GRI Key figures PCA 2017 PCA 2018 PCA 2019 PMA 2017 PMA 2018 PMA 2019 Over 50 3 7 7 3 4 7 Employee turnover (terminations by employees) NS NS 10.42 NS NS 9.38 Employee turnover (terminations by employer + by employees) 15 NS 19.27 12 NS 17.58 Employee turnover (terminations by employees) [%] 7 NS 8.85 5 NS 8.20 Total employee turnover [%] 14.62 NS 19.27 9.89 NS 17.58 New hires 21 27 21 21 36 46 New hires [%] 7.75 NS 10.94 7.45 NS 17.97 Men 7 23 8 20 20 15 Women 14 4 13 21 16 31 Under 30 11 10 7 25 27 21 30–50 10 15 8 15 8 21 Over 50 0 2 6 1 1 4 401-3 Returned and retained after parental leave 5 8 2 6 NS 4 Did not return after parental leave 0 0 0 1 NS 1 Did not return after parental leave [%] 0 0 0 16.67 NS 20 Termination by mutual agreement 1 1 0 1 NS 0 Termination by mutual agreement 20 12.5 0 16.67 NS 0 403-2 Accident types and rates, organization overall 0 0 0 2 0 1 Commuting accident 0 0 1 0 0 0 Work accident 0 0 0 2 0 1 Deaths 0 0 0 0 0 0 On long-term sick leave (>6 months) 0 0 0 2 0 1 Cases of occupational diseases 0 0 0 0 0 0 Days of sick leave (calendar year) 1,718 1,655 1,620 3,911 3,777 4,079 Days of sick leave, men 441 565 640 1,376 1,303 1,204 Days of sick leave, women 1,277 1,090 980 2,535 2,474 2,875 Days of sick leave per employee (women) 7.88 6.37 6.32 15.75 16.17 19.43 Days of sick leave per employee (men) 5.44 8.69 10.67 10.92 10.34 10.29 Total days of sick leave per employee 6 7.01 7.53 14 13.54 15.39 Home office days** 3,252 6,039 6,413 1,053 2,908 3,786 Home office days, employees 2,998 5,628 6,020 1,037 2,856 3,672 Home office days, contractors 254 411 393 16 52 114 403-3 Workers at risk of occupation-related diseases 0 0 0 82 82 83 404-1 Total hours of training NS 528.2 651.28 2,443.25 1,648.76 1,508.81 Pfizer employees, men NS NS 293 NS NS 871.65 Pfizer employees, women NS NS 358.28 NS NS 637.16 Contractors, men NS NS 11.5 NS NS 0 Contractors, women NS NS 72.25 NS NS 0 Total hours of training per employee NS 2.24 3.03 8.66 5.91 5.69 Contractors are admitted to the Pfizer pension fund only after There are no differences between full-time and part-time, but 401-2 Benefits which are standard for full-time employees only four years of service. Most contractors also receive a bonus slight differences between PMA and PCA EHS, safety specialist, occupational physician, safety officers, EHS, safety officers, safety specialist, Works Council, first 403-1 Joint management–worker health and safety committees Works Council, first responders, company doctor responders, company doctor Percentage of employees who receive a regular performance and 404-3 100 100 career development review Income report (data are not published) Income report (data are not published) 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men No data on wages/salaries No data on wages/salaries Supplementary pension fund, yearly Vienna public transport Meal allowance in the company restaurant, free plant shuttle pass, travel allowance, vouchers (anniversary and Christmas), bus, Consentiv Employee Assistance Services, gifts for special gifts for special private occasions (birth & marriage bonuses), occasions (birth & marriage bonuses), vouchers (company 201-3 Coverage of benefit plan obligations meal allowance in the company cafeteria, private accident anniversary), preventive healthcare, supplementary pension insurance, preventive healthcare, referral rewards, progressive fund, progressive retirement, accident insurance and referral retirement rewards 305-5 Public transport allowance [no. of people] 13 12 11 Free plant shuttle bus Job tickets [no. of people] 51 47 39 Free plant shuttle bus PCA = Pfizer Corporation Austria PMA = Pfizer Manufacturing Austria *NS = not specified: These figures were not documented at that time. *Persons working under Biosafety Level 2 or Biosafety Level 3 conditions **Home office day count calculated on the basis of an 8.5-hour working day as of 2017 Pfizer Corporation Austria 2019 Sustainability Report 47 Foreword Our Our Environment Pfizer as an Products Goals Appendix mission sustainability strategy & production employer & society & actions Pfizer’s network (GRI 102-13) Robin Rumler Pharmig Vice President Claudia Handl Pharmig Academy President Dieter Hackl AmCham Vice President Pharmig Communication Pharmig Health Economics & Reimbursement working group Chamber of Commerce (WKÖ) FOPI Responsibility working group FOPI General Assembly PMCA Board Member Industry Association (IV) Austrian Public Affairs Association (ÖPAV) Austrian Public Affairs Association (ÖPAV) Digital Healthcare Connection Dirk Rommens Sylvia Nanz Pharmig CFO Cercle Pharmig Rare Diseases working group GPMed Board Member, Communication Chamber of Commerce (WKÖ) Markus Edelbacher Digital Healthcare Connection Pharmig Manufacturing & Quality Assurance & Distribution work group Renée Gallo-Daniel Austrian Vaccines Manufacturers (ÖVIH) President National Vaccine Industry Group Coordinator Michaela Eder at Vaccines Europe Austrian Biosafety Network Elisabeth Dal-Bianco respACT Austria UN Global Compact Network Austria Alexander Celedin COVO (Corporate Volunteering Network Austria) Pharmig Clinical Research work group Natalie Winhofer Pharmig Standing Committee Communication Public Relations Verband Austria (PRVA) Martin Ausserleitner Austrian Pharma Cercle Boris Wilke Transparency International Compliance – Risk Assessment work group Pharmig Code of Conduct/Compliance work group Annett Hessel US Embassy Vienna: Overseas Security Advisory Council Vac2Vac European Vaccine Initiative Maria Wagner Jasmina Dzinic Digital Healthcare Connection Standing Committee Patient Advocacy (Pharmig) Pfizer Corporation Austria 2019 Sustainability Report 48 Foreword Our Our Environment Pfizer as an Products Goals Appendix mission sustainability strategy & production employer & society & actions About this report Pfizer's fiscal year runs from December to This report has been prepared in accordance November of the following year. (GRI 102-50) with the GRI Standards: Option Core. This is Pfizer’s seventh Sustainability (GRI 102-54) Report in Austria. It contains informaIn this report, we wish to highlight our activities, progress and goals related to sustainExternal auditors verified compliance with tion about the fiscal years 2018 and ability, and discuss areas where we see room these guidelines. Quality Austria was tasked 2019 of two companies, Pfizer Corpofor improvement and are planning to take to conduct the audit. (GRI 102-56) Prof. Dr. ration Austria GmbH and Pfizer Manuaction. We aim to afford you and all our Robin Rumler and Martin Dallinger approved facturing Austria GmbH. (GRI 102-1)] stakeholders deeper insight into Pfizer’s the report for publication. (GRI 102-32) business activities in Austria and provide a Acquisitions & spin-offs transparent account of where we stand, what This report primarily covers Pfizer's activities in 2019: we are working on, and what we have already in Austria. To learn more about Pfizer Inc.’s (GRI 102-10, GRI 102-48) achieved in joint efforts with our partners. international activities and global sustainability policy, read the Pfizer Annual Review, > Pfizer bought the Swiss enterprise an integrated annual report provided online Therachon and finalized its acquisition of at www.Pfizer.com/annual. the US company Array. > In October, the company signed a new global licensing agreement with Akcea. This is a collaboration to develop products for cardiovascular and metabolic diseases (diabetes, non-alcoholic liver diseases). Pfizer Austria has been publishing Sustainability Reports since 2009. (GRI 102-52) The next report is slated for 2022; it will contain The printed version of this report does information on fiscal 2020 and 2021. The not include a detailed list of goals & previous Sustainability Report was published measures, the Pfizer network, key figures in 2018; it covered fiscal 2017. (GRI 102-51) and the GRI Index. You will find the full report at www.pfizer.at/verantwortung/ nachhaltigkeitsbericht/ Pfizer Corporation Austria 2019 Sustainability Report 49 Headquarters Austria Gesellschaft m.b.H. Zelinkagasse 10/3 1010 Wien, Austria Floridsdorfer Hauptstraße 1 Foreword Our Our A 1210 Wien Environment Pfizer as an Quality Austria ProductsTel.: +43 1 274 87 47 Goals Fax: +43 1 274 87 47-100 Appendix Trainings, Zertifizierungs und mission sustainability strategy & production employer Begutachtungs GmbH & society & actions Customer Service Center Pfizer Corporation Headquarters Am Winterhafen 1 4020 Linz, Austria Austria Gesellschaft m.b.H. Zelinkagasse 10/3 Tel.: +43 732 34 23 22 1010 Wien, Austria Floridsdorfer Hauptstraße 1 Tel.: +43 1 274 87 47 Fax: +43 732 34 23 23 Quality Austria office@qualityaustria.com A 1210 Wien Fax: +43Zertifizierungs Trainings, 1 274 87 47-100und www.qualityaustria.com Begutachtungs GmbH Customer Service Center Pfizer Corporation Am Winterhafen 1 Headquarters Austria Gesellschaft m.b.H. 4020 Linz, Austria Zelinkagasse 10/3 Tel.:Wien, +43 732 34 23 22 Floridsdorfer Hauptstraße 1 Gültigkeitserklärung und Prüfbescheinigung 1010 Austria Fax: Tel.: +43 +43 87 23 274 34 1 732 47 23 Quality Austria A 1210 Wien office@qualityaustria.com Fax: +43 1 274 87 47-100 Trainings, Zertifizierungs und Quality Austria Trainings-, Zertifizierungsund Begutachtungs www.qualityaustria.com GmbH Begutachtungs GmbH Zelinkagasse 10/3, 1010 Wien, Österreich Customer Service Center Pfizer Corporation Am Winterhafen 1 Headquarters Austria 4020 Linz, Austria wurde alsGesellschaft unabhängige m.b.H. Zertifizierungsgesellschaft Tel.: +43 732 34 23 22 von der Pfizer Zelinkagasse 10/3 Corporation Gültigkeitserklärung und Prüfbescheinigung Floridsdorfer Austria Hauptstraße Gesellschaft m.b.H. 1beauftragt, Fax: den vorliegenden 1010 Wien, Austria Nachhaltigkeitsbericht +43 732 34 23 23 Tel.: +43 1im 274Hinblick 87 47 A -seine 1210Übereinstimmung Wien office@qualityaustria.com auf mit den internationalen Richtlinien für Nachhaltigkeitsberichte Fax: +43 1 274 87 47-100 Quality Austria Trainings-, ZertifizierungsundReporting Begutachtungs GmbH www.qualityaustria.com der Global Initiative (GRI) zu beurteilen. Dabei wurde nicht nur die Bewertung Zelinkagasse 10/3, 1010 Wien, Österreich Customer Service Center formaler Berichtskriterien vorgenommen, sondern auch die qualitative Verankerung Am Winterhafenvon 1 Nachhaltigkeitsprozessen im Unternehmen berücksichtigt. 4020 Linz, Austria wurde als unabhängige Zertifizierungsgesellschaft von der Pfizer Corporation Tel.: +43 732 34 23 22 Gültigkeitserklärung und Prüfbescheinigung Austria Gesellschaft m.b.H. beauftragt, den vorliegenden Nachhaltigkeitsbericht im Hinblick Fax: +43 732 34 23 23 Die Pfizer Corporation Austria Gesellschaft m.b.H. bekräftigt mit diesem office@qualityaustria.com Bericht ihre auf seine Übereinstimmung mit denkonsequenteinternationalen Richtlinien nachhaltige für Nachhaltigkeitsberichte Ausrichtung. Diese Ausrichtung wird im Unternehmen spürbar Quality Austria Trainings-, Zertifizierungsund Begutachtungs GmbH www.qualityaustria.com der Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) zu beurteilen. gelebt und konnte Dabei wurdedes während nicht nur die Bewertung Berichtsprozesses systematisch nachvollzogen werden. Die Zelinkagasse 10/3, 1010 Wien, Österreich formaler Berichtskriterien vorgenommen, Aspekte sondern auch die qualitative der Nachhaltigkeit sind in dieVerankerung wesentlichen vonGeschäftsprozesse der Pfizer Corporation Nachhaltigkeitsprozessen im Unternehmen berücksichtigt. Austria Gesellschaft m.b.H. wurde als unabhängige Zertifizierungsgesellschaft von der Pfizer integriert Corporation und werden strukturiert umgesetzt. Gültigkeitserklärung und Prüfbescheinigung Austria Gesellschaft m.b.H. beauftragt, den vorliegenden Nachhaltigkeitsbericht im Hinblick Die Pfizer Corporation Austria Gesellschaft Folgende m.b.H. bekräftigtwerden Schwerpunkte mit diesem Bericht ihreBerichtszeitraum gesetzt: im kommenden auf seine Übereinstimmung mit den internationalen Richtlinien für Nachhaltigkeitsberichte konsequente nachhaltige Ausrichtung. Quality DieseAustria wirdZertifizierungsTrainings-, Ausrichtung im Unternehmen und Begutachtungs GmbH spürbar der Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) zu beurteilen. Dabei wurde nicht nur die Bewertung Zelinkagasse gelebt und konnte während des Berichtsprozesses Risikoauch • sondern 10/3, 1010 systematischWien, Österreich nachvollzogen und Auswirkungsanalyse werden. in wesentlichen DieThemen voranbringen formaler Berichtskriterien vorgenommen, die qualitative Verankerung von Aspekte der Nachhaltigkeit sind in die wesentlichen • berücksichtigt.Geschäftsprozesse der Pfizer Corporation Ziele und Kennzahlen weiterentwickeln und deren Visualisierung über Jahre hinweg Nachhaltigkeitsprozessen im Unternehmen Austria Gesellschaft m.b.H. integriert wurde • als und unabhängige werden Detailliertere Zertifizierungsgesellschaft strukturiert umgesetzt. Zuteilung der Energieströme von der Pfizer Corporation Austria Gesellschaft Nachhaltigkeitskriterien • m.b.H. m.b.H. beauftragt, für den den vorliegenden Nachhaltigkeitsbericht Beschaffungsprozess festlegen im Hinblick Die Pfizer Corporation Austria Gesellschaft bekräftigt mit diesem Bericht ihre Folgende Schwerpunkte werden imauf seine Übereinstimmung kommenden Berichtszeitraum mit gesetzt: den internationalen Richtlinien für Nachhaltigkeitsberichte konsequente nachhaltige Ausrichtung. Diese Ausrichtung wird im Unternehmen spürbar Die Global der AuditorenReporting hatten Initiative (GRI) zu beurteilen. im Berichtsprozess umfassenden Dabei wurde nicht nur die Bewertung gelebt und konnte während des Berichtsprozesses systematisch nachvollzogen werden. Die Einblick in alle erforderlichen • Risikound Auswirkungsanalyse formaler in wesentlichen Unterlagen, Berichtskriterien Themen vorgenommen, voranbringen uneingeschränkt zur die Geschäftsprozesse sondern auch gestellt die qualitative Verankerung von dass Aspekte der Nachhaltigkeit sind in die wesentlichen derVerfügung Pfizer Corporation wurden und bestätigen hiermit, Nachhaltigkeitsprozessen • Ziele und Kennzahlen weiterentwickeln und deren im Unternehmen Visualisierung über berücksichtigt. Jahre hinweg Austria Gesellschaft m.b.H. integriertder undNachhaltigkeitsbericht der Pfizer Corporation Austria Gesellschaft m.b.H. sämtlichen werden strukturiert umgesetzt. • Detailliertere Zuteilung der Energieströme Anforderungen der GRI-Standards, Option Kern entspricht. Für alle im Bericht • Nachhaltigkeitskriterien für Die den Pfizer ZahlenAustria Corporation Beschaffungsprozess veröffentlichten zeichnetGesellschaft festlegen m.b.H. bekräftigt die Pfizer Corporation Austria mit diesem Bericht ihre Gesellschaft Folgende Schwerpunkte werden im kommenden Berichtszeitraum gesetzt: konsequente nachhaltige m.b.H.verantwortlich Ausrichtung. Diese Ausrichtung wird im Unternehmen spürbar Die Auditoren hatten im Berichtsprozess und konnte während gelebtumfassenden Einblick des Berichtsprozesses erforderlichen systematisch nachvollzogen werden. Die in alle • Risikound Auswirkungsanalyse in wesentlichen Themen voranbringen Unterlagen, die uneingeschränkt zur Aspekte Wien, imder Verfügung Nachhaltigkeit Aprilgestellt 2020 wurden sind undinbestätigen die wesentlichenhiermit,Geschäftsprozesse dass der Pfizer Corporation • Ziele und Kennzahlen weiterentwickeln und deren Visualisierung über Jahre hinweg der Nachhaltigkeitsbericht der Pfizer Austria Gesellschaft Corporation Austria m.b.H. integriert Gesellschaft und werden m.b.H. sämtlichen strukturiert umgesetzt. • Detailliertere Zuteilung der Energieströme Anforderungen der GRI-Standards, Option Kern entspricht. Für alle im Bericht • Nachhaltigkeitskriterien für den Beschaffungsprozess festlegen veröffentlichten Zahlen zeichnet dieFolgende Schwerpunkte Pfizer Corporation werden Austria im kommenden Berichtszeitraum gesetzt: Gesellschaft m.b.H.verantwortlich Die Auditoren hatten im Berichtsprozess umfassenden Einblick in alle erforderlichen Risiko-Fischer, • Anneli Mag. und Auswirkungsanalyse MSc und bestätigen in wesentlichen Themen voranbringen Unterlagen, die uneingeschränkt zur Verfügung gestellt wurden hiermit, dass Sitz: Wien, FN 234367h beim HG Wien Wien, im April 2020 • LeitendeZiele und Kennzahlen Auditorin Quality weiterentwickeln Austria und deren Visualisierung über Jahre hinweg DVR 0953067 der Nachhaltigkeitsbericht der Pfizer Corporation Austria Gesellschaft m.b.H. sämtlichen UID-Nr: ATU57217835 • Detailliertere Zuteilung der Energieströme Anforderungen der GRI-Standards, Option Kern entspricht. Für alle im Bericht • Nachhaltigkeitskriterien für den Beschaffungsprozess festlegen UniCredit Bank Austria AG veröffentlichten Zahlen zeichnet die Pfizer Corporation Austria Gesellschaft BLZ 12000, Konto Nr. 50670 594 501 IBAN AT 91 1200 0506 7059 4501 m.b.H.verantwortlich Die Auditoren hatten im Berichtsprozess umfassenden Einblick in alle erforderlichen SWIFT BKAUATWW Mag. Anneli Fischer, MSc Unterlagen, die uneingeschränkt zur Verfügung gestellt wurden und bestätigen hiermit, dass Sitz: Wien, FN 234367h beim HG Wien Wien, im April Leitende 2020 Quality Austria Auditorin DVR 0953067 der Nachhaltigkeitsbericht der Pfizer Corporation Austria Gesellschaft m.b.H. sämtlichen UID-Nr: ATU57217835 Anforderungen der GRI-Standards, Option Kern entspricht. Für alle im Bericht UniCredit Bank Austria AG veröffentlichten Zahlen zeichnet die Pfizer Corporation BLZ 12000, Austria Konto Nr. 50670 594 501 Gesellschaft m.b.H.verantwortlich IBAN AT 91 1200 0506 7059 4501 Pfizer Corporation Austria 2019 Sustainability Report SWIFT BKAUATWW 50 Mag. Anneli Fischer, MSc Sitz: Wien, FN 234367h beim HG Wien Leitende Auditorin Quality Austria Wien, im April 2020 DVR 0953067 UID-Nr: ATU57217835 Foreword Our Our Environment Pfizer as an Products Goals Appendix mission sustainability strategy & production employer & society & actions Principles Commitment Systems Target area Principle 1 Protecting human rights and other values of > Our corporate philosophy Pfizer as an employer Human rights Support and respect human rights respectful human interaction have been integrated > Code of Business Conduct (Pfizer into all business activities at Pfizer Austria. Pfizer Blue Book) Principle 2 Austria also requires its business partners to observe > UN Global Compact Principles Exclude human rights violations human rights. Principle 3 Pfizer is an attractive employer offering diverse > Company guidelines and Pfizer Pfizer as an employer The ten principles Uphold the freedom of association and recognize the right of collective bargaining opportunities for advancement in an international organization. Our colleagues can make the most of Imperatives > Code of Business Conduct of the UN Global Compact their ideas and initiative to drive the company. Yet (Pfizer Blue Book) Labor standards Principle 4 Pfizer also supports efforts to strike the right work/ > Pfizer Austria Leadership Charter Engage in the abolition of any kind of forced labor life balance with flex time and the possibility of > Pfizer OWN IT! initiative The UN Global Compact was agreed in 2000 working in a home office. In keeping with the spirit and obliges its member organizations to act Principle 5 of its modern corporate culture, Pfizer also chamin a socially responsible way within their area Engage in the abolition of any kind of child labor pions internal and external projects and initiatives of influence. It is based on ten ethical princiPrinciple 6 that fly the banner of diversity and inclusion. ples that deal with the topics of human Engage in the elimination of any kind of discriminarights, labor standards, environmental tion in respect of employment and occupation protection and anticorruption. Members are Protection of the environment Principle 7 Our environment and its resources are valuable > UN Global Compact Principles Environment & obliged to publish an annual report (CommuSupport a precautionary approach to environmental assets to us and to future generations. This is why > Pfizer’s Green Journey program production protection Pfizer is planning measures to reduce CO2 emissions. nication on Progress – COP) documenting Beyond that, we are committed to managing all their progress in implementing ethical princiPrinciple 8 resources in a careful, considerate way. We take ples. To learn more about the UN Global Undertake initiatives to promote greater environenvironmental protection very seriously and are mental responsibility striving continuously to improve our efforts jointly Compact, visit www.unglobalcompact.org. with all contractual partners and suppliers. Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of Pfizer Austria signed the UN Global Compact environmentally friendly technologies in April 2009. The table on the right illustrates the systems used at Pfizer Austria to integrate Principle 10 At Pfizer, we have an obligation to understand the > Pfizer Compliance System Products and Measures against corruption, including extortion and legal and ethical aspects that affect our business > Code of Business Conduct (Pfizer society the ten principles into its business activity. bribery practices. It is up to all of us to act and do business Blue Book) This table maps our target areas and topics Anticorruption in accordance with the principles of integrity. > Pharmig Code of Conduct to the ten principles. Integrity means more than just compliance with laws and regulations. It is one of Pfizer’s core values. Integrity reflects who we are as a company and as individuals. If we conduct ourselves with integrity, the people we serve will trust and respect us. Pfizer Corporation Austria 2019 Sustainability Report 51 Foreword Our Our Environment Pfizer as an Products Goals Appendix mission sustainability strategy & production employer & society & actions Sustainable SDGs Target areas Topics Development Goals Health and wellbeing This is our core business. We are working around the world to Key issues > Protecting patients’ health achieve this goal. We research, develop and distribute Products and society and safety/drug safety The United Nations adopted 17 global goals medicines and vaccines to treat or prevent many menacing > Researching and and 169 targets for sustainable development diseases of our time. The focus is on cancer, pain and developing drugs in inflammatory, infectious, cardiovascular and rare diseases, Austria (Sustainable Development Goals; SDGs) in among others > Access to essential September 2015. Its 193 member states, medicines and delivery including Austria, committed to implecapacity menting the Sustainable Development Goals > Promote education & awareness by 2030. Business enterprises play a key role in achieving these sustainability goals. At Gender equality Our Fair Play Network strives to develop suggestions and Pfizer as an employer > Conditions of work possibilities for improving equal opportunity and the work/ > Diversity & inclusion Pfizer, we believe that good health is fundafamily life balance mental to advancing all 17 goals. The table on the right maps the target areas and topics to the SDGs that we prioritize in our work. Decent work With its two locations in Vienna and Orth an der Donau, Pfizer as an employer > Conditions of work and economic growth Pfizer Austria wants to create benefits for the surrounding > Health & safety at work region and contribute to value creation in Austria. In particular, this includes securing jobs Responsible consumption Pfizer aims to minimize the environmental impact of its Environment & produc> Sustainable procurement and production products and processes. We are working to reduce our tion > Resource consumption ecological footprint and increase our energy efficiency in > Effluents & waste order to decrease the dependence on limited resources Climate action Pfizer pursues initiatives jointly with employees, customers Environment & produc> Sustainable procurement and suppliers to ensure natural resources are used respontion > Energy & emissions sibly so as to mitigate the impact on the climate Peace, justice As a responsible company, we value transparency, co-deterProducts & society > Transparency & ethics and strong institutions mination and open exchange of information. Adherence to laws, compliance regulations and codes of conduct is one of the guiding principles for all our actions Partnerships for the We engage in innovative partnerships with NGOs and other Products & society > Promote education goals organizations to work together towards an even healthier and awareness world > Create benefits for the surrounding region Pfizer Corporation Austria 2019 Sustainability Report 52 Foreword Our Our Environment Pfizer as an Products Goals Appendix mission sustainability strategy & production employer & society & actions GRI Standards Index 'In Accordance – Core' (GRI 102-55) GRI Description Comments/explanations Page UNGC SDGs GRI 102 General disclosures 20161 Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization 7, 49 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 7, 8, 10, 48 102-3 Location of the organization’s headquarters 7 102-4 Location of operations 7 102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form 7 102-6 Markets served 7 102-7 Scale of the organization 7, 40, 46 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 46 6 8 102-9 Supply chain 10, 41 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 49 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 5, 21 9 102-12 External initiatives 14 102-13 Membership of associations and advocacy groups 48 Strategy 102-14 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization 5 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 16 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 27, 32 1 16 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 32 10 16 Governance 102-18 Governance structure 7 102-19 Delegating authority 17 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics 17 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics 17 16 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 7 5, 16 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 7 16 102-25 Conflicts of interest 32 16 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy 17 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting 49 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 17 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 17 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements: Percentage of employees covered by collective agreements 100% 3 8 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 17 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 17 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 14 1 The years given in the description of the GRI Content Index refer to the respective date of publication of the GRI Standards. UNGC = UN Global Compact, SDGs = Sustainable Development Goals Pfizer Corporation Austria 2019 Sustainability Report 53 Foreword Our Our Environment Pfizer as an Products Goals Appendix mission sustainability strategy & production employer & society & actions GRI Standards Index 'In Accordance – Core' (GRI 102-55) GRI Description Comments/explanations Page UNGC SDGs Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 7 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 14 102-47 List of material topics 14 102-48 Restatements of information 49 102-49 Changes in reporting 14 102-50 Reporting period 49 102-51 Date of most recent report 49 102-52 Reporting cycle 49 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 59 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 49 102-55 GRI content index 53 ff. 102-56 External assurance 49 MATERIAL TOPICS & ADDITIONAL TOPICS GRI 201 Economic performance 2016 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 40 2, 5, 7, 8, 9 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 40 201-4 Financial assistance received from government 40 Material topic: Energy & emissions GRI 103-1 to 3 Management approach 2016 23, 21 GRI 302 Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 44, 45 7 7, 8, 12, 13 GRI 305 Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 44, 45 7 3, 12, 13, 14, 15 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 44 3, 12, 13, 14, 15 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions) 44 3, 12, 13, 14, 15 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 45, 47 8 13, 15 Pfizer-specific material topic: Employee mobility GRI 103-1 to 3 Management approach 2016 23, 21 Material topic: Water GRI 103-1 to 3 Management approach 2016 23, 21 GRI 303 Water 2016 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource 45 7 Material topic: Waste & effluents GRI 103-1 to 3 Management approach 2016 24, 21 UNGC = UN Global Compact, SDGs = Sustainable Development Goals Pfizer Corporation Austria 2019 Sustainability Report 54 Foreword Our Our Environment Pfizer as an Products Goals Appendix mission sustainability strategy & production employer & society & actions GRI Standards Index 'In Accordance – Core' (GRI 102-55) GRI Description Comments/explanations Page UNGC SDGs GRI 306 Effluents & waste 2016 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 45 8 3, 6, 12 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste 45 8 3, 12 Material topic: Sustainable procurement GRI 103-1 to 3 Management approach 2016 25, 21 GRI 308 Supplier environmental assessment 2018 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 16 GRI 407 Freedom of association and collective bargaining 2016 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk None 3 5, 8 GRI 408 Child labor 2016 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor None 5 5, 8 GRI 409 Forced or compulsory labor 2016 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor None 4 5, 8 GRI 412 Human rights assessment 2016 Both locations are in Austria; all 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments 1, 2 5, 8 applicable laws are observed Additional environmental topics GRI 301 Materials 2016 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 44, 45 GRI 304 Biodiversity 2016 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value The production site at Orth/Donau 304-1 6, 14, 15 outside protected areas borders on a nature reserve Material topic: Conditions of work GRI 103-1 to 3 Management approach 2016 27 GRI 401 Employment 2016 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 46 6 5, 8 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary 401-2 47 8 or part-time employees 401-3 Parental leave 47 6 5, 8 GRI 404 Training and education 2016 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 47 6 4, 8 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 29 8 404-3 Percentage of employees who receive a regular performance and career development review 47 6 5, 8 UNGC = UN Global Compact, SDGs = Sustainable Development Goals Pfizer Corporation Austria 2019 Sustainability Report 55 Foreword Our Our Environment Pfizer as an Products Goals Appendix mission sustainability strategy & production employer & society & actions GRI Standards Index 'In Accordance – Core' (GRI 102-55) GRI Description Comments/explanations Page UNGC SDGs Material topic: Diversity & inclusion GRI 103-1 to 3 Management approach 2016 28 GRI 405 Diversity and equal opportunity 2016 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 46 6 5, 8 Income report 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 47 (is not published) GRI 406 Non-discrimination 2016 No cases of discrimination were 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken reported to the Works Council 6 5, 8 during the reporting period Material topic: Health & safety at work GRI 103-1 to 3 Management approach 2016 29 GRI 403 Occupational health and safety 2016 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees 403-1 47 8 that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of 403-2 47 3, 8 work-related fatalities 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 47 3, 8 Pfizer-specific material topic: Promote education & awareness GRI 103-1 to 3 Management approach 2016 31 GRI 417 Marketing and labeling 2016 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling 31 12, 16 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labeling No incidents in the reporting period 43 16 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications No incidents in the reporting period 43 Material topic: Transparency & ethics GRI 103-1 to 3 Management approach 2016 32, 41 GRI 205 Anticorruption 2016 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption None 40 10 16 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 41 10 16 205-3 Confirmed corruption cases and action taken No incidents in the reporting period 41 10 16 GRI 206 Anti-competitive behavior 2016 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices No incidents in the reporting period 41 16 UNGC = UN Global Compact, SDGs = Sustainable Development Goals Pfizer Corporation Austria 2019 Sustainability Report 56 Foreword Our Our Environment Pfizer as an Products Goals Appendix mission sustainability strategy & production employer & society & actions GRI Standards Index 'In Accordance – Core' (GRI 102-55) GRI Description Comments/explanations Page UNGC SDGs GRI 307 Environmental compliance 2016 All environmental protection laws and 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations regulations were complied with during 45 8 16 the reporting period GRI 415 Public policy 2016 We provide neither financial nor 415-1 Political contributions 40 10 16 material support to parties GRI 418 Customer privacy 2016 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data No complaints in the reporting period 43 16 GRI 419 Socioeconomic compliance 2016 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area No violations in the reporting period 41, 43 16 Material topic: Create benefits for the surrounding region GRI 103-1 to 3 Management approach 2016 33 GRI 202 Market presence 2016 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community 46 6 8 GRI 203 Indirect economic impacts 2016 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 40, 41 1, 2, 3, 8, 10, 17 GRI 204 Procurement practices 2016 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 41 12 GRI 413 Local communities 2016 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 42 1 Pfizer-specific material topic: Protect patients’ health and safety GRI 103-1 to 3 Management approach 2016 8 GRI 416 Customer health and safety 2016 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories 8, 16, 43 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services No incidents in the reporting period 43 16 Pfizer-specific material topic: Research & development in Austria GRI 103-1 to 3 Management approach 2016 9 Pfizer-specific material topic: Access to essential medicines GRI 103-1 to 3 Management approach 2016 9 UNGC = UN Global Compact, SDGs = Sustainable Development Goals Pfizer Corporation Austria 2019 Sustainability Report 57 Foreword Our Our Environment Pfizer as an Products Goals Appendix mission sustainability strategy & production employer & society & actions pfizer.at: More than a Contact options corporate website Visitors to pfizer.at find information about Pfizer Austria, sustainability management and career opportunities with the company. Patients and doctors share their experiences and tips for dealing with illnesses under the heading “Geschichten, die das Leben Career at Facebook: schreibt” [Stories that life writes]. The embedded “Get Pfizer: On equal footing with Science” blog takes readers deep into the research. Xing, kununu, the public www.pfizer.at, www.pfizer.at/gesundheit www.pfizer.at/get-science karriere.at The Facebook site is Pfizer Austria’s Detailed information about Pfizer Austria as latest “digital baby.” The company is committed to an employer and current job offers are posted at maintaining a spirited dialog with stakeholders, patients and www.pfizer.at/karriere and on the career portals the public. The Facebook page aims to promote this dialog. Xing, kununu und karriere.at. Everyone is invited to join the Pfizer Austria community. www.xing.com/company/pfizer-austria www.facebook.com/PfizerAustria www.kununu.com/at/pfizer-austria www.karriere.at/f/pfizer-austria LinkedIn: A direct line to the executive suite Managing Director Prof. Dr. Robin Rumler shares his experience and knowledge of medicine and research, provides insight into the company and industry, and takes a stand on health policy issues via LinkedIn. www.linkedin.com/in/robin-rumler Twitter: YouTube: Fewer Brief bulletins with words, more moving key news items pictures This microblogging service shares The videos on the Pfizer Austria YouTube channel are breaking news about Pfizer, medicine, research and health. intended to help patients better understand and live with Pfizer provides food for thought and discussion on health Pfizer for diseases. Pfizer also affords insight into the world of policy topics to foster and promote discourse. medical pharmaceutical research, development and production, and www.twitter.com/pfizeraustria professionals turns the spotlight on employees. www.youtube.com/pfizeraustria Pfizer Austria shares authoritative information about medications and therapies and provides service exclusively for medical professionals via the portal at www.pfizermed.at. It features current training courses (incl. DFP) as well as brochures, digital tools and other materials to support patient care. Are you a member of a medical professional group and wish to be kept up to date? Then register for our “be informed” newsletter. www.pfizermed.at Subscribe to our newsletter: www.pfizermed.at/be-informed Pfizer Corporation Austria 2019 Sustainability Report 58 Foreword Our Our Environment Pfizer as an Products Goals Appendix mission sustainability strategy & production employer & society & actions Further contact options Adverse events related to our products may be reported directly to the local Contact point for Drug Safety department around the questions about Package inserts clock via email. We can also be sustainability reached by phone during our office (GRI 102-53) and summaries of product hours. characteristics for all Pfizer products Phone: 00 43 15 21 15-0 If you have questions, suggestions or as well as information on therapeutic Email: AUT.AEReporting@ feedback on the subject of areas may be viewed on the pfizer.com sustainability, please contact us at company's website. verantwortung.austria@ pfizer.com. www.pfizer.at Complaints If you have a complaint or are dissatisfied with a Pfizer product, please contact us by phone and let us Pfizermed connect you with the Quality Departis Pfizer’s Austrian information and ment, or send us an email. service portal for medical Phone: 00 43 15 21 15-0 professionals. Email: Reklamation. Credits Austria@pfizer.com Publisher: Pfizer Corporation Austria GmbH www.pfizermed.at Concept and text: Mag. Elisabeth Dal-Bianco, MSc, Senior Manager Sustainability & Communication Creative directors: Klemens Fischer Kommunikationsdesign & Chris Saupper/maupi Design: Klemens Fischer Photos: © maupi/Chris Saupper, Pfizer Consulting: CSR Vienna, Mag. Maria-Domenica Tscherne, MSc Translation and copy editing: Thomas Green Pfizer Medical Information is a service for customers who wish to contact us by phone, email or an online form with medical questions about our products. www.pfizer.at/medinfo Pfizer Corporation Austria 2019 Sustainability Report 59 Pfizer Corporation Austria GmbH © 2020 Pfizer Corporation Austria GmbH Floridsdorfer Hauptstraße 1 www.pfizer.at 1210 Vienna, Austria PP-PFE-AUT-0818/06.2020
