Statement of continued support I am pleased to confirm that Meneta Holding A/S reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact within the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and, Anti-Corruption. In 2019, Meneta Holding joined the UN Global Compact to improve and state the initiatives for sustainable performance in the company. We are committed to taking action and we strive to improve with the UN Global Compact Principles as fair guidelines. The integration of the principles extends to every part of the organization, resulting in all subsidiary companies under the Meneta Holding A/S umbrella, comply with the principles on equal terms as the parent company. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely Yours, Kim Oestergaard CEO Human rights The entire Meneta Group respects Human Rights, and with special attention towards the All employees are offered free internal education, aimed at broadening the general diversity of standards among countries and departments, local requirements are a priority knowledge of company activities to all employees, which will improve connectedness of ours. between departments across our global organization. During the past years, Meneta Group has expanded and new product areas are being The staff association at Meneta Group organizes social gatherings outside work where explored. Consequently, the Danish Meneta companies have increased the awareness of HSE everyone working at Meneta is welcome. Meneta supports this initiative. during the last year. The HSE-organization has been strengthened and a dedicated HSEIt is essential to have a good balance between work and spare time. Therefore, Meneta takes manager is working on initiatives to upgrade and optimize the working condition for all it seriously and encourages all employees to use leisure time and annual leave. employees in the entire organization. We are not only complying with existing laws, we are going further than that A safe and healthy work environment should be a natural part of the everyday life for all employees. Labor The Danish Meneta Companies comply with the Code of Conduct which is a part of the employee manual and which is acknowledged and signed by all employees. The employee Meneta is committed to comply with the Danish legislation regarding labor and at Meneta manual outlines in detail all the terms and conditions of working at Meneta Group. Group, employees have the right to be organized and the freedom to collective bargaining. Compliance with the Code of Conduct throughout the organization and supply chain is The use of Code of Conduct ensures social and ethical accountability both internal and important to secure a healthy and safe work environment. external. Meneta’s BOM-suppliers (suppliers of raw materials) must sign a document to confirm they are acting in an ethical and socially responsible way. Meneta Group’s HR department ensures that the group of employees reflects the society we live in. This means no discrimination concerning ethnicity or gender and equal pay for equal This process prevents a supply chain utilizing child labor, forced labor, and working under work. unhealthy and unsafe work environments. Additionally, Meneta complies with the principles on labor as stated in the UN Global Compact which is a requirement for our BOM-suppliers Meneta’s works committee consists of employees from different departments of the as well. organization. Regular meetings between the members of the works committee and management are being held to support open dialogue and strengthen communication. Environment Measurement of outcomes Meneta reduces the environmental impact via energy optimization of production processes and recycling of products. In a dedicated effort to comply with the UN Sustainable Internal education part 1 is completed. Development Goal number 13 (climate action), proactive initiatives have been initiated and already existing production processes have been improved. The Code of Conduct, which is part of the employee manual, has been signed by all Proactive initiatives to minimize the environmental footprint: employees. Standard document to be signed in connection with the employment Energy optimization contract. Heat recovery A signed document from all BOM-suppliers, which indicates they comply with the Reuse of production material principle on labor as stated in the UN Global Compact Policy, is implemented in the A specific action, completed to improve Meneta’s environmental footprint so far, is to extrude early stages of suppler-relationships. excess rubber from the production line for reuse in the production instead of scrapping the reusable rubber. Furthermore, Intelligent control of energy consumption is to be installed for The new factory is prepared for energy optimization where heat recovery through a the BMS-systems. heat exchanger will turn Meneta into being self-sufficient and also being able to return Meneta complies with the EU legislation on the environment by preventing and addressing heat to the public heating system. accidents affecting the environment and human health. KPIs, determined by the employees and management, are monitored and Anti-corruption maintained. Meneta is a globally operating organization and as a result of the cultural diversity within our Rules on GDPR have been implemented in all work routines in the entire organization. supply chain, awareness on anti-corruption is important. To ensure that employees and business associates are aware of Meneta’s approach to corruption and that it is unacceptable in all its forms, the policy on anti-corruption is integrated into both the employee manual All actions are evaluated quarterly during management review. and in the Code of Conduct for suppliers. To secure a supply chain that is consistent with Meneta’s viewpoint on anti-corruption, BOMsuppliers are obligated to fill in a questionnaire on code of conduct about ethical business behavior. A whistleblower policy is implemented in the employee manual which allows employees to report any kind of unethical business behavior in the organization.
