AEON Sustainability Data Book 2019 Editorial Policy Contents AEON Basic Principles We believe that our business activities contribute to the formation of a sustainable society. To further stakeholders’ understanding of its business Pursuing peace, respecting humanity, and contributing to local communities, activities, Aeon* has been issuing the Aeon Our Sustainability Report, which includes the Aeon Environmental always with the customer’s point of view as its core. and Social Report since FY2017. Prior to FY2017, we published Aeon Environmental Report since in FY1996. 2 Sustainability Management Structure Peace From FY2019, the Sustainability Data Book has been issued as a supplement to the Aeon Report 3 Sustainable Management (integrated report). The Sustainability Data Book introduces Aeon’s sustainability initiatives from 4 Progress on Sustainability the perspective of both the environment and soci8  eon Initiatives Targeting “Toward a future filled A ety, centering on pure holding company Aeon Co., Ltd., the General Merchandise Store (GMS) with dreams” Business, and the Supermarket Business. *F  or the purposes of this report, “Aeon” is used to refer to Aeon Co., Ltd. and the approximately 300 companies that comprise the Aeon Group. FY2018 Activities The Customer Reporting Period FY2018 Environmental Activities (March 1, 2018–February 28, 2019)* People Community * For operating companies with different fiscal years and for 10 Key Issue 1 Realization of a Decarbonized Society certain initiatives, the relevant time periods for each item reported are stated. 20 Key Issue 2 Conservation of Biodiversity The word aeon (Aeon) has its origins in a Latin root meaning “eternity.” Reporting Scope 32 Key Issue 3 Better Use of Resources The customers’ beliefs and desires comprise the central core of our philosophy. This report covers pure holding company Aeon Co., Ltd. and its 293 consolidated subsidiaries and 29 At Aeon, our eternal mission as a corporate group is to benefit our customers, equity-method affiliates as of the end of February and our operations are thus customer-focused to the highest degree. 2019. Social Activities Note: If the scope of reporting differs from the aforementioned, this is stated for each item reported. In addition, “Peace” Aeon is a corporate group whose operations are ­dedicated the report includes information on the social contribution activities of the AEON 1% Club Foundation, which 44 Key Issue 4 C  reating Products and Stores That to the pursuit of peace through prosperity. is funded by donations equivalent to 1% of pretax profMeet Society’s Expectations “People” Aeon is a corporate group that respects human dignity its from major Aeon Group companies, and the AEON and values personal relationships. Environmental Foundation, which advances initiatives 58 Key Issue 5 Implementing Fair Business Practices to protect the Earth’s environment. “Community” Aeon is a corporate group rooted in local community Based on Respect for Human Rights life and dedicated to making a continuing contribution Target Audience 78 Key Issue 6 Collaborating with Communities to the community. Customers, shareholders, investors, students, local residents of neighborhoods with Group stores, business partners, NPOs, NGOs, governments, and Aeon People (Aeon employees) 88 Activities That Widen the Circle of Tohoku Creation On the basis of the Aeon Basic Principles, Aeon practices its 92 Initiatives by Aeon Public Interest Incorporated “Customer-First” philosophy with its everlasting innovative spirit. Guidelines Used Foundations –International Integrated Reporting Framework (IIRC), 100 Environmental Management –G4 Sustainability Reporting Standards, Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 106 [Data collection] FY2018 Action Plan & KPIs Progress –Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2018 version), AEON’s Corporate Commitment Ministry of the Environment of Japan 112 Comparison with GRI Standards –Guidance on Social Responsibility, ISO 26000 124 Corporate Data AEON creates a future of limitless promise —an AEON— by transforming daily life with our open, dynamic approach. Front Cover Okadaya, one of Aeon’s predecessors, was founded in the city of Yokkaichi, Mie Prefecture, in 1758. In 1887, the store relocated to a bustling new area of the city. This period saw the formation of the family motto “give wheels to the central pillar.” Comparing a store to the central pillar of a house, the motto implies that businesses should respond to changes in customer needs by moving the “central pillar,” in The word aeon (AEON) has its origins in a Latin root meaning “eternity.” The Aeon Group’s eternal mission is to benefit its customers. other words, by moving things that would never norBy fulfilling this mission, we hope to sustain the Group’s development and prosperity forever. mally be moved. The design of the front cover incorporates the wheel of a large daihachiguruma wagon. These wagons were used to transport goods from the Edo period (17th century) to the beginning of the Showa period (20th century). S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 1 Sustainability Management Stracture Sustainable Management We strive toward sustainable management that ensures growth of the Aeon while helping to realize a sustainable society. Key Issues reviewing the KPIs, we incorporate the opinions of outside speWe have formulated Aeon’s Basic Policy on Sustainability with cialists and government officials. The departments and indithe aim of ensuring that the Company continues to be valued viduals responsible for individual KPIs make proposals, which As a member of the Board of Directors, Aeon’s chief executive resolutions and approvals are disseminated to Group compaby customers and society. Guided by the long-term perspective are deliberated by the Aeon Management Committee (MC), a officer (the president and representative executive officer and nies, ensuring the thorough sharing of information. of the value we provide to society through our business activimanagement council. The KPIs are then determined by resoluGroup CEO) is in charge of the decision-making regarding the We have established the Aeon Co., Ltd. Corporate Citizenship ties and by engaging in debate with internal and external staketion and approval of the Board of Directors. Company’s execution of operations. As the Company’s repreDepartment to take responsibility for promoting sustainability holders, we identified six key issues (materiality items). Furthermore, each year we publish annual reports describsentative, he is also responsible for supervising those operaat Aeon. As the secretariat for sustainability promotion, the We then performed materiality mapping, looking at specific ing progress on the KPIs and various initiatives based on the tions. Based on authority vested by the Board of Directors, this Corporate Citizenship Department submits documents and initiatives based on these key issues from the consideration of key issues, disseminating the information extensively in our system represents the highest level of responsibility for decireports to the executive officer in charge of the environment, their impact on society and impact on Aeon’s management. At Environmental and Social Report (this report). We also incorsion-making on sustainability-related issues. social contribution, PR, and IR. This department also dissemithe same time, we determined key performance indicators porate the feedback we receive from stakeholders when disThe Group CEO chairs the Aeon Management Committee nates information to Group companies, as well as providing (KPIs) for each key issue. We assigned responsibility for each seminating this information, as well as the input we receive in (MC), whose members include all executive officers. The MC instruction and support. The department regularly holds a KPI to a department and an individual and put in place a structhe course of our routine activities, when reviewing and formuaddresses sustainability-related risks and opportunities and corporate citizenship leaders’ meeting, examining and considture to determine and manage the success of activities. In lating materiality items. In this manner, we strive to enhance responds to important matters. The executive officer in charge ering countermeasures for challenges facing the Group overall addition, we review the KPIs periodically, taking into account Aeon’s sustainability-related activities. of the environment, social contribution, PR, and IR, who is the and individual Group companies. The department collaborates changes in the internal and external environments. When chief officer for sustainability, submits proposals and reports with Group companies to promote execution of the PDCA to the MC. As the Company’s highest decision-making body, cycle. Furthermore, as the ISO 14001 secretariat, the departthe Board of Directors resolves and approves results of the ment works to operate and maintain an environmental manMC’s deliberations, which are then acted upon. Details on agement system across the entire Group. Aeon’s Basic Principles and Sustainable Management Environment High Energy/Climate change/ Societal Realization of a sustainable society Global warming/ Group growth Marine pollution/ Water resources Exhaustion of resources development Recyclable waste (deforestation, overfishing)/ Food waste Aeon’s Structure for Promoting Sustainable Management Shift to regional Impact on society Aeon Group Shift to Asian Medium-term Shift to digital Loss of biodiversity/Chemical Waste matter Management Plan substances Board of Directors Approval Medium-term Shift in investments initiatives Pollution of soil/Wastewater/ Nuclear power and radiation Noise pollution/Foul odors/ Gas emissions Realization of a Management Committee decarbonized Conservation of Better use of Low biodiversity resources society Impact on Aeon management 大 Key Initiatives Deliberation Aeon Decarbonization Vision 2050 Aeon’s Sustainable Procurement Policy and 2020 Procurement Goals Aeon Sustainability Principle Executive officer in charge of the environment, social contribution, PR, and IR Aeon Forest Circulation Program Aeon strives to ensure Group growth while helpAeon Group Food Waste Reduction Targets ing to realize a sustainable society in accordance with the basic principle of “pursuing peace, respecting humanity, and contributing to local Aeon Co., Ltd. communities, always with the customer’s point Society Development of view as its core.” We aim to think globally and Corporate Citizenship Department High advance activities locally as we actively promote Health/Hygiene/Product initiatives involving both environmental and Poverty/Child labor/ safety/Disaster prevention/ social aspects with our stakeholders. Water resources Urban development/Aging Migrant labor population/Consumers unable to access daily needs Impact on society Creating Implementing Discrimination/disparity Corporate citizenship leaders’ meeting Individual Individual products and fair business Collaborating Education/ (gender, LGBT population, stores that meet practices based with indigenous peoples, disabled Declining population/Children working working society’s on respect for communities people, minorities, etc.)/ Job creation/Diversity waiting expectations human rights Employee motivation/Work for daycare admission Group company Group company Group company Group company environment/Animal welfare/ groups groups Nursing care (Revised September 2018) Protection of privacy and personal information/Wages/Work–life balPeace Bribery/Abuse ance/Harassment/ Recovery and reconstruction of affected areas Low Impact on Aeon management 大 The Key Initiatives Customer Achieving health and wellness People Community Ensuring business continuity management (BCM) for the Aeon Group Aeon Basic Principles Promoting diversity Engaging in wellness management Working together with local ecosystems 2 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 3 Progress on Sustainability In 2019, we marked the 30th anniversary of our change of name from JUSCO to AEON. Building a Sustainability Management Structure and Launching Expanding Activities from a Global Perspective Aeon conducts business in accordance with the basic principle of “pursuing peace, respecting humanity, and contributNew Initiatives Launching Initiatives Incorporating the 10 ing to local communities, always with the customer’s point of view as its core.” Over these three decades, our retail-centered Starting with Trees—Embarking on Many Principles of the United Nations Global business has responded to the changing times, as well as to increasingly diverse lifestyles and consumer environments, Activities Leading to Today’s Sustainability by expanding into shopping center development and financial and other services. We have also worked with numerous Compact Initiatives With a view to reinforcing its global perspective on sustainabilstakeholders to address a myriad of issues facing society through our business, addressing social change with a host of In order to carry out corporate activities befitting of a retailer ity, in 2004 Aeon became Japan’s first retailer to sign the United our own reforms. representing Japan as well as Asia, and to continue to be a Nations Global Compact. The “Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct retailer that consistently delivers vital value in the form of “rich(CoC),” formulated in the previous year in 2003, is based on the FY1988 FY1998 FY2008 FY2018 ness,” Aeon has proceeded to build a framework for engaging 10 principles outlined in the United Nations Global Compact in CSR activities as an organization since the late 1980s. In and the requirements of the SA8000 Standard. Operating Revenue (billions of yen) 1,130.0 2,379.0 4,706.0 8,518.2 1989, the Aeon Group 1% Club (the present AEON 1% Building on these activities, Aeon and three labor organizaOperating Income (billions of yen) 36.0 71.2 124.3 212.2 Club Foundation) was established (P.96) and in 1990 the tions, including the international labor body UNI Global Union, JUSCO Earth-Friendly Committee was formed, along with the signed the Global Framework Agreement on labor practices, Stores/locations 166* 281* 12,156 21,996 Aeon Group Environmental Foundation (the present AEON human rights, and the environment in 2014. Number of Group employees 22,357** 46,326** 75,154* 580,000 Environmental Foundation) (P.92). Building on this framework, in 1991 we launched the Aeon Hometown Forests Program, Number of trees planted (million) — 3.75 8.73 11.93 the Bring Your Own Shopping Bag Campaign, and the * JUSCO Co., Ltd. only * JUSCO Co., Ltd. only *Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. only Collecting Recyclable Resources at Stores Campaign. In addi** Including employees calcu** Including employees calcuIncluding employees calculated lated at the rate of eight worklated at the rate of eight at the rate of 160 working hours tion to receiving the international standard ISO 14001 certificaing hours per day ­working hours per day per month tion for our environmental management system in 2000, we have launched many other activities leading up to today’s susThe Motive Force of Aeon Embodying the Aeon Basic Principles through Tree Planting tainability initiatives, including the start of Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign, upon the change of our company name in “Give the Center Carrying the Source of Wealth 2001, to also designate the 11th of each month as “Aeon Day.” Pillar Wheels” Forward into the Future One of Aeon’s predecessors, Okadaya, followed a family saying In the 1960s, Takuya Okada, then president of Okadaya, Inc. to “give the central pillar wheels.” The saying means we should (present day Aeon) and current honorary chairman and advisor respond to change by enabling the movement of things—even of Aeon, noticed that the Nandina (heavenly bamboo) berries in 1989–2001 2002–2007 if they are things that normally must not be moved. In accorthe garden of his home had stopped growing. He assumed dance with this saying, Aeon has grown its businesses by that was a result of the earth’s changing environment. He also 1989 Established the Aeon Group 1% Club Foundation (public name: 2003 Formulated the Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct (CoC) consistently responding to changes in the needs of its customfelt a sense of crisis, realizing that the pollution accompanying AEON 1% Club) Began use of biomass packaging materials ers and society. We carry this DNA forward even today, in 2019, economic growth would create social problems and that the 1990 Established the JUSCO Earth-Friendly Committee 2004 Formulated Basic Policy for the Prevention of Global Warming as we strive to enrich communities as customers go about loss of nature’s richness would lead to a loss of source of Established the Aeon Group Environmental Foundation (public name: Endorsed the United Nations Global Compact AEON Environmental Foundation) Acquired SA8000 certification, an international standard related to their everyday shopping. wealth. In response, the Aeon Hometown Forests Program 1991 Initiated the Aeon Hometown Forests Program human rights and labor conditions was started in 1991 as a tree-planting activity around Aeon Started Clean & Green Activities Achieved SA8000 certification for TOPVALU supplier management businesses and as an initiative that leveraged the advantages Commenced the “Bring Your Own Shopping Bag” Campaign on a trial and Aeon headquarters operations of retailers to bring them into close contact with their region. basis and launched the experimental “Collecting Recyclable Commenced sales of Fairtrade Coffee under TOPVALU label Resources at Stores” Campaign 2005 Opened first Eco Store, Aeon Chikusa SC (currently Aeon Town By planting trees with local customers, the Company was able 1993 Started development of organic and other agricultural produce for Chikusa) to work side by side with residents, deepen connections, and Gurinai (now TOPVALU Gurinai) private label 2006 Acquired chain of custody certification at stores and shopping censhare a peaceful sense of joy, while recognizing the impor1994 Formulated the independent Aeon Heart Building Design Standards ters for processing and distribution of MSC-certified products (MSCtance of nature. Mr. Okada’s idea was to express the Aeon based on the Heart Building Law (the New Barrier Free Law from CoC), becoming the first general retailer in Japan to receive such Basic Principles (“pursuing peace, respecting humanity and December 2006) certification Opened JUSCO Minamikata Store as the first building in Japan certi2007 Began Stop Free Plastic Shopping Bag Program, at JUSCO contributing to local communities, always with the customer’s fied under the Heart Building Law Higashiyamanijou Store point of view as its core”) through tree-planting activities. 1995 Introduced returnable food container and reusable hanger systems 1996 Launched the Environment Committee Founded JUSCO Children’s Eco Club (currently Aeon Cheers Club) 2000 Acquired ISO 14001 certification, the international standard for envi1991~ ronmental management 2001 Changed company name to Aeon Co., Ltd. and started Aeon Day Started the Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign 1992~ 2001~ 2006~ 2007~ Okadaya, Inc. at the time of founding The JUSCO Malacca store (now Aeon Malacca Shopping Center), the starting point of the Aeon Hometown Forests Program JUSCO Shin Hisai Store (currently Aeon Started Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Began handling MSC-certified products Became the first national chain store Hisai), the first store in Japan under the Campaign to give back to the local operator in Japan to cease provision of Aeon Hometown Forests Program community free shopping bags 4 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 5 Progress on Sustainability Creating an Organization That Promotes Sustainability and Striving for Groupwide Growth and Putting Sustainability Management into Practice (1) Putting Sustainability Management into Practice (2) Launching New Initiatives Societal Development through the Aeon Revising 2020 Materiality Targets and Reassessing Basic Principles, Key Issues, Formulating the Aeon Group Principles Group’s Four Key Issues for Sustainable Activity Categories etc. and Formulating New Mediumto with Regard for Biodiversity and the Management In order to further advance its sustainability management Long-Term Goals Prevention of Global Warming As the globalization of our business continues to make great while responding to changes in the social environment and In 2015, the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were In 2008, we announced the Aeon Manifesto on the Prevention strides and our impact on the environment and society rises to business environment, Aeon assessed the results of its current adopted at the UN General Assembly and the Paris Agreement of Global Warming, becoming the first Japanese retailer to set new levels, we are more actively promoting sustainability initiasustainability activities as “Stage II” in 2014. This refers to a was reached at the 21st session of the Conference of specific targets for reducing CO2 emissions. Through initiatives tives throughout the Group. We formulated and announced the three-stage classification system where Stage I denotes the the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on in our stores (developing Eco Stores, etc.), in our products Aeon Sustainability Principle in March 2011, seeking to achieve stage in which sustainability activities are conducted with conClimate Change (COP21). (conserving resources used in packaging materials and changsustainable management combining both growth of the Group trol over social, environmental, and economic risks within busiIn light of these global trends, Aeon engaged in dialogue with ing transportation methods), and with our customers (planting and development of societies. ness management; Stage II denotes the stage in which experts and, based on this feedback, conducted materiality trees at Aeon stores), we were able to surpass the 30% (1.85 In formulating the principle, we took into account worldsustainability activities serve the function of resolving social assessments from the two perspectives of the environment million tons-CO2) reduction target for FY2012, in comparison wide megatrends, the changing values of people, social issues issues and providing opportunities for growth; and Stage III and society. After internal discussions, in April 2017 we reaswith FY2006 levels, one year early by achieving a 2.08 million addressed in the UN Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), denotes the stage in which sustainability activities and busisessed the Aeon Sustainability Principle and identified four key tons-CO2 reduction in FY2011. Since 2012, we have not only guidelines regarding social responsibility such as ISO 26000, ness activities are managed in a fully integrated fashion. social issues as part of our response to addressing social been reducing CO2 emissions, but have also added the Aeon as well as the basic content of our new medium-term manageAeon announced its “Big Challenge,” comprising 10 categories issues (revised to three in September 2018). At the same time, Eco Project as part of our efforts for stores to act as emerment plan. Deliberations were made by stakeholders inside that need to be achieved in Stage III by 2020. we also enhanced the details of our activities. gency lifeline centers. and outside the Company, such as our Environmental Advisory Additionally, we hold regular dialogues with outside experts Additionally, we formulated and announced the Aeon Furthermore, we formulated the Aeon Biodiversity Principle Board, outside directors, and Aeon People involved with susbased on the progress of these activities. With the Corporate Sustainable Procurement Policy and 2020 Goals and the Aeon in 2010, the year that COP10 (the 10th meeting of the tainability activities. Along with determining the Four Key Citizenship Department as the administrative office, we have Food Waste Reduction Targets in 2017 and the Aeon Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Issues for the Aeon Group, we set mediumand long-term key stepped up our framework for reassessing materiality and for Decarbonization Vision 2050 in 2018. We are currently engaged Diversity) was held in Japan. Aeon continues to develop and performance indicators (KPIs) for each key issue, and publicize ad-hoc reviews of “Big Challenge” categories. in initiatives to meet these targets. sell marine and other biodiversity-responsive products with our progress every year in our Sustainability Data Book. To contribute toward the realization of a sustainable society, MSC (Marine Stewardship Council), ASC (Aquaculture the Group has set numerical goals for the medium to long term Stewardship Council), and FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) and strives to reach these targets. certifications, and create stores with regard for protecting ecosystems. 2008–2010 2011–2013 2014 2015~ 2018 2030 2050 2008 Formulated the Aeon Manifesto on the Prevention of Global 2011 Formulated the Aeon Sustainability Principle 2014 Formulated the Aeon Sustainable Procurement Principle 2015 Aeon Yumemirai Nursery School in Aeon Mall Makuhari New City Warming, becoming the first retailer in Japan to name a specific Announced the Aeon Natural Refrigerants Declaration Concluded the Global Framework Agreement acquired certification in Chiba City goal for reducing CO2 emissions 2012 Established the Sustainable Management Committee Started sales of Aquaculture Stewardship Council (ASC) certified Commenced sales of first Completely Farm-Raised Bluefin Tuna 2009 Commenced trial sales of Carbon Footprint product labeling for nine Started the Aeon Eco Project products Japanese private brand product varieties across seven TOPVALU products 2016 Launched TOPVALU Gurinai “Organic,” “Natural,” and “Free From” Participated in Japan Climate Leaders’ Partnership as a founding Results of Sustainability Activities products member Better use of 2017 Formulated the Aeon Sustainable Procurement Policy and 2020 Opened the first FSC®-certified convenience store in Japan resources III Goals 2010 Formulated the Aeon Biodiversity Principle Fully integrated management of Formulated the Aeon Group Food Waste Reduction Targets CSR and business CSV 2018 Formulated the Aeon Decarbonization Vision 2050 Aeon Sustainability Principle (Creating Shared Value) Aeon aims to realize a sustainable society with its stakeholders based on its basic principle of II Realization “pursuing peace, respecting humanity, and contributing to local communities, always with Addressing Risk reinforcement generating strength (2014—2020) of a low-carthe customer’s point of view as its core.” social issues Initiatives toward addressing social issues bon society With “realization of a low-carbon soci(generating growth opportunities) ety,” “conservation of biodiversity,” “better use of resources,” and “addressing social issues” as our core principles, we will think globally and I advance activities locally. Risk control (1989—) (corporate ethics and compliance) Individual activities based on philosophy Conservation of biodiversity 2009~ 2011~ 2012~ 2014~ 2015~ 2018~ Opened the first FSC®-certified Promoting the use of natural refrigerant Launched the Aeon Eco Project as an Began handling ASC-certified products Creating Infrastructure to Support the Began development of next-generation convenience store in Japan equipment environmental target Balance between Work Life and Child Smart Aeon to help realize a (Ministop Co., Ltd.) Raising decarbonized society 6 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 7 Aeon Initiatives Targeting “Toward a future filled with dreams” Aeon aims to realize a sustainable society through our business with and the environment and society. In addition to proBased on Aeon’s Basic Policy viding products and services, we engage with many stakeholders to resolve the myriad of issues facing society through our on Sustainability, we are helpbusiness activities. ing to achieve the SDGs through initiatives targeting six To realize a sustainable society and ensure the growth of the Aeon with a view toward a future filled with dreams, Aeon key issues. will continue embracing the challenges of change. Conservation of Creating Products Realization of a Biodiversity and Stores That Meet Decarbonized Society’s Collaborating Better Use of Implementing Fair Society Expectations with Communities 2 Resources Business Practices 4 Based on Respect for 1 Human Rights 6 3 5 8 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 9 KEY ISSUE 1 Realization of a Decarbonized Society Management Approach Recognition of Challenges Highlight State of Progress on Aeon’s The problem of global warming has brought a large and negaAeon has expanded its business to 21,996 stores/locations tive impact to the global environment. The movement toward in 14 countries around the world, and our business activities Path toward a Decarbonized Society global denuclearization is gaining momentum, as exemplified contribute to global warming due to the high energy use at by the Paris Agreement, signed at the 2015 United Nations these locations and the high use of alternative fluorocarbon Climate Change Conference (COP21). In addition, new regularefrigerants in our refrigerators and freezers. We are working tions put forth by the Montreal Protocol in 2016 placed targets on various initiatives to advance toward a society with low Aeon is targeting the realization of a decarbonized society by 2050. One year has elapsed since we began working to on the production and reduction of alternative fluorocarbons. greenhouse gas emissions in line with the key issue, “realizaconserve energy by reducing the amount of energy use in stores and shifting to renewable energy. In addition to collaborattion of a decarbonized society.” ing with business partners, we have set up working groups involving Group companies. In these ways, we are mounting full-fledged efforts to draft specific plans and engage in support measures to meet our targets. Aeon’s Approach Case Studies Exemplifying Aeon’s Promotion of Renewable Energy As a means of setting environmental goals toward preventing Natural Refrigerant Declaration, which promotes the introducglobal warming, in 2008 Aeon formulated the Aeon Manifesto tion of natural refrigerants (CO2) with low global warming on the Prevention of Global Warming, becoming the first potential in refrigerator and freezer cases. Introducing the PPA Model* Japanese retailer to set targets for reducing CO2 emissions. In March 2018, we established the Aeon Decarbonization To increase the use of renewable energy, Aeon has begun Overview of the PPA Model We also established the Aeon Eco Project in 2012, and through Vision 2050. This initiative for achieving a carbon-free society introducing the power purchase agreement (PPA) model at these efforts we have worked to reduce energy use and CO2 addresses the entire value chain, including customers and commercial facilities. We have entered into an agreement emissions. In addition, in 2011 the Company also enacted the business partners. to provide the roof space of Aeon Town Konan to a PPA Establishes, operates, and provider. Under the agreement, the PPA provider will erect maintains the solar power system Future Initiatives high-capacity solar panels capable of generating more Electricity PPA than 1 megawatt of electricity, which Aeon Town Konan consumer provider The Paris Agreement put forth the goal to limit the increase in (TCFD). We believe companies must help create social value will purchase for its own use. We are introducing this the earth’s temperature to within 2°C of pre-Industrial through the economic value they generate from the sustainmodel to achieve the targets of Aeon Decarbonization Uses renewable AEON Revolution levels. In order to help achieve this goal, we will conable, long-term growth of their businesses. We are prioritizing Vision 2050. We plan to continue expanding the use of energy tinue our efforts under the Aeon Decarbonization Vision 2050. measures to address climate change, with proactive measures solar power by encouraging Group companies to make We are taking this new vision as an opportunity to help shift the including the reduction of CO2 emissions. In this way, we are effective use of space at their commercial facilities. entire international community toward renewable energy by helping to realize a sustainable society. joining RE100, a global initiative for businesses committed to * Under the power purchase agreement (PPA) model, a PPA provider agrees to erect a solar power generation system. The counterparty provides space Pays electricity fees operating with 100% renewable energy. Aeon is the first largefor the system on its site—on a roof, for instance—and agrees to purchase scale retail company in Japan to participate in this initiative. the electricity generated by the system. We have also expressed our agreement with recommendations by the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Aeon Decarbonization Vision 2050 In order to realize a decarbonized society, Aeon has established the Aeon Decarbonization Vision Basic Agreement on the Provision of New Services for Renewable Energy Use 2050, as well as an interim greenhouse gas emission reduction target to be achieved by 2030. Working with an Electric Utility Aeon will help realize a decarbonized society through its following three-pronged Aeon Co., Ltd. and Chubu Electric Power Co., Inc. entered a approach for reducing greenhouse gas (hereinafter “CO2”) emissions. basic agreement in November 2018 to provide a new serElectric vice called Korekara Denki (“electricity of the future”), to utilities Stores Products and Logistics Hand in Hand with Customers reduce CO2 emissions related to the operation of Aeon Chubu Electric Power collects excess solar We will reduce the total CO2 emissions We will continue our efforts to achieve We will cooperate with our stores. This service targets Aeon customers who use solar power from households and supplies it to from our stores to zero by 2050. zero CO2 emissions from our business customers for the realization of a power to generate electricity and are reaching the end of Aeon stores operations. decarbonized society. current feed-in tariff agreements. With this service, Chubu Customers AEON Electric Power will collect excess solar power from houseWe will reduce the total CO2 emissions from our stores by 35% by 2030 (compared with 2010). holds and supply this electricity to Aeon stores. Aeon will Aeon provides WAON points to customers Interim Target provide customers with WAON points* commensurate based on the amount of electricity provided Energy conservation with the amount of electricity they provide. 90% of Aeon’s CO2 emissions is Reduction of electricity use at stores Our Approach In August 2019, we entered a similar agreement with generated from electricity and shift to renewable energy Renewable energy Chugoku Electric Power Co., Inc., and we plan to gradually Shop using WAON points Our Initiatives to Date expand such initiatives. * WAON points are used with Aeon’s WAON e-money payment service. 2008 2011 2012 2018 2020 2050 The points can be used for purchases at participating stores, both in and outside the Aeon Group (411,000 participating locations throughAeon Decarbonization Vision 2050 out Japan as of April 30, 2019). Aeon Manifesto on the Prevention Aeon Eco Project of Global Warming (2012–) (2008–2011) 10 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 11 Key Issue 1 Realization of a Decarbonized Society We have set targets for energy use and generation: improvstores, drugstores, and others. We are considering the switch FY2018 Results and Target of KPI Reducing CO2 Emissions from Stores ing energy efficiency by promoting the conservation of energy to natural refrigerants on a gradual basis, even in existing through smart usage and generating renewable energy, centerTotal annual CO2 Total energy use factor stores. ing on solar power generation. We have also set the objective emissions per unit (Amount of heat/total floor area) (CO2 emissions/total floor area) *1 G lobal warming potential: Coefficient indicating the degree of impact on Aeon Decarbonization Vision 2050 of establishing temporary local shelters, which involves turning global warming. If CO2 is 1, the alternative fluorocarbons being used in refrigstores into disaster-prevention facilities that function as life0.102t/ m 2 2.776GJ / m 2 erator cases are several thousand times that amount. 2010 lines in times of emergency, and we are promoting initiatives *2 Natural refrigerants: Substances known as natural refrigerants include ammoIn order to realize a decarbonized society, Aeon has estabnia and carbon hydride as well as CO2. toward these goals. 2017 0.0785t/ m 2 2.160GJ / m 2 lished the Aeon Decarbonization Vision 2050, as well as an interim 35% CO2 reduction target to be achieved by 2030. Reducing CO2 Emissions and 2018 0.0776t/m2 (expected) 2.120GJ/m2 (expected) Based on this vision, Aeon will work to reduce its total emisImproving Energy Efficiency sions of CO2 and other greenhouse gases from its stores to For companies newly joining the Group due to business reorganization zero, while cooperating with all stakeholders, including cusand other reasons, figures have been recalculated back to reflect those tomers and business partners, across the supply chain (such Aeon stores consume a large volume of energy*1 for air condifor FY2010. as manufacturers and logistics companies), for the realization tioning and lighting to offer a comfortable shopping environof a decarbonized society. ment, as well as for refrigerator and freezer cases. For Aeon, For the attainment of its interim target, Aeon will foster which has a store network spanning Japan as well as other Aeon Style Tsu-Minami Aeon Style Sendai Oroshimachi energy conservation measures for the use of electricity, which countries in Asia, the reduction of CO2 emissions from stores*2 accounts for about 90% of the total CO2 emissions generated contributes significantly to reducing emissions for the entire Improving Energy Management Practices from its stores and business operations, thereby meeting its Company. Accordingly, we place particular emphasis on reducgoal of reducing CO2 emissions by at least 1% per year while ing CO2 emissions from our stores. Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. has systematized an in-house Energy FY2018 Results and Target of KPI continuing to achieve business growth. The interim target was We continued to proactively shift to LED lighting, and LED is Advisor Program aimed at leveraging its Aeon Decarbonization Measures for assessing replenishment volume and preset in line with the criteria provided under the Science Based now being used for basic lighting and spotlights in around Vision 2050 to further develop human resources at its retail venting leakage of fluorocarbons used in air-conditioning, Targets (SBT) international initiative launched to help reach a 7,500 stores. In addition, we undertook initiatives such as the stores. The Energy Advisors help assess the status of energy refrigerated display cases, and freezers target upheld in the Paris Agreement. The interim target is SBTintroduction and updating of energy-saving equipment and use in stores and work to propose and promote ideas toward certified as a rational, “science-based” target. verification of rational energy management techniques. For more efficient usage. As of the end of February 2019, a cumuAeon Delight Co., Ltd. introduces centralized management system (operated in 22 companies such as GMSs, supermarexample, facility managers from Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. worked lative total of 730 Energy Advisors had been certified. kets, discount stores, etc.). with store energy advisors to share and roll out energy-saving In the future, we will continue to develop more certified 2015 Full-scale operation of centralized management system introbest practices of supermarkets at stores with low efficient use Energy Advisors, enhance the capabilities of current Energy duced by Aeon Delight Co., Ltd. in FY2015, and implementation of energy. Aeon’s electricity use in FY2018 is forecasted to be Advisors, and work to expand the program to Group compaof fluorocarbon leakage management. 2016 approximately 24% lower than in FY2010. nies, including those outside of Japan. In FY2019, we aim to reduce energy use even further by Fluorocarbon leakage management of affiliate introducing new energy-saving equipment and improving companies by Aeon Delight Co., Ltd., focused 2018 energy-saving operations. We have begun full-fledged initiaPreventing Leakage of Fluorocarbons and on centralized management of data, which tives to reduce our total energy use, and are building a framePromoting Use of Natural Refrigerant Equipment includes aggregation of historical data, digitizaResults Aeon Mall Zama tion, and document storage, in addition to prowork to meet our long-term goals viding support for complying with laws and *1 Based on amount of heat, electricity accounts for 94% of energy consumption, More and more freezing and refrigeration units started using providing data management. while the remainder consists of city gas, LP gas, and heavy oil. non-ozone depleting alternatives to chlorofluorocarbons 2020 Reducing CO2 Emissions *2 All CO2 emissions from stores are generated through energy consumption. (CFCs) as refrigerant following the abolition of the production Generating Specifically, around 7% comes from direct emissions through city gas, LP gas, and Improving Energy and use of ozone-depleting CFCs under the Montreal Protocol Renewable Energy (P.19) and combustion of heavy oil (Scope 1) and around 93% comes from indirect Efficiency (P.12) emissions through power consumption (Scope 2). The calculation of CO2 adopted in 1987. However, these alternatives have extremely Introduction of refrigerated display cases and freezers that emissions from power consumption uses calculation standards and an emishigh global warming potential (GWP)*1 and the problem of use natural refrigerants sions factor pursuant to the Act on Promotion of Global Warming FY2018 Results leaking into the atmosphere, which prompted calls to switch to Countermeasures. Reduction in CO2 emissions Solar panels natural refrigerants with low GWP. Under the Kigali Amendment Introduced in six new GMSs and eight supermarkets and Down by approximately 90% Installed at 1,022 stores small-sized stores (total of 42 stores) adopted in October 2016, alternative fluorocarbons are newly 2015 (compared with FY2010 levels) Electricity generation capacity of Energy use (unit basis) approximately 67,000 kW (total up subject to the provisions of the Montreal Protocol and clear Introduced in 229 stores including 84 GMSs and supermarkets, Energy consumption expected to be to FY2018) reduction targets have been established for the production and as well as 145 drugstores (total of 375 stores) 2017 reduced by approximately 24% consumption of alternative fluorocarbons, which need to be (compared with FY2010 levels) addressed. Introduced in around 260 stores including 146 Example Initiatives In 2009, Aeon became Japan’s first retailer to start introduc2018 GMSs and supermarkets, as well as 112 drugResults Switch from basic lighting and spotInstallation of solar panels ing refrigerators and freezers that use a low-GWP natural stores (total of 635 stores) lights to LED lighting at approximately refrigerant*2 (CO2). Following this, we announced the Aeon 7,500 stores across Japan (total up to Natural Refrigerant Declaration in 2011 and have been install2020 FY2018) ing natural refrigerant-based refrigerators and freezers in every new store. As of the end of February 2019, we have installed natural refrigerant-based refrigerators and freezers at 635 stores, including new GMSs, supermarkets, convenience 12 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 13 Key Issue 1 Realization of a Decarbonized Society Installation of Recharging Stations Development of Eco Stores [Shifting from Smart Next-Generation Smart Aeon Initiatives TOPICS for Electric Vehicles Aeon to Next-Generation Smart Aeon] In September 2019, we opened the Aeon Fujiidera Shopping Participation of Around 1,600 Aeon In response to the increasing use of electric and plug-in hybrid Working to build environmentally friendly stores, Aeon has Center, which extends the Smart Aeon eco-store model to the Facilities in the CO2 Reduction/ vehicles, we have installed recharging stations at a majority of defined Eco Stores as outlets that achieve at least 20% lower next generation by embracing a decarbonization model. The Light-Down Campaign new shopping centers opened since 2008. CO2 emissions in comparison with conventional stores, and a store uses an open network system that integrates manageAeon participated in the CO2 Reduction/Light-Down Campaign We are actively working to establish WAON authentication CASBEE*1 ranking of A or higher. Since the opening of our first ment of all the equipment necessary for the facility’s operation, on June 21, 2018 (summer solstice) and July 7, 2018 (Cool and billing services and to install recharging stations at existEco Store, the Aeon Town Chikusa Shopping Center, in May allowing both on-site and remote monitoring. Earth Day*1). Under this campaign, around 1,600 Group stores ing stores, and as of the end of February 2019 there were 2,433 2005, 12 such stores had been opened by February 2013. This system allows data on the facility’s operation to be and business sites turned off some exterior lighting between 8 stations (1,972 in Japan, 461 overseas) installed at 232 stores In September 2012, we started working on further developgathered and analyzed to achieve greater energy savings. p.m. and 10 p.m. to encourage customers in Japan to think in Japan and overseas. ments for our next-generation (Smart Aeon) Eco Stores. In Under the PPA model,* some of the electricity used by the facilabout global warming and other aspects of the environment, Furthermore, Aeon Mall Co., Ltd. joined the global initiative addition to building stores with lower environmental impacts, ity is provided by solar panels on the facility’s roof, which is in providing an opportunity to engage in environmental conserEV100 to coincide with the completion of installations at all of we also formulated five criteria (Smart Energy; Integration of line with Aeon’s efforts to expand the use of renewable energy. vation activities close to home. its shopping centers across Japan. E-Money and the Internet; Traffic Situation (Smart Mobility); The open network system, which streamlines facility operaJapan’s Ministry of the Environment launched this Biodiversity and Landscape; and Disaster Prevention and tions, and the use of renewable energy optimize overall energy campaign in 2003. Being in agreement with the campaign’s * EV100 is a global initiative for the promotion of electric vehicles undertaken by objectives, Aeon has participated since the beginning, with the international NGO The Climate Group since 2017. This initiative is aimed at Regional Infrastructure) from the perspective of civicand generation and conservation. 2018 marking the 16th time. In 2018, this campaign led to the increasing the use of electric vehicles by companies and improving the community-building efforts carried out in cooperation with * Under the power purchase agreement (PPA) model, a PPA provider agrees to savings of approximately 54,300 kWh across the Group, environment. local regions, and we are pursuing related initiatives. erect a solar power generation system. The counterparty provides space for the reducing emissions equivalent to some 28 tons of CO2.*2 Starting with the opening of the first Smart Aeon store, Aeon system on its site—on a roof, for instance—and agrees to purchase the electricity Number of installed recharging stations for electric vehicles Mall Yahata Higashi, in March 2013, the number of Smart Aeon generated by the system. 2,433 stations stores has increased to 11*2 as of the end of February 2019. (1,972 in Japan, 461 overseas) *1 CASBEE: An environmental performance evaluation system for architecture that was developed by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and at 232 stores in Japan and overseas Tourism in 2001. It is used as an index that objectively evaluates and displays such performances as consideration for the global and surrounding environment, waste in running costs, and comfort for users. (as of the end of February 2019) *2 Aeon Mall Yahata Higashi, Aeon Town Shin-Funabashi, Aeon Mall Osaka Dome City, Aeon Mall Makuhari New City, Aeon Mall Nagoya Chaya, Aeon Mall *1 Cool Earth Day: A day for people throughout Japan to gaze at the Kyoto Katsuragawa, Aeon Mall Kisarazu, Aeon Mall Okinawa Rycom, Aeon Milky Way and contemplate the importance of the global Mall Shijonawate, Aeon Mall Sakai Teppocho, and Aeon Mall Zama environment. On this day, which takes place once a year, people should consider the path toward a low-carbon society and promote efforts in their homes and workplaces. *2 Calculated on the basis of materials entitled “CO2 Reductions in FY2016 (Final Values)” provided by The Electric Power Council for a Low Carbon Society on January 31, 2018. Inspections by facility managers and use Generation of enough electricity to power of cutting-edge technologies to achieve around 30 households for a year efficient facility operations 14 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 15 Key Issue 1 Realization of a Decarbonized Society Developing and Selling Products That Help Using Arterial Transportation to Promote a Modal Shift In addition, we have continued our trailer relay transport iniReduce CO2 Emissions Reducing CO2 Emissions from through Collaboration with Companies in Other Industries tiative in collaboration with Kao Corporation since last year. By Products and Logistics Aeon Global SCM Co., Ltd., which is responsible for Aeon’s conducting trailer load exchanges at intermediary relay points, logistics, aims to reduce CO2 emissions through its Aeon we can facilitate efficient transport in an ongoing manner. Aeon is working to develop and sell products that help Modal Shift Study Group. In addition to rail transport initiatives, reduce CO2 emissions. Our TOPVALU “Less is More” organic Reducing CO2 Emissions through Aeon Global SCM is conducting joint research with member Yukigura potatoes from Toya, Hokkaido Prefecture are one Visualization in Logistics companies on coastal transportation initiatives. example of our efforts. These potatoes use the cooling power Efforts to make a modal shift toward rail transport tailed off of snow for preservation after harAeon prescribed “CO2 emissions per case during delivery from in FY2018, affected by a succession of natural disasters. vest, which reduces electricity use distribution centers to stores” as a KPI, and is working to However, we continued working with Kao Corporation, Nestlé and helps reduce CO2 emissions. In reduce CO2 emissions through its “visualization” in logistics. Japan Ltd., and Suntory Holdings Limited on the round-trip FY2018, Aeon handled 30% of all As a result of our continued efforts such as the relocation of sharing of 31-foot containers. potatoes shipped by JA-Toyako, and distribution sites, promotion of eco-driving,*1 reduction in freCO2 emissions have been reduced by quency of deliveries through enhanced loading efficiency of about 47 tons through this initiative. delivery vehicles, and introduction of environmentally friendly vehicles, in FY2018 our CO2 emissions per case during delivery TOPVALU “Less is More” organic Yukigura potatoes from distribution centers to stores were 117.2g CO2, a reducfrom Toya, Hokkaido tion of approximately 3.6% from FY2017. In regard to contracted transport companies, we continue to request their cooperation on eco-driving, and provide and share Initiatives at Group Companies information by periodically issuing “Eco Drive News.” We also have an award system for safe driving. Awards are In FY2019, we extended lead times for long-distance arterial Efforts by Maruetsu, Inc. to Prevent Global Warming given each month to people who work 20 days or more and transport by one day. This move addressed the issues facing and Support Environmental Conservation in Affected drive 3,000 km or more and are tracked as exhibiting zero signs the transportation sector (driver shortages and improving the Areas through Carbon Offsetting of dangerous driving, which include rapid acceleration, rapid working environment for long-distance transportation). Maruetsu, Inc. engages in carbon offsetting every year over a deceleration, and speeding. In FY2018, 47 out of the 26,317 Through energetic efforts to achieve a modal shift, we will also two-month period from October to November to compensate people who were eligible received the awards. work to reduce CO2. for CO2 emissions created through procedures such as the Some 20 companies, including manufacturers and distribumanufacture of plastic bags. These emissions are offset by tors, took part in an environmentally friendly vehicle study Sharing of 31-foot containers with Kao Corporation, Nestlé Japan Ltd., and Suntory conservation of the Tohoku forest, which absorbs the CO2. group sponsored by Aeon. In addition to sharing information, Holdings Limited In 2018, Maruetsu purchased CO2 credits from the three preparticipants had the opportunity to drive a large CNG-powered fectures of Iwate, Miyagi, and Fukushima, areas affected by truck.*2 In FY2019, we will continue promoting tangible and the Great East Japan Earthquake, in order to promote the intangible initiatives, such as safe driving workshops including Using coastal shipping, in July 2017 Aeon began collaboratenvironmental activities associated with the prevention of global warming and to support disaster-affected areas. the prevention of accidents when unloading and a system of ing with the Sapporo Group on round-trip shipping using roll-on These offset credits were purchased by using proceeds awards for good drivers. roll-off (RORO) cargo ships for freight transportation between from the sale of recyclable resources such as paper cartons the Port of Shimizu in Shizuoka Prefecture and the Port of Oita *1 Eco-driving: Efforts to reduce CO2 emissions when driving by conserving fuel and PET bottles, which were collected from stores with the in Oita Prefecture. In addition to this initiative, which was the such as through gentle steering and avoiding unnecessary idling help of customers. As in FY2017, Maruetsu provided addi*2 CNG: Compressed natural gas first in Japan, we added a route to accumulate products from tional donations exceeding this collected amount. CNG-powered trucks are fueled by natural gas, which generates less CO2 business partners in northern Kyushu and transport them to In addition to these efforts, customers are cooperating with emissions and emits essentially no nitrogen oxides (NOx) or particulate the Kanto region. We also opened up new shipping routes the company’s efforts to reduce plastic bags by bringing their matter. spanning the region from Aichi Prefecture to the Tohoku area own. Maruetsu will continue to promote such efforts to preand the region from Mie Prefecture to the Kyushu area. These vent global warming. efforts increased the volume handled to the equivalent of 4,984 FY2018 Results and Target of KPI Amount of CO2 emissions offset: 170 tons JR containers (up 308.2% year on year). CO2 emissions per case during delivery from distribution Value of CO2 emissions offset: ¥1,861,000 centers to stores * As part of our efforts to reduce CO2 emissions (greenhouse gases) from the company, we purchase credits that function as emission 10.2% reduction compared with FY2013 2015 rights to offset emissions that are difficult to reduce. These credits offset emissions by funding forest conservation efforts or other activi11.9% reduction compared with FY2013 ties that absorb or reduce emissions and thus compensate for the CO2 2016 produced. 17.2% reduction compared with FY2013 2017 2018 3.6% reduction compared with FY2017 Results 2020 Target Shared round-trip transport using RORO cargo ships 16 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 17 Key Issue 1 Realization of a Decarbonized Society Tabulating CO2 Emissions across TOPICS TOPICS the Entire Supply Chain Generating Electricity at Stores Verification of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Aeon Delight Co., Ltd. cooperates on demonIn addition to managing greenhouse gas emissions they generby Third Party stration project utilizing blockchain technolate directly (Scope 1) and indirect emissions from the use of Generating Renewable Energy ogy to realize a decarbonized society Between February and June electricity (Scope 2), companies must now manage emissions 2019, we conducted third-party Aeon Delight, which is responsible for the management of across their entire supply chain (Scope 3). In response to this verifications at 35 consolidated Aeon proactively engages in the generation of renewable Aeon’s facilities, took part in the Ministry of the Environment’s development, Aeon has been calculating Scope 3 CO2 emisGroup companies, including energy, using solar panels installed at shopping centers, genLow Carbon Technology Research and Development Program sions, and priority areas have been subjected to regular thirdAeon Co., Ltd. eral supermarkets, supermarkets, and convenience stores. In and the 2018 Value Creation Model Project for Renewable party verification since FY2012. Aeon has calculated Scope 3 We will continue to improve FY2018, we installed solar panels with a generation capacity of Energy and Reducing CO2 Emissions by Utilizing Blockchain emissions*1 from FY2012, and locations in priority areas peridata reliability and reduce green2,702 kW at 32 stores. This brings the total number of stores Technology. In April 2017, we cooperated on a demonstration odically send results to a third party for verification.*2 house gas emissions. project utilizing blockchain technology with the aim of spreadwith installed units to 1,022, and our total generation capacity In the future, we will further expand the precision of our data, 1. Scope of Verification to 67,000 kW.* ing the use of renewable energy in order to realize a decarbonadd more businesses for which we gather data, and use data Energy-derived CO2 emisized society. In addition to contributing to analysis to pursue reductions in CO2 emissions. sions (Scope 1 and Scope 2) The purpose of this project is to promote the efficient use of reductions in electricity use between April 1, 2017 and decentralized renewable energy and verification of power trad*1  For calculations, we reference the Emissions Rate Index Database for March 31, 2018 by 35 Group through self-consumption, we ing.* The Aeon Group installed dedicated equipment at 20 Calculating GHG Emissions, etc. in an Organization’s Supply Chain (Ver. 2.6). companies, including Aeon will sell the electricity generated stores in FY2018. FY2018, and will continue to cooperate *2 In FY2016, verification by a third party was received with regards to Scope 3 Co., Ltd. by solar panels to power compatoward the operation of these equipment in the Saitama emissions from transport and shipments (upstream). This procedure is set to 2. Methodology nies through a feed-in tariff Misono area. continue moving forward. We received third-party verification based on the requiresystem. The profit we earn from Solar panel installation With the adoption of this new technology, Aeon Delight will ments of ISO 14064–3 (2006): Greenhouse gases–Part 3: electricity sales offsets electricadd reasonable value to renewable energy, and aim to provide FY2018 Scope 3 Emissions companies and households with surplus electricity from Aeon Specification with guidance for the validation and verificaity rate hikes, contributes to our BCP, and enables us to make tion of greenhouse gas assertions. environmental investments. companies and general households and clean energy from Emissions Composition Scope 3 Emissions Categories renewable energy operators. (t-CO2e) (%) To expand our use of renewable energy, in FY2019 we intro1 Purchased products and services 3,466,252 50.9 Verified greenhouse gas emissions duced the PPA model*2 for installing solar panels at commer* Utilizing blockchain technology to engage in power trading that tracks 2 Capital goods 1,680,186 24.7 cial facilities. Under this model, stores provide space on their power generation history. Scope 1 category 217,530t-CO2e roofs for PPA companies to erect solar panels, and the stores Fuel and energy related activities not Scope 2 category 2,150,624t-CO2e 3 included in Scope 1 and Scope 2 331,169 4.9 agree to purchase the generated electricity for their own use.. As we work to realize a decarbonized society, we will con4 Transport and shipments (upstream) 226,776 3.3 TOPICS tinue promoting various schemes to generate renewable 5 Waste from business activities 116,593 1.7 energy, including the reduction of CO2 emissions, by shifting Participating in Renewable Energy 6 Business travel 80 0.0 toward renewable energy on electricity we purchase from other providers. Demonstration Experiment Using Blockchain 7 Employee commutes 49,218 0.7 Technology 8 Leased assets (upstream) 0 0.0 *1 67,000 kW is equivalent to the capacity to cover the annual electricity use of 9 Transport and shipments (downstream) 0 0.0 approximately 15,200 households. In April 2019, Ministop Co., Ltd. began participating in the Low *2 Under the power purchase agreement (PPA) model, a PPA provider agrees to Carbon Technology Research, Development and 10 Processing of products sold 0 0.0 erect a solar power generation system. The counterparty provides space for Demonstration Program, which was consigned to DIGITAL 11 Use of products sold 131,048 1.9 the system on its site—on a roof, for instance—and agrees to purchase the GRID Corporation by Japan’s Ministry of the Environment. electricity generated by the system. 12 Disposal of products sold 73,277 1.1 Aeon Mall Urawa Misono in Saitama Prefecture, the first retailer to take part in the program, will act as the digital grid 13 Investment leased assets (downstream) 716,873 10.5 controller for electrical power transmission, along with other 14 Franchise 0 0.0 FY2018 Results and Target of KPI participants including detached homes in the smart commu15 Investments 16,204 0.2 Power generation capacity of renewable energy nity and five Ministop stores. We will work with DIGITAL GRID and Aeon Delight to achieve decarbonization through the total 6,807,676 100.0 (electricity sales only) effective use of renewable energy, aiming also for autono55,000 kW mous operation in the event of a disaster. 2014 59,000 kW * Demonstration experiment period: April 2019 to March 2020 2015 61,000 kW Diagram of Low Carbon Technology Research, Development and 2016 Demonstration Program at Urawa Misono (Ministop Co., Ltd.) 65,000 kW 2017 2018 Approximately 67,000 kW Results 18 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 19 Key Issue 2 Conservation of Biodiversity Management Approach Recognition of Challenges Highlight Efforts to Sustain “Kabayaki” (the Broiled) Eel Tradition The blessings of nature that constitute our resources are in a the recognition that they cannot be sustained without the ecostate of crisis with overfishing damaging the ecosystem and system services of agricultural and marine products, which is global warming causing abnormal weather. The world continwhy Aeon continues to work on various initiatives for the susues to lose its tropical forests while the number of fauna and tainable use of resources, with biodiversity conservation conIn 2010, we formulated the Aeon Biodiversity Principle. Since then, we have promoted the sustainable procurement flora found on the red list of endangered species continues to sidered as one of the key issues. of products sold at Aeon. To help sustain Japanese culinary traditions through sustainable procurement, we grow unabated. Also, Aeon’s business operations are based on addressed eel, many species of which are endangered. In June 2018, we set out the Aeon Policy on the Carrying of Aeon’s Approach Eel. In accordance with this policy, we have launched the Indonesian Eel (anguilla bicolor) Conservation Project to transition to the procurement of eel with proven sustainability. Aeon established the Aeon Biodiversity Principle in order to continually promote the sustainable use of resources while conserving biodiversity. We are promoting various efforts in accordance with the Code of Conduct that was defined in this Principle. The Aeon Policy on the Carrying of Eel Sustainable Procurement T  ogether with Customers through the Aeon Forest We formulated the Aeon Sustainable Procurement Principle in Circulation Program 1 We will primarily sell two types: Japanese eel and Indonesian eel. order to aim for compatibility between the continuous developWe have been planting trees with customers since 1991 as an 2 We aim to sell fully traceable eel by 2023. ment of business and the sustainability of natural resources. activity that embodies the Aeon Basic Principles. Based on the Aeon Sustainable Procurement Policy and 2020 In addition to “planting” activities, Aeon’s employees periodi3 We will ensure the sustainability of Indonesian eel by advancing the Indonesian Eel Conservation Project. Sustainable Procurement Goals, which we announced in April cally take part in workshops to learn how to manage planting 4 We will develop spitchcocked products made from ingredients other than eel. 2017, in June 2018 we formulated the Aeon Policy on the zones, learning from specialists how to weed and thin planted Carrying of Eel and launched the world’s first eel fishery areas. These efforts connect to our “nurture” and “thrive” objecimprovement project (FIP) in Indonesia. In October 2019, we tives for next-generation forests. began affixing labels with GLOBALG.A.P. Numbers (GGNs) to Initiatives to Date and Results our products—becoming the first company in Asia to do so— and thereby promoting the procurement of products produced to global standards. Selling “Kabayaki” Eel That Can Offering TOPVALU Gurinai Natural Developing “Kabayaki” Eel Be Traced to Its Origins “Kabayaki” Indonesian Eel Alternatives Future Initiatives‍ We have begun offering the first We sell “Kabayaki” eel produced To carry “Kabayaki” eel culture Environmental agencies and the Conference of the Parties daily basis to continually highlight the importance of biodiver“Kabayaki” eel in Japan that can be from Indonesian eel (anguilla forward, we are developing eel (COP) to the Convention on Biological Diversity are working to sity through the familiar platforms of stores and products. In traced completely, from the catching bicolor) that has been harvested and alternatives, such as ASC-certified make biodiversity mainstream through various social and ecoparticular, efforts based on the Aeon Sustainable Procurement of glass eel fry to its farming and processed centrally under our broiled salmon belly. nomic activities promoting the protection of biodiversity and Principle are also profoundly connected to the Sustainable broiling, all of which occurs within Indonesian Shortfin Eel its sustainable use, from worldwide to local communities. Development Goals (SDGs), and we will promote further efforts Shizuoka Prefecture. Conservation Project to ensure the Consequently, Aeon will utilize its business characteristic of aimed at achieving the Sustainable Procurement Goals for sustainability of eel. coming into contact with vast numbers of consumers on a 2020. Aeon Biodiversity Principle Aeon’s business depends on the blessings of nature, such as agricultural and marine products. Recognizing this, Aeon formulated the Aeon Biodiversity Principle toward the conservation of biodiversity, which is essential in achieving a sustainable society. Basic Principle Action Guidelines (Excerpt) Recognizing the impact of our overall corporate activities on the eco1. Products: We will set sustainability targets for resource managed system, we actively focus on reducing this impact as well as on conserfresh seafood and processed products, engage in their purchase and vation activities, working in collaboration with our stakeholders, sale while sharing those targets with our business partners, and including our customers, local authorities, and non-profit organizations. communicate related information to customers. Aeon’s plans for the future include taking the natural environment and local community into consideration in its eel producWe focus on the following points related to the ecosystem in our corpo2. Stores: We will continue to promote tree-planting campaigns with tion and distribution by ensuring the eels it procures are 100% traceable by 2023. At the same time, we aim to offer “tradirate activities: local customers at new store sites and continue to develop Eco Stores with less environmental impact than conventional facilities. tional taste” eel and suggest innovative ideas for “Kabayaki” eel alternatives that customers can enjoy. Through our corporate activities, we 3. With Customers: Through tree-planting campaigns and other pro1. Remain conscious of blessings and burdens. grams, we will share environmental awareness and learn together 2. Engage in initiatives that protect and nurture. with all of our customers. 3. Disclose information on our activities.。  Formulated in March 2010 20 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 21 Key Issue 2 Conservation of Biodiversity Promoting the Procurement of Number of MSC-Certified Products Handled Using Sustainable Resources Aeon Sustainable Procurement Principle Sustainable Seafood (Items) 1. Eliminating illegal gathering or trading of natural resources and 40 41 illegal fishing. Aeon established the Aeon Sustainable Seafood Procurement 38 36 2. Establishing and managing Aeon standards from the perspecPromoting Sustainable Procurement Policy to help protect the limited marine resources and to pass tive of biodiversity preservation and preventing the depletion of The products Aeon handles are made possible by the bounty down to future generations its traditional culture surrounding natural resources. 23 of nature and contain raw materials procured from producers 3. Minimizing the use of non-renewable resources. food sources from the water and sea. and locations around the globe. Efforts toward the formulation 4. Establishing traceability, including place of production and fishWe formulated the Seafood Assessment Committee com15 of procurement guidelines began in 2011 in order to realize ing methods, for agricultural products and marine resources. prising Aeon’s Environment Division and other divisions at even higher levels of sustainable procurement. Through the 5. Preventing the destruction of forest land with high conservation Aeon Group companies, shared function companies, and other work of the CSR Procurement Guidelines Committee, comprisvalue. companies. Based on input from external stakeholders (NGOs, ing managers from related Aeon departments, and tasked with  Formulated in February 2014 the government, seafood businesses), we analyzed risks and 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 gathering CSR procurement-related information, we formuopportunities, reviewed feasible projects, and used the results lated and published our Aeon Sustainable Procurement to plan key initiatives. Principle. As a member of the retail industry, we will hold ourselves accountable for promoting more highly sustainable procurement at every stage of the product lifecycle—from the Aeon Sustainable Seafood Procurement Policy sourcing of ingredients to production, sale, use, and disposal. MSC-C-51735 Carry out regular risk assessments from a resource depletion prevention and biodiversity conservation perspective. Also, in order to Aeon Sustainable Procurement Policy and 2020 Goals and FY2018 Performance mitigate risks, review feasible countermeasures and strive to proFY2018 Results Summary of Actions/ cure sustainable seafood. TOPVALU Gurinai Natural Subcategory KPI Scope Covered Target U.S.-produced salted cod (Rate of Achievement) Initiatives Undertaken in FY2018 Specific Measures FY2020: • Percentage of products 1) Held GAP briefing for contract manufacturers Aeon is constantly devising and implementing measures to shift • Conduct management through with GAP certification 2) Held kick-off meetings and area meetings on from endangered seafood to seafood with a sustainable backing Good Agricultural Practice (GAP) based on GFSI: 92.2% organic products Further, in 2014 we became the first store in Asia to sell ASCSustainable (private brand products) into the future. Consolidated based on Global Food Safety 3) Increased farms, processing bases, and certified salmon. We offer 18 ASC-certified salmon items procurement • Organic products as a Group Initiative (GFSI)*1 for all private participating operating companies 1. Provision of Sustainable Products initiatives in companies in brands percentage of agricultural 4) Expanded TOPVALU Gurinai Organic brand to spanning nine salmon species as of the end of February 2019. agricultural product sales: 20% • Actively sell sustainable seafood such as MSC-certified and products Japan • Have organic products account 356 items, making it the largest lineup of Our goal is to realize sustainable procurement by popularizing for 5% of agricultural product achieved organic products in Japan’s retail industry ASC-certified products sales (perishable and processed products) “responsible” aquaculture products that do not place a large • Strengthen handling of complete aquaculture (as of the end of February 2019) burden on the environment and that are cultivated with consid2. Elimination of Illegal Trade FY2020: • Food Safety 1) D ecided to seek Safe Quality Food (SQF) eration for local communities and human rights. Management System • Comply with international conventions, such as the Convention • Conduct management through certification Sustainable Food Safety Management (processing plant) prod2) Advanced measures for Tasmanian beef on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna * The ASC manages the certification system for aquaculture products. Promoting sustainable procurement (products) procurement Consolidated System (FSMS) based on GFSI uct sales: 70% (of PB and Junkikei (healthy chicken) and Flora (the Washington Convention) initiatives in Group compaor conduct management products) livestock nies in Japan through GAP based on GFSI at • Food Safety 3. Establishment of Traceability Measures products plants that process private Management System • Promote strengthening of resource management in Indonesia Number of ASC-Certified Products Handled brands (farm) product sales: 25% (Items) 18 (of PB products) 4. Regular Risk Assessments 16 • Launch organization to promote sustainable procurement FY2020: • Percentage of CoC certi1) MSC certification: 41 items spanning 22 • Have all consolidated subsidiarfication: 70% (Group fish species Measures in organization development, such as “Assessment ies that operate GMS or SM total) 2) ASC certification: 18 items spanning 9 fish Meetings” and a “Sustainable Procurement Promotion Sustainable obtain Marine Stewardship • Sales of MSCand ASC10 species Committee” for promotion, have begun. 9 procurement Consolidated Council (MSC)*2 or Aquaculture certified products: 52.0% 3) Established permanent Fish Baton area initiatives in Group compaStewardship Council (ASC)*3 (of marine products) carrying only MSCand ASC-certified prod Formulated in February 2014 7 fishery nies in Japan Chain of Custody (CoC) • Percentage of sustainucts at 67 stores of Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. products certification ability-proven products: (as of the end of May 2019) • Provide sustainability-proven pri51.9% vate brand products for all major (private brand products) Developing and Marketing Sustainable MSCCertified and fish species ASC-Certified Products 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 FY2020: Percentage of FSC®1) Launched approximately 80 FSC ®-certified Given the rising pressure of demand on fishery resources Sustainable Use sustainability-certified (Forest certified materials used in stationery products and H&BC private procurement Consolidated worldwide, Aeon sells Marine Stewardship Council (MSC)*Stewardship Council (FSC®)*4 or major categories brand products initiatives in Group compa• Health and beauty care: 2) U sed FSC ®-certified paper for tags on priequivalent) raw materials for all certified and Aquaculture Stewardship Council (ASC)*-certified paper, pulp, and nies in Japan private brands in major product 56.1% vate-brand apparel and food packaging timber • Stationery: 70.8% products to support fishing and aquaculture that are based on categories appropriate resource management. FY2020: • Use of RSPO-certified 1) Established RSPO Procurement Policy Sustainable Use sustainability-certified materials: 0% 2) Held RSPO in-house seminar We have been steadily expanding our lineup of MSC-certified ASC-C-00332 Consolidated procurement Group compa(Roundtable on Sustainable Palm 3) Investigated usage volumes in private products since we began carrying them in 2006. Aeon sell 41 initiatives in Oil (RSPO)* or equivalent) raw 5 brand products palm oil nies in Japan materials for all private brands 4) Considered RSPO procurement methods MSC-certified items spanning 22 fish species—the largest 5) Joined RSPO number of items in Japan’s retail industry—as of the end of TOPVALU Gurinai Natural Note 1: Regarding the procurement of fishery products, Aeon formulated the Aeon Sustainable Seafood Procurement Policy in 2014. February 2019. With a view to preserving natural fish for ASC-certified raw Atlantic salmon Note 2: Regarding the procurement of paper, pulp, and timber, Aeon formulated the Aeon Forest Resources Procurement Principle (Paper/Pulp/Timber) in 2016. coming generations, we source products obtained from fishing *1 GFSI (Global Food Safety Initiative): GFSI is an industry-driven global collaboration to advance food safety powered by The Consumer Goods Forum (TCGF, which is composed of global that is consistent with stewardship of the sea’s environment food manufacturers and retailers). GFSI also recognizes food safety certification programs. *2 MSC (Marine Stewardship Council): MSC is an organization that manages and promotes the MSC certification program, which certifies socially responsible and sustainable fisheries. and resources. *3 ASC (Aquaculture Stewardship Council): ASC is an organization that implements the world’s leading certification and labeling program for responsibly farmed seafood. *4 FSC (Forest Stewardship Council): FSC is an organization established to support environmentally appropriate, socially beneficial, and economically viable management of the world’s * The MSC manages the certification system for natural fishery products, certifies forests. fishery products that have been caught in a manner that preserves the sea’s *5 RSPO (Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil): RSPO was formed to promote the growth and use of sustainable palm oil products through trusted global standards and engagement of environment and resources, and permits the use of MSC labels for such stakeholders. products. 22 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 23 Key Issue 2 Conservation of Biodiversity Examples of Our Recently Launched MSCand ASC-Certified Increasing the Establishment of “Fish Baton” Sales Areas Promoting the Procurement of Sustainable Efforts in Stores: Stores Using FSC®-Certified Domestic Products Based on the desire to “pass along a Forestry Products Lumber rich food culture to the next generaAeon practices store development with consideration for presMarch 2017 Mackerel (MSC, first in Asia) tion,” the establishment of a permaervation of the ecosystem. For example, Ministop Co., Ltd. May 2017 Spitchcocked shark catfish (ASC) In 2016, we established the Aeon Forest Resources Procurement nent sales area called Fish Baton, opened a Ministop store using 100% FSC®-certified domestic July 2017 Albacore tuna (MSC, first in Japan) Principle and based on this principle, we aim to contribute to the which is composed of MSCand lumber in 2009, as the first FSC®-certified convenience store in July 2017 Smelt with roe (MSC, first in the world) balance of utilization and conservation of forest resources. ASC-certified products—indicating Japan. As of the end of February 2019, 276 Ministop stores December 2017 Rice ball (sockeye salmon and cod roe, MSC, first in the world) that they are sustainable marine were FSC®-certified. Going forward, we plan to actively increase January 2018 Yellowtail (ASC, first in the world) products—started in FY2015. As of the number of environmentally friendly stores. February 2018 Pacific ocean perch (MSC, first in Japan) the end of May 2019, this sales area Aeon Forest Resources Procurement March 2018 Greenland halibut (MSC, first in Japan) has expanded to 67 stores. Moreover, Principle (Paper/Pulp/Timber) April 2018 Rice ball (salmon roe and spicy cod roe, MSC) we plan for all of Aeon’s consolidated We will continue to utilize store materials and product raw materials May 2018 Izumi sea bream (ASC, first in Japan) subsidiaries operating general merchandise stores or supermarmade of lumber and pulp produced from properly managed forests, The Chain of Custody (CoC) certification system assures conkets to acquire MSC and ASC CoC certification (distribution and and strive to prevent forest destruction. sumers of the legitimacy and traceability of the abovemenprocessing certification) by 2020. tioned MSCand ASC-certified products. CoC certification had Going forward, Aeon will continue to propose products and sales areas that encourage customers’ daily shopping, promotInitiatives through Our Products been acquired by 14 Aeon Group companies as of the end of Identify risks and opportunities, consider viable methods, and aim February 2019. ing efforts to ensure that the next generation will also enjoy the A Ministop store under construction A properly managed FSC®-certified forest for sustainable procurement through continuous improvement. Aeon will continue promoting sustainable procurement of bounties of nature. in Yamanashi Prefecture fishery products that does not deplete resources by increasing 1. Handling of Sustainable Products * MSCand ASC-certified products are also available in stores without Fish Baton the number of Group companies with CoC certification. Raw material from properly managed forests is authenticated sales areas. TOPICS and products that have acquired FSC® certification are handled Developing and Marketing “Full-Cycle Aquaculture-Raised assertively. First Retailer in Asia to Participate in the GSSI Developing Reused Stores That Employ FSC®Fish” In 2017, Aeon became the first retailer in Asia to participate in 2. Effective Use of Domestic Lumber in Japan Certified Domestic Lumber In 2015, Aeon started supplying tuna and other full-cycle the Global Sustainable Seafood Initiative (GSSI),* an internaEfforts for the effective use of domestic lumber are undertaken in aquaculture-raised* fish that are not dependent on natural order to achieve sustainable recycling in Japan’s forests. As part of a new initiative, in January 2018 Ministop Co., Ltd. tional partnership that implements measures aimed at spreadopened a reused store that uses FSC®-certified domestic lumber resources from the perspective of resource depletion prevening sustainable aquaculture and fishery products. 3. Ensuring of Traceability Measures and is the first commercial facility of its kind anywhere in the world. tion and biodiversity conservaGSSI is tasked with vouching for the legitimacy of and For high-risk countries and regions, confirmation of raw material Moreover, Ministop has chosen a store design that anticipates tion. As of the end of February improving the numerous certification systems for aquaculture traceability to forests are handled on a priority basis. reuse. At the construction stage, for example, we use bolts for the 2019, Aeon sells 13 varieties of and fishery products that exist around the world. To achieve joints between wooden parts so that they can be disassembled full-cycle aquaculture-raised 4. Prevention of Illegal Deforestation and reused. The building of a reused store must meet certain envithese aims, GSSI conducts evaluations and provides accreditaronmental friendliness and cost conditions. These include the disConfirmation of legality of lumber, etc., is conducted based on fish. tion based on the guidelines of the Food and Agriculture tance between the closing store and the opening store (with the laws related to promotion of the use of legally harvested lumber. * Full-cycle aquaculture-raised: Fertilized Organization of the United Nations (FAO). GSSI participants aim of curbing CO2 emissions) and the lead time between store eggs are taken from adult tuna and include fishery operators from respective countries, fishery5. Preservation of Areas with High Conservation Value closing and store opening (with the aim of shortening storage periTOPVALU Gurinai Natural ods). We constructed a reused store that meets these conditions artificially hatched, then those eggs are ASC-certified raw Atlantic salmon related companies, and NGOs. Through our participation in the C  onfirmation of the implementation of precautionary measures is raised in a full cycle that does not rely conducted in order to maintain areas with high conservation utilizing wood from a closed store. GSSI, we will contribute to the achievement of its aims while We can reuse roughly 73% of wooden pillars and beams when on wild tuna stocks. value. increasing the profile of efforts to ensure the sustainability of reusing wood between stores of the same size. To ensure strength, the unique fish species of Japan and Asia. Further, we are partwe use new wood for the base, studs, and braces. (The reuse percentage of our first reused store was 33% because we relocated nering with fishery operators and many other stakeholders to the old store to build a new store with a larger floor area.) increase the distribution of sustainable aquaculture and fishEfforts in Products: Products Using FSC®-Certified Paper ery products. The Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC®) certifies wood prod* The GSSI is the platform for an international partnership aimed at spreading ucts and paper manufactured with timber from properly manTOPICS sustainable fishery products. Participants include producers, fishery-related aged sustainable forests. companies, NGOs, experts, governments from various countries, and the FAO. Aeon has been selling notebooks and other FSC®-certified The GSSI aims to vouch for legitimacy in the supply and sales promotion of certiPromoting Initiatives for Procuring paper products since 2008. In addition, we use FSC®-certified fied aquaculture and fishery products and to encourage improvement in aquaculSustainable Palm Oil ture and fishery product certification systems. To these ends, GSSI has materials for price tags, tags, some cardboard, and other freestablished a global benchmark tool for officially accrediting aquaculture and quently used materials. Palm oil, which is widely used in processed foods and other prodfishery product certification schemes that meet the FAO’s guidelines on the ecoucts, is the world’s most widely produced plant oil. A number of Up to now, about 80 stationery and H&BC category FSC®issues have been associated with the rapid and large-scale devellabelling of aquaculture and fishery products. certified products were sold, and we are also expanding the opment of plantations in countries that produce palm oil. These use of FSC®-certified materials to packaging and other items. problems include the destruction of tropical forests, large-scale greenhouse gas emissions, and the use of forced labor and child labor on plantations. (FSC® C005942) As part of its efforts toward procuring sustainable palm oil— taking the environment and human rights into consideration—Aeon is a member of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO), an international certifying body. We also participated in the establishment of the Japan Sustainable Palm Oil Network (JaSPON), whose members include 18 domestic retailers, manufacturers, and NGOs. TOPVALU Best Price tissue paper using FSC®-certified paper Photo credit: Kyodo News Service 24 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 25 Key Issue 2 Conservation of Biodiversity Advancing Sustainable Procurement Further, we are advancing the development and procurePromoting Sustainable Procurement TOPICS of Agricultural Products ment of organic products in Japan and overseas in response of Livestock Products to growing consumer interest in health and food safety and Acquisition of SQF Certification by Directly Aeon Agri Create Co., Ltd. operates Aeon’s directly managed reliability as well as to requests from customers for more Aeon raises TOPVALU Gurinai Natural Tasmania Beef without Managed Farms of Kagoshima Sunrise Farm farms, all of which have obtained the world’s most widespread organic products. In these efforts, we use our Japanese the use of antibiotics, growth hormones, or genetically modified Agricultural Standard (JAS)* certification as an importer of Takamaki Feedlot, a feedlot operated by Kagoshima Sunrise certification for safe farm management, GLOBALG.A.P. Farm feed at a directly managed ranch on the island of Tasmania in organic agricultural products and processed food products, Farm KK, our directly managed farm that rears beef cattle and management entails various risks, including residual pesticides, Australia. With respect to the safety of this method of rearing issued by Japan’s Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries pigs, became the first feedlot in Japan to acquire SQF certifiagricultural accidents, and environmental damage. Therefore, cattle, the ranch is audited by a third-party organization and cation for both beef cattle and pigs. SQF is an international GLOBALG.A.P. not only requires product safety but also empha(MAFF). As of February 28, 2019, Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. had set has obtained Safe Quality Food (SQF) certification. SQF is an standard and management system that ensures the safety sizes the need to ensure the safety of the employees who work aside sales areas for organic products in 256 of its stores. In international food safety standard and management system and quality of food products. Furthermore, another of our on farms, the safety of local residents, and the conservation of addition to food, these areas offer products made from organic recognized by the Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI). directly managed farms, Tsukino Central Farm, acquired the the local ecosystem. Aeon farms use GLOBALG.A.P. as a tool for cotton in the home and leisure categories, including undersame certification in June 2018. the sustainable management of agriculture in relation to the wear, bedclothes, and towels. With the aim of providing customers with tasty beef at need for food safety, environmental conservation, occupational affordable prices, The Daiei, Inc. established Kagoshima safety, and sound management. Tasmania Beef Sunrise Farm (called Daiei Central Ranch Co., Ltd. at the time) in Kagoshima Prefecture in 1970. In the same year, we began We stepped up these initiatives in October 2018 by, for some Raised on a ranch in Tasmania directly managed by Aeon the contract fattening of Wagyu cattle. We established the agricultural products, including TOPVALU items, indicating Takamaki Feedlot in 1973 and the Tsukino Central Farm in when they are produced on farms with GLOBAL G.A.P. certifica1985. Since then, we have been producing Japanese Black tion. We have thus become the first company in Japan to place * Organic JAS logo beef and brand pork. Taking advantage of its expertise and SQF is an international GLOBAL G.A.P. Number (GGN) labels on products. Offering Operators certified by certification organizamanagement scheme experience garnered over many years, Daiei has developed tions registered by the MAFF are able to to ensure food safety GGN-labeled products makes it easy for customers to select and quality. Satsuma Himegyu Japanese Black beef and Satsuma Outon attach the organic JAS logo to their products. products produced at farms engaging in agricultural producThe logo is attached to agricultural, probrand pork, both of which are original, domestically reared tion process management that complies with international cessed, or livestock products, as well as live• No antibiotics meats that have been established as the firm favorites of standards. In November 2018, we launched a dedicated webTOPVALU Gurinai organic stock feed, produced with a method of • No growth hormones many customers due to their premium quality and flavor. peeled edamame • No genetically modified feed organic farming that uses natural power site that allows customers to determine where in the world a instead of pesticides or chemical fertilizers. • No bone meal feed * A directly managed ranch with SQF certification product was produced and by whom, simply by entering its GGN (certification number). Similarly, TOPVALU Gurinai Natural Junkikei (healthy chicken) Acquisition of Organic JAS Certification as a Subdivider of is raised without using antibiotics or synthetic antibacterials. For more details, please see: Agricultural Products Moreover, some of the farms that rear this healthy chicken https://aeon.ggn.org/agri/ We are taking steps to acquire Japanese Agricultural Standard have received SQF certification. (JAS) certification for food manufacturing and processing centers as a subdivider of agricultural products so that we can offer customers better organic agricultural products at a value price. The Narashino Center of Aeon Food Supply Co., Ltd. became the first center to acquire this certification. We plan to Junkikei have all of our centers in Japan acquire certification. Raised without haste, without stressing the chickens TOPICS Launch of First TOPVALU Line of Skincare Cosmetics with Internationally Recognized Organic Certification • No antibiotics • No synthetic antibacterials In August 2018, we launched TOPVALU Gurinai Organic Geo * SQF-certified (some farms) Organic, the inaugural series of skincare cosmetics under the TOPVALU line with internationally recognized organic certification. In addition, our TOPVALU Gurinai Natural Natural Pork is very Geo Organic has received international organic certification safe and reliable. Our pork is unique because it is produced from ECO CERT® COSMOS ORGANIC for its demonstration of without using antibiotics, synthetic antibacterials, or genetiUnder the TOPVALU Gurinai Organic brand, we offer an environmental friendliness across a host of processes, from cally modified feed—an approach that was considered to be extensive lineup of environment-friendly products that have ingredients to production, packaging, and shipping. This skin extremely difficult for pork. been certified as organic in Japan and overseas. Boasting the care series is made from natural ingredients; all production largest number of organic products of any retail private brand processes are considerate of people and the environment; it in Japan, the TOPVALU Gurinai Organic lineup comprises 356 contains no synthetic raw materials, such as petroleum surDomestically produced factants, synthetic scents, paraben, phenoxyethanol, or siliNatural Pork fresh and processed organic food products as of the end of cone; nor does it use genetically Produced by overcoming the extremely February 2019. modified substances. difficult challenges for pork. ECO CERT® COSMOS ORGANIC • No antibiotics • No synthetic antibacterials • No genetically modified feed 26 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 27 Key Issue 2 Conservation of Biodiversity We want our new stores to be community hubs and encourCreating Forests Where Wild Birds Can Gather * The 34 varieties of wild birds observed Promoting the Aeon Forest age the spread of greenery. With these thoughts in mind, Aeon has been conducting the Aeon Hometown Forests Program to Circulation Program plant trees at the site of new stores when they are opened. To objectively assess the ecological value of Aeon’s treeplanting activities, we selected 15 stores from the Aeon The Aeon Environmental Foundation undertakes tree plantHometown Forests Program and conducted surveys of wild Turtledove•• Great tit•• Bulbul•• Warbler•• White-eye•• ing with a view to regenerating forests in regions worldwide birds there. We identified 34 varieties* of wild birds in a Aeon’s Tree Planting Activity that have been devastated by natural disasters or logging. comparative survey of the stores and surrounding areas. Of Under the Aeon Tohoku Reconstruction Hometown Forests these, 15 varieties ( ) were essentially consistent across all 15 When we open a new store, the Aeon Hometown Forests Program, the foundation is restoring forests destroyed as a Pale thrush•• Sparrow•• Carrion crow Jungle crow Starling stores. Of these, seven varieties (••) were wild forest birds. Program joins our customers to plant trees on the new site. result of the tsunami of the Great East Japan Earthquake. From the survey, it was also clear that the Aeon Hometown Since the start of this program at our JUSCO Malacca store in Since 1991, the foundation has planted 11.9 million* trees. Forests zone functions as a feeding ground and resting area Malaysia in 1991 (renamed and currently, Aeon Malacca SC), In addition, through Clean & Green Activities, conducted for wild birds. Daurian redstart Blue rock thrush Pied wagtail Oriental greenfinch Rock dove we have been planting trees with our customers, reaching mainly on Aeon Day on the 11th of Based on a study held about 10 years after planting, the more than 10 million trees. We have leveraged this activity to each month, stores carry out forests showed a clear increase in the species of wild birds launch the Aeon Forest Circulation Program under the theme cleaning and weeding under the compared with neighboring residential areas. These findings of “plant,” “nurture,” and “thrive.” We continue to promote this Aeon Hometown Forests Program. Green pigeon Whistling green pigeon Night heron Little egret Water hen confirmed that the forests were effective in securing a bountiful program with our “plant” objective, which targets tree planting Further, we are deeply grateful natural environment. that improves the quality of life in regions across the globe and to the customers who have particitree planting that protects areas from tsunami and other natupated in our tree planting efforts, Sandpiper Black kite Kingfisher Pygmy woodpecker Shrike ral disasters; our “nurture” objective, which targets activities to and we look forward to the next Effectiveness of Aeon Hometown Forests develop and manage planted trees and foster successor forgroup of trees that we will plant ests; and our “thrive” objective, which Program at Maintaining Regional Biodiversity and nurture alongside our custom“Aeon Tohoku Reconstruction Survey period: October–December 2017 assertively promotes the utilization ers and local communities. Hometown Forests Program” Azure-winged magpie Varied tit Ryukyu swallow Light-vented bulbul Thrush Great white wagtail of forest products such as lumber as (Arahama, Sendai) Survey method: Counting, within certain standards, the number of bird resources for our products and buildspecies and their types of behavior (line census) ing materials for our stores. Stores surveyed: 15 stores in Japan, at one, three, nine, and 15 years Letting Forests Grow Plant, Nurture, Thrive FY2018 Results and Target of KPI after forests were planted Hawfinch Bunting Black-faced bunting Maintenance management of Aeon Hometown Forests Program planting zones Letting Forests Grow—Plant, Nurture Aeon’s Tree Planting Activity •F ocusing on GMS and SM, spread planting Aeon Mall Fujinomiya, 15 years after planting the forest: 2018 zone management based on the management The Aeon Mall area was observed to have 3.3–7.5 times more wild birds than in a neighboring residential block. manual Results Aeon has positioned its tree planting activity as one that •C reated opportunities for employees to experiembodies its Basic Principles, which state “Pursuing peace, 2020 ence tree planting respecting humanity, and contributing to local communities, Aeon Mall Fujinomiya always with the customer’s point of view as its core.” Letting Forests Grow Building Foundations for Peace China Environmental issues are a 1,302,077 trees common challenge for humanity, Japan Peace which poses a threat to our healthy Laos 9,399,106 trees and peaceful lives. Aeon, which operates a business that is closely 148,250 trees linked to people’s lives, is striving to Myanmar Vietnam People Community resolve environmental issues by 60,000 trees 90,307 trees Legend: planting trees based on the awareBulbul ness that businesses will grow only Thailand Cambodia White-eye Aeon’s site when there is a peaceful society. 226,070 trees 55,004 trees Great tit Residential areas Warbler Humanity Growing Together with People Kenya Malaysia Turtledove from the Community Pale thrush Communicating Vibrantly 544,540 trees 3,450 trees Other Tree planting brings together many Aeon aims to nurture forests that Australia people from both young and old. are rooted in the community by Indonesia 200 trees Greetings and conversations start, mainly planting native tree 101,000 trees and smiles spread. Aeon hopes to varieties. In 2019, we conducted an additional spring/summer survey the location of habitat for wild birds and its contribution to the further expand such forms of Further, we hope to share the of the habitat for summer birds and nesting in the planting ecosystem. vibrant communication through wide-ranging awareness obtained zone. This survey quantitatively assessed the importance of tree planting. through the tree nurturing process Total 11,930,004 trees with many people and continue to (as of end of February 2019) grow constantly. * Total number of trees planted through Aeon Hometown Forests Program, Aeon Environmental Foundation, and Aeon Tohoku Reconstruction Hometown Forests Program 28 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 29 Key Issue 2 Conservation of Biodiversity Letting Forests Grow—Nurture Letting Forests Grow—Thrive TOPICS A Curriculum for Educating Forest-Conscious People Utilization of Forest Resources Initiatives through Our Stores Aeon Mall Kumamoto (Reopened in July 2018 Following Renovation and Expansion) In recent years, the prevention of global warming and conserIn addition to the rollout of FSC®-certified products and the conNew “Mutual Education” Corner vation of biodiversity have been joined by another urgent social struction of stores using 100% domestic FSC®-certified lumber, Developing and Evaluating Indicators This new community area is a space that can be enjoyed by issue. That is, the preservation and sustainable use of forests, we are working on the promotion of utilizing forest resources both parents and children alike. Themed on tree cultivation which serve multifaceted roles for carrying on Japanese culthrough a variety of measures at stores. For example, at Aeon and in collaboration with the Oguni Forestry Cooperative in Aeon pays great attention to conservation and creation of ecoture, offering recreation, etc., and villages, which serve as Mall Toin, a permanent children’s playground called Mie Tree Kumamoto Prefecture, the space makes extensive use of systems in developing its stores through initiatives such as places for humans and nature to coexist. Plaza was installed utilizing forests from Mie Prefecture. regional materials, offering a new play area suffused with the planning and implementing biodiversity assessment and enviThe Forest Transcend Project—Educating Forest-Conscious Moreover, we are promoting the introduction of desks and warmth of wood. ronmental burden reduction measures when opening stores. People is a collaborative effort between Aeon, Mie Prefecture, chairs made of FSC®-certified lumber and locally produced The aim is to minimize the impact of our stores on the surNote: “Mutual education” is a coined term representing our thoughts on and the NPO Miyagawa Shinsengumi that aims to foster the materials at Aeon Yumemirai (Dreams for the Future) Nursery the environment and describes a type of learning that enables both the rounding environment and ecosystem. Examples of these inifuture generation of forestry workers by offering various proSchool, the Group’s on-site childcare facility, in order to teach teacher and the student to grow together. tiatives include the Aeon Hometown Forests Program and the grams to deepen understanding of Japan’s forest managechildren about the positive qualities of wood. We aim to foster installation of biotopes at some of our shopping centers. ment. In FY2018, the project’s final year, we conducted courses a richness of spirit for thinking about the connections between As part of store biodiversity assessment, since FY2013 we between January 12 and February 24, 2019 in Odai, Mie people and trees and forests through contact with trees from have acquired ABINC® certification from the Association for Prefecture. The curriculum included activity reports by graduearly childhood. Business Innovation in harmony with Nature and Community ates of the previous four programs and Forest Skills hands-on (ABINC). training in forests, covering a total of six days. Over the past In FY2018, Aeon Mall Zama and THE OUTLETS HIROSHIMA five years, 60 people have taken part in the program. Today, acquired ABINC® certification, while Aeon Mall Tokoname, these graduates are using their experience and expertise to Aeon Mall Shijo Nawate, and Aeon Mall Sakai Teppocho resolve regional issues involving forestry and undeveloped acquired an ABINC® certification that is renewed every three woodland. Going forward, we plan to create opportunities to years. To date, nine of our shopping centers have acquired periodically exchange inforABINC® certification. mation with people who A desk made of Japanese cypress have previously taken part in the program, sustaining activities that contribute to TOPICS regional “forest circulation.” Encouraging the Use of Wood in Public Forest Transcend Project— Educating Forest-Conscious People Spaces at Aeon Malls Aeon Mall Miyazaki (Reopened in March 2018 Following “Mutual education” corner in Aeon Mall Kumamoto, built using Renovation and Expansion) obi cedar from Kumamoto Holding a Planting Zone Management Workshop New Obi Cedar Park Using obi cedar trees found near the city of Nichinan, Miyazaki Prefecture, we set up the Obi Cedar Park as a place for children Aeon Mall Higashiura (Reopened in July 2018 Following We began conducting manual-based on-site training the year to play and enjoy the sense of warmth conveyed by the trees Renovation and Expansion) after publishing our planning zone management manual for of that region. The park is meant to nurture children’s natural New Mokuiku Square the Aeon Hometown Forests Program in 2011. Approximately inquisitiveness and provide a safe and secure playground for Themed on tree cultivation, we have created the Mokuiku Biotope Biotope introduced on some store premises and rooftops helps to promote 800 people have attended this training, including employees as many as three generations. Square as a play area with plenty of space for many babies environmental education and raise awareness on environmental protection. involved in managing planting zones, as well as other staff and and larger children, and infused with the warmth of wood, offering a place of comfort for both parents and children. business partners. We intend to increase the number of employees involved in planting management to 1,200, and we expect all of them to complete training during the three-year plan period. As the number of employees without experience in tree planting is increasing, we have begun conducting systematic training on afforestation, including lectures to impart basic knowledge about planting. In FY2018, we held this training for Mokuiku Square at Aeon Mall Higashiura 169 people at 10 locations, mainly of Aeon Mall Co., Ltd. and Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. In FY2019, the second year of the plan, we Obi Cedar Park in Aeon Mall Miyazaki, built using obi cedar, a plan to increase the training provided at each company to 11 specialty product of the city of Nichinan locations for 200 people. Rain Garden™ Rainwater is contaminated with substances contained in exhaust gas and involves the risk of disrupting the ecosystem if it flows directly into seas and rivers. Rain Garden™ reduces the negative impact on the ecosystem by allowing rainwater to penetrate into the ground and purifying it. Training being held at planting zone 30 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 31 Key Issue 3 Better Use of Resources Management Approach Recognition of Challenges Highlight Changing the Future through Shopping Approximately 795 million people,*1 equivalent to one in every Aeon generates waste through its business and is also tied nine people, worldwide are undernourished, while 1.3 billion to waste resulting from customers’ use of plastic shopping tons*2 of food, or roughly one-third of the food produced, are bags and food containers. This is why we are working on varithrown away annually. In response, the United Nations has ous initiatives for promoting the recycling of resources as one In recent years, various measures have been enacted to change the way people think about disposable plastic, in light of included halving per capita food waste at the retail and conof our key issues. such issues as petroleum resource depletion and environmental pollution due to plastic waste. In 1991, Aeon launched the sumer levels by 2030 as a target of the Sustainable Development Bring Your Own Shopping Bag Campaign and commenced the Collecting Recyclable Resources at Stores Campaign. In *1 The State of Food Insecurity in the World (2015), Food and Agriculture Goals (SDGs). Organization of the United Nations (FAO), World Food Programme (WFP), and 2007, the Company began discontinuing the provision of free shopping bags at cash registers. In these ways, we were an International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) early proponent of measures to work with customers in making effective use of limited resources. As a retailer, we are well *2 FAO. 2011. Global food losses and food waste – Extent, causes and prevention. Rome positioned to reach our goal of completely ceasing the use of disposable plastic, as we communicate with numerous shoppers on a daily basis. We will continue promoting better use of resources with the aim of realizing a sustainable society. Aeon’s Approach in 2017 we established and announced the Aeon Group Food Environmental Activities, Starting with Bring The TOPVALU Challenge to Protect Aeon launched the Bring Your Own Shopping Bag Campaign Waste Reduction Targets, which include specific numerical Your Own Shopping Bag Campaign the Global Environment back in 1991 and has changed the specifications and formats of packaging materials as part of its ongoing efforts aimed at targets. We aim to halve food waste by 2025—five years ahead promoting the recycling of resources. of the SDGs’ 2030 target. With the aim of sharing and impleMany shoppers use plastic bags on a daily basis. Although In response to customers’ mounting environmental awareIn particular, reducing food waste at retailers that handle menting best practices, we will establish promotional organithe amount of resources needed for a single plastic bag is ness, in spring 2019 the Company launched environmenfood has been recognized as an important issue. Accordingly, zations that span Group companies in each region. miniscule, as the scale of our operations grows this volume tally friendly projects with two themes under Aeon’s is increasing dramatically. To conserve the petroleum TOPVALU brand. To reduce the use of disposable plastic, resources used to make plastic bags and reduce the we began using shopping baskets made of recyclable plasFuture Initiatives amount of CO2 emitted during their production, in 1991 we tic that can be repeatedly used. We also began selling such We will further promote initiatives to reduce food waste stakeholders. Meanwhile, a move away from the custom of launched the Bring Your Own Shopping Bag Campaign, folproducts as straws and spoons made of paper, wood, and throughout the Group to meet the Aeon Group Food Waste discarding plastic is gaining momentum. We will accelerate lowed by the My Basket Campaign in 2000. These activities other alternatives to plastic. To conserve forest resources, Reduction Targets set for 2025. As measures need to be based our efforts to date in this regard, working with customers to allowed shoppers to help protect the environment simply we began offering paper plates and cups made of FSC®on the types of waste and legal restraints that vary by region, help them adopt lifestyles appropriate for realizing a sustainby bringing their own shopping bags, instead of unthinkcertified materials. We also introduced tissues and other we aim to build regional platforms in collaboration with recyable society. ingly using the free bags previously offered at cash regispaper products made using bamboo pulp rather than wood cling companies, government offices, NPOs, and other regional ters. Rather than seeing this change as unusual, we are pulp. working with customers to help entrench the custom. In addition to encouraging customers to bring their own Moreover, each year around 250,000 baskets from our shopping bags and offering environmentally friendly prodMy Basket*1 range are used by customers, which they can ucts,* we are collaborating with municipal authorities in Aeon “Zero Waste” Initiative Concept We will continue our efforts to completely eliminate waste through disposal/burning and landfills with our 3R approach of “Reduce,” take home for a fee. Although many customers are already rolling out our plastic-reduction campaign. In this manner, “Reuse,” and “Recycle.” We will collaborate with our stakeholders and customers toward the construction of a recycling-oriented using these baskets, in June 2016 we revamped our color we are stepping up our initiatives toward a sustainable society. offerings to further expand their use. society in league with customers and various other partners. *1 Made from 30% biomass plastic produced from sugar cane *2 Unit reduction compared with 2013: Weight of plastic bags (kg) per ¥100 * Product availability differs by store million in sales Through stores/products Through communication with customers Together with local communities Reduce food waste in the supply chains of stores Reduce food waste together with customers Reduce food waste through donations to food and products through visualization, ISO 14001, through food education and campaigns at stores. banks, etc., and construction of a recycling loop in reduction of the food waste-to-sales ratio, separacooperation with stakeholders in the region. tion, and recycling. Aeon Food Waste Reduction Targets Halve food waste by 2025 Build food resource recycling models Aeon Food Waste Reduce generation per unit (food waste generation per ¥1 milBuild at more than 10 locations and more than Reduction Targets lion in net sales) 25% compared with FY2015 level by 2020 and 1,000 stores nationwide by 2020 Aeon My Basket reduce 50% by 2025 Developed tableware made of bamboo pulp and FSC®-certified paper. 32 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 33 Key Issue 3 Better Use of Resources Reduction of Packaging Materials: Case 1 Our Group companies are pursuing a variety of initiatives to To eliminate disparity in the progress of Group companies, Initiatives for Zero Waste For our TOPVALU Best Price Buttered reduce waste. For instance, Aeon Mall Co., Ltd. has formulated Aeon has established guidelines and set food waste reduction Rolls, we tried to reduce the use of matea medium-term environmental plan covering the period targets based on the progress of each Group company. Further, in Stores and Products rials by eliminating the closure mechathrough FY2020. Aiming to realize zero-emission malls, the given the regional differences in food waste situations, we nism and shortening the length of the Group company established maintaining its waste recycling have established eight working groups tasked with promoting packaging. As a result, we cut the packpercentage at above 80% and educating the employees of speinitiatives at Group companies in their respective regions, and Reducing the Amount of Materials Used in aging weight to approx. 50% of benchcialty stores as the main pillars of this plan. With the cooperathe working groups have begun activities aimed at meeting Packaging and Containers mark national brands. tion of specialty stores, we have “visualized” waste by targets. As well as examining the construction of resource TOPVALU Best Price introducing a system that separates waste into 18 basic prodrecycling models that are rooted in local communities, the Most of the garbage discharged from homes is made up of Buttered Rolls: closure uct categories and measures waste volume based on these working groups are enhancing their performance by sharing mechanism eliminated packaging and containers. Therefore, companies in the retail categories. For the separated waste, we make every effort to information and best practices throughout the Aeon Group. In and packaging industry need to understand the importance of selling prodminimized recycle items that are recyclable, and we calculate recycling this way, Aeon is working to reach its targets. ucts that contribute to less garbage in everyday life. percentages for each product category. With this in mind, Aeon is working actively to reduce the In addition to sales figures, we ask the specialty stores occuMeasures Focused on Products and Stores amount of materials used in packaging and containers. In addiReduction of Packaging Materials: Case 2 pying Aeon Mall facilities to provide us with information on the Although the Food Sanitation Act does not require companies tion to focusing on reducing the use of plastic shopping bags, To conserve on materials, we have adopted a squat shape for amount of waste generated (by weight) in different categories, to display expiration dates for products with expiration periods we are also promoting the use of thinner and more eco-friendly the container used for TOPVALU Best Price Tabletop Flavoring as well as information on the recycling of food waste. We use of three months or more, we have displayed such data voluntrays. Using Korean Seaweed. This shape reduces the amount of conthis information to manage progress in specific areas and protarily to date. However, few customers are concerned on a dayWhen developing TOPVALU products, we closely examine tainer materials used by around 20%, compared with national mote reduction measures. As a result, in FY2018 we reached a by-day basis about the freshness of products with expiration the packaging and containers and after careful consideration brands. recycling rate of 86.9%, exceeding our target. periods of one year or more. Moreover, displaying expiration of their impact on the quality of product contents and safety dates for such products has resulted in Aeon disposing of food during shipment, we work to make product containers lighter that was about to reach its expiration date. and more thin-walled and switch to recyclable materials. Reducing Food Waste In an effort to reduce food waste, a forum focused on the Additionally, we are striving to develop refillable containers and integration of manufacturing, distribution, and retail organized change packaging materials based on customer feedback. by The Distribution Systems Research Institute and the As a result of these efforts, we were able to reduce the FY2018 Results and Target of KPI Distribution Economics Institute of Japan recommends that amount of packaging and containers for recycling by a third labels should only display the month and year of the expiration Emissions of non-food waste party (per ¥100 million in net sales) required under the Law for date. As a retailer, we endorse this recommendation and have the Promotion of Sorted Collection and Recycling of Containers begun conducting measures accordingly. and Packaging by 7.1%, to 1,092 tons, in FY2018 compared 2015 Aggregation and sharing of information on Group company Aeon is transitioning to labels that display expiration dates with FY2010. initiatives only in months and years for TOPVALU processed food prod2016 ucts with expiration periods of one year. Coinciding with 3R Reducing Waste 2017 Awareness Month in October, at 2,700 general merchandise FY2018 Results and Target of KPI 2018 stores and supermarkets, we are working with customers on As a company that operates business at approximately 21,996 campaigns to raise awareness of food loss. Amount for third-party processing required under the Law 2020 stores and locations (as of the end of February 2019) in Japan Target for the Promotion of Sorted Collection and Recycling of and overseas, Aeon generates a large volume of waste. To An expiration date shown in month and year Containers and Packaging (amount per ¥100 million in net reduce this waste, in 2014 Aeon declared its aim to achieve sales) zero waste by eliminating the direct disposal, incineration, and Base year 1.175 tons landfill of waste and established the AEON Zero Waste Initiative As part of our initiatives using the 3R approach to eliminate 2010 Concept. In addition to the targets for waste management and waste, we have targeted food waste by formulating the Aeon food waste reduction that were incorporated into the United Group Food Waste Reduction Targets. We are using these spe2015 1.080 tons (8.1% reduction compared with FY2010) Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which were cific numerical targets to accelerate Groupwide initiatives. adopted at the UN General Assembly in 2015, the European 1.127 tons (4.1% reduction compared with FY2010) Union is introducing stricter regulations, particularly for plastic 2016 garbage and food waste. Japan has also been strengthening waste-related regulations through such laws as the Law for Aeon Group Food Waste Reduction Targets 1.069 tons (7.0% reduction compared with FY2010) Promotion of Recycling and Related Activities for Treatment of 2017 Halve food waste by 2025 Cyclical Food Resources and the Waste Management and Reduce generation per unit (food waste generation per 1.092 tons (7.1% reduction compared with Public Cleansing Law. ¥1 million in net sales) 25% versus that of FY2015 by 2018 Results FY2010) The Group is making a concerted effort to reduce food 2020 and reduce 50% by 2025 waste with a view to achieving the Aeon Food Waste Reduction Build food resource recycling models 2020 Target Targets by 2025. Build at more than 10 locations (more than 1,000 stores) nationwide by 2020 34 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 35 Key Issue 3 Better Use of Resources Together with Customers TOPICS Initiatives Undertaken by Group Companies Of food waste, food loss (food that can still be eaten but is FY2018 Results and Target of KPI thrown away) amounts to around 6.46 million tons per year.* Rolling out Food Loss Reduction Campaign Food waste emissions (food waste generation per ¥1 milThe Maruetsu, Inc. Initiatives Households account for some 45% of this figure. We address lion in net sales) at Stores Nationwide The first step in reducing waste emissions is to identify this situation at cooking stations—in-store areas designed to We ran a food loss reduction campaign at some 2,700 general the categories of garbage and the volumes of garbage in 32.06 kg / ¥1 million, 9.9% reduction versus FY2015 disseminate food-related information. At these stations, we merchandise stores and supermarkets across Japan in each category that are being emitted. With this in mind, we Established guidelines for each Group company on setting introduce recipes that minimize ingredient waste, hold cooking are “visualizing” waste emissions by introducing a waste food waste targets demonstrations, and otherwise show customers how to October 2018 to coincide with 3R Awareness Month. 2017 This campaign highlighted a type of food waste categoaccounting system mainly at Maruetsu stores. Employees use reduce food loss. the system to measure and digitize waste volumes. This pro32.14 kg / ¥1 million, 9.7% reduction versus rized as food loss—food that is thrown away even though it For example, in collaboration with the government and cess helps lower waste by heightening each employee’s motiFY2015 can still be eaten. By raising awareness of this issue among 2018 Establish a team dedicated to managing food Results municipal authorities we use point-of-purchase displays and store customers, the campaign aimed to encourage shoppers vation to achieve reductions. waste in each region that follows the best pracleaflets at stores to encourage customers to reduce food loss. to adopt specific behaviors at home. We collaborated with tices of that region. Also, in fresh food sales areas we showcase TOPVALU HÓME government organizations to erect awareness posters in food CÓORDY products and other storage containers suitable for sales areas and suggested food storage containers that help 2020 25% reduction versus FY2015 freezing as ways to help reduce food waste in day-to-day life. preserve foods for long periods. In addition, at cooking staTarget tions in around 40 Aeon and Aeon Style stores we conducted 2025 50% reduction versus FY2015 * From “Estimated Amounts of Food Waste and Food Loss in Japan (Fiscal 2015),” awareness-raising activities, such as introducing recipes that Target by the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and minimize waste and holding cooking demonstrations. Fisheries Food waste recycling percentage Examples of food storage containers and bags 57.1% 2015 59.2% 2016 61.5% 2017 TOPVALU HÓME CÓORDY storage TOPVALU SLIDER BAG Awareness-raising poster Food storage containers containers, which can be used in microwave ovens 2018 62.3% Results Measurement data from stores is managed online 2020 Target Aeon Mall Co., Ltd. Initiatives Together with Local Communities Aeon Mall Co., Ltd. has been using its own system to provide Aeon collaborates with local communities to advance initiainformation on the amount of waste, including food waste, gentives for the effective use of resources. For example, in areas erated each year by the 11,174 specialty stores occupying its 71 where we have established partnerships with reliable operamalls in Japan. tional management bodies we cooperate with their food bank*1 By having specialty stores provide information on the Collaborating with the Tokyo metroDisseminating information amount of waste generated in different categories and food politan government on the Mottainai at the cooking station activities based on certain conditions. As of the end of February waste recycling, along with their sales figures, Aeon Mall can Campaign 2019, six Group companies—Maxvalu Nishinihon Co., Ltd., better manage progress in specific areas and promote reducKasumi Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Chubu Co., Ltd., The Daiei, Inc., tion measures. TOPICS Sanyo Marunaka Co., Ltd., and Marunaka Co., Ltd.—regularly provide goods to local food banks. Aeon Food Supply Ltd. Initiatives Currently, Aeon Retail Co., Ltd., Aeon Kyushu Co., Ltd., Reducing the Use of Plastic Containers for Aeon Food Supply Ltd., which manufactures food products, Maxvalu Tohoku Co., Ltd., and The Daiei, Inc. also conduct food provides employees with thorough instruction on how to sepaTaking Home Ready-to-Eat Dishes drives.*2 We will not only reduce food waste through indepenrate the raw garbage (animal and plant residue) it generates In June 2019, Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. completed the switchover on dent efforts but also through joint efforts with local communiduring production. Aeon Food Supply collaborates with waste containers used for taking home ready-to-eat dishes, moving ties and customers. processing companies to reuse this waste as fertilizer and for from plastic food packs to a special type of bag for ready-to-eat other purposes. Its current reuse ratio is 96.2%. dishes. We expect this move to reduce annual plastic consump*1 Food banks provide facilities and people in need with food that, despite still tion by around 200 tons. This change also reduces the amount being edible, would otherwise be disposed of for various reasons. Aeon Hokkaido Co., Ltd. Initiatives *2 In food drives, people bring food that can be spared from their home to their of space needed for storing containers to one-fourth, contributworkplace or other location, where it is gathered and donated to charitable In its FY2020 plan, Aeon Hokkaido has set companywide taring to improvements in operating efficiency. organizations, facilities, or food banks. gets for reducing its food-waste-to-sales ratio. By managing the When making the switch, we expanded the range of sizes process using a PDCA cycle, the company met its targets in of bags and refreshed the design. Having bags that are approFY2018. priately sized for key product offerings (such as minced cutTo reduce food waste, the company has revised its product lets and grilled chicken skewers) helps customers better judge mix, improved the precision of orders, and linked reduction serving sizes, thereby improving convenience. efforts to everyday sales activities. Plastic food pack Bag for ready-to-eat dishes 36 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 37 Key Issue 3 Better Use of Resources Constructing Food Recycling Loops Advancement of Aeon’s Self-Contained Food Recycling Loop Reusing and Recycling Hangers Food residue collection: Increase steadily from the level of Together with Customers Aeon Agri Create Co., Ltd., which manages Aeon’s directly operapproximately 2,582 tons per year (targeting Aeon Group stores) We are reducing the number of cardboard boxes and hangers ated farms, and Daiei Kankyo Co., Ltd., which is engaged in the Compost production: Increase steadily from the level of approxiused in the transportation of apparel by using the same reusable recycling business, concluded the Agreement on the Promotion mately 160 tons per year (FY2018) hangers when transporting and displaying them in sales areas. Reducing the Number of Plastic Shopping Bags of Food Recycling Loop in September 2014. This has brought Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. and Aeon Retail Store Co., Ltd. have together farms, stores, and composting treatment facilities begun using a collection and circulation system through colIn recent years, the problem of plastic waste flowing around with the aim of constructing and expanding a composting laboration with hanger manufacturers and the use of the the ocean has gained international attention, and numerous recycling loop. Food National Permit System.* We have expanded this system to waste companies are mounting efforts to reduce this waste. For Daiei Kankyo processes food waste generated from vegetacover almost all types of hangers of certified companies. more than twenty years since 1991, Aeon has engaged in bles, meat, and other foods gathered from stores. The proMoreover, we have used this initiative as an opportunity to efforts to conserve petroleum, a raw material of plastic bags, duced compost is then used on the Aeon Miki Satowaki Farm. Aeon, Daiei, Maxvalu stores Daiei Kankyo Co., Ltd. unify hanger management rules at stores, thereby reducing the and cut CO2 emissions from the production of plastic bags. In The vegetables grown and harvested using this compost are number of man-hours and amount of space required for 2007, we launched our initiative to stop providing plastic shopsold in Aeon stores. In this way, Aeon is constructing a selfhanger management. In FY2018, we reviewed and revised ping bags free of charge, expanding it nationwide in 2013. As contained food recycling loop. Recycling Loop facilities in an effort to further increase the recycling rate. As a of February 28, 2019, 1,701 stores had adopted this practice. In 2018, this food recycling loop shipped approximately 304 result, we were able to reduce the amount of waste plastic to As a result, we have reduced the number of plastic shopping tons of agricultural products, including cabbages, daikon essentially zero. bags given out by more than 80% (a total of 65.6% for 29 Group radish, Chinese cabbage, spinach, and cherry tomatoes. companies). * The National Permit System is a special system under the Waste Management Further, in June we held the Miki Environmental Festival, Agricultural and Public Cleansing Law that encourages the reuse of resources by allowing As a result, we have reduced the number of plastic shopping based on the concept of education for sustainable developCompost products manufacturers to process products that they previously manufactured. In bags given out by 2,647.45 million, equivalent to a CO2 reducment. We also proactively conduct environmental education response to requests from businesses that need to dispose of manufacturers’ tion of 81,542 tons.*1 products, manufacturers collect, process, and conduct integrated management activities for children, who of their products across wide areas. will be the leaders of the next Aeon Agri Create Co., Ltd. Miki Satowaki Farm generation. These activities Number of Stores That Have Stopped Providing Free Plastic include study tours of food Promoting Green Purchasing Shopping Bags at Cash Registers recycling facilities, environUsing Returnable Containers mental studies, and presenAeon has been pursuing its Green Purchasing initiative since Total number of stores tations on food recycling Aeon is reducing the amount of cardboard thrown away at stores 1996. When purchasing stationery and other office supplies, (As of the end of February 2019) loops. by using returnable containers and agricultural product containwe adequately consider their necessity and make purchasing Spinach shipped from Aeon Miki Satowaki Farm ers that can be used repeatedly when shipping products. decisions by prioritizing products with low environmental 1,701 stores In FY2018, we reduced cardboard waste by using 84.57 milimpacts. This is done as a matter of course for office supplies, (total for 29 Aeon Group companies) lion returnable containers* and 24.57 million returnable conbut we are also expanding the scope of green purchasing to FY2018 Results and Target of KPI tainers for agricultural products. include display cases, shelving, and other fixtures used on Construction of food recycling loops sales floors, as well as construction materials and the like. * Aeon’s own containers only When developing new general merchandise stores, we strive Implemented food residue collection at 12 stores to use construction materials procured through green purchas2015 Usage of Returnable Containers ing and to increase the range of items subject to green purchasing. Reduction in number of plastic Implemented food residue collection at 76 stores 2016 shopping bags 2,770.58 2017 Built food recycling loops at two locations Implemented food residue collection at 107 stores Production site 2,709.47 million 2,735.42 2,647.45 million million million Built food recycling loops at six locations Amount of CO2 reduction 2018 Implemented food residue collection at 148 Results Returnable containers: 2,408.25 81,542t-CO 84.57 million million stores Returnable containers for 2 Build food recycling loops at more than 10 locations nationwide agricultural products: Implement food residue collection at more than 1,000 stores 24.57 million 67.5% 2020 nationwide Target However, at the 1,701 AEON Percentage of stores where we have 64.8% 65.0% 64.8% customers stopped providing shopping bags free of charge, declining plasthe percentage of custic shopping tomers who declined shopping bags at cash bags registers exceeds 80%. FY 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 65.6% 38 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 39 Key Issue 3 Better Use of Resources Meanwhile, plastic shopping bags are provided for a fee to TOPICS customers who want to use them. These proceeds*2 contribFY2018 Results and KPI Target TOPVALU Best Price Recycled Toilet Paper Single ute to the local environmental conservation activities of municPercentage of customers declining plastic shopping bags Initiatives with the City of Kyoto Recycled toilet paper that uses 100% waste paper pulp ipal authorities and other bodies. In FY2018, proceeds totaled (nationwide store average) Seven Group stores operating in Kyoto were certified as “stores ¥39.73 million, bringing cumulative proceeds from plastic bag encouraging the prevention of leftovers,” as we worked with the fees to approximately ¥701.61 million since 2007. 64.8% city of Kyoto to reduce food loss. By also encouraging food and 2015 We have extended the initiative to stop providing free shopother tenant stores to obtain this certification, we worked to cut 65.0% food losses across commercial facilities. Participating stores ping bags at cash registers beyond general merchandise 2016 displayed certification stickers and posters, promoting efforts to TOPVALU Oil Guard stores and supermarkets. We have expanded this practice An aluminum oil guard that prevents soiling due to oil splashing 64.8% eat foods and use products in full. throughout the Group, including at drugstores and convenience 2017 around the gas range cooktop. Made of at least 80% aluminum remelted from aluminum cans collected at stores stores. As of the end of FY2019, we plan to have the initiative Initiatives with the City of Suita implemented at 2,500 stores. 2018 65.6% (increase of 70 stores; total of 1,701 stores) Results In cooperation with the city of Suita and the Ministry of the 2020 Over 80% Environment, the Aeon Suita store conducted an experiment in *1 CO2 reduction rate index: 33.0 g-CO2 per plastic bag declined by customers (treated as 6.8 g of unused HDPE plastic shopping bags) Target which it lent out shopping bags free of charge to customers who Results for FY2018 (Total for 26 consolidated subsidiaries) Source: Ministry of the Environment’s “Tools for Visualizing 3R Activities” had not brought their own. We set up five bag-return points, *2 Plastic bag proceeds = Fee (consumption taxes + material cost) including the Suita store and the municipal office. We lent out approximately 4,600 bags, of which some 2,200 were returned. Drink cartons Food trays The percentage of customers who declined shopping bags at Progress of Plastic Bag Reductions cash registers at the Suita store rose six percentage points year Approx. 153.54 million Approx. 433.34 million Collected amount: 4,606t Collected amount: 3,033t on year, to 84%. 2019 CO reduction: 2,303t-CO 2 2 CO reduction: 19,110t-CO 2 2 eco For use in regrowing 2017 Announced a new Aluminum cans PET bottles BAG regional foresters, etc. TOPVALU personal shopping bag 2013 Underwent renewal and made from recycled Approx. 338.83 million Approx. 184.96 million launched sales of My materials Bag, manufactured Collected amount: 5,421t Collected amount: 11,652t Introduced biomassfrom 100% recycled CO reduction: 46,623t-CO CO reduction: 41,950t-CO 2009 PET bottle material certified plastic shop2 2 2 2 ping bags and My Basket (for a fee) “Suitan,” a mascot of Suita city, participating at an aware2007 Began an initiative to ness-raising event at the Suita store direct proceeds from Weight conversion: Drink cartons (1,000 ml): 1 carton = 30 g, food trays: 1 tray = plastic bag fees to envi7 g, aluminum cans (350 ml): 1 can = 16 g, PET bottles: 1 bottle = 63 g ronmental conservation * CO2 reduction rate index (per 1 kg of collected material): Drink cartons: 0.50 2000 Began an initiative to efforts Revamped Aeon perkg-CO2, food trays: 6.3 kg-CO2, aluminum cans: 8.6 kg-CO2, PET bottles (material stop provision of free sonal shopping baskets, recycling): 3.6 kg-CO2 plastic shopping bags at Biomass-certified offering three colors Source: Ministry of the Environment’s “Tools for Visualizing 3R Activities” cash registers My Basket 1991 Began the My Basket Campaign Began the Bring Your Launch of WAON-Linked Initiative to Collect Waste Paper and Own Shopping Bag Plastic Bottles First for a Campaign, calling on Biomass-certified plastic nationwide retail Aeon conducts resource-recovery efforts (waste paper and customers to bring their shopping bags chain in Japan own shopping bags plastic bottles) that provide WAON points to customers who Notice for the lending of shopping bags free of charge contribute to resource recovery, with the aim of encouraging the recovery of resources and increasing convenience for customers. TOPICS We are promoting this initiative with a focus on stores in Reducing Waste by Collecting Resources in Stores municipalities where there are infrequent collections of recyCollaboration with Municipal Authorities cling waste. As of the end of April 2019, we have introduced For World Environment Day in June, we collaborated with municipal authorities to encourage customers to To recycle valuable resources, Aeon stores have collection bins this initiative at 360 locations, where it has met with a favorable reduce their use of disposable plastic in various ways. for drink cartons, food trays, aluminum cans, and PET bottles. reception from customers. In introducing this initiative, we Drink cartons and aluminum cans are used as raw materials established a clear division of roles with recycling businesses Initiatives with the City of Yokohama for TOPVALU brand products. Through these efforts, Aeon is to create a system that can carry out recovery efforts on an We collaborated with the city of Yokohama on a campaign to reduce plastic waste at 360 Aeon Group moving toward the creation of a recycling-based society. In the ongoing basis. stores* in the city. We called on customers to reduce plastic waste through point-of-purchase and other instore efforts, as well as through events at wards throughout the city. Some 3,700 customers also cooperdelicatessen sections of our stores, 100% of the oil we use is ated in completing a questionnaire during the campaign period. collected and recycled for soap, feed, and fertilizer. * Participating companies: Aeon Retail Co., Ltd., Aeon Retail Store Co., Ltd., Aeon Market Co., Ltd., Welcia Yakkyoku Co., Ltd., My Basket Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Tokai Co., Ltd., Maruetsu, Inc., Ministop Co., Ltd. Yokohama limited-edition personal shopping baskets A recycling station for collection of waste paper and plastic bottles Collection boxes at an Aeon store 40 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 41 Key Issue 3 Better Use of Resources Initiatives Undertaken by Group Companies FY2018 Results and Target of KPI Strengthening the Management System Cox Co., Ltd. Number of employees completing internal training course to improve management of waste emissions Collecting and Promoting the Reuse of Clothing Management System for Waste Emissions Seminar participants: 361 (cumulative total) Since 2011, Cox Co., Ltd. has been partnering with I-Collect Participants: 45, Examinees: 25, Successful candidates: 21 2015 Japan, which collects used clothing. They have been conductSeminar participants: 461 (cumulative total) ing a campaign to collect used clothing on a regular basis Aeon holds internal training courses on a regular basis aimed Participants: 100, Examinees: 47, Successful candidates: 33 since 2011, and the Group company has been collecting used at improving its management of waste disposal. Each year the 2016 clothing on a permanent basis since 2015. In 2018, they also Waste Management Training Course, which was developed 2017 Seminar participants: 551 people (cumulative total) began collecting used down clothing for further reuse, through together with an external specialist organization, is held for participation in the Green Down Project. Cox also sells prodenvironmental managers and waste management leaders of Seminar participants: 644 people ucts made of recycled down. 2018 (cumulative total) Results Group companies. 2020 Also, Cox has begun using In FY2018, 93 personnel participated in training for waste manTarget EcoBizBox containers in its operaagers, and 644 personnel have participated in these seminars tions. As well as reducing CO2 emissions arising from manufacsince FY2011. Continuance of this training will pave the way to improvements in the Group’s level of waste management. Electronic manifest introduction rate ture and disposal, the containers are light and easy to assemble, Meanwhile, we provide combined training and testing for Companies that had introduced electronic manifests as of the which helps mitigate the workload An EcoBizBox container persons in charge, with the aim of having them acquire the end of FY2016 used for shipping products (95% or more) 18 companies: Aeon Kyushu Co., Ltd., The Daiei, of store personnel. Also, Cox has to stores requisite skills and knowledge, such as waste manifest manInc., Aeon Liquor Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Minami Tohoku Co., Ltd., increased the efficiency of operaagement at each respective company. Maxvalu Kanto Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Nagano Co., Ltd., Maxvalu tions at delivery destinations as well as the efficiency of quanAlso, in order to make manifest management more efficient Chubu Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Nishinihon Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Kyushu tity management by introducing radio frequency identification Co., Ltd., Aeon Market Co., Ltd., The Maruetsu, Inc., Aeon Big Co., and precise, we are introducing electronic manifests* in stages. Ltd., Kasumi Co., Ltd., Red Cabbage Co., Ltd., Origin Toshu Co., (RFID) tags.* For example, to process waste Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. contracts Ltd., My Basket Co., Ltd., A-Colle Co., Ltd., Aeon Fantasy Co., Ltd. (50% or more, less than 95%) 9 companies: Aeon Retail Co., Ltd., * Tags incorporating a system that enables the contactless reading and Aeon Waste Management Center, which is jointly operated by Aeon Retail Store Co., Ltd., Aeon Hokkaido Co., Ltd., Aeon Store writing of tag data through the use of radio waves (electromagnetic Aeon Delight Co., Ltd. and specialized companies. We are introKyushu Co., Ltd., Aeon Bike Co., Ltd., Marunaka Co., Ltd., Sanyo waves) ducing an IT system that enables the unified management of Marunaka Co., Ltd., Aeon Town Co., Ltd., GFoot Co., Ltd. (Less than 50%) 5 companies: Maxvalu Hokkaido Co., Ltd., the periods of processing service agreements and licenses in Maxvalu Hokuriku Co., Ltd., Aeon Mall Co., Ltd., Ministop Co., Talbots Japan Co., Ltd. & Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. relation to contracted waste processors. We are establishing Ltd., Welcia Holdings Co., Ltd. Collecting and Promoting the Reuse of Clothing systemic capabilities that clarify the roles of companies emit2016 Fashion shop Self + Service run by Talbots Japan Co., Ltd. and ting waste, contracted waste processors, and contracted manCompanies that had introduced electronic manifests as of the end of FY2017 Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. is participating in the BRING Project for agement companies, and that facilitate checking. As well as (95% or more) 20 companies: Aeon Kyushu Co., Ltd., The Daiei, 100% recycling of clothing and runs clothing collections* for strengthening compliance, these capabilities have helped Inc., Aeon Liquor Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Minami Tohoku Co., Ltd., unneeded ladies’ and children’s wear. Fibers from the collected reduce man-hours and costs. As of February 2019, 41 Group Maxvalu Kanto Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Nagano Co., Ltd., Sanyo Marunaka Co., Ltd., The Maruetsu, Inc., Kasumi Co., Ltd., Red clothing are recycled into ethanol, and any clothing that can companies are using the Aeon Waste Management Center. Cabbage Co., Ltd., Aeon Big Co., Ltd., Origin Toshu Co., Ltd., My still be worn is donated. Digitization and the use of IT to issue manifests are saving Basket Co., Ltd., A-Colle Co., Ltd., Aeon Fantasy Co., Ltd., labor and increasing efficiency, but checking the details of Maxvalu Chubu Co., Ltd., Aeon Market Co., Ltd., Maxvalu * Collections conducted only at certain stores Kyushu Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Nishinihon Co., Ltd., Welcia Holdings manifests and the status of processing remains the responsiCo., Ltd. bility of the company emitting the waste. In 2018, we con(50% or more, less than 95%) 9 companies: Aeon Store Kyushu Co., Ltd., Aeon Bike Co., Ltd., Aeon Hokkaido Co., Ltd., Aeon ducted an internal audit of the Aeon Waste Management Town Co., Ltd., Aeon Retail Store Co., Ltd., Aeon Retail Co., Ltd., Center, confirming that improvements had been made. While Marunaka Co., Ltd., Aeon Supercenter Co., Ltd., GFoot Co., Ltd. communicating with contracted companies we are steadily (Less than 50%) 8 companies: Ministop Co., Ltd., Kohyo Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Hokuriku Co., Ltd., Aeon Food Supply Co., Ltd., putting in place rules to reflect the circumstances of individual Mega Sports Co., Ltd., Aeon Mall Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Hokkaido BRINGは役目を終えた衣料品を companies. We plan to introduce these systems at more comCo., Ltd., Research Institute for Quality Living Co., Ltd. panies going forward. 地球の資源にリサイクルしています。 2017 ポリエステルはもう一度服にリサイクルし、 まだ使える物は寄付やリユースします。 http//bri ng.org/ * Manifest: A control document issued to ensure that processing has been perCompanies that have introduced electronic manifests as of July 31, 2019 http://www.aeonfashionshop.jp/self-service-jp/ formed when discharging industrial waste. Though conducted traditionally in (95% or more) 25 companies: Aeon Kyushu Co., Ltd., paper form between emitters and processing companies, the exchange of elecThe Daiei, Inc., Aeon Liquor Co., Ltd., Maxvalu tronic manifests through networks has become common thanks to the digitizaHokkaido Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Minami Tohoku Co., GFoot Co., Ltd. tion of manifest information in recent years. Ltd., Maxvalu Kanto Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Nagano Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Tokai Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Chubu Co., Reusing and Recycling Shoes Ltd., Maxvalu Nishinihon Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Kyushu GFoot Co., Ltd. actively collects, reuses, and recycles shoes. In Co., Ltd., Sanyo Marunaka Co., Ltd., Aeon Market Co., collaboration with I-Collect Japan, the Group company has Ltd., The Maruetsu, Inc., Kasumi Co., Ltd., Aeon Big Co., Ltd., Red Cabbage Co., Ltd., Origin Toshu Co., established a system that contributes to resource recycling by 2018 Ltd., My Basket Co., Ltd., A-Colle Co., Ltd., Welcia enabling the constant trade-in of shoes. The Group company Yakkyoku Co., Ltd., Shimizu Yakuhin Co., Ltd., Aeon Results collected approximately 349 tons of used shoes in 2018. The Town Co., Ltd., Aeon Fantasy Co., Ltd., Aeon system reduces garbage by providing traded-in shoes that are Entertainment Co., Ltd. (50% or more, less than 95%) 9 companies: Aeon still usable to those in need overseas while recycling shoes Retail Co., Ltd., Aeon Retail Store Co., Ltd., Aeon that are not reusable into materials for road building and other Hokkaido Co., Ltd., Aeon Store Kyushu Co., Ltd., purposes. Aeon Bike Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Hokuriku Co., Ltd., Kohyo Co., Ltd., Aeon Supercenter Co., Ltd., Aeon Topvalu Co., Ltd. (Less than 50%) 7 companies: Ministop Co., Ltd., GFoot Co., Ltd., Aeon Pet Co., Ltd., Aeon Food Supply 2020 Target Co., Ltd., Research Institute for Quality Living Co., Ltd., Mega Sports Co., Ltd., Aeon Mall Co., Ltd. 42 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 43 Creating Products and Stores Key Issue 4 That Meet Society’s Expectations Management Approach Recognition of Challenges Highlight Aeon’s Role in Times of Emergency Customer safety and assurance is always the top priority in international community. In addition, the value that customers any era. As the supply chain has expanded globally in recent demand varies widely depending on the country and region. In years, ensuring product quality and safety has become more order to continue responding to their voices, it is essential to and more of a major challenge for society. The occurrence of actively create mechanisms for dialogue with customers as Aeon operates large shopping centers around Japan. As a retailer, in addition to providing products and building stores that product accidents not only causes great inconvenience for well as mechanisms for the development of products, services, meet society’s expectations, we believe our mission includes the public function of serving as a regional disaster support base customers, but also risks creating considerable anxiety for the and stores that reflect the opinions of customers. in times of emergency. We have signed an Agreement on Materials Procurement Cooperation During Disasters with some 650* municipal authorities throughout Japan. Under these agreements, we pledge to cooperate in helping afflicted areas to recover Aeon’s Approach and undergo reconstruction as swiftly as possible. *As of February 28, 2019 Aeon has set out Our Promise to Our Customers as part of the security. In terms of our store facilities, we are striving in tanJapan was struck by a spate of disasters in the summer of 2018, including an earthquake in Osaka and flooding in July. Aeon Aeon Code of Conduct formulated in April 2003. gible and intangible ways to create safe and pleasant stores. worked with various municipal authorities to provide support for disaster-affected regions as quickly as possible. Leveraging In order to put this promise into practice, we promote the Moreover, in order to respond to the diverse voices from a our strengths as a general merchandise store—the ability to rapidly procure and provide a host of items people need in their creation of safe and reliable products in partnership with our society that is changing with the times, we have created mecheveryday lives—we believe our mission as a retailer includes serving as a community lifeline, providing necessary items to domestic and overseas suppliers for the Aeon TOPVALU brand. anisms to periodically collect the opinions of customers and victims and having Aeon employees participate in volunteer activities in disaster-affected regions. Furthermore, we make efforts through such means as have focused our efforts on the development of products, serestablishing traceability systems and creating labeling rules vices, and stores under the themes of “the elderly,” “health,” and for ingredients so that customers can use products with “local products” in recent years. Helping to Procure Daily Essentials Supporting a Rapid Return Based on Comprehensive Accords to Normal Everyday Life Future Initiatives We recognize that responding to diverse consumer issues will views of customers. As part of this effort, we will expand During these disasters, we responded to requests for To help people in affected communities return to their daily continue to be a key issue in the future for the business of Health & Wellness products to respond to the aging of the emergency relief supplies from municipal authorities by lives, we prioritized initiatives to reopen stores in disasterAeon, which positions “contribution to customers” as an endurglobal population and health consciousness and the creation procuring and supplying daily essentials. During the 2018 affected regions. All six Aeon Retail stores in the affected ing mission. Going forward, Aeon will continue striving to of stores that are ready for large-scale natural disasters. Osaka Earthquake, we received requests from the cities of region recommenced operations in June. Stores in the area develop products, services, and stores that originate in the Osaka, Moriguchi, and Takatsuki. We supplied more than affected by flooding in July conducted open-air and off-site 6,000 items, including food, beverages, and tarpaulins. sales, operating in tents erected temporarily in parking lots. During the flooding in July 2018, in addition to food, drinks, In regions that remained isolated, we used mobile sales and clothing, we supplied hygiene products such as wet trucks to deliver vegetables and lunchboxes to many local Aeon Code of Conduct—Our Promise to Our Customers wipes—more than 920,000 items, in total. residents. Aeon endeavors to provide its customers with assurance and trust in their daily lives, in keeping with the view that “everything we do, we do for our customers.” Aeon’s never-ending mission is to make a positive contribution to customer lifestyles. At Aeon, our first priority is to ensure customer safety. we can offer our products and services at even lower prices. At Our customers enjoy a level of assurance only Aeon can offer. Aeon, our goal is to be the leading retailer for offering customWe always conduct all of our business activities (products, serers high-quality products at reasonable prices. vices, hygiene, facilities, information, etc.) with customer safety as the top priority. If there is the smallest doubt regarding cusAt Aeon, we wrap our products and services in a warm greettomer safety, we will promptly ascertain the nature of the coning and a friendly smile. cern and work to resolve the issue. In addition to products and services, Aeon customers can always look forward to a pleasant greeting and a caring, Off-site sales at the Maxvalu Hongo store Pallet of liquid milk sent to the city of Kurashiki in At Aeon, we keep our promises to our customers, always friendly smile. When we greet customers in our store, in our response to a request from the Tokyo metropolitan behaving with integrity. offices, and over the phone, they will know what we mean government We take personal responsibility to uphold the promises in our when we say “Aeon friendliness.” flyers and in advertisements concerning deliveries and repairs with all of our customers. If any incident or business problem At Aeon, the voices of customers give management its direcProviding free school bags to Employees involved in Support through integrated should arise, we will disclose faithfully all relevant information tion, and we strive to address customer desires in all business community volunteer activities financial services children who could not use their Broad-based in-store fundraising and respond if there are further questions. practices. own bags due to flood damage We consider all customer opinions, requests, and complaints At Aeon, we offer high-quality products and services at reato be the starting point for management decisions. We gratesonable prices. fully listen to our customers’ voices and acknowledge them as We strive to offer high-quality products and services so our a valuable contribution to our uniqueness, and we work to customers can enjoy enriched lives. At the same time, we are quickly respond to their feedback. actively engaged in re-inventing our business practices so that Employee volunteers transporting mudMobile ATM truck (Sanyo Marunaka Offering a six-year guarantee on the Conducting emergency fundraising at died tatami mats Mabi store) school bags we provided some 7,500 locations at Aeon Group stores throughout Japan 44 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 45 Key Issue 4 Creating Products and Stores That Meet Society’s Expectations We are implementing initiatives aimed at ensuring product Acquisition of ISO 9001 Certification The Process of TOPVALU Products to Customers Quality Control and Disclosure safety and security. In case a defect or flaw is discovered in a The Process of Creating Products product despite these efforts, Aeon informs the public of the The companies of the Aeon Group are working to acquire ISO TOPVALU products are created by taking the point of view of our fact as quickly as possible and recalls and withdraws the prodcustomers into consideration throughout each phase, from 9001 certification, provide consistent products and services, Quality Control of TOPVALU Brand Products uct in question. product planning and design to the selection of manufacturers, and increase customer satisfaction. In FY2018, Aeon withdrew 77 products due to serious incidetermination of product specifications, product inspection, and dents involving TOPVALU products. Aeon developed its own TOPVALU brand of products to improve sales. Group Companies with ISO 9001 Certification Aeon will strive to prevent product accidents through efforts its customers’ daily lives. We are working to create products by that include identifying problem areas based on customer (As of the end of February 2019) taking the point of view of our customers into consideration Product planning and Selection of Determination of product Inspection of After-sales feedback to avoid recurrence of an issue, strengthening relathroughout each phase, from product planning and design to design manufactur­ers specifications products management Company ➋ ➍ ➎ tionships between related departments, and reviewing areas of the selection of subcontractors, determination of product ➊ ➌ concern in the production and shipment phases of a product. Maxvalu Chubu Co., Ltd. specifications, production management, and sales. Head office, Kawaimachi Store, Kawaguchi Store Aeon Credit Service Co., Ltd. The TOPVALU Brand Portfolio Examples of TOPVALU Product Incidents in FY2018 ➊ Product planning and design Aeon Delight Co., Ltd. TOPVALU Penne We do not develop products that may have issues with safety Research Institute for Quality Living Co., Ltd. Central Institute TOPVALU Gratin Macaroni or present the risk of health hazards. In addition to achieving Cause: Inclusion in food package of plastic, possibly from Guangdong Aeon Teem Co., Ltd. the product performance expected by customers by reflecting broken-off part of manufacturing equipment due to their feedback, our development staff, quality control staff, and equipment deterioration Kasumi Meat Processing Center, Ltd. TOPVALU products provide customer TOPVALU Select features exclusive, precustomer service staff study issues such as the safety of raw Response: Product withdrawal and voluntary recall (recall Chiyoda Plant of Rose Corporation Co., Ltd. satisfaction and enrich daily life. mium-quality products. materials, the reliability of suppliers, the use of additives, and announcements at points of purchase at stores and through websites and newspaper advertisements) Kasumi Green Co., Ltd. appropriateness in the production process. Aeon Pet Co., Ltd. TOPVALU Cut Apples ➋ Selection of contract manufacturers Cause: Due to equipment malfunction, hypochloric acid founPet inn Royal Narita Airport We conduct factory surveys at contract manufacturers to condation below standard levels, possibly leading to poor Aeon Credit Service (Asia) Co., Ltd. firm factory quality (exemptions apply for GFSI-certified factosterilization TOPVALU Best Price realizes product TOPVALU Gurinai offers safety and Response: Product withdrawal and voluntary recall (recall Aeon Credit Service (M) Berhad quality that exceeds customer expectapeace of mind through products that ries) and conduct audits based on the Aeon Supplier Code of announcements at points of purchase in stores and tions while offering the lowest prices in are good for health and the natural Conduct to ensure that all of the products we consign are prothrough websites) Aeon Thana Sinsap (Thailand) PCL. each trading area. environment. duced at factories that can ensure safety and security. Qingdao Aeon Dongtai Co., Ltd. Aeon Topvalu Co., Ltd. ➌ Determination of product specifications Completed prototypes are evaluated by “customer monitors,” FY2018 Results and Target of KPI Aeon Delight (Jiangsu) Comprehensive Facility Management Service Co., Ltd. employees, etc. In addition, we also reevaluate the selection of Wuhan Xiaozhu Comprehensive Facility Management Service Co., Ltd. Number of TOPVALU products withdrawn due to serious raw materials, use of additives, and manufacturing processes to incidents TOPVALU Gurinai Organic comprises TOPVALU Gurinai Natural includes finalize the product specifications and contract manufacturers. organically cultivated products that perishables produced without the use 48 (apparel: 17; food: 14; living / HBC: 17) have earned official organic of synthetic chemicals as well as ➍ Inspection of products 2015 Food Sanitation Control certification. processed food products made from these perishable products. The products manufactured in accordance with their specifications are inspected to see whether they meet the initially 27 (apparel: 17; food: 6; living / HBC: 4) Under the Aeon Food Sanitation Certification System estab2016 expected quality standards. Products that pass inspection are lished in 1995, Aeon engages in a variety of activities to prevent sold to customers. the occurrence of food-related incidents such as food poison42 (apparel: 15; food: 12; living / HBC: 15) 2017 ing and contamination. ➎ After-sales management As of the end of February 2019, 23 companies from our GMS TOPVALU Gurinai Free From products do not contain additives, constituents, Based on the agreement with the manufacturer, we inspect Business and SM Business have implemented the Aeon Food 2018 77 (apparel: 13; food: 53; living / HBC: 11) Results and ingredients that can lead to cause each production lot at the plant for the items agreed upon and Sanitation Certification System while a total of 10,985 sections for concern for customers when shopping for food. keep records. We also carry out product inspections periodihave obtained certification. 30 (apparel: 12; food: 8; living / HBC: 10) cally to find out whether they meet the specified quality stan2020 Target dards and manage manufacturers, including through plant Quality Keepers hygiene investigations. Aeon has assigned “Quality Keepers” at its stores to verify store The Five TOPVALU Commitments sanitation levels and product quality. Quality Keepers check 1. We shall reflect the voices of customers in our products. store products and food preparation areas at stores, and call 2. We shall offer safe, reliable, and environmentally friendly for improvements if a problem is found. In addition, the sales products. staff inspect a list of items related to sanitation and quality 3. We shall present product information in an easily control, including a temperature management chart that is understandable way. used to record temperature management information for dis4. We shall offer products at affordable prices. play cases, refrigerators, and freezers, sell-by dates that are set 5. We shall guarantee our customers’ satisfaction. for each product, and freshness checks on fresh produce. 46 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 47 Key Issue 4 Creating Products and Stores That Meet Society’s Expectations Educating Employees about Hygiene of TOPVALU brand offerings show the places of origin of ingreConsumers can check the names and addresses of plants In 2018, we also began developing products in the perishWe conduct education on hygiene based on the Aeon Standard dients not only for food products in the mandatory categories that manufacture food products and additives using a unique able and delicatessen categories. Keeping in mind additives for Managing in-Store Food Hygiene at least once a year for but also for as many other products as possible. code comprising numbers and letters*2 labeled on the product and the desire to develop a flavoring stock unique to the Free employees working in food sales areas at Aeon stores. and reported to Japan’s Consumer Agency. This system can be Form series that would conjure up the flavor of home cooking, In FY2018, we listed up the most important hygiene manaccessed from the TOPVALU website. Consumers can find the we launched such Japanese side dishes as simmered hijiki agement categories (individuals washing hands, methods for exact name and location of the manufacturing plant simply by seaweed and golden burdock. We also expanded the range of the sanitary handling of food ingredients, management of entering the code on the online form. products that can be enjoyed with everyday meals, such as ingredient use-by dates), and worked to improve employees’ steamed dumplings, spring rolls and other types of chilled dim *1 “Free” means “absent” or “non-existent,” and “free from” in food indicates that awareness of hygiene measurement in these areas. additives and ingredients that can lead to cause for concern for customers are sum, as well as potato salad. not used. *1 “Free” means “absent” or “non-existent,” and “free from” in food indicates that Supervision of Food Preparation Areas *2 If the distributor is effectively responsible for food product safety, the distributor additives and ingredients that can lead to cause for concern for customers are must apply to the Consumer Affairs Agency and receive permission to use Food preparation areas are audited at least twice a year. Audits not used. unique symbols in the event the sale of foods or additives falls under the proviare continued until certain specified standards are met. sions of Article 10 of the Cabinet Office Ordinance related to standards outlined *2 29 synthetic colorings, 15 synthetic preservatives, 3 coloring agents, 5 fungicides, 10 artificial sweeteners, 23 flavor enhancers (amino acids), 6 flavor in accordance with Article 19-1 of the Food Sanitation Act. enhancers (nucleic acids), 3 anti-oxidants, 3 bleaching agents, 6 manufacturing  For imported foods and additives, the Food Sanitation Act and the Act for Labeling and Disclosing Product Information Standardization and Proper Labeling of Agricultural and Forestry Products (JAS agents, and 6 foods that contain a lot of trans-fatty acids *3 Shampoo, conditioner, foaming body soap, facewash foam, liquid laundry Act) provide for the stating of the country of origin and location of the importer. Disclosing Information on Agricultural Product Producers detergent, and softener For TOPVALU products, we consider what information should In 2003, we established the Producers Data Search System for be displayed to give customers peace of mind. We make a Aeon’s TOPVALU Gurinai products to give customers online thorough effort to display manufacturer information and peraccess to information on producers. Since 2004, we have also form quality control on products, including through voluntary added a barcode function that allows inspections. customers to access producer data We also have in place a system that helps us respond to the by reading the QR code, a two-dimennumerous questions we receive from customers. sional bar code. The data includes the places of origin as well as the differenLabeling of Genetically Modified Ingredients tiated measures taken by producers In April 2001, legislation in Japan enacted a labeling system for and how the item was grown. genetically modified ingredients. However, even before this, in Search screen of Search System for Manufacturing Plant Codes September 2000 Aeon began labeling TOPVALU brand prodhttps://www.topvalu.net/seizosyo-kensaku/ ucts that contain genetically modified ingredients in response A product labeled with a QR code to demands from its customers. We have expanded the scope Labeling of Food Allergens of labeled items and are striving to provide labeling even for Disclosing Information on Domestic Beef items not mandated by law. Prior to enforcement of the Beef Traceability Act,* in 2002 Aeon uses standardized icons on the outside of all food prodAdditionally, label accuracy of products subject to labeling Aeon established the Domestic Beef Safety Confirmation Health and Allergy Measures uct packaging to ensure consumers can easily identify food (separate items) is confirmed through certification of proper System in order to provide peace of mind to customers buying allergens contained in products. separation of production and distribution (IP handling) or testbeef. The system allows customers to find out information The information covers the use of seven ingredients*1 that ing for genetically modified DNA. about beef products produced from cattle raised in Japan, Launching Food Products without Certain Additives are officially designated by law to be displayed on the outside including where the cow was raised, who raised it, and what and Ingredients of product packaging. The back label of products also contains Disclosing the Places of Origin of Processed Food kind of feed it was raised on. The system can be accessed the 20 secondary items*2 recommended for inclusion in prodIngredients through our website. Since 2016, we have been developing and bringing to market uct labeling, bringing the total number shown to 27 ingredients. We receive numerous inquiries from customers regarding the TOPVALU Gurinai Free From*1 confectionery, bread, ham, sauWe also strive to include, where possible, food allergens that * Enforced in December 2004, the official name of the law is The Law for Special places of origin of processed food ingredients. Labels showing sages, seasonings, instant noodles, and other products. We are handled in the manufacturing process and therefore could Measures Concerning the Management and Relay of Information for Individual the places of origin of processed food ingredients have been Identification of Cattle. produce these foods without the use of 109*2 additives and be found in trace amounts in the product. mandatory in Japan since October 2006 for 22 food product ingredients that can lead to cause for concern for customers Inspections are also conducted every year on applicable categories, including dried mushrooms, green tea, and konnyDisclosing Information Related to Radioactivity and when shopping for food. To date, we have developed more products to confirm labeling accuracy. aku (jelly made from devil’s-tongue starch), as well as for four Radioactive Material than 100 such products. *1 Items for which inclusion on labels is mandatory: wheat, milk, eggs, peanuts, individual items. In response to customer requests, the labels We have been voluntarily inspecting radioactivity and radioacAiming to meet the needs of people who want to provide buckwheat, prawns, and crab (seven items) tive materials in Japanese beef, seafood, agricultural goods, food with less additives to their children as well as the needs of *2 Secondary items for which inclusion on labels is recommended: abalone, squid, and other foodstuff since March 2011. health-conscious customers, we conducted a questionnaire salmon roe, oranges, cashew nuts, kiwi fruit, beef, walnuts, sesame, salmon, mackerel, soy beans, chicken, bananas, pork, matsutake mushrooms, peaches, The results of these inspections are published on our and decided on the additives and ingredients to exclude based yams, apples, and gelatin (20 items) website. on the results. We aim to develop high-quality products that respond to customers’ needs. Search System for Manufacturing Plant Codes In addition to food products, we continue to sell such everyAeon is ultimately responsible for all aspects of TOPVALU day necessities as shampoo, body soap, and laundry deterbrand products from planning to design and marketing, and gent. In 2018, we launched a lineup of skin-protection products this is why Aeon Co., Ltd.*1 is labeled as the distributor on all that includes ultraviolet (UV) cream and body milk. product packaging. To reduce CO2 emissions, we have begun using biomassderived ingredients for some product packaging*3, such as bottles and refill pouches. Labeling of food allergens 48 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 49 Key Issue 4 Creating Products and Stores That Meet Society’s Expectations Developing and Selling Food for Allergy Sufferers Care-Fitters TOPICS We encourage Aeon employees to acquire the Care-Fitter* cerCatering to the Elderly, People with tification to help ensure that seniors and people in need of Holding Dementia-Awareness Events The TOPVALU Yasashi Gohan series was launched in November Disabilities, and People Unable to Shop assistance can shop in our stores with total confidence. 2016 to meet customer demands related to products that conthroughout Japan Certified Care-Fitters in the Aeon Group numbered 11,791 as of sider food allergies. The series was planned and developed the end of February 2019. Working with pharmaceutical manufacturer Novartis Pharma without the use of seven specific ingredients* based on the Initiatives for the Senior Generation K.K. and with support from the Japanese Society for Dementia concept of “meals for everyone in the family and that are gentle * Care-Fitter: A certification administered by the Nippon Care-Fit Education Institute (a public interest incorporated foundation) Care, Aeon holds dementia-awareness events for the resion the body.” As of the end of February 2019, the lineup feadents of communities throughout Japan. We use the name Grand Generation (G.G) in reference to tured a range of 17 varieties. With a rich variety that includes These events foster initiatives for realizing the Japanese seniors who are active and aggressive consumers—and powder mixes and white sauce that can be made into a variety dementia strategy (New Orange Plan)* formulated by the responds to the shopping needs of seniors with such initiatives of dishes as well as easy-to-prepare gratin and pasta sets, we Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. In communities with as ‘G.G Mall’ and ‘G.G Card’ targeted for seniors. For example, will present meals that allow everyone to enjoy the same menu Aeon commercial facilities, events include lectures by demenwe have launched a service providing special G.G benefits to tia support doctors in the community and consultations with even in households that include people with allergies as we customers aged 55 or older using WAON e-money. We plan to dementia care specialists. We held such events at 25 stores strive to provide assurance and trust rooted in daily life. gradually expand this offering throughout Japan. across Japan in FY2018. We aim to expand this effort to In addition, Aeon is developing Aeon Pharmacy sections include initiatives targeting people with dementia and the within Aeon general supermarkets, attracting general clinics Care-Fitter training session family members who support them, creating communities with medical facilities as tenants to respond to rising medical where all residents can live with peace of mind. needs against the backdrop of Japan’s aging society. Also, we Supporters for People with Dementia * Strategy formulated chiefly by the Ministry of Health, Labour and are focusing on developing Food for Specified Health Uses Welfare for creating communities friendly to seniors with dementia Since 2007, the Aeon Group has been participating in the (FOSHU) to meet the health needs of our customers. Dementia Supporter Caravan jointly promoted by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare and the non-profit organization Community-Care Policy Network, in order for its employees to TOPICS Creating a Convenient and Comfortable Store correctly understand dementia and provide appropriate Environment for Everyone support. “Quiet Hour,” a First for a Japanese Thus far, we have run Dementia Supporter Training Courses Labeling of Nutritional Content Aeon developed its own building standards based on the Commercial Facility to educate Dementia Supporters*1 in addition to training Heartful Building Law of 1994 (revised and renamed as the instructors (in-house Caravan Mates) for the courses. In July 2019, at our Aeon Style Shin-Yurigaoka store we introOver the years, we have taken such initiatives as prominently Barrier Free Law* in December 2006). We use these standards Employees also undergo training during the preparation phase duced the concept of “quiet hour” on a trial basis—a first for a labeling food allergens on the outside of TOPVALU product when building new stores or remodeling existing locations. As for opening a new store, encouraging them to become Japanese commercial facility. This move is designed for packaging. Since 2014, we have been asking customers what of the end of February 2019, over 760 of our facilities had been Dementia Supporters before the store opens. As of the end of people with developmental disorders that make them hypersort of labeling they thought was necessary, and displaying certified as compliant with the Barrier Free Law. sensitive and have trouble shopping due to store lighting, February 2019, cumulative Dementia Supporters numbered nutritional content* such as energy and fat on our packaging. We are also committed to incorporating universal design sounds, and smells. Some stores in the United Kingdom and 75,253, the most of any company in Japan, and 899 “Caravan concepts to strengthen store function and design. Australia have adopted similar practices, specifying subdued By arranging and printing nutritional content information in a Mate*2” instructors for the training course. sound and lighting at certain days or times. Aeon also decided fixed position on the outside of product packaging, we aim to Recognizing that the number of seniors among our custom*1 Dementia Supporters: Individuals certified through a prescribed curriculum to trial this approach, providing an environment more amenaprovide customers who want to consume healthy balanced ers is increasing, we aim to incorporate universal design conimplemented by municipalities and other groups. They have an understanding ble to hypersensitive shoppers. meals every day with a yardstick for managing their health cepts in all of our stores. of dementia and are able, within their capabilities, to give care to, watch over, (1) Location through diet. and provide support to people with dementia and their families. Areas selling food products and everyday necessities on * The Act on Buildings Accessible and Usable by the Elderly and Physically *2 Lecturers in seminars on assisting customers with dementia the first floor of the Aeon Style Shin-Yurigaoka store * Five nutritional contents of energy, protein, fat, carbohydrate, and sodium Handicapped, also known as the Heartful Building Law, was revised and renamed the Barrier Free Law in December 2006. (2) Time and date 9am to 10am on July 28, 2019 (Sunday) (3) Details • In-store lighting intensity was reduced by 20–50% from standard levels. • In-store background music was turned off (except in emergencies), and cash register scanning noises were subdued. • A calming-down space was set up. Dementia Supporter mark and orange band Step-free entrance (Aeon LakeTown) Easily visible in-store sign Seminar on assisting customers with dementia in session 50 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 51 Key Issue 4 Creating Products and Stores That Meet Society’s Expectations Enhancing the Shopping Experience TOPICS Catering to Customers with Diverse Values Taking Disaster Prevention Measures Online shopping is becoming a familiar and convenient way to Aeon’s Disaster Prevention Awareness Activities shop due to a diversification in shopping needs, which include Four Years after the 2014 Hiroshima Landslides improved store access and shopping outside of normal busiThe Evolution of Measures Establishing Temporary Local Shelters “Asaminami Bosai FES! 2018” ness hours. The Aeon Group is strengthening its omnichannel for Halal-Certified Products In May 2018, we held a participation-style disaster preparedness strategy by developing Aeon store e-commerce platforms The role of disaster-prevention facilities is to provide a tempoevent at Aeon Mall Hiroshima Gion, which was near the center of through the “Aeon Square” website portal, taking advantage of Based on customer feedback and sales trends in response to rary refuge during times of disaster, to serve as a hub for the landslides that struck the city of Hiroshima in August 2014. In the network of stores nationwide and enabling links between the measures we undertook for halal-certified products in the rescue and first-aid activities, and to provide access to daily addition to the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and store and Internet services, and expanding its home delivery period through 2018, we have been further evolving such essentials. To fulfill this role, we aim to set up temporary local Tourism, Hiroshima Prefecture, and Asaminami Ward, a variety of service for goods bought in stores and store pickup service for measures. shelters at 100 locations throughout Japan by FY2020. Stores organizations contributed to the event, including Japan’s Self goods ordered over the Internet. We attach certification marks to products produced at halalserving as a temporary local shelter are equipped with backup Defense Force, firefighters, the police, universities, junior and Aeon is also promoting measures to meet diverse shopping senior high schools, companies, and the Hiroshima Council Scout certified plants overseas. In Japan, meanwhile, we are considgenerators and sometimes water tanks in to provide an emerneeds such as increasing openings of small urban-style stores Association of Japan. The Hiroshima Council Scout Association of ering commercializing products at plants that have acquired gency water supply Japan used this as a kickoff event for a nationwide fire prevention that offer perishables and delicatessen items as well as prohalal certification. In FY2018, we established disaster-prevention facilities at 11 campaign being held at around 80 locations across Japan, as well cessed food and daily essentials, primarily in the urban areas We will use websites and social networking services (SNS) stores, including existing stores and such new stores as Aeon as for part of an experience program. of Tokyo and Kanagawa where there is only a limited number to communicate with Muslim customers in Japan and provide Mall Zama, THE OUTLETS HIROSHIMA, and Aeon Mall Iwaki We are also conducting activities involving the rolling stock of our stores. them with information on halal food products. Onahama. This brought the total number of Group stores with method*, which Aeon encourages in Hiroshima Prefecture as well these facilities to 51 as of the end of February 2019. as other areas. Employees who were involved in rescue activities surrounding the Great East Japan Providing Shopping Support through Earthquake and the earthquakes Mobile Sales Trucks in Kumamoto hold seminars introducing this approach. Anticipating an increase in the elderly population, we began * A method of encouraging shoppers operating mobile sales trucks to serve as a shopping aid for to stock more food and beverages senior citizens. Further, the initiative is part of our efforts to Examples of Aeon products sold in Malaysia than they need for everyday use, foster “local community ecosystems” by developing social and to replenish supplies as they are used infrastructure that helps residents lead physically and emoTOPICS tionally healthy daily lives. We are extending our routes to include areas with significant need for this service, such as Launch of a Frozen Cauliflower/Broccoli Aeon’s private power generators parking lots in residential areas and facilities for the elderly. Improving the Earthquake Resistance of Stores The number of initiatives has gradually increased. In July Mixture That Substitutes for Rice 2019, we began offering our mobile sales service in Sayama, A growing health awareness is causing more people to focus During the Great East Japan Earthquake, many of our store FY2018 Results and Target of KPI Saitama Prefecture (the first in this prefecture) and in the outon low-carbohydrate diets. In response to this trend, in buildings suffered extensive damage, which in some cases skirts of Kobe, Hyogo Prefecture (the first in western Japan), November 2018 we launched TOPVALU Cauliflower/Broccoli Number of temporary local shelters even resulted in loss of life. For this reason, Aeon is moving increasing the number of sales points. Rice Substitute, encouraging people to eat vegetables in place Established at seven stores, including existing stores and such forward with improving the safety and earthquake resistance of rice. This product is on sale at 2,700 stores throughout new stores as Aeon Mall Okinawa Rycom and Aeon Komaki, bringing cumulative total to 27 stores of its stores, giving utmost priority to protecting people’s lives Japan. 2015 and those stores in areas where a major earthquake with seisThis product features a cauliflower/broccoli mixture that Established at six stores, including existing stores and such Case Study: Within the City of Sayama mic intensity of at least upper 5 is expected to strike, in accorhas been diced to the size of rice kernels and then frozen. It new stores as Aeon Mall Sakai Teppocho and Aeon Sumoto, Twice a week, between Monday and Friday, we offer some bringing cumulative total to 33 stores dance with its own set of standards that are even stricter than can be thawed in a microwave oven and substituted for rice as 2016 300 items (such as perishables, seasonings, delicatessen those required by law. Since the 2016 Kumamoto earthquakes, is. Alternatively, it can be mixed in with steamed or risotto rice items, and daily sundry items) for sale in four designated Established at seven stores, including existing stores and such to reduce calories while still providing a sense of fullness. The new stores as Aeon Mall Shin-Komatsu and Aeon Mall we have expanded the scope of our efforts in our aim to sections of Kashiwabara Newtown. If customers request product helps add dietary fiber, which is often neglected, and Tokushima, bringing cumulative total to 40 stores improve safety and earthquake resistance at all of our stores. items that are not available, we can bring them along for 2017 sale the next time the truck visits. can be an easy way to make daily diets healthier. At Aeon Retail Co., Ltd., work had been completed at 174 Established at seven stores, including existing stores by the end of FY2018. In FY2019, we plan to undertake Case Study: On the Outskirts of Kobe stores and such new stores as Aeon Mall Zama, safety work at 32 stores (including retail stores). 2018 THE OUTLETS HIROSHIMA, and Aeon Mall Results Also, in FY2020 Aeon Mall Co., Ltd. plans to implement furTsukushigaoka Ward, to the north of Kobe, has a higher perIwaki-Onahama, bringing cumulative total to 51 centage of people aged over 65 than the Kobe average. Upon stores ther earthquake-related safety measures, which will entail the request from a local residents’ association, we operate a attachment of fireproof sheets to hanging smoke barriers, at sales truck in this area that is used by many customers. 32 existing malls. 2020 100 stores nationwide that can serve as temporary shelters Target Nutritional comparison with regular rice FY2018 Results and Target of KPI Rice Cauliflower Rice Broccoli Rice Number of seismically reinforced stores Substitute Substitute Carbohydrate 53.7g 2.1g 2.4g 107 stores seismically reinforced Energy 252kcal 27kcal 34kcal 2015 Dietary fiber 0.5g 3.2g 4.2g 135 stores seismically reinforced by FY2016 2016 156 stores seismically reinforced by FY2017 2017 Mobile Sales Trucks 2018 174 stores seismically reinforced by FY2018 Results Steady implementation of reinforcement at 245 target stores 2020 52 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 53 Key Issue 4 Creating Products and Stores That Meet Society’s Expectations Disaster and Fire Prevention Measures TOPICS Concluding Disaster Prevention Agreements Introducing Balloon Shelters As an operator of commercial facilities used by a large number Conducting Comprehensive Disaster We expect our store personnel to act as members of local Aeon has promoted the installation of “balloon shelters”—large of customers, we take measures and conduct drills so that we Prevention Drills at Aeon Mall Iwaki Onahama communities at all times, and this expectation extends to tents for use in emergency evacuations—since 2004 to be precan rapidly ensure the safety of customers and personnel in disasters. With the aim of helping local residents in the event of pared in the event of an earthquake or other major natural Aeon Mall Iwaki Onahama, which opened in June 2018, is a the event of a disaster. a disaster, we are concluding disaster prevention agreements disaster. As of the end of February 2019, the tents have been “disaster prevention mall,” meaning it is designed to serve as In FY2018, we conducted initial response training, which pledging cooperation with and support for municipal authoriplaced at a total of 33 locations, primarily shopping centers an emergency lifeline center in times of disaster. Prior to its covers discovery, notification, initial fire extinguishing, and opening, we held comprehensive disaster prevention drills, ties nationwide. around the country. evacuation guidance, at 154 shopping centers nationwide. The attended by members of Japan’s Self Defense Force, firefightWe have concluded disaster prevention agreements with The tents are lightweight and easy to carry, so those stored aim of this training was to ensure that all employees underers, and the Japan Coast Guard. We confirmed emergency 650 municipal authorities and private companies as of the end close by can be brought to locations affected by disasters. stand the prioritization of the Aeon Group’s responsibilities. In action in the event of a fire, held shake-out drills to ensure of February 2019. Under the agreements, we will provide relief other words, our first priority is the lives of our customers and physical safety should a large earthquake occur, and provided supplies and allow the use of our parking lots as evacuation employees, the second is our stores and facilities, and the third evacuation guidance onto rooftops in preparation for tsunaareas during disasters. We are also stepping up collaboration is our brand and corporate value. mis. By working closely with outside partners, we aim to funcon an everyday basis with local communities in their disaster tion as a center for the community, temporarily hosting prevention efforts by conducting joint disaster prevention drills evacuees, providing training on handling emergency materials, Groupwide Disaster Prevention and Safety Drills with the parties to these agreements. and hosting training by the Self Defense Force on how to cook Taking lessons from the experience of the Chuetsu Earthquake, retort-packaged food into meals. Aeon has been conducting earthquake disaster drills since TOPICS 2005 to ensure quick action toward the safety of its customers and employees in the event of a large-scale disaster. Aeon and Hokuriku Electric Sign Agreement In March 2014, we established the Aeon Komaki Crisis Balloon Shelter Management Center, based at the Aeon Komaki Store (Komaki, on Mutual Assistance in the Event of a Balloon shelters can be easily inflated with a special blower and be ready for use in around 40 minutes. Aichi Prefecture). This center is designed to gather early-stage Disaster Each set comes with one tents and a single tent can information and serve as an alternative headquarters if Aeon’s accommodate nearly 50 people. In May 2019, Aeon Co., Ltd. and the Hokuriku Electric Power head office in Makuhari is unable to perform headquarters Company signed an agreement on mutual assistance in the functions due to disaster. In July, we conducted a drill with the event of a disaster. Under this accord, the two parties will Proposing Rolling Stock Aeon Komaki Crisis Management Center functioning as the cooperate in supporting victims of large-scale disasters. alternative head of operations based on the scenario that our If a large-scale disaster occurs, Aeon will provide Hokuriku Makuhari headquarters had been damaged by a major earthFire-fighting training, spraying water from atop a ladder We call on customers to make preparations that can be conElectric with relief supplies and space to set up recovery quake striking directly beneath Tokyo. bases. Hokuriku Electric will supply electricity to temporary tinually practiced in their daily lives to the extent possible in Going forward, while adjustevacuation sites Aeon will prepare on store premises at the order to achieve even the slightest reductions in damage in the ing our predicted scenarios, request of municipal authorities. By collaborating even more event of a disaster. we will hold recurring drills that closely than in the past, Aeon will fulfill its social responsibility As it is said that a food stockpile lasting anywhere from a rally the combined strengths as a lifeline that supports customers in the communities it minimum of three days up to a week is required for an at-home serves. evacuation scenario immediately following a disaster, Aeon of Group companies so that the local head of operations in proposes rolling stock using TOPVALU. In times of emergency, Overview of the Agreement customers can use the items they stock up on in their daily the affected area responds (1) Through close mutual collaboration and cooperation, Aeon swiftly when disaster strikes. Aeon Komaki Crisis Management Center shopping through a cycle of regularly buying and keeping and Hokuriku Electric aim to increase their preparedness extras of items they consume and always making additional for large-scale disasters, enhance their disaster prevention Fire Prevention Drills at Stores Rescue training from a Japan Coast Guard helicopter capabilities, and smoothly enact disaster recovery meapurchases of what they have eaten. At Aeon stores, safety and disaster preparedness measures sures. If requested by municipal authorities, Aeon will Going forward, we will continue to propose disaster reducare checked on a daily basis, in addition to final inspections supply emergency power at facilities designated by the tion initiatives through our stores and products in order to fulfill conducted by security staff and store managers after stores municipal authorities. our role as a lifestyle infrastructure for customers. (2) In the event of a large-scale disaster due to earthquake, are closed. upon request from Hokuriku Electric Aeon will provide food, Fire prevention drills have been conducted twice a year and Measures to Assist People Who Are Unable to everyday necessities, and other relief supplies to disaster earthquake response drills run once a year. Following the Great recovery personnel. Aeon will also provide space to set up Return Home East Japan Earthquake that struck in March 2011, however, we recovery bases. Hokuriku Electric will supply electricity to decided to increase the number of earthquake response drills temporary evacuation sites Aeon will prepare on store Aeon, which has shopping centers around Japan, has in the to twice per year from 2012. We strive to make these drills as premises at the request of municipal authorities. past provided assistance when people were unable to return realistic as possible by devising scenarios based on a variety of (3) To ensure that mutual support proceeds smoothly, the two home. possible disasters. Full-time store employees and tenant Using digital signage to broadcast evacuation guidance companies will maintain open lines of communication and Specifically, we provide water, restrooms, information, and messages conduct training as necessary, even outside times of employees participate in the drills. They are conducted to help places to rest. At stores and offices in the Tokyo metropolitan us provide timely responses and ensure the safety of customdisaster. area, where many people would likely be unable to return home ers in the event of a fire or earthquake. in an emergency, we have put in place a response system. We have prepared a manual of countermeasures and conduct regular drills. Going forward, we plan to expand this initiative into other areas. Learning from the Self Defense Force how to cook meals from retort-packaged foods 54 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 55 Key Issue 4 Creating Products and Stores That Meet Society’s Expectations Raising the Safety Levels of Store Facilities Installing Automated External Defibrillators (AEDs) FY2018 Results and Target of KPI and Fixtures We are promoting the installation of AEDs at each of its stores. Dialogue with Customers These devices generate electric shock as a means of resusciNumber of complaints and compliments received tating people who have suffered sudden cardiopulmonary We work to enhance the safety of the facilities and fixtures used Number of service complaints: 10,381 arrest. In addition, we are providing emergency lifesaving trainSystem for Listening to Customers Number of compliments: 2,060 in its stores to prevent accidents involving its customers. 2015 ing for people responsible for sales areas and security staff. In FY2018, we endeavored to increase the installation of Number of service complaints: 13,890 Safety Measures for Escalators We put our customers’ perspective at the heart of manageNumber of compliments: 2,328 AEDs at small-sized supermarkets, where there are only a few 2016 There has been an increasing number of accidents in recent ment and strive to provide an environment in which customers devices installed. As a result, installations reached 1,842 years involving children getting caught in the gap between the feel free to provide suggestions. We also endeavor to promptly Number of service complaints: 14,505 devices at 1,050 stores throughout the entire Aeon Group. Number of compliments: 2,148 escalator and walls of shopping centers and department incorporate customer comments into enhancing our product 2017 stores. In response, Aeon stores work to prevent escalatorlineup and services, environmental conservation activities, and related incidents by setting up barriers or dividers to prevent Crime Prevention Measures other areas. Number of service complaints: 16,534 Results exposure to such gaps. 2018 Number of compliments: 2,467 At our new stores we have reduced the speed of down escaThere have been a number of incidents at supermarkets over Suggestion Boxes and Communication Boards Number of service complaints: 2,420 lators from 30 meters per minute to 20 meters per minute as a the past several years involving food products containing neeEach Aeon store has set up a box where customers can submit 2020 Number of compliments: 2,900 means to prevent falls by senior citizens. dles or other dangerous objects. We have therefore installed their opinions as well as a communication board disclosing Target security cameras in food departments and begun using needle these opinions and Aeon’s response. Comments and suggesdetectors at its stores. If a needle were to be discovered, it tions provided by customers are replied to directly by a store would be promptly delivered to the police or healthcare center, representative and posted for others to see. We receive many and customers as well as local stores of Group companies suggestions from customers TOPICS would be informed through an in-store display or announceabout things that are difficult ment in order to prevent additional injury or damage. for stores and employees to Examples of Product Development and We are also conducting crime prevention drills and liaising notice. The suggestions are Improvements Reflecting Customer with police to ensure the safety of customers in the event of an utilized to improve product incident or accident at our store. lineups and services and in Feedback environmental conservation Improvement Example (1) A safety measures for escalators activities and other initiatives. Improvements to the inner plug and outside cap on dressing • Calorie 50% Cut Caesar Dressing • Calorie 50% Cut Sesame Dressing Establishing Parking Pole Lot Guardrails • Calorie 50% Cut Japanese-Style Dressing Accidents often occur in the parking lots of retail complexes as a result of drivers mixing up the gas and brake pedals. We have We improved the inner plug and outside cap based on three therefore established parking pole guardrails at our parking points of feedback. First, in the past the plastic ring that was lots to prevent cars from crashing into stores and ensure the used to pull out the inner plug became waste once removed. safety of our customers. Suggestion box and communication board Second, the content of bottles could spray out as the plug was being removed. Third, removing the plug required strength, sometimes making it the process difficult for older customers. Customer Service Department The Customer Service Department at Aeon headquarters To resolve the second issue, the improved plug adheres to the receives product and service related comments and requests back of the cap once opened, so does not become waste. from customers who visit our stores. Comments and requests, which we receive via phone, the Internet, letters, and other Before change After change channels, are responded to after checking with the relevant departments. In addition, for TOPVALU products, we have set up a call center where we collect suggestions from customers. This information is reported to Directors and Executive Officers, Parking pole and shared with employees of relevant departments through systems that manage customer feedback. In FY2018, Aeon’s headquarters received 98,769 opinions and inquiries from customers, up 1.8%, or 1,784, year on year. Feedback received via e-mail continued to increase. The number of service complaints was 16,534, up 14.0% from Given the importance of ease of use to the TOPVALU developFY2017. Throughout the Group, the number of compliments ment philosophy, we steadily make various improvements to we received was 2,467. products in light of customer feedback. Going forward, we will listen carefully to the opinions of each and every customer to provide them with better services and products. Parking lot guardrails 56 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 57 Implementing Fair Business Practices Key Issue 5 Based on Respect for Human Rights Management Approach Recognition of Challenges Highlight People at the Foundation of Aeon’s Business Amid the expansion of a borderless supply chain, it is imporregions, some of which lack well-developed legal systems. To tant for companies to comply with laws and regulations and conduct sustainable businesses in such countries and regions social norms in the countries where they do business and to companies must not only comply with local laws and regulaensure fair transactions in order to continue to grow soundly. tions but also promote fair business practices in accordance Aeon raises “respecting humanity” as one of its Aeon Basic Principles (P. 1) and conducts all business activities in accorAgainst a background of global population growth and ecowith the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and dance with this principle. We have formulated the Aeon Human Rights Policy, a code of conduct for employees, and a code nomic development, securing energy and food resources is Human Rights (informally known as the “Ruggie Principles” or of conduct for suppliers. On this basis, Aeon engages in fair and sustainable business activities with all stakeholders also an important theme. In such circumstances, it is essential the “Ruggie Framework”) and other international norms. across all its businesses. for every company to build a responsible supply chain that is Further, respecting the human rights of people from a variety We consider Aeon’s Basic Principles and code of conduct paramount to our human resource activities. Since its foundaconscious of local resources and environments, human rights, of backgrounds, including their nationalities or birthplaces, and tion, Aeon has regarded personnel as its most important management resource. Based on this belief, we strive to promote quality, labor practices, and other issues in order to achieve a leveraging this diversity to create new value is becoming firmly diversity, create a comfortable working environment, and cultivate human resources in an effort to convert the power of sustainable society in each country and region. established as an indispensable personnel strategy for corpothe individual into power for the Group. The globalization of corporate activities is resulting in the rate growth. establishment of supply chains that link many countries and Responding to Human Rights across Creating an Environment Where Individuals Can Aeon’s Approach the Entire Supply Chain Realize Their Abilities and Play Active Roles To realize business management based on respect for human the Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct, which we formulated in 2003. In line with the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business Since its foundation, Aeon has regarded personnel as its rights—which is one of the Aeon Basic Principles—the Aeon Code In addition, we established the Basic Principles on Personnel, and Human Rights, which serve as global guidelines, Aeon most important management resource. Based on this belief, of Conduct sets out rules under the headings “Its Business which outlines our overall personnel approach for our employees. extends its consideration for human rights to all stakeholdwe promote management focused on wellness and diversity. Partners and Aeon” and “Together with Aeon People.” Further, we We value diverse values, regardless of gender, age, nationality, or ers involved in its business activities. This scope includes the Our aim is to be a company where employees are healthy and have established Aeon Human Rights Policy with a view to proother characteristic. To ensure the implementation of the aforeemployees of contracted companies and suppliers. in which many different individuals can realize their abilities, moting the Aeon Code of Conduct. Recognizing that suppliers are mentioned policies and principles, we conduct human rights We began reviewing the Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct in serving as the wellspring of the Group’s competitiveness. important business partners, we engage in fair transactions and education around the world. 2018. We added “engagement”—or the attitude and approach In terms of wellness, Aeon believes healthy employees practice social responsibility in our procurement, as set forth in toward initiatives—as a new category with greater weight are better able to provide services that contribute to the than the items regarded as important to date. We also held health and happiness of local customers. As for diversity, Future Initiatives dialogues with experts to aid progress in defining priority we strive to create an environment where all Aeon people Human rights underpin all social issues, and a range of internaconduct fair and sustainable business activities with business human rights issues and formulating an execution plan. can make the most of their capabilities. We believe divertional guidelines call on companies to take a central role in partners based on the Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct. We also sity is a major source of strength that connects the growth addressing human rights issues. At Aeon, relevant divisions colcontinue to educate employees with respect to human rights and of employees with the growth of the entire Group. laborate to take Groupwide measures that not only protect the promote diversity, the Aeon Health Management Declaration, and human rights of Aeon employees but also address issues a balance between working and providing childcare or nursing May 2013 throughout the Group’s value chain. Transactions with partners care. In these ways, we are working to increase working options in Declaration at the general meeting of 2017 are an important part of our business activities, and we strive to response to diverse work styles. shareholders of aim to have women •R atio of female managers account for 50% of managers Mar. 2015 reaches 27.9% in first half Jul. 2013 A member of Diversity •A nnouncement of the Aeon Establishment of the Diversity Promotion Management Selection 100 Health Management Declaration Aeon Code of Conduct–Its Business Partners and Aeon (Its Partners and Aeon) Office at Aeon Co., Ltd. Aeon respects innovative business partners* who help the Company achieve its objective of “Customer Satisfaction.” We strive to Becoming a work as equals with our business partners, dealing fairly and working for our mutual prosperity. Company That * The term “business partner” refers to all partners with whom we conduct business, including those who provide retail products, facilities services, and our retail tenants. Strives to Make At Aeon, we cooperate with our business partAt Aeon, we respect business partners whose those related to ISO, labor, environmental conPeople Happy ners, all of whom are important to us, moving top priority is safety and customer peace of servation, and quality management. We also We strive to attract 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 forward together to develop innovative business mind/assurance. require our business partners to strictly observe diverse employees and models that will open the gate to the next era.。 Aeon and all of its business partners share the these same standards. create an environment We cultivate strong relationships with our partcommon goal of “Customer Satisfaction.” If even At Aeon, we do not tolerate the acceptance of that helps them maxiners, collectively pursuing innovative business the smallest doubt exists regarding the safety or gifts, money, or special favors from our busipractices, better products, better services, and trust of a product or service, we work with our mize their potential, ness partners. leading to Aeon’s growth. mutual success. business partners to promptly ascertain the We select business partners based on their ability nature of the concern and resolve the issue. At Aeon, we clearly document agreements with to offer better products and services at fair prices. business partners, and strictly follow the letter At Aeon, we require our business partners to Individuals do not accept any gifts, money, or speNov. 2014 2016 Mar. 2018 2019 of such agreements. comply with both the letter and spirit of internacial treatment from a business partner designed Holding of the first Daimanzoku Aeon Co., Ltd. earns Aeon Co., Ltd. Certified as a 2019 Company with tional standards and to practice them fully. to secure our business in any situation. All efforts Awards Platinum Kurumin and selected as a Excellent Health Management (White We maintain equality with our business partners, must go toward the benefits of customers. Eruboshi certifications Nadeshiko Brand 500) for a third consecutive year connected through formal agreements. Both parties Aeon complies with and respects all generally Ranked A in the DBJ Health strictly adhere to all agreed-upon contract provisions. recognized international standards, including Management Ratings Aeon Code of Conduct—Together with Aeon People Aeon respects human rights. We never discriminate against anyone based on their nationality, race, gender, age, educational background, religion, physical or mental disability, or any other attribute. Aeon People listen to their co-workers, and Aeon People respect each other in the same way that they respect themselves. Aeon’s goal is to be the most people-friendly company. 58 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 59 Key Issue 5 Implementing Fair Business Practices Based on Respect for Human Rights Aeon Human Rights Policy Revising the Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct We emphasized the importance of the various parties taking charge of the supply chain actually connect the management Initiatives focused on respecting human rights are central to Fair Business Practices the resolution of a range of social issues. In Japan and overbaton to the next. In the revised Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct, To kick off policy formulation on human rights due diligence, seas, laws and guidelines call on companies to play leading we set forth the new message of “engagement,” which places we began reviewing the Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct we roles in addressing human rights issues. importance on the attitude and approach toward initiatives. Marking 15 Years since the Start of Our Initiative formulated in 2003. Engagement” including the meaning of positive promise and In 2003, Aeon established the Aeon Code of Conduct (please Since enacting the code, we have made improvements see page 32) to realize business management that is founded on agreements, we will communicate Aeon’s will that “we want to based on audit results by Aeon-certified auditors and thirdrespect for human rights, which is one of Aeon’s basic principles. In 2003, we formulated the Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct, create a good society together.” party assessment bodies and communicated with suppliers to To advance the Aeon Code of Conduct, the Company established and 15 years have passed since we began working with suppliAt the same time, we raised the message that it is not only inform how important to face its issues is. In the ensuing 15 Aeon Human Rights Policy in 2014. ers to address society’s issues. Social conditions and issues regarding a single day of auditing, but we will seek to share years, issues have grown more complex, leading to the need to Further, given the recent developments in social situations have changed substantially over this period, and companies issues and address effective improvement activities based on address all members of the supply chain together. worldwide, we revised Aeon on Human Rights Policy in October are being called on to accept more responsibilities. As a result, mutual “integrity and transparency” across the entire business 2018. we believe the time has come to review this initiative. relationship. The overriding goal of the revised policies is to help realize a Accordingly, we conducted human rights due diligence* based society that respects human rights. To this end, the policies on the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and clarify Aeon’s commitment to implementing human rights meaHuman Rights, identified and assessed the human rights risks Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct (Revised in 2019) sures based on domestic laws, international laws, and internaof Aeon’s business activities, ranked these risks, and addressed 1. Laws and Regulations disability, sexual orientation or gender identity. All decisions pertaintional agreements and clarify the policies’ applicability to all issues we are being called upon to resolve. Suppliers shall comply with all applicable legislation, bylaws, and ing to employment shall be based on criteria relating to the ability to business partners and other stakeholders involved in Aeon’s * Formulating human rights policy, assessing the impact of business activities on regulations of the countries and regions in which business is operaccomplish the required task. business activities. Moreover, the policies state the Group’s human rights, and tracking and disclosing performance in order to recognize, ated. Suppliers shall also demand that all of their suppliers, subcon8. Freedom of Association and the Right to Collective Bargaining intention to develop a due diligence process for human rights. prevent, and address negative impacts related to human rights tractors, and contractors comply with legislation, bylaws, regulations, Suppliers shall respect employees’ right to organize, join and manage and our Supplier Code of Conduct. a labor union chosen by the employees themselves, and for the 2. Child Labor employees’ representative to enter into collective bargaining with the There shall be no use of, or support of use of a child who is not yet company. Where there are legal and regulatory restrictions imposed the older of either age 15 or the age at where a child is allowed to be on the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining, supAeon Human Rights Policy used in that country. For individuals who have not yet reached the pliers shall establish as an alternative measure a complaint handling In accordance with this policy, all of Aeon’s executives and employees (Aeon People) will further their understanding of human rights and help age of 18 or who are at or above the age at which it is legally permitsystem where management and employee representatives can take realize a society that respects these rights. ted to use or employ them, education shall be given priority where their concerns and to respond in good faith. We will adopt this policy for all Aeon People and share it with all business partners. there are compulsory education laws, and they shall not be placed in 9. Health and Safety a situation where they would be subjected to physical or mental Suppliers shall provide employees with a safe and healthy working 1. Our Approach to Human Rights health or developments risks or danger. environment compliant with applicable legislation, in addition to For everyone affected by our business activities, we will comply with domestic laws on human rights and labor, the International Bill of Human Rights, and the rules on human rights set forth in the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at 3. Forced Labor providing effective steps to prevent disease including accidents, Work in accordance with the Aeon Basic Principles, the Aeon Code of Conduct, and the United Nations Global Compact, which we joined in 2004. The use and employment process shall not be forced or be complicit injuries and emotional issues relating to potential health and safety. Further, we will support and follow the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. in force that is against a employees’ will by means of violence, intimiSuppliers shall apply similar health and safety standards to dormitodation, restraint, mental or physical means or of unjustly limiting ries and cafeterias provided to employees. 2. Respect for Human Rights in Business Activities their freedom of conduct. 10. Environment We will respect the privacy of individuals as well as their diverse values and personalities and never discriminate against anyone for any reasons, 4. Working Hours It shall not be sufficient to only comply with all legislation relating to including discriminatory treatment based on race, nationality, ethnicity, gender, age, place of birth, religion, educational background, physical or Suppliers shall comply with legislation relating to working hours, the environment of the nation and the region in which manufacturmental disability, sexual orientation, or gender identity. Further, we will remain mindful of the positions of others and respect them as our equals. breaks and holidays and other industry standards. Overtime work ing is being undertaken, instead maximum consideration shall be We will treat all customers in a fair and impartial manner and provide them with safe, reliable products and services as well as related must be voluntary, and should not be demanded regularly. In terms given to the environment. There shall be confirmation that the raw information. of work exceeding statutory working hours, a determinate overtime materials and the products used conform to the legislation of the We will actively communicate with local community members to ensure that we are respecting their human rights. allowance shall be paid. nation and region from which they are obtained, that international We will comply with sound corporate ethics and workplace environment-related laws, regulations, and international standards in our business treaties and protocols are being applied and that the environmental 5. Wage and Benefit Packages activities by dealing with business partners fairly. Moreover, we will continually improve our performance in this regard. policies specified by Aeon are satisfied. Suppliers shall comply with legislation on national wages and beneWe will listen to our coworkers, respect each coworker’s human rights, and create workplace environments that are harassment free, safe, and fits. Wages and various benefits shall be paid and deducted in accor11. Business Transactions employee friendly. At the same time, we will train and educate all Aeon People to further their knowledge and understanding of human rights. dance with the relevant legislation, and records shall be kept. Wages Suppliers shall comply with the laws relating to the country of origin shall be in excess of the amount required to meet employees’ basic of the final product and its components and of business transac3. Implementation of Human Rights Due Diligence needs. The paid wages shall include overtime allowances and shall tions of the exporting country and region. Regarding the impact of our business activities on human rights, we will contribute to the realization of a society in which human rights are be described in a manner comprehensible to employees. 12. Integrity and Transparency respected through the implementation of human rights due diligence. 6. Abuse and Harassment Suppliers shall never be involved in unethical actions such as bribRevised October 2018 Suppliers shall not engage in, have any involvement in or be complicit ery, falsification, manipulation or concealment of records, evidence in any punishment of employees, use of mental or physical force or or testimony in any business activity. Information relating to busiuse of abusive language. Suppliers shall not permit any acts of ness activities shall be correctly disclosed in accordance with the Aeon Code of Conduct harassment including gestures, language or physical contact in any applicable regulations and standard business practices. workplace within the business activity. 13. Engagement 1. Aeon People are always grateful to the many other individuals who provide support and help, never forgetting to act with humility. 7. Discrimination Suppliers shall integrate the requested content of Aeon’s Suppliers 2. Aeon People value the trust of others more than anything else, always acting with integrity and sincerity in all situations. Suppliers shall not discriminate or be complicit in employment disCode of Conduct into their own company or their own organization’s crimination relating to recruitment, wages, promotion, training, termimanagement system, and work throughout the entire organization to 3. Aeon People actively seek out ways to exceed customer expectations. nation or retirement on the grounds of race, nationality, ethnicity, resolve social issues occurring throughout the whole supply chain. 4. Aeon People continually challenge themselves to find new ways to accomplish the Aeon ideals. gender, age, origin, religion, academic background, physical or mental 5. Aeon People support local community growth, acting as good corporate citizens in serving society. 60 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 61 Key Issue 5 Implementing Fair Business Practices Based on Respect for Human Rights Human Rights Due Diligence* in the Supply Chain After our self-assessment, we engaged in dialogue with (2) Responding to TOPVALU raw material producers stakeholder and exchanged opinions about initiatives expected Implement Measures We began by approaching the producers of raw material for of Aeon. Taking these opinions and advices we identified perishable foods, which have a short supply chain. Based on the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business human rights issues to be addressed as priorities. After formuA Japanese NGO, ASSC: The Global Alliance for Sustainable and Human Rights, we began by identifying the negative lating an action plan, we commenced human rights due dili(1) Revising the Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct Supply Chain cooperatively supports this project. impacts of Aeon’s business activities on human rights and gence efforts. In March 2019, we revised the code to incorporate the elements analyzing their divergence from current initiatives. * Formulating human rights policy, assessing the impact of business activities on human the assessment found we were missing, as well as the rights, and tracking and disclosing performance in order to recognize, prevent, and message we wished to emphasize. (P. 61) address negative impacts related to human rights The Human Rights Due Diligence Process STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 STEP 4 STEP 5 STEP 6 Survey of suppliers Consider Measures and Implement Measures Identify target items Notify suppliers the Make visits to confirm Management by Self-Assessment Identify Risks and raw material Assess Plans (Underway) by sales scope of revisions high risk producers suppliers producers Identify stakeholders O  btain stakeholders  ormulate action plans F Identify stakeholders issues by each process opinions and advices for initiatives through issues by each process Assess impact of busiIdentify important issues 2020 Assess impact of busiSTEP 1 Use sales to identify target items checking that the these items production factories had experiness relationship ness management For the top items in three categories of perishables such as ence to Aeon Supplier CoC audits or authenticated external agricultural items, livestock, and marine produce, we picked up audits which satisfied human rights element, we analyze its them by sale of 65% or higher. We then listed up potential situations and assess risks in which case the factories have human rights risks by item and country or region of origin, not been the subject to audit ever. Self-Assessment Identify Risks referring mainly to a U.S. Department of Labor report. After (1) Identify human rights issues in the supply chain (1) Stakeholders evaluation for results of self-assessments We identified risks we are currently awareness through our We obtained stakeholders assessments through questionHuman Rights Risk by Category in Sales of Perishables audit, as well as potential risks. Raised with particular frenaires and dialogue (P. 64). The stakeholders pointed out to us quency were risks related to foreign workers and responsible that setting priorities according to whether products were priSales Country or Human rights risk assessment Type Item employment. Matters not currently being addressed were vate or national brands was pointless, as customers would (FY2017) region of origin Human rights issue Country × Product Aeon Audit × External Audit Primary assessment raised, such as impacts on residents of surrounding areas and consider them to be the same. They noted methods of manA Philippines, Child labor × × × Agricultural products Colombia conflict areas. agement and operation in relation to raw materials bearing Sales ratio B Australia — × high human rights risks through our audits, and the problem of of principal C Mexico, China Working Hours, Forced Labor × × × (2) A  ssess impact of human rights issues due to the technical intern trainees foreigners, which is a characteristic items: 65.1% Working Hours, Technical business relationships issue in Japan. They also provided us with advice and outlined D Japan Intern Trainees, Others × × × We divided the risks three cases (“causing”, “contributing”, and their expectations. 13 other items “linking”) based on distance from our business partners and E Australia — × Livestock products Aeon’s influence. We then analyzed whether our current initia(2) Identify important issues Sales ratio F Japan Working Hours, Technical × × × Intern Trainees, Others tives to (1) was deficient or excessive. We identified important issues and set priorities based on our of principal items: Working Hours, Technical self-assessments and opinions from stakeholders. We narG Japan Intern Trainees, Others × × × 74.7% i. TOPVALU final processing factory rowed these down into three important, to: Working Hours, Technical H Japan × × × We confirmed impacts through audits based on the Aeon • Address raw material issues, Intern Trainees, Others Supplier Code of Conduct, identifying and revising elements •Further address foreign employees and technical interns Child Labor, Forced Labor, Korea, China, J Migrant Labor, Technical × × × Taiwan, Japan absent from the current code of conduct. (Japan), and Intern Trainees Marine products • Promote at Aeon Group companies. Sales ratio K Russia Child Labor, Forced Labor, × × × Migrant Labor ii. Supply chain for TOPVALUE Tier 2 and beyond and national We then planned new response measures. of principal items: Norway — × brands 68.5% M Child Labor, Forced Labor, Currently, participation was found out insufficient with regard to Consider Measures and Plans Japan Migrant Labor × × × the raw material stage, where human rights risks are considered We formulated a plan for concluding the first stage of initiaIn addition, we determined that confirmation was unnecessary for seven types of fish (natural) raised by an aquaculture producer that had received ASC certifihigh, to the Aeon Group systemic operations, and to involvement tives related to the key issues we identified by the end of 2020. cations that included human rights. with national brands. iii. Indirect relationships in the supply chain STEP 2 Notify suppliers the scope of revisions STEP4 Assess We considered the potential of indirect complicit issues such as Prior to the fact-finding survey, We then conduct risk assessment by the details of returned degree to the environmental burden affects to residents of surwe conducted a briefing on the questionnaires. (performed in the first half of 2019). rounding areas. Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct to share issues we were aware STEP5 Make visits to confirm high risk producers of with supplier. At the same We make on-site visits to producers if it appears necessary time, we learned about human based on their results, or if we are unable to confirm the presrights risk in the supply chain ent state of affairs. Alternatively, we may ask a local NGO to from Masaki Wada, an ASSC ask further questions or conduct a follow-up survey. Subcontractor briefing director. STEP6 Management by supplier STEP3 Survey of suppliers and raw material producers We plan, for example, to create tools that suppliers continually To determine actual condition, through our suppliers we send manage the risks by themselves. out questionnaires to the raw material producers that harvest foods and marine products. 62 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 63 Miyake: As you say, it is important to start with clarify the key Theme 3: Treat to Foreign Workers Dialogue with Stakeholders raw materials, and also we concurrently use the certification Yamada: The rights of workers in the process of production system. Then, I think we have the responsibility to clearly and distribution are the most important issue in a “Responsible explain product value to our customers. Making products propSupply Chain”. The people who are most vulnerable, and thus As part of our human rights due diligence, we engaged in dialogue with human rights experts and civil society represetatives. erly can be our branding policy, and it encourages customers to most at risk of having their During this dialogue (held in August 2018), we exchanged opinions on themes in the Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct to promote purchase products with their understanding. As Aeon provides rights infringed upon, are throughout the supply chain. the spaces to connect directly with customers, I think our functhose in different legal position is to address PBs appropriately and raise social awareness tions or with different cultural for future. or linguistic backgrounds. Attendees This, of course, includes formaking non-PB products as well. I wouldn’t want to say that eign workers. Kaori Kuroda Executive Director, CSO Network Japan our progress is currently sufficient, even for TOPVALU, but I Shiroki: I think it would be a good approach to start by fulfilling Tomoko Shiroki Managing Director and COO, Action against think we have the social responsibility to apply the Aeon your responsibilities on PBs and then extend those activities to Child Exploitation Founder Supplier Code of Conduct, particularly as it is something we did include national brands (NBs). I look forward to your new Teranaka: The foreign technical intern training program in Makoto Teranaka Visiting Professor, Tokyo Keizai University ourselves. We have a continuoperation confirming efforts regarding raw material procureJapan has various issues because of lacking of clarity in areas Miwa Yamada Director, Law and Institution Studies Group, ous 15 years track record, so I ment on PBs. Retail distribution provides a direct link with of responsibility. With government policy failing to make progInter-disciplinary Studies Center, Institute of would like to review how to customers, so communication about sustainable production ress, company-driven efforts at improvement are important. I Developing Economies-JETRO our audits ahead and find a and consumption plays an important role. I expect to seeing think you should consider that the foreign technical intern Eiji Shibata  xecutive officer, MD & Logistics, E better way to improve its your efforts to establish comtraining program is one of the most serious issues. Aeon Co., Ltd. higher quality through the munications by promoting Kahori Miyake  xecutive officer, CSR & Communication, E experience. customer understanding and Aeon Co., Ltd. providing explanations to Kuroda: It is becoming more common for companies to check (As of August 2018) supply chain partners and the status of foreign workers at secondary suppliers and furMiyake: We need to prioritize and think the level of risk but in other stakeholders. ther up the supply chain. For high-risk human rights issues and addition to consider from the perspective of what Aeon can regions, I think you need to make a thorough effort to instill the contribute through the process. I would like to clarify the rules Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct for secondary suppliers and for setting priorities. Theme 1: Identification and Priority of Issues Yamada: Promoting consumers’ right to know is also imporbeyond. At the same time, I think it is important to expand trainKuroda: First, you need some sort of frameworks for undertant. Consumers cannot enjoy purchasing unless they know ing and skill development programs for foreign workers. standing current conditions with respect to human rights Theme 2: Approach to Raw Materials’ Procurement how a product is made and is able to verify that a product can issues in new fields where you do not have own managed ever. Shiroki: Globally, it has become a standard for procurement be trusted. Consumers have a right to know that raw materials Shibata: The issue of foreign workers presents a high hurdle, Also, I suggest that the significance of Aeon Code of Conduct principles including a human rights perspective. I believe that are properly sourced and that workers’ rights are protected. but one that we are addressing with a sense of mission. should be thoroughly implemented for high risk human rights the environment and human rights should be pursued together issue, regions, particularly respect to foreign technical intern in a perspective of sustainability. A 2017 report by the Teranaka: As the number of foreigners living in Japan trainees. International Labour Organization (ILO) pointed out that the Advice from Sadayosi Tobai, Conservation Director WWF Japan increases, the level of response in English and Chinese is child labor more likely to occur in particularly agricultural sector (As of August 2018) increasing, but hardly any services are available in languages in Asia and Africa. The risk of child labor is very high at the raw While Japan relies on many imported raw materials, the forests and Teranaka: I think Aeon needs a process to realize “how the such as Vietnamese, Burmese, or Thai. You should also conmaterial fields, so it is important to address human rights oceans of exporting countries where those raw materials are produced company affects peace, people, and local communities sider foreigners’ right to know. issues from there. Some global companies convince that audit are experiencing forest declines, overfishing, and depletion of marine through your customers.” Companies tend to think the relahave limitations so they identify points of focus to address ecosystems, as well as human rights violations and labor issues. To tionships closest to them are Miyake: We have utilized Aeon’s platform for communicating human rights issues by ranking countries. They then conduct help resolve these problems, companies are the most important, but we as a retail distributor that can appeal to society on issues by assessments for each field such as foods, apparel and other. being called on to ensure traceability. In addition judge importance based on drawing attention on the enviUltimately, they conduct it as comprehensive human rights to affecting biodiversity, traceability is necessary social issues. I would like to ronmental front to sustainassessment into the whole company. I suggest that Aeon also for confirming human rights and labor issues. To see Aeon consider this gap able procurement. Raising should think about taking a approach beyond audit. achieve traceability, I feel strongly that supplier and reflect it in the your due social awareness in this way mapping is necessary. diligence. is one of our roles. Kuroda: There are limits to confirmation for purchasers, so it is Yamada: I would prefer that you categorize your methods of more important point which to have a strong communicate approach depends on the substances of the human right with suppliers today. With respect to procuring foodstuffs, you Comment from Christopher Ng, Regional Secretary, Asia & Pacific issues. Aeon also has a responsibility for products other than might think of strengthening relations with local farmers and Region, UNI Global Union private brands (PB). People not working for Aeon recognize of NGOs. I give Aeon high marks for its efforts to expand its hanShibata: MSC-certified smelt, including pricing, was a subject Along with Federation of Aeon Group Workers’ Unions Aeon has signed all products on the shelves at Aeon stores as being Aeon proddling of certified products. That being said, certification is not of internal debate, but performance was better than expected, global framework agreements with UNI Global Union and UA Zensen. ucts as well as PB. perfect, so it is better to think and we soon sold out. This example helped me understand Regional Secretary Ng offered his opinions on the current human of certification as a measure that customers have a high degree of environmental awarerights due diligence. for meeting requirements. ness and will support changes in our purchasing behavior. It is important to perform self-assessment and disclosure in accorShibata: Aeon holds full responsibility for our TOPVALU PB, How about a focus on mapdance with the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. including raw materials and distribution. Group company also ping high-risk regions? As a global company, you should ask the opinions of overseas have multiple PBs, if our responding appropriately on all own stakeholders. products including these first, we believe that it is possible to It is important to clearly explain to suppliers the importance of constep up to the next stage to expect to our business partners forming to specifications and to ask primary suppliers to ensure compliance from secondary suppliers. Governance of their holdings is important for companies with broad-ranging businesses. 64 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 65 A “Pre-Questionnaire sheet” which covers essentially all of the FY2018 Audit Results Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct items to be confirmed during the audit is sent out, and the factoExternal Audits, by Region Second-Party Audits First-Party Audits ries respond them before audits. Factories employing foriegn （件） （件） （件） tecchical intern trainees, in particular, are asked detailed about 800 250 250 Aeon makes it a policy to remain responsible for the entire the travel agancy in their countries of origin and about receipt 200 200 supply chain from the procurement of product raw materials to conditions in Japan. The second-party audits are conducted 600 their commercialization. We work with suppliers (outsourcing with having communication between Aeon and suppliers based 150 150 400 manufacturers) to ensure product safety and reliability based on this information. 100 100 200 on this policy. 50 50 In accordance with the Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct (Aeon First-Party Audits 0 0 0 Supplier CoC), we confirm and improve the working condition such Factories that recognized own established management 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 as appropriate employment, safe environment to work, and complisystem move to the first-party audit. Suppliers check the own China Asia Other Japan China Asia Other Japan China Asia Other ance. We currently require suppliers of Topvalu and Topvalu factories condition by using Aeon’s audit checklist and conduct Collection to comply with Aeon Supplier CoC, and we improve corrective action if there are findings at checking, then they Percentage of External Audits, by Industry Percentage of Second-Party Audits, by Industry Cases of Nonconformity in 2018 issues through external, second-party, and first-party audits. report to Aeon. Our goal is that suppliers keep managing their （件） own companies and their supplier’s by themselves rather than 13% 8% 16% 150 conducting Aeon’s audits. We hope that this first-party audit 14% 120 will be taken to Suppliers own management from Aeon Flow of Management under “Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct management. 90 32% 46% 60 Orientation and Declaration of Compliance Orientation for New Contract Supplier 30 Overseas Factories We have monthly orientations for new suppliers which start 62% 0 Domestic Factories business with Aeon for the first time. We explain them about r bo Di afe nd sc s a rim y lth in t Aeon Supplier CoC reason for compiance, its importance, and W or at io n la 9% ki ng ho ild W ur s Ch ea ag be s a e ne n En ﬁts d Aeon’s policy. In addition, they include useful information about H External Audit Second-Party Audit First-Party Audit Ce rti vir on m ﬁc at m ion en t on , a Target: Overseas Factories Targets: All domestic and Targets: Factories receiving Apparel Food Living H&BC Apparel Food Living H&BC ito ud up rin it, da g, te for First Production overseas factories superior assessments in specific audit application methods and contact points during Outside audits Second-party audits (Japan) Audit and Assessment: Audit and assessment: second-party audits External Auditing Agent Aeon-certified auditors Confirmation and orientation to help your solution if questions come up later. Second-party audits (Overseas) Confirmation of Confirmation of Assessment: Suppliers and We have feedback by questionnaire every time and aim for Factories Corrective Action Corrective Action better orientation. STEP 1: STEP1: method: Suppliers check factories based on a checkFairtrade-Certified Products results are surpassing our procurement plans. Going forward, Corrective Action Plan Submit corrective action (CAP) reports via suppliers list by Aeon. Correct findings Responding to customers’ desires to make contributions we plan to continue rolling out a wide range of Fairtrade if there are non-conformity Feedback from Participants STEP 2: STEP2: and submit its report to through their purchases to the world’s underprivileged, Aeon International-certified products. Aeon-certificated Assess and confirm at auditors visit and check the Aeon Supplier CoC Aeon Supplier secretariat. developed and began marketing Japan’s first Fairtrade*In the future, we plan to expand Fairtrade-certified products progress at the factories or confirm submitted secretariat certified coffee in 2004 and Fairtrade-certified chocolate in even more broadly by acquiring certifications for other proddocuments We gained a good The reason for enforcing 2010, both under the private brand. ucts such as raw cane sugar. the code of conduct was Objective inspections Emphasis on Independent management understanding of the clear. We would like to impleIn order to make these products available to a greater In addition, Aeon has been visiting junior high and high communication code of conduct audit’s ment this code to improve number of customers, Aeon has been participating in the new schools across Japan to provide the younger generation with a objectives and framework. our in-house factories. Fairtrade Sourcing Program launched by Fairtrade International better understanding of Fairtrade. in January 2014. We have also announced a plan to increase External Audits * Fairtrade: An initiative for doing business with producers in need of support in the purchase of Fairtrade-certified cacao beans up to ten times We outsource audits and assessments by an external auditing developing countries and setting product prices at levels appropriate to the labor the trade volume of 2012, by 2020. involved. The initiative helps producers attain economic and social autonomy agent to ensure the objective inspections when overseas facI learned about the importance of a In fall 2016, we renewed our lineup of products that use and also supports environmental conservation. tories manufacture Topvalu products first time. The factory perspective on creating products cacao bean ingredients certified by Fairtrade International, and make a corrective action plan (CAP) for findings at the audit with respect to the global trend In addition to factory qualand submit it to Aeon. Six month after the audit, an Aeontoward ethical procurement. ity, I gained an understandI think this will be a ing of initiatives targeting the certificated auditor visits at the factory again to confirm the entire Company, including FLO (Fairtrade International) certification mark major plus for our finding improvements according as CAP. company going employees. forward. FY2018 Results and Target of KPI It took me Second-Party Audits Trading volume of Fairtrade products some time to The subject to the Second-Party audits is the second and subget used to A fivefold increase in the volume of Fairtrade Internationalsequent audits for the factories located in overseas and all terminology 2015 certified cacao beans versus FY2012 audits from the first time for factories located in Japan. These audits and assessments are conducted by Aeon-Certificated A sixfold increase in the volume of Fairtrade Internationalcertified cacao beans versus FY2012 auditors. Because we hope suppliers keep managing their own 2016 factories, audit and corrective action reports are performed via suppliers. An increase of 9.2 times in the volume of 2018 Fairtrade International-certified cacao beans Results versus FY2012, to 59.7 tons TOPVALU Fairtrade milk chocolate and dark chocolate A tenfold increase in the volume of Fairtrade International2020 certified cacao beans versus FY2012, to 40 tons Target Fairtrade Sourcing Program label (cocoa) 66 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 67 Key Issue 5 Implementing Fair Business Practices Based on Respect for Human Rights Promoting Diversity Conducting Diversity Training—Daimanzoku College IkuBoss Company Awards: Promoting Diverse Working Styles The keyword in Aeon’s activities for promoting diversity is Aeon conducts diversity training to address issues that are <Senior management category> daimanzoku, which means “very satisfied” in Japanese. common to the whole Group. Each year, we review curriculums Shoichiro Mekari, Director of Aeon Ryukyu Co., Ltd. Daimanzoku is about satisfying employees and their families, based on emerging issues and changes in the environment. Since founding, Aeon has striven to be a company in which customers, and the Company through diversity. With a view to <Management category> diverse human resources play active roles and that never disrealizing daimanzoku, in FY2018 we held diversity promotion Junichi Tashiro, Aeon Compass Co., Ltd. criminates against anyone based on their nationality, race, seminars and our fifth in-house awards. We also continued to gender, age, educational background, religion, physical or promote the opening of nursery schools at our facilities to help mental disability, or any other attribute. Our basic principles for employees make a smooth transition back to work when VOICE human resources outline our objective of avoiding discriminareturning from childbirth or childtion based on nationality, age, gender, or employee category. rearing and provide support for Comments from an Award Recipient in the Second IkuBoss Rather, personnel matters highlight the importance of respectemployees who are working while Individual Awards ing individuals, and are based on capabilities and results. As of raising children. We also conduct Senior management training program Management training program I believe in the importance of communication, so I make it a March 2019, we had some 580,000 employees in 14 countries, our own IkuBoss testing, which Targeting incumbent female managers, This program changes the mind-set of point to listen to my subordinates and the people around me this program develops female candidates male and female managers. including Japan, China, and ASEAN nations. We aim to grow aims to foster caring bosses. As of for executive positions. on a daily basis. Through conversation, I seek to strengthen along with our employees, which are the driving force that April 2019, we had established sysour common ground and strive to encourage voluntary comenhances customer satisfaction. tems at around 70 Group compamunication that fosters friendship. nies, and the Group is working together to promote diversity. Basic Principles on Personnel Junichi Tashiro With the primary objective of management based on respect for Building Diversity Promotion Systems—Daimanzoku Summit Aeon Compass Co., Ltd. human rights, Aeon’s Basic Principles on Personnel revolve around Aeon has designated a person responsible for diversity listening to employees’ aspirations, understanding employees’ promotion, a leader to promote exceptional opportunities for feelings and making the most of what employees have to offer, women, and a leader to promote diverse and active roles at its Career advancement training program Career design training program based on the guiding philosophy of ensuring that all Aeon People 70 Group companies. All Aeon companies are now analyzing This program fosters female managers This program helps female managers plan who can balance family and work their careers and continue to work after such lead a full life at work, at home, and in the community. their status, identifying issues, and implementing their own commitments. life events as marriage and having children. ideas to solve the issues. The Group regularly holds the Feedback from Past Recipients of IkuBoss Individual Awards Basic Approach to Personnel Daimanzoku Summit, which is attended by leaders and people Comments from a Grand Prize Winner in the First IkuBoss Creation of a corporate environment in which human resources responsible for diversity promotion, to share information Establishing a Commendation Program— Individual Awards can continue to grow as they work over the long term between Group companies to be utilized in activities within The Daimanzoku Awards I am always thinking about how to get the most out of a varitheir own company. Management of personnel based on ability and achievement, To recognize the achievements of Group companies in proety of individuals with different capabilities so that we can The Daimanzoku Summit not nationality, age, gender or job category moting diversity, Aeon holds the annual Daimanzoku Awards. strengthen teamwork at the store. I was probably rated as an was held four times in At the fifth awards in FY2018, we presented commendations IkuBoss because my management style is strongly focused FY2018. One of these was to seven companies in four categories that correspond to on people. As a caring boss, I will continue creating workFive Human Resources Principles 1. Fairness designated as a review important initiatives for promoting diversity. places that allow personnel to leverage their capabilities. meeting for the presentation 2. Respect of the Group’s diversity 3. Openness to change Naoko Iwakiri awards at which we formed 4. Rationality Store Manager, networks and shared the Daiei Takarazuka Nakayama 5. Skills Development initiatives of each company. The Daiei, Inc. Daimanzoku Meeting for Top Management—A Venue for Reconfirming the Significance of Diversity Promoting the Active Participation of Women In April 2019, we held our first “daimanzoku” meeting for top Aeon promotes the active participation of women and aims to management to serve as a venue for reconfirming the have women account for 50% of managers by FY2020. Management based on respect significance of diversity and accelerating our diversity As of the end of February 2019, 26.5% of our managers, or for human rights initiatives. Approximately 230 of the Group’s top managers and Companies that received commendation at the fifth awards 9,444 managers, were women (including consolidated executives took part. The meeting fostered a shared awareness Diversity category (women’s empowerment section) subsidiaries). Listening to employees’ of promoting active roles for women and people with Gold: Aeon Kyushu Co., Ltd. Aeon will make positive efforts to appoint women to aspirations, understanding disabilities. Silver: Maxvalu Kyushu Co., Ltd. managerial positions toward achieving its FY2020 target. employees’ feelings, and making the most of what employees have to offer Diversity category (new diversity section) FY2018 Results and Target of KPI GFoot Co., Ltd. Ensuring a full life at work, at home, and Female manager ratio in the community Inclusion category: 22% 5,887 people 2015 Maxvalu Tokai Co., Ltd. 27% 9,366 people 2016 Workstyle reform category: 27% 9,212 people 2017 Gold: The Daiei, Inc. Silver: Maxvalu Nagano Co., Ltd. and Koyo Co., Ltd. 26.5% 9,444 2018 people Results 2020 50% Target 68 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 69 Key Issue 5 Implementing Fair Business Practices Based on Respect for Human Rights Hiring Employees of Foreign Nationalities, Conducting Employment for People with Disabilities TOPICS Human Rights Training International Personnel Exchanges within the Group Aeon is working to establish conditions throughout the Group Based on the shift to Asian strategy set out in the Aeon Group that allow people with disabilities to work with a sense of Launching Ikiiki Aeon, a New Working Style With a view to promoting Aeon Human Rights Policy (P.60) and Medium-term Management Plan, Aeon is actively hiring young purpose. people who will become tomorrow’s leaders in Japan, China, Abilities JUSCO Co., Ltd., established in 1980, has expanded Initiative to Help People with Disabilities increasing all employees’ understanding and awareness of human rights, the Group has established an in-house system Malaysia, Thailand, Indonesia, Vietnam, and other Asian counto four Scrum CD/DVD & Books stores, where people with disMake the Most of Their Skills and Ensure for advancing human rights training. By continuing such traintries. As well as actively hiring globally competent personnel, abilities work alongside able-bodied staff, and 10 business Aeon Is a Company Where They Can ing activities, Aeon will address various issues related to Aeon is increasing international personnel exchanges throughestablishments for employment transfer support. Furthermore, Continue to Work human rights and become a corporate group with an employeeout the Group. Our goal is to have a cumulative total of 1,500 Aeon Supercenter Co., Ltd. has adopted a telecommuting friendly workplace environment that enables a range of differemployees involved in international personnel exchanges by system for people with disabilities as a part of its diversity proIn January 2019, we launched the Ikiiki Aeon initiative at Aeon Mall Makuhari New City (Chiba). This new initiative aims to ensure people ent personnel to contribute to operations. Aeon holds training FY2020. A total of 598 employees participated in international motion action plan in cooperation with Abilities JUSCO. with disabilities can make the most of their skills and continue to work programs for a variety of issues, including issues pertaining to personnel exchanges between FY2013 and FY2018. As of February 2019, the total number of people with disabiliactively (“ikiiki” in Japanese). Under this initiative, Aeon Group compasocial discrimination, foreign residents, abuse of power, diverties employed at Group companies was 6,827 with an employnies welcome people with disabilities, create appropriate working envisity, people with disabilities, and work–life balance, to increase ment ratio of 2.56%. ronments, and conduct post-induction training support with support from Abilities JUSCO Co., Ltd.,* a special subsidiary of Aeon. The current the understanding and awareness of all of our employees. This employment ratio exceeds the statutory employment efforts were conducted together with employees with disabilities at ratio of 2.0%, and we will continue to advance our efforts in Group companies R.O.U. Co., Ltd., Aeon Entertainment Co., Ltd., Aeon order to reach our targeted 3.0% employment ratio for people Culture Co., Ltd., and Branshes Co., Ltd. By conducting joint company 1) Human Rights Awareness Promotion Committee with disabilities, or 10,000 briefings, workplace tours, and practical training, we provide consistent (convenes once every six months) training and support for employees with disabilities as a team that people, for 2020. works at different companies. Committee to define the direction of human rights enlightenAbilities JUSCO provides a variety of support to help people with disment at Aeon, assess and make decisions regarding issues, abilities transition to the workplace. Through the Ikiiki Aeon initiative, and train individuals responsible for promoting human rights Abilities JUSCO aims to leverage its accumulated expertise to help employees with disabilities work independently at the companies with at each Group company. FY2018 Results and Target of 海外での研修風景（ミャンマー） KPI which they are affiliated. Abilities JUSCO also holds study sessions to 海外での研修風景（イオンタイランド） highlight topics employers should take into consideration. 2) Human Rights Enlightenment Study Group (convenes International personnel exchanges within the Group once every six months) Employees working at Scrum * Abilities JUSCO Co., Ltd. Study group to educate individuals responsible for promoting Abilities JUSCO, a special subsidiary of Aeon Co., Ltd., was established Total 288 people human rights at each Group company. 2015 in 1980 with the management ideal of creating a society in which it is a matter of course for people with disabilities to work. 3) Human Rights College (convenes four times a year) Total 404 people 2016 FY2018 Results and Target of KPI College with courses on learning about Aeon’s basic human Total 498 people Employment ratio for people with disabilities and number of rights principles. This college is primarily a place where indi2017 LGBT Initiatives viduals responsible for or in charge of administrative educapeople with disabilities employed Responding to the increasing attention on the human rights of tion as well as individuals responsible for or in charge of 2018 Total 598 people Results 2.16% 6,341 people sexual minorities (LGBT: Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and the promotion of human rights participate to receive basic 2015 Transgender), Aeon is holding workshops on LGBT to provide education. Total 1,500 people 2020 2.19% 6,795 people the latest knowledge on human rights and to create a workTarget 2016 place where employees can work in their own ways. 2.40% 7,240 people Since FY2015, we have incorporated this training into new Human Rights and Aeon Code of Conduct Training has pro2017 vided guidance to each company by selecting themes in line employee orientation, and roughly 13,600 new employees have participated in the workshops to date. with the training needs of each Group company while linking to TOPICS 2018 2.56% 6,827 people (as of February 2019) Results the Aeon Human Rights Enlightenment Office and Corporate Also, in FY2017 we began holding the Universal Manners Test and Training on Catering to LGBT Individuals, which was Ethics Team. In FY2019, we plan to continue conducting Aeon and Sophia Sign Industry–Academia 2020 More than 3.0%, 10,000 employees conducted by Mirairo Inc. Approximately, 6,700 employees Human Rights and Aeon Code of Conduct Training for all of our Target Agreement to Cultivate Global Human participated in the test and training. employees. Aeon Co., Ltd. and Aeon Topvalu Co., Ltd. both received a We also published a Human Rights Resources Silver Award in the PRIDE Index, formulated by work with Enlightenment Guidebook in 2015 as a In June 2018, Aeon Co., Ltd., Aeon Bank, Ltd., and Aeon Pride,* Japan’s first index for the evaluation of LGBT initiatives. tool to promote basic knowledge about Fantasy Co., Ltd. entered into an industry–academia agreeAeon will extend its LGBT initiatives to encompass all Group human rights. We will continue to strive ment with Sophia School Corporation aimed at cultivating to build tools and develop training companies while collecting examglobal human resources capable of responding to a changing materials that utilize this guidebook. As ples from Group companies that are world. We believe the mutual recognition of diversity in such actively engaged in such initiatives. in March 2018, we partially revised the areas as race, culture, and religion, as well as interaction guidebook to reflect the enforcement among diverse people, can help foster innovation and resolve * work with Pride: A private organization that a variety of global issues. of related laws in March 2019. supports the promotion and consolidation of We have introduced global internships at two overseas LGBT diversity management countries: Human Rights Enlightenment Guidebook (1) An internship in which participants work at Aeon Bank in Japan and then gain similar experience at a Malaysian financial company, Aeon Credit Service Malaysia (2) An internship in which participants work at Aeon Fantasy in Japan and then gain similar experience at Aeon Fantasy Philippines, an operational company in the entertainment business in the Philippines Aeon and Sophia will promote global internships at Sophia University and cooperate on the cultivation of human resources who can respond flexibly to address various problems around the world. 70 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 71 Key Issue 5 Implementing Fair Business Practices Based on Respect for Human Rights As a Companywide initiative to heighten health awareness TOPICS Ensuring Work–Life Balance Promoting Wellness Management among employees, we conduct the Health Challenge Campaign program for a two-month period each year. All employees parAeon and Aeon Retail Certified as White 500 Aeon Retail Co., Ltd., which accounts for about one quarter of ticipate in this program and choose a challenge from among Enterprises for Third Consecutive Year all Group employees, introduced a personnel system in 2017 the options. The number of campaign participants was 15,630 Aeon’s Health Management In 2019, Aeon Co., Ltd. and Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. were certified based on the concepts of “fairness” and “challenge.” in FY2015, 15,182 in FY2016, 27,180 in FY2017, and 26,536 in as “White 500” enterprises with outstanding health and productivThe system aims to create an environment that allows FY2018, with a substantial increase from FY2016 following the Aeon promotes health management based on sustainability ity management. White 500 is a certifiemployees with diverse abilities to pursue careers reflecting Aeon Health Management Declaration. management and the belief that the promotion of employee cation system jointly conducted by their ambitions and aptitudes. We hope that such opportuniIn April 2018, we launched the PepUp health portal to the Ministry of Economy, Trade and health is a cornerstone of corporate activity. Moreover, we ties will give employees a sense of empowerment and job satheighten the health literacy of employees and support their Industry and Nippon Kenko Kaigi. This is believe healthy employees are better able to provide services isfaction and enable them to work enthusiastically and grow in independent health improvement efforts. Through PepUp, the second straight year that the compathat contribute to the health and happiness of local customers. a manner suited to their lifestyle. employees aged 40 and above can check their own health nies have earned this certification. In FY2016, we announced the Aeon Health Management Moreover, the system includes the Career Style Plan as a check results, identify their “health age” based on their own Declaration, aiming for the physical and mental health of our program to support independent career development and the health information, and seek advice. If health improvements Certification System for Enterprises with employees and their families and the continuous development of Lifestyle Plan as a program to support the ability to keep workare confirmed, employees receive health points, which they Outstanding Health and Productivity Management human resources able to continue working over the long term. ing long term in the midst of changes in life stages. can exchange for WAON points. Employees who took part in a This is a system for citing major corporations and small and Going forward, we will further develop our programs and health walking event introduced through PepUp were 25% medium-sized companies that have outstanding health and systems so that female employees in particular are in a workmore likely to answer positively in their next medical checkup Aeon Health Management Declaration productivity management. More specifically, the system recplace environment where they can thrive professionally, while about “making it a habit to exercise 30 minutes or more” than ognizes corporate measures that address the health issues of achieving a work–life balance between their job and marriage Aeon will support the health of employees and their families employees who had not taken part. As of July 2019, 28,761 local communities or that support the health promotion initiaor childcare. Aeon will achieve health and happiness in the local commupeople had registered for this program and were engaging in tives of Nippon Kenko Kaigi. nity together with employees health improvement behavior. In FY2017, Aeon began holding a regular health promotion * Nippon Kenko Kaigi: This organization was formed to conduct practiconference among principal Group companies, and the first cal measures in collaboration with private-sector organizations and Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. with comprehensive support from the government focused on extendTo promote health management, the Group has established Aeon-wide health management conference was held on May “3 career paths” and “Employee working area” ing the healthy lifespan of each Japanese citizen and realizing approthe Aeon Health Promotion Section, in which the executive 30, 2019. The conference’s special lecture was conducted by priate medical care. The organization’s mission is to have private-sector Career paths Mr. Yoshihide Esaki, of the Ministry of Economy, Trade and organizations, such as economic bodies, medical bodies, and insurers, officer in charge of human resources and management at • General path collaborate with municipal authorities to realize concrete measures in Aeon Co., Ltd. is responsible for advancing measures. The secIndustry, who spoke on promoting health management, providworkplaces and local communities. A path that aims for career development across a wide area tion comprises the executive officer responsible for advancing ing a further push to encourage health management at the * The following companies were also certified. while building up diverse experiences measures, the head industrial doctor, public health nurses, Aeon Group. Aeon Kyushu Co., Ltd., Aeon Financial Services Co., Ltd., Aeon Credit We believe Group employees have a high percentage of Service Co., Ltd, Aeon Product Finance Co., Ltd., Aeon Insurance • Unit path members of the corporate planning department, and managService Co., Ltd., ACS Credit Management Co., Ltd., ACS-leasing Co., ers responsible for the human resources departments of health issues in three areas: high blood pressure, hyperglyceLtd., Aeon Housing Loan Service Co., Ltd. A path that aims for specialization while advancing specialGroup companies, Aeon’s corporate health insurance society, mia, and a high rate of smoking. Accordingly, we have selected ist knowledge and skills and the Aeon Good Life Club. Keeping in mind management the following priority management targets. • Professional path strategies, the section considers and implements measures A path that aims for an advanced profession aimed at maintaining and promoting employee health. TOPICS Furthermore, each Group company has appointed a manager [The Aeon Health Promotion Section’s criteria for selecting employees for priority health management] Aeon Receives an A Rank in the DBJ Health Employee working area responsible for health promotion and takes autonomous Systolic blood pressure of 180 mmHg or higher or diastolic blood Management Rating, Making It the First Retailer to • Category N employee: In principle, transfers nationwide and health promotion measures. The Aeon Health Promotion pressure of 110 mmHg or higher overseas Section conducts health management activities to enable the Receive the Highest Ranking in Three Categories, Blood sugar of 250 mg/dL or higher (regardless of whether postpranachievement of numerical targets throughout the Group. For Including a BCM Rating and Environmental Rating • Category R employee: Transfers within a certain block dial) or HbA1C of 9.0% or higher example, the section establishes criteria for selecting which • Category L employee: No transfers that require moving Aeon Co., Ltd. received the top, “A” ranking in the employees are subject to priority health management. To supWe set the following health management promotion targets for FY2019. house DBJ Health Management Rating, conducted by port these activities, Aeon’s corporate health insurance society Promotion Targets the Development Bank of Japan, Inc. As we also • Community employee and part-time: No transfers that issues health report cards that show the health ages and • Companywide certification of our challenge through the Certified hold the top level for the DBJ Environmental require moving house/part-time only issues of Group companies. Health and Productivity Management Organization Recognition Rating and the DBJ BCM Rating, we became For example, when employees reach the age of 35, we Program (White 500) the first retailer to be rated at the top in all three encourage the checking of additional parameters during their • High blood pressure: Improve percentage of people not receiving categories. Aeon and Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. received accolades checkups to 3% routine medical checkups to help them recognize any lifestyle for the following health management initiatives. • Smoking: Reduce the number of smokers by 10%, setting a base of 100 issues at an early stage. In FY2018, we introduced stomach (1) Launch of a health promotion section as an organization to Along with these measures, on July 1, 2019 we made our entire cancer risk classifications (ABC medical examination) for head office in Makuhari non-smoking. We also continue to promote consider directions and objectives of health management meamobile medical checkups, changing the content of testing to the outpatient assistance program for smoking cessation provided by sures for the Aeon Group, along with the promotion of make it easier for employees to receive diagnosis. Groupwide initiatives centered on the human resources departAeon’s corporate health insurance society. ment and coordinated with industrial doctors, the corporate health insurance society, and the mutual aid society (2) Utilization of an application-based system to request transfers within the Group, establishment of a training system to support mediumto long-term career development, the review of personnel policies taking employees’ opinions into consideration, and the proactive introduction of diverse measures to enhance the working environment and make work more meaningful (3) In addition to contributing to municipal authorities’ health promotion activities using WAON points from Gotouchi (Rigional) WAON cards, contributions to consumer health through the sale of healthy and environmentally conscious TOPVALU Gurinai products * The following companies were also certified. Aeon Kyushu Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Chubu Co., Ltd., Sanyo Marunaka Co., Ltd. 72 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 73 Key Issue 5 Implementing Fair Business Practices Based on Respect for Human Rights Promoting Equal Opportunities for Part-Time Employees Supporting the Balance between Work Life Aeon Yumemirai Nursery We have developed various programs that allow part-time and Child Raising FY2018 Results and Target of KPI https://www.aeon.info/diversity/yumemirai.html (Japanese) employees to thrive at the workplace. Creation of pleasant, comfortable workplaces For example, Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. has a system that allows Aeon Yumemirai Nursery We are a strong advocate of helping employees balance work 13 companies certified to use the Kurumin logo all employees to utilize the same training and hiring programs. 1 company certified as Platinum Kurumin Name of Commercial Facility Location Date Nursery Opened life with child-raising needs. Specifically, we strive to encour2015 Based on the Community Employee Program, the system age employees raising children to reduce their overtime work, Aeon Mall Natori Natori City, Miyagi November 18, 2016 eliminates differences in roles, expectations, and treatment 14 companies certified to use the Kurumin logo take childcare leave (including fathers), and take annual paid Aeon Mall Iwaki-Onahama Onahama City, Fukushima May 28, 2018 1 company certified as Platinum Kurumin depending on employee classifications (permanent employee Aeon Mall Mitouchihara Mito City, Ibaragi December 20, 2016 leave. 23 companies with Eruboshi certification or part-time employee) and enables the continuous growth of (15 companies with 3 stars, 8 companies with 2 stars) AEON Lake Town mori Koshigaya City, Saitama April 1, 2016 Aeon Group companies have been advancing initiatives 2016 all employees based on ability, performance, and motivation. AEON MALL Makuhari New City Chiba City, Chiba December 23, 2014 under a “General Business Owner Action Plan” pursuant to the 16 companies certified to use the Kurumin logo The program eliminates differences in educational and hiring AEON MALL Kisarazu Kisarazu City, Chiba October 18, 2014 * Act on Advancement of Measures to Support Raising Next1 company certified as “Platinum Kurumin” opportunities. It also makes it possible for anyone to advance 28 companies with Eruboshi certification AEON Style Shonan Chigasaki Chigasaki City, Kanagawa April 1, 2016 Generation Children. As a result, Aeon Co., Ltd., Kasumi Co., (20 companies with 3 stars, 8 companies with 2 stars) to the position of dailyor monthly-paid employee or higher, AEON MALL Zama Zama City, Kanagawa March 7, 2018 Ltd., and The Daiei, Inc., have earned Platinum Kurumin certifi2017 including ambitious employees whose duties are currently Aeon Town Fuji Minami Fuji City, Shizuoka July 1, 2019 cation, and 24 Group companies have been certified to display 3 companies certified as “Platinum Kurumin” based in local communities, if they fulfill certain conditions set AEON MALL Matsumoto Matsumoto City, Nagano September 8, 2017 the Platinum Kurumin or Kurumin logos.* 21 companies certified to use the Kurumin logo AEON MALL Tokoname Tokoname City, Aichi November 1, 2015 by the company. 2018 29 companies with Eruboshi certification * Three companies that have acquired Platinum Kurumin certification:Aeon Co., AEON MALL Nagoya Chaya Nagoya City, Aichi November 30, 2016 (19 companies with 3 stars, 10 companies with Ltd., Kasumi Co., Ltd., The Daiei, Inc. 2 stars) AEON MALL Nagakute Nagakute City, Aichi December 1, 2016 Childcare and Nursing Care Support Systems Companies that have acquired Kurumin certification:Aeon Eaheart Co., Ltd., AEON MALL Higashiura Chita-gun, Aichi April 9, 2019 To help employees combine childcare and work, Aeon Retail Aeon Kyushu Co., Ltd., Aeon Bank, Ltd., Aeon Credit Service Co., Ltd., Aeon Global Promote initiatives under the “General Business Owner Action AEON MALL Tsuminami Tsu City, Mie October 29, 2018 Co., Ltd. has established a childcare leave system and a “childSCM Co., Ltd., AeonTown Co., Ltd., Aeon Topvalu Co., Ltd., Aeon Big Co., Ltd., Plan” for Japan’s Act on Advancement of Measures to Support AEON MALL Shinkomatsu Komatsu City, Ishikawa March 16, 2017 care-and-work” period that lasts until April 20 of the year that Aeon Product Finance Co., Ltd., Aeon Hokkaido Co., Ltd., Aeon Mall Co., Ltd., Raising Next-Generation Children (expand number of compaAeon Ryukyu Co., Ltd., Origin Toshu Co., Ltd., Kohyo Co., Ltd., Sunday Co., Ltd., nies certified to use the Kurumin logo) AEON MALL Kyoto Katsuragawa Kyoto City, Kyoto March 1, 2015 * an employee’s child enters middle school. Japan’s Child Care Maxvalu Kyushu Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Tokai Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Tohoku Co., Ltd., 2020 AEON MALL Kobe Minami Kobe City, Hyogo September 11, 2017 and Family Care Leave Act calls on companies to provide a Maxvalu Nishinihon Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Hokkaido Co., Ltd., Reform Studio Co., Ltd. THE OUTLETS HIROSHIMA Hiroshima City, Hiroshima April 18, 2018 childcare-and-work period that lasts until an employee’s child AEON MALL Hiroshima Gion Hiroshima City, Hiroshima May 28, 2018 begins elementary school. However, given that employees Aeon Town Shunan Shunan City, Yamaguchi April 1, 2018 sometimes need to take time off to attend to their children who Creating Infrastructure to Support the Balance Tokushima City, AEON MALL Tokushima April 17, 2017 are at elementary school, we provide a longer period. between Work Life and Child Raising Tokushima Kurumin In addition, for employees with family members requiring This is a system through which the Ministry of Health, AEON Fukuoka East Shopping Ashiya-gun, Fukuoka April 1, 2017 Center nursing care, we have established a nursing care leave system Labour and Welfare certifies companies that impleAeon Yumemirai Nursery Schools AEON Otogane Shopping Center Onojo City, Fukuoka July 27, 2017 and a “nursing care-and-work” system that provide time off and ment initiatives to help employees combine work and We established Aeon Yumemirai Nursery Schools at Group child-rearing. The system is based on the Act on AEON MALL Saga Yamato Onojo City, Fukuoka June 1, 2016 shortened working hours, respectively. company facilities so that not only our employees but also the Kamimashiki-gun, Advancement of Measures to Support Raising NextAEON MALL Kumamoto July 18, 2018 Kumamoto Generation Children. To receive certification compaemployees of tenants inside of Aeon Mall as well as local resiDeveloping Our Employment System for Senior Citizens nies must prepare a “General Business Owner Action dents are able to work and receive childcare with peace of AEON MALL Uki Uki City, Kumamoto April 14, 2019 With the aim of becoming a company in which the “Grand Plan”, achieve the plan’s targets, and meet certain AEON TOWN Aira Aira City, Kagoshima April 1, 2017 standards. Companies that satisfy these accreditation mind. As of the end of September 2019, 30 such facilities were Generation” (G.G), in other words the senior generation, can criteria are granted a logo certifying their support for in operation in Japan. AEON MALL Okinawa Rycom Kitanakagusuku Village, August 1, 2015 Okinawa enjoy an active life and contribute significantly, in March 2018 child-rearing, normally referred to as the Kurumin logo. For the purposes of employees’ smooth return to work from AEON Haebaru Shopping Center Shimajiri-gun, Okinawa December 16, 2017 Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. introduced the G.G Partner and G.G Expert childbirth and subsequent child-rearing, and to support System. Under this system, we reemploy personnel between *Affiliated nursery school As of September 2019 Acquiring Eruboshi Certification employees working while raising children, the nursery is open the ages of 65 and 70 and pay them by the hour. Those who so Currently, 29 Group companies have received Eruboshi from 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. almost every day, including Saturdays, Nurseries Other than Aeon Yumemirai Nurseries Operated by Principal desire can continue working at Aeon Retail, where they can certification* under the Act on Promotion of Women’s Sundays, national holidays, and year-end and New Year holiAeon Group Companies contribute by drawing on the knowledge, skills, and experience Participation and Advancement in the workplace. days. The childcare fees are calculated based on hours of care Names of Commercial Facility Location Date Nursery Opened they have accumulated. The system enables employees to regardless of the day or time period in order to reduce the Kasumi Co., Ltd. Kasumi line no Mori July 16, 2017 nursery lead fulfilling daily lives and work energetically and youthfully * Eruboshi-certified Group companies burden on employees from paying additional fees or arranging Three stars: 19 Well Kids Tsukuba until the age of 70. secondary childcare. WELCIA HOLDINGS CO., LTD. nursery October 1, 2017 Aeon IBS Co., Ltd., Aeon Credit Service Co., Ltd., Aeon Compass Co., Ltd., Aeon Supercenter Co., Ltd., Aeon Delight Co., Ltd., Aeon Big Co., Ltd., Aeon Insurance In FY2018, we have opened nurseries at Aeon Mall Zama,  As of September 2019 Service Co., Ltd., Aeon Hokkaido Co., Ltd., Aeon Marketing Co., Ltd., Aeon Mall Co., Ltd., Aeon Ryukyu Co., Ltd., Aeon Co., Ltd., Aeon Kyushu Co., Ltd., Aeon Bank Ltd., Aeon Town Shunan, THE OUTLETS HIROSHIMA, Aeon Mall * As of the end of February 2019, number of employees aged Kasumi Co., Ltd. Claire’s Nippon, Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Kyushu Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Iwaki Onahama, Aeon Mall Hiroshima Gion, Aeon Mall 65 or older Chubu Co., Ltd., Ministop Co., Ltd., Reform Studio Co., Ltd. Kumamoto, and Aeon Mall Tsu-Minami. We will continue to support those who are raising children while working. Approximately 11,450 (employees paid by the hour) Two stars: 10 Aeon Fantasy Co., Ltd., Aeon Product Finance Co., Ltd., Cox Co., Ltd., GFoot Co., * As of the end of February 2019, number of employees aged Ltd., Talbots Japan Co., Ltd., Zwei Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Tokai Co., Ltd., Maxvalu 60 or older Nishinihon Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Hokkaido Co., Ltd., The Maruetsu, Inc. Approximately 30,000 (employees paid by the hour, day, or month) Eruboshi This is a system under which the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare provides certification based on the Act on Promotion of Women’s Participation and Advancement in the Workplace. The criteria for evaluating companies’ performance in empowering women are the hiring of women, the retention of female employees, working hours and other aspects of work style, the percentage of female managers, and the diversity of career paths. There are three levels of certification, each of which reflects the number of these criteria that companies have met. Further, the stars on each Eruboshi logo, ranging in number from one to three, indicate Aeon Yumemirai Nursery a company’s level of certification. 74 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 75 Key Issue 5 Implementing Fair Business Practices Based on Respect for Human Rights Aeon After-school Class Employee Satisfaction Survey FY2018, we sought applications for positions at Bio c’ Bon Japon Co., Ltd., Digital Dept., Corporate Strategy Dept. and In April 2015 we opened Aeon After-school Class at the Aeon Aeon conducts an employee satisfaction survey on morale Educational Systems to Support Growth Marinpia Annex and at the Daiei Narimasu Store. The classes, targeting all Aeon Group employees every other year. The Finance Dept. of Aeon Co., Ltd., Aeonsaveur Co., Ltd. Also, we which offer a comprehensive after-school care program with results of this survey and employee feedback will be utilized to invited applications for positions at overseas businesses in physical, academic, moral, and dietary education, are located develop our organization and systems to improve motivation China and the ASEAN region, including applications to particiTraining Programs Supporting near train stations, making it convenient for parents to drop off and make our workplaces more employee-friendly to enhance pate in our global training system. the Growth of Employees and pick up their children and for children to come to the class. employee and customer satisfaction. Aeon objectively identifies the situation and works to further Internal Certification Systems enhance employee satisfaction by drafting and implementing Aeon believes that the greatest form of welfare is education. Aeon has established a wide array of internal certification concrete measures to enhance satisfaction based on the This phrase embodies the thought that education, in addition ­systems for specific jobs. results of the survey. to wages and benefits, is key to enriching the lives of its Eight of these certifications employees. Given this, we have created a wide range of trainhave been accredited by the IkuBoss Alliance ing programs that support the growth of employees and their Welfare Programs Ministry of Health, Labour Moreover, based on the belief that the existence of bosses and desire for advancement. The Aeon Good Life Club, Aeon’s mutual aid society, has an and Welfare and recognized organizations that recognize diversity and make use of it in In addition, we have created a system for employees to meet enrollment list of nearly 280,000 Aeon Group employees. for their high quality. management is key to achieving a balance between work life twice a year with their supervisors to discuss and reflect on Programs include the payment of gift money for celebratory and child raising, Aeon Co., Ltd. and The Daiei, Inc. became the their work performance and work challenges, and to look occasions or condolences (mutual assistance), subsidies for A skills competition for masters of fresh first retailers to join the IkuBoss* Alliance in June 2015. As of ahead to their future aspirations. There are also regular assessfish preparation childcare and nursing care, various forms of insurance (selfJune 2019, 45 Group companies have joined the IkuBoss ments of individual work results and career achievements. help support), and support for leisure activities and health Alliance. (motivational assistance). We aim to administer various proAeon is using its original IkuBoss tests to increase the Aeon Fundamental Education grams contributing to the achievement and enhancement of number of IkuBoss managers within the Group. To date, 22,530 This is provided for the first three years following employment Internal Certifications and Number of Holders* (As of the end common welfare to enable Group employees to have a sense employees have passed the introductory test, and 4,129 have with the Company using the same curriculum Groupwide. In of February 2019) of security, solidarity, and pride. denotes qualifications accredited by passed the intermediate test. addition to sharing Aeon’s basic philosophy and set of values, the Ministry of Health, Labour and Master of fresh fish preparation (grade 1) 23 Welfare. the education aims to have employees completely master the * IkuBoss: The ideal advocated and promoted by Labor Union corporate culture and basic skills as Aeon People. Master of fresh fish preparation (grade 2) Master of fresh fish preparation (grade 3) 1,506 2,684 * Total for Aeon Retail Co., Ltd., Aeon non-profit organization Fathering Japan. It refers Retail Store Co., Ltd., Aeon Hokkaido to a boss who considers the work–life balance of • Baby advisor 762 Corporation, Aeon Kyushu Co., Ltd., subordinates and staff working with him or her in • Fashion advisor 1,242 Aeon emphasizes dialogue between labor and management, Aeon Group Self-Declaration Form System Aeon Store Kyushu Co., Ltd., Aeon the workplace and supports their careers and • Liquor advisor 714 Supercenter Co., Ltd., Aeon Ryukyu lives while producing outcomes for the organizaand discussions are held with the labor union through health This system encourages transfer within the Aeon Group • Fish advisor 458 Co., Ltd., Aeon Bike Co., Ltd., Aeon tion and being able to enjoy his or her own work and safety committees and the labor management council. beyond the framework of the Company amid the many differ• Digital advisor 256 Liquor Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Hokkaido and private life. The labor union has encouraged part-time employees to ent business domains covered by the Group. In FY2018, the • Home appliance advisor 74 Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Tohoku Co., Ltd., • General appliance advisor 45 Maxvalu Chubu Co., Ltd., Maxvalu become members, and as of the end of April 2019, the labor system was implemented targeting the senior management • Cycle advisor 693 Kyushu Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Minami union had roughly 283,000 members, including 230,000 partlevel at 66 Group companies. • Senior cycle advisor 207 Tohoku Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Kanto TOPICS time employees. Through workplace meetings in which union • Beauty advisor 902 Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Nagano Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Hokuriku Co., Ltd., Aeon Aeon and Aeon Mall Selected as Nadeshiko members participate, we actively work to incorporate employee Sending Personnel to Graduate Schools in Japan • Handcraft advisor 555 • Senior care advisor 28 Big Co., Ltd., Kohyo Co., Ltd., and feedback and promote efforts to resolve issues based on colTo develop personnel who will lead the Group’s business manAeon Food Supply Co., Ltd. (20 Brand Companies in 2019 laboration between labor and management. agement, Aeon invites applications from Group company Hot deli master Sushi master 2,331 2,182 companies) Aeon Co., Ltd. and Aeon Mall Co., Ltd. were included in the list employees who meet certain requirements and sends sucFarm product master 1,105 672 of Nadeshiko Brand companies for FY2019 on March 25, Conclusion of a Global Framework Agreement and cessful candidates to enroll in MBA courses at graduate Greenery master Gardening master 304 2018. This was the second consecutive time for Aeon and the Implementation of Related Verification Activities schools in Japan. The aim is for them to learn specialized • Energy advisor 552 third for Aeon Mall. In November 2014, Aeon Co., Ltd. concluded a Global knowledge related to management and build networks outside Aeon received high marks for our Group promotion strucFramework Agreement on labor, human rights, and the enviof the Company. ture, the holding of the Daimanzoku Award to recognize comronment with the UNI Global Union, which is an international panies that promote diversity, and level-specific seminars. labor organization, the UA ZENSEN, and the Federation of Aeon Global Trainee System Aeon DNA University Meanwhile, Aeon Mall was selected for its support of a Group Workers’ Unions. At verification meetings held annually, Under this system, Aeon posts outstanding human resources In September 2012, Aeon instituted the Aeon DNA University to balance between work and child-rearing through the establishment of Aeon Yumemirai Nursery School facilities at operating we conduct mutual checks on the progress of initiatives in relaacross national borders to Group companies in Japan, China, train the next generation of Aeon management by instilling the bases, and a FY2017 change that enabled employees whose tion to labor, human rights, and the environment with respect and the ASEAN region in order to train the future leaders of its philosophy and values of the Company passed down since its employment was tied to specific regions to be promoted to to notification, performance, and verification. Based on the overseas business and provide human resources with the abilfounding. The Group CEO himself is an instructor at the division manager. agreement, the four aforementioned parties are cooperating ity to act at the global level. The aim is to acquire essential university. The Group will continue moving forward with diversitytoward the advancement of initiatives for labor, human rights, knowledge and skills through practical experience and training In FY2018, we started focused management with a view to developing personnel, and the environment with a view to establishing a model for overseas. providing guidance for 20 enhancing workplace environments, and empowering a range favorable labor–management relations in Asia. 12th term students selected of different personnel. Aeon Business School from a group of applicants. The Aeon Business School offers courses that allow personnel Approximately 200 employto acquire the knowledge needed for the positions for which ees have been trained and they aspire through self-learning. The school’s system supare active in each Group ports the self-actualization of motivated personnel. In FY2018, company as of the end of DNA University class there were 257 participants in the eight courses offered by the April 2019. school. Group Recruitment System This system allows any employee—irrespective of the business or company to which they belong—to be ambitious and apply for other positions or positions in other businesses. In 76 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 77 Key Issue 6 Collaborating with Communities Management Approach Recognition of Challenges Highlight Supporting the Community through Shopping Each region faces distinctive social challenges, such as povcorporate resources such as technology, knowledge, informaerty, education, food, healthcare, health, low birthrate, and tion, funds, and management know-how. aging population. Under these circumstances, in many counMeanwhile, there has been a growing recognition among tries and regions, local governments, NPOs and NGOs, and corporations that the development of local communities is Aeon works with customers and people in local communities to invigorate local communities and create a more prosperinternational organizations have been working together to essential for sustainable corporate growth, including the develous society. Through the participation of numerous customers, we are working to expand the scope of our initiatives. solve these challenges. However, in recent years, there have opment of products and services that respond to social chalbeen more active moves attempting to continuously demonlenges and smooth business operations through human strate even greater power through the effective harnessing of networks. Supporting Communities Near Where We Live Supporting Far-Away Hometowns Aeon’s Approach Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign Gotouchi (Rigional) WAON Cards We have established “rooted in local community life and dediWe have also put our efforts into developing a value chain cated to making a continuing contribution to the community” that aims to stimulate industries in the regions where we do as a basic principle, and set out The Local Community and business, including actively developing and selling products On the 11th of each month, known as Aeon Day, we conAeon collaborates with municipal authorities in locations Aeon in the Aeon Code of Conduct formulated in 2003. We that match the local food culture. duct the Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign. Under this around Japan in issuing Gotouchi (Rigional) WAON cards. A have been working to solve social challenges in each region by We aim to be a good corporate citizen, working together with campaign, which we launched in 2001, we give out yellow portion of the amounts used with these prepaid cards is interacting with people in Japan, China, and the ASEAN region the community for its growth and the improvement of quality receipts, which shoppers can place in boxes. We make donated to local communities.* Shoppers purchase over many years. of life. donations to various organizations equivalent to 1% of the e-money prepaid cards corresponding to the community total amount of receipts given to us on that day. Through they wish to support, and Aeon donates a certain amount FY2018, we had donated items worth ¥324.39 million to to that community when the customer uses the card for Future Initiatives around 26,000 organizations. shopping. This program has contributed to numerous Going forward, we will continue to communicate with local of local communities through mechanisms to jointly develop For instance, the Umigame Network, with which the communities since its launch in 2009. In FY2019, contribupeople through business activities in order to put into practice the appeal and competitive edge of a community while its variMaxvalu Tarumi Store in Mie Prefecture is registered, contions under the program totaled approximately ¥255.90 its belief that “the retail industry is rooted in the local commuous members, including local people, government administraducts surveys and protection activities involving sea turmillion. nity.” One of these initiatives is the construction of “local comtion, and corporations, work together to the solve the challenges tles—an endangered species—along the coast of Ise Bay. In 2011, we issued the Hokkaido Heritage WAON card. munity ecosystems” (P.83). This aims to achieve a lifestyle and facing each community. The campaigns support activities to protect spawning This card has proven the most popular of our cards to date; industry platform that supports the sustainable development grounds, such as providing pilings and ropes, as well as 214,348 had been issued as of FY2018, and cumulative sourcing survey equipment. By donating the items needed donations totaled ¥82,034,506. These donations help fund for such activities, we play a role in the community activiefforts by the Hokkaido Heritage Council, an NPO to help ties of various organizations. tourists experience a night train mine cart on a concrete arch bridge on the former JR Shihoro Line railway near the town of Kamishiro. Another initiative, aimed at sustaining Aeon Code of Conduct—The Local Community and Aeon (Its Partners and Aeon) Hokkaido’s equestrian culture, is to promote the Shin Aeon aims to set an example as a good corporate citizen, working together with the community for its growth and the improvement Hidaka international horse-powered tug-o-war. of quality of life. * Some cards are excluded. At Aeon, we promote management practices that are in step with the local community. We believe that Aeon forms a “partnership” with the local community. We proactively exchange information with local partners about the lifestyles of our customers in the community, reflecting local community values in our business practices. At Aeon, we respond to the needs of the local community, and provide a place where people can come together. Visiting lecture at a nursery school in the city of Suzuka We conduct business that anticipates the widely various lifestyle needs of our customers, offering high-quality products and services in convenient and pleasant facilities. At the same time, we provide a place for the local community to gather for educational Promoting the Shin Hidaka and information-sharing opportunities. international horse-powered tug-o-war Hokkaido Heritage WAON card At Aeon, we work in partnership with the local community to promote environmental conservation activities. We endeavor to bring about clean streets with lush greenery, and support a recycling-oriented society by reusing resources and reducing the amount of garbage we produce as much as possible. Our objective is to be the leading corporation working beyond local and national borders, showing the world how to preserve our beautiful planet Earth. At Aeon, we actively support volunteer activities together with the citizens of local communities. We actively support welfare and other volunteer activities, working together with those in the local community who share the Aeon philosophy. We believe that both locally and internationally, contact and interaction with others is an important, worthwhile activity. Mine cart experiences to promote tourism At Aeon, we respect the culture and traditions of local communities, offering support whenever and wherever we can. at a concrete arch railway bridge We respect the oral traditions and culture handed down over generations in each local community. We support local efforts to discover and preserve these valuable cultural links with the past. 78 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 79 Key Issue 6 Collaborating with Communities Clean & Green Activities Types of Gotouchi WAON Cards Community Involvement FY2018 Results and Target of KPI As of the end of February 2019 Making Contributions to Local Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign submission rate We are is actively involved in community landscaping projects Communities GMS companies: Stores with submission rate of 20% or more around its stores. Clean & Green Activities, conducted since 366 stores (62.4% overall) 1991, consist of employees volunteering to clean up parks and 147 SM/DS companies: Stores with submission rate of 15% or types rivers around stores and areas surrounding public facilities. Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign more 175 stores (35.5% overall) cards 2015 These activities have been conducted on Aeon Day, the 11th GMS companies: Stores with submission rate of 20% or more 384 stores (62.7% overall) of every month, since 2001 at all general merchandise stores Local communities in Japan is in need of support. At the same SM/DS companies: Stores with submission rate of 15% or and supermarkets as well as the head office and other busitime, there is a countless number of Aeon customers who more 534 stores (49.4% overall) ness offices. 2016 would like to support organizations devoted to their local comGMS companies: Stores with submission rate of 20% or more We began collecting garbage and removing weeds as part munities. Aeon, as a local community member, launched the 388 stores (63.1% overall) of the Clean & Green Activities from the area where trees were SM/DS companies: Stores with submission rate of 15% or Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign to link together custommore 482 stores (44.2% overall) planted for the Aeon Hometown Forests Program. ers and volunteer organizations. The Aeon Happy Yellow 2017 Receipt Campaign started from these feelings. In FY2018, we established as KPIs a receipt submission rate GMS companies: Stores with submission rate of 20% or more 331 stores (61.9% overall) Issuing Gotouchi (Regional) WAON Cards of at least 20% for GMS companies and at least 15% for SM 2018 Results SM/DS companies: Stores with submission and DS companies. We achieved these targets at 64.3% of rate of 15% or more 768 stores (65.5% overall) WAON is a system of e-money prepaid cards available at over stores participating in the campaign. In the 18 years since 383,000 participating stores throughout Japan. In the case of launching the campaign in 2001, cumulative donations have Aeon’s Gotouchi (Regional) WAON cards, a part of the proceeds totaled ¥3,753.75 million, provided to some 319,700 organizaSubmission rate of 30% or more at all GMS company stores Submission rate of 20% or more at all SM/DS company stores from sales goes to social contributions for communities.* The tions. Aeon China launched this program in 2012, followed by 2020 Target social contributions that result from using that cards are wide Aeon Thailand and Aeon Cambodia in 2015. ranging, and include community environment conservation Concluding Comprehensive Cooperation With a view to achieving our KPIs and encouraging more efforts, promotion of tourism and sports, preservation of Agreements customers to submit receipts, we are proactively increasing ­cultural assets, and animal welfare. As of the end of February the profile of this campaign. For example, the personnel at How the Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign Works 2019, we have issued 147 different cards, which reflect cash registers ask customers if they would like to participate, We have entered into cooperation agreements with local gov­distinctive regional identities and include donation functions. and we invite volunteer organizations to conduct activities in ernments to effectively combine respective resources for The total amount of local contributions comes to about our stores. Further, we receive the cooperation of the members expanding sales of local products, disaster preparedness, AEON ¥1,528.37 million. of local communities by introducing volunteer organizations public health, social welfare, and environmental conservation, Going forward, we will continue offering customers the conthat conduct activities in local communities to social welfare and, through Gotouchi WAON cards, to stimulate commerce venience of Gotouchi WAON cards while at the same time councils or volunteer centers. and tourism. actively contributing to the support of local communities. The first agreement was concluded in June 2010 with the Performance to Date of the Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign Place yellow receipts in Stores calculate the total Receive goods worth 1% * Some exceptions apply Osaka Prefectural Government. As of the end of February 2019, the box of the organizavalue of receipts for each of the total value of we had agreements with 44 prefectural governments, 19 govtion they wish to support organization receipts contributed to FY2018 the cause of their choice Gotouchi WAON Framework ernment ordinance-designated cities, and 49 cities and towns. Through these agreements, we provide emergency supplies Value of receipts submitted: ¥32,440.11 million and emergency shelters during times of disaster upon request, Registered organizations: 26,044 ご当地 Purchase Gotouchi WAON card to support a hold local product fairs and promote local tourism through our As of February 2019, WAON community a total of ¥3,753.75 stores, and work with local governments to plan and market million in goods boxed lunches made with local foods. In this way, we are also Value of receipts submitted have been donated helping to stimulate local communities and improve daily life Total ¥ 374,426.49 million since 2001. Use the Gotouchi WAON card to make a purchase services. at a WAON participating store Donate a portion of the corresponding amount to municipal authorities Volunteer organizations’ activities should fall under one of the following five categories. Use contributed funds to contribute to local 1. Activities to promote welfare communities ’01 ’02 ’03 ’04 ’05 ’06 ’07 ’08 ’09 ’10 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 ’16 ’17 ’18 (FY) 2. Activities to promote environmental preservation and environmental education Signing ceremony in Neyagawa City and Shijonawate City 3. Activities to promote urban development 4. Activities to advance arts and culture Value of receipts submitted Registered organizations 5. Activities to enhance the health and safety of children 80 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 81 Key Issue 6 Collaborating with Communities Supporting Revitalization of Local Industries Creating Local Ecosystems and Preservation of Traditional Food Culture FY2018 Results and Target of KPI Community Involvement We actively contribute to local ecosystems and the preservaHandling of region-specific products In 2016, we launched programs to construct “local community Developing the Human Resources tion of local traditions Artisanal food products: 37 items from 25 prefectures, as of the end of February 2017 ecosystems” as an initiative to implement the concept that the of the Future 2016 retail business is a community industry, based on the Aeon Direct Business Transactions with Fishery Cooperatives Basic Principles. Local community ecosystems initiatives Aeon has been transacting directly Artisanal food products: 39 items from 27 prefectures, as of the end of February 2018 Aeon Cheers Club 2017 involve collaboration among community residents, governwith fishery cooperatives since 2008 ments, companies, and other stakeholders to resolve issues to provide customers with even facing the community while increasing community appeal and The Aeon Cheers Club provides hands-on opportunities for Artisanal food products: 40 items from 27 prefresher fish and to help sustain 2018 Results first-grade to ninth-grade students to learn about the environfectures, as of the end of February 2019 competitiveness. We aim to structure lifestyle and industry Japan’s traditional fish cuisine. As of platforms that enable continuous community development. ment. The children get together once a month or once every the end of February 2019, we conThe keywords are digitalization, health and wellness, mobility, two months to participate in Aeon Cheers Club environmental Advance branding of artisanal food products duct business directly with four fish2020 and value. activities. Target ery cooperatives.* By arranging to Aeon purchases all fish caught We launched this initiative in Chiba Prefecture, home to the by this fishing vessel provide fresh fish that landed in the headquarters of Aeon Co., Ltd., and are taking on the chalmorning to customers on the afterlenges of various new initiatives in collaboration with communoon of the same day, we provide nities and governments in designated zones in Chiba to test homes with enjoyment through fresh Aeon Welfare Fund future urban concepts. By expanding local community ecosysfish. We also offer delicious menu tems, we plan to contribute toward the development of local suggestions for children who do not The Aeon Welfare Fund was established in 1977 to promote communities and help create a bright future for them. like to eat fish. the welfare of persons with disabilities and to support their Studying the solar sharing initiative Studying power generation networks and In June 2018, the Fukushima independent participation in society. Aeon has carried out varielectrical energy Prefectural Federation of Fisheries Fresh fish caught in the ous projects, focusing on donating special vehicles and conDigitalization Mobility Co-operative Associations and Aeon morning tributing to volunteer activities, through monthly contributions “Energy” was our theme in FY2018. Some 7,300 children in Retail Co., Ltd. began collaborating to of ¥50 per employee matched by the employer. As of the end approximately 450 clubs around Japan took part in the sell fish from Fukushima Prefecture at six stores in the Tokyo of February 2019, 70,000 Aeon employees from 92 companies Stress-free through Evolution of transportation activities. metropolitan area under the name Fukushima Fresh Fish are participating in this program. digitalization and movement within regions The National Meetings were held in Okinawa and Hokkaido, Delivery. Through dialogue with the National Federation of In FY2018, neighborhood welfare facilities for people with Omni-channel for all regions On-demand transportation, circulain July and August 2018, respectively. A total of 50 clubs, repEvolution of online supermarkets tor buses Fisheries Cooperatives Association, Aeon intends to continue disabilities were presented with welfare vehicles upon opening Hands-free shopping in shopping Personal mobility resenting the top clubs selected at regional meetings, and 223 conducting initiatives that benefit its customers, as well as to new stores. This brings the total number of donated special centers and communities Pick-up and logistics networks awardees gathered, with each club reporting on learning outhelp resolve issues associated with marine products. vehicles to 95 since the incepInformation in multiple languages 1-hour delivery within the region, comes for the year and participating in nature experience Various forms of payment, etc. same-day delivery * JF Shimane, JF Hiroshima, JF Ishikawa, JF Katase-Enoshima tion of the Welfare Fund. In Park and fly, etc. programs. addition, our volunteer activiIn FY2019, we plan to conduct activities themed on the sun. Promoting the Food Artisan Project ties included roughly 1,900 Four pillars of We have conducted the Food Artisan Project since 2001 with visits to welfare facilities, with local community events such as Christmas ecosystems many producers across Japan dedicated to preserving local flavors. The project seeks to preserve and build local culinary parties. About 12,000 faciliPhysically and emotionally Expansion of local economy cultures as brands. Everyone involved pools their wisdom and ties have been visited thus far. A welfare vehicle presentation ceremony fulfilling neighborhoods and value and benefits to the works to publicize the ingredients and traditional techniques Comprehensive health support sercommunity that support exceptional local culinary cultures in an effort to vice through IT Sixth phase of industrialization, protect, preserve, and create new brands. Establishment of Voting Centers Mall walks, health points (service) everything consumed is locally Making yushidofu, or fluffy tofu (event in Rafting in the Shiribetsu River (event in Concierge services, shopping support produced Okinawa) Hokkaido) As of the end of February 2019, our arti24-hour healthcare and medicine, inSupport for tourism and visitors sanal food products cover 27 prefectures home services from overseas For the 19th nationwide local government elections held on Child-rearing support, etc. Unique characteristics of each and 40 dishes, whose unique local flavors Sunday, April 7, 2019, we established voting centers at 79 Aeon community FY2018 Results and Target of KPI are delivered to customers across Japan. commercial facilities nationwide. Use of big data Each day, large numbers of customers visit Aeon stores to Investment in regions, people, comNumber of activities by the Aeon Cheers Club panies, donations, etc. shop or have a meal. Customers have responded favorably to Stores that implemented more than four activities: 343 (77.8% of all stores) our establishment of voting centers for early voting and 2015 common voting centers due to the convenience of being able Stores that implemented more than four activities: 336 Health & wellness Value (74.2% of all stores) to vote while out shopping. Further, having voting centers in 2016 stores serves the public good because it helps boost voter Stores that implemented more than four activities: 332 (73.0% of all stores) turnout by making elections feel more accessible to customers 2017 visiting our stores, who belong to a wide range of age groups. Stores that implemented more than four 2018 activities: 321 (71.7% of all stores) Results Shimotsuma sweet ripe pears Cultivated in the city of Shimotsuma, Ibaraki Prefecture, the fine-grained flesh of these Stores that implement more than four activities: 100% 2020 pears is vibrantly sweet. The pears are picked when they ripen, providing a fully mature Target flavor. 82 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 83 Key Issue 6 Collaborating with Communities Expansion in China and ASEAN Region UNESCO Biosphere Reserve Collaboration Program Aeon Sukusuku Laboratory TOPVALU Project for Specially Cultivated Rice The Aeon Cheers Club began activities at Aeon Malaysia in In August 2017, the Japan UNESCO Biosphere Reserve 2012 and at Aeon China in 2014. Approximately 1,087 children Network and the AEON Environmental Foundation concluded The Aeon Sukusuku Laboratory has been carried out every The TOPVALU Project for Specially Cultivated Rice was conhave participated in activities at about 36 clubs in Aeon the first such collaboration agreement in Japan. As part of this year since FY2007 in order to assist those raising children. This ducted at three schools in three prefectures with the hope of Malaysia, while around 2,707 children have participated in agreement, the Minakami UNESCO Biosphere Reserve and the program focuses on families raising children in areas across having children learn about the nature we are blessed with and activities at about 71 clubs in Aeon China. Aeon Cheers Club collaborated to introduce a continuous Japan and includes seminars on childcare led by experts in the the importance of food through the cultivation of rice. This is We held the first nationwide events in China in 2018, attractlearning program. The first study group meeting involved learnfield, as well as the singing of Japanese nursery rhymes and an ongoing effort undertaken with local agricultural cooperaing the participation of 27 children from 13 clubs in seven ing about the reserve. In later sessions, club members visited songs with both children and parents enjoying a meaningful tives, government administration, and educational committees areas (Beijing, Tianjin, Qingdao, Suzhou, Wuhan, Guangzhou, the Minakami UNESCO Bio­ chance to sing together. to teach children about food and sustenance by allowing them and Hong Kong). The events helped enhance the children’s sphere Reserve, experiencing In FY2018, Aeon Sukusuku Laboratory was held in three to experience the production process, from planting through understanding of the natural environment through camping, the outdoors and learning cities across Japan. A total of 359 people attended the sesharvest, and ultimately, the sale of rice at a retail store, with outdoor cooking, observation of night insects, and the making about symbiosis with biodisions, including 226 adults and 133 children. As of the end of activities tailored to each region of each prefecture. of recycled crafts using glass bottles. versity and nature. March 2019, the Aeon Sukusuku Laboratory has been held a Meetings have been held total of 52 times involving a total of approximately 10,000 three times, with participation participants. from a total of 44 members of Minakami UNESCO biosphere reserve activIn FY2019, we plan on holding three sessions nationwide. the Takasaki Aeon Cheers Club. ity in Ichinokura TOPICS Making recycled crafts (China Aeon Joint participation in a teamwork-building Children from the Aeon Cheers Club Conduct Observation of nigorobuna fish (Hayami Elementary School, Shiga Prefecture) Rice-selling experience (Shibutami Elementary School, Iwate Prefecture) Cheers Club National Meeting) game (China Aeon Cheers Club National Meeting) River Water Quality Surveys to Coincide with World Environment Day Child-rearing seminar by Katsumi Tokuda, Nursery rhyme concert by the sisters Saori Farming Experience Program Children from the Aeon Cheers Club participated in a nationProfessor, Faculty of Medicine, University Yuki and Yoko Yasuda wide effort to survey nearby water environments being conof Tsukuba Since 2012, we have been conducting the Agricultural ducted by the Nationwide Water Environment Mapping Eco-experience Project for children who belong to the Aeon Committee. In this effort, 480 members of 44 clubs took part Cheers Club. The aim of the project is for children to learn in river water quality surveys and cleanup efforts. The children about environmentally friendly vegetable production, innovaused designated testing kits to measure the extent of water tions for safety and security, and the commitment to taste, pollution, learn about water environments in their vicinity, and Rice-planting experience (Kyowa Rice-harvesting experience (Kyowa Elementary School, Akita Prefecture) Elementary School, Akita Prefecture) while having fun by visiting TOPVALU production sites around gain a better understanding of the rivers that serve as habitats Japan and farms managed by Group company Aeon Agri for fish and aquatic insects. Survey results are reported offiCreate Co., Ltd. to experience farming, including vegetable harcially in maps produced by the Nationwide Water Environment vesting and packaging. Mapping Committee, which are expected to assist in deterIn FY2018, 512 children from 38 Aeon Cheers Clubs took mining changes in water environments and the reasons for those changes, as well as to connect with water quality part in 17 visits to 14 production sites. A cumulative total of Initiatives of Aeon and AEON 1% Club Foundation for Developing the Next Generation improvements and preparing environments near waterways. 5,740 children have participated in visits to 140 production As specific actions for preserving water environments, we sites as of FY2018. are in agreement with the Ministry of the Environment’s Zero We provide a host of programs to support the learning development of youth in various life The Aeon Cheers Club Farmers’ Program offers opportuniMarine Waste Week, and children in the cheers clubs learned stages, from infant to university student. ties for children to continue experiencing and studying the how household waste can be wasted downriver and into the growth processes of crops. Some 689 children from 18 Aeon ocean, polluting water environments. Cheers Clubs have participated in the program at nine locations nationwide. The locations were Aeon Mie Inabe Farm, Aeon Hyogo Miki Satowaki Farm, Aeon Hokkaido Mikasa Farm, Aeon Saitama Hanyu Farm, Aeon Tokushima Awa Farm, Aeon Oita Usuki Farm, the Home of Flowers and Greenery and Aeon Sukusuku Aeon Cheers Club Teenage Ambassadors Aeon Scholarship The Asian Students Agriculture (Shibayama, Sanbu District, Chiba Prefecture) of Laboratory P.83/P.96 Program Program Environment Platform The Public Interest Incorporated Foundation for the Agriculture P.85/P.99 P.97 P.98 P.93 of Flowers and Greenery, Tsuchizaki Aeon Cheers Club Ichikawa Myoden Aeon Cheers Club Elementary Junior high the city of Isumi in Chiba (Akita Prefecture) (Chiba Prefecture) Infants school school High school University students students Prefecture, and the city of students students Oyama in Tochigi Prefecture. In FY2019, we will expand the program to 11 locations around Japan. Children experiencing sales at Aeon Style Tokushima of Romanesco broccoli they had grown from seeds Essay Contest for Junior High School Aeon eco-1 Grand Prix Asia Youth Leaders Students P.96 P.98 P.96 84 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 85 Key Issue 6 Collaborating with Communities TOPICS PET Bottle Cap Collection Campaign Fundraising Activities (FY2018) Number of parDonations from Opening of the Hiraoka Children’s Cafeteria Aeon has been collecting PET bottle caps at its stores from Activity Activity period ticipating customers and AEON 1% Club Donations through TOPVALU products Total (¥) Donees stores and employees donations (¥) (¥) at Aeon Mall Sapporo Hiraoka as a customers since 2008. The caps are collected as recycling locations nationwide (¥) resources and converted into money, which is then donated to Community Space for Interacting with the three international support organizations.*1 This effort plays a Donation for support of school establishment in Myanmar April 1, 2018 to May 27, 2018 7,728 31,243,452 18,756,548 — 50,000,000 ADRA Japan Next Generation role in supporting the children in developing Asian countries. June 8, 2018 to 24-Hour Television Charity In cooperation with the NPO Tasukeai Fukuro Kiyoda, in In FY2018, ¥4,330,086 from 384.00 million bottle caps*2 was 24-hour television 41 fundraising September 2, 2018 10,037 273,587,134 — — 273,587,134 Committee February 2019 Aeon Hokkaido Corporation opened its first donated to these organizations. The funds will provide vacOctober 1, 2018 to Hiraoka Children’s Cafeteria (flat) within the employees’ cines, nutritious food, and books to children in Asia. Aeon and UNICEF Safe Water October 9, 2018 7,076 13,339,826 10,660,174 4,414,320 28,414,320 Japan Committee for UNICEF cafeteria of the Aeon Mall Sapporo Hiraoka. Having become Campaign Fund October 22, 2018 to *1 The three international support organizations: November 11, 2018 aware of the social problem of children having to eat alone at Plan International Japan home, we opened this Save the Children Japan Fundraising for support of people November 15, 2018 to Association for Aid and Relief, Japan children’s cafeteria to Japan Committee, Vaccines for the World’s Children with disabilities in Asia December 16, 2018 7,315 17,207,802 12,792,198 847,005 30,847,005 (AAR Japan) provide evening meals for *2 Number of caps collected between March 1, 2018 and February 28, 2019 children free of charge or at Fundraising for support of manuFebruary 9, 2019 to Association for Aid and Relief, Japan low cost. Hiraoka Children’s facturing by people with 7,234 19,441,315 19,296,830 — 38,738,145 March 10, 2019 (AAR Japan) disabilities Cafeteria (flat) provides a Children enjoying reading at a library place for children and their Total 354,819,529 61,505,750 5,261,325 421,586,604 parents to eat dinner. Volunteer staff are also on hand to play traditional Continuous Fundraising Activities children’s games like cup Funds raised from Cumulative total and ball and spin the top Activity Activity period customers and Donees (¥) employees (¥) and make pressed flower Providing nutritious food to children in Vietnam October 1, 2018 to art, providing a venue for Red Feather Community Chest 18,947,946 332,335,403 Central Community Chest of Japan December 31, 2018 communication. Emergency Relief Fundraising Activities Number of Donations from AEON Subvention from participating customers and AEON 1% Club Activity Activity period Environmental Aeon Group Total (¥) Donees stores and employees donations (¥) Foundation companies locations nationwide (¥) A child brought to receive vaccination Fundraising for the emergency relief of those affected by July 9, 2018 to Hiroshima, Okayama, 9,330 121,882,675 30,000,000 — — 151,882,675 ­torrential rain in July 2018 July 31, 2018 Ehime Prefecture (Phase 1) Fundraising for the emergency relief of those affected by August 1, 2018 to Hiroshima, Okayama, 7,534 74,734,259 — — — 74,734,259 ­torrential rain in July 2018 August 31, 2018 Ehime Prefecture (Phase 2) TOPICS Fundraising for the emergency relief of those affected by Osaka Prefecture September 7, 2018 to Typhoon #21 in 2018 and the 9,735 58,527,455 20,000,000 8,000,000 — 86,527,455 Hokkaido, Sapporo City, Donating Around 240,000 Meals to Children 2018 Hokkaido Eastern Iburi September 24, 2018 Atsuma Town, Mukawa Town in Need in Asia and Africa Earthquake Fundraising for the emergency Aeon participated in Riceball Action 2018, a campaign spon5,000,000 relief of those affected by an October 10, 2018 to 12,377,871 sored by the NPO TABLE FOR TWO International.*1 Over a earthquake and tsunami in October 21, 2018 7,525 (1.6 billion IDR) (0.65 billion — — 17,377,871 Badan Amil Zakat Nasional IDR) 14-day period from October 10 to 23, 2019, some 450 Aeon Sulawesi, Indonesia and Aeon Style stores donated a portion of their revenues from riceball-related products to provide food to children Aeon Micro Aeon Orange Finance in need in Africa and Asia. Through TABLE FOR TWO, in Fundraising for the emergency Co., Ltd. $2,000 Myanmar 2018 the campaign provided children in Africa and Asia with August 13, 2018 to Union Minister for Social relief of those affected by 12 (Donations, $20,000 — Aeon Thana $34,000 August 18, 2018 Welfare, Relief and 238,531 nutritious meals, equivalent to a year’s worth of food ­flooding in Myanmar subventions) Shinsap Resettlement for 1,192 people.*2 $2,000 (Thailand) Plc. $10,000 *1 This NPO aims to correct an imbalance between obesity and hunger around the world by promoting improvements in eating habits in developed countries and making donations to developing countries. *2 ¥20 per meal, equivalent to 200 meals per year 86 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 87 Activities That Widen the Circle of Tohoku Creation Activity Report for Third Period of Project Aeon Joining Hands (FY2018) Project Aeon Joining Hands Project Aeon Joining Hands was launched in March 2012. In the 10 years leading to FY2021, we are aiming to drive creativity and Basic Concept Purpose of Supporting Recovery contribute to recovery after the Great East Japan Earthquake by utilizing the diverse resources gained through the management Based on the three principles of Aeon—“Peace,” “People,” and We are supporting the sustainable recovery of local communities, in which people and activities of all Aeon employees. “Community”—Aeon People are committed to utilizing the diverse industry coexist with nature, and where individuals feel connected with one another. Since FY2016, we have been working with local communities in the Aeon Future Co-creation Program, which aims to support the resources made available through Aeon’s business activities, exercising resolution of community issues through exchange, while understanding that the sustainable recovery of local communities is a their creativity and taking the initiative in contributing to the recovery of The Project’s Vision social challenge facing the disaster-afflicted areas of Tohoku. We are advancing this project to connect learning and networks the areas affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake. For Aeon By combining the three principles of Aeon—“Peace,” “People,” and “Community”— through project activities energizing the local industries of disaster-afflicted areas. One pillar of these activities is the Aeon Tohoku People, this is an opportunity to both realize and experience firsthand with the purpose of supporting recovery, we are able to objectively consider what we Reconstruction Hometown Forests Program. Under this volunteer activity, we meet our initial targets of 300,000 volunteers planting Aeon’s principles, as well as an opportunity for personal growth. By want to do and what we are able to do in order to achieve our aims. We will continue 300,000 trees ahead of schedule. extension, it is also an opportunity for them to grow as business people to contribute by being creative, engaging in activities, and walking alongside people living in disaster-affected areas, who are standing up to rebuild their communities. Project Aeon Joining Hands 10-Year Project First Period of Establishing Initial Structures  artner with non-profit and other organizaP Second Period of Expanding Independence Utilized the unique ideas and characteristics that our Group Third Organization and Fulfillment Advance sustainable support for disaster-afflicted areas, with Period tions, support planned activities that meet Period companies, management, and workforce aquire in this Period the activities promoted by each company aligned with the theme local needs, and promote the recovery of exchange to create and conduct autonomous activities able of “Local Communities—Focus and Practice” Our Group companies, management, and workforce will To ensure that everyone within the people’s lifestyles to contribute to the communities afflicted by the disaster Systematize the results of the Utilize the knowledge and resources gained through practical Objective build relationships with different communities through Objective project, and link them to further Objective Group is aware of and understands  Build links with local residents by having Followed the key concepts of “Interaction and Creativity activities toward the revitalization of the Tohoku region, which interaction with local residents, supporting them over the details of our project activities activities Aeon People periodically visit the same areas the long term, and providing continuous support corresponds to the revitalization of Japanese society throughout the year 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Aeon Tohoku Reconstruction Hometown Forests Program Outline of Second Period Initiatives Aeon’s support of recovery efforts as of the Outline of First Period Initiatives Promoted interaction with local communities through treeend of February 2019 Conducted tree-planting activities on the coasts of Iwate, planting activities in each region of Tohoku Miyagi, and Fukushima Planted fruit and shrubs in addition to trees and supported Number of trees planted in affected areas Engaged with everyone in the local community through reconstruction of industry and tourism tree-planting activities with the objective of revitalizing a Conducted recovery of the woods in the village shrine, a favorite spot for local residents, and planted trees in squares 299,879 homeland rich in nature At a tree-planting ceremony at Arahama, in front of stations, many of which were washed away Sendai, on March 9, 2019, we achieved April 2016 October 2017 September 2018 our goal of planting 300,000 trees by Tree-planting ceremony at the Soma Matsukawaura Reconstruction tree-planting ceremony for residents Second Ishimaki reconstruction forest-building tree2021 earlier than projected. coastal disaster prevention forest of Minamisoma City in memory of those who lost planting ceremony their lives in the Great East Japan Earthquake Deployment of Volunteers to Disaster Afflicted Areas Outline of Second Period Initiatives Aeon’s support of recovery efforts as of the Outline of First Period Initiatives Confirmed the challenges in disaster-afflicted areas on-site end of February 2019 Implemented activities in Rikuzentakata City, Iwate Prefecture through activities in Hamadori, Fukushima to regenerate the since FY2012, and in Minamisoma City, Fukushima Prefecture local community and bring people back from the places Employees who participated in the since FY2013 they dispersed to after the nuclear accident affected areas as volunteers Utilized the experience gained through these activities in the Total 3,648 Conducted volunteer activities for many Aeon People to visit disaster-afflicted areas to engage through their own efforts and social lives and work of Aeon People experience what is happening on the ground firsthand Worked in a manner that is able to best match the hopes of October 2016 September 2017 November 2018 3rd volunteer gathering Fourth group of volunteers from Tokyo Eight group of volunteers from Tokyo (Marumori everyone in the community Town, Miyagi Prefecture) Aeon Future Co-creation Program * Six regions in Iwate, Miyagi, and Fukushima prefectures 1. Kamaishi City and Ootsuchi Town, 5. Minamisanriku Town, Miyagi Iwate Prefecture Prefecture We will strive together with the regions afflicted by the disas2. Kome-dori, Tono City, Iwate 6. Namie Town (Nihonmatsu City), Prefecture Fukushima Prefecture ter and our Group companies in the Aeon Future Co-creation 3. Oshima, Kesennuma City, Miyagi 7. Odaka, Minamisoma City, Program, aiming to support the resolution of community Prefecture Fukushima Prefecture 4. Marumori Town, Miyagi 8. Kagamiishi Town, Fukushima issues through exchange, while understanding that the susPrefecture Prefecture tainable recovery of local communities is a social challenge Development of “Hokki-meshi bento lunch box” Creation of products from yuzu (citrus junos) in October 2018 In 2018, we added two areas (the towns of Minami Sanriku, Miyagi facing the disaster afflicted areas* of Tohoku Prefecture, and Kagamiichi, Fukushima Prefecture), bringing the total to by ODAKA Industrial Technology and Commerce Oshima, Kesennuma City Ootsuchi-cho Kanezawa Cresson Project eight regions. High School and Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. Volunteer Activities Conducted by Each Group Company Outline of Second Period Initiatives Aeon’s support of recovery efforts as of the Outline of First Period Initiatives Promoted ongoing support able to be conducted from a end of February 2019 Designated a person in charge of advancing activities at each distance in order for Group companies to generate recovery in Tohoku Employees who participated in volunteer company within the Group, and continually implemented local activities in and around the Company training in disaster-hit areas Advanced support encompassing local communities with Developed unique activities at each Group company, and with voluntary and independent thinking toward generating Total 328,979 each member of our management and workforce recovery in areas afflicted by the disaster at each Group At the end of August 2018, Conducted Tohoku Recovery Markets and communicated the company we reached our goal of 300,000 volunteers start of the project both inside and outside the Company December 2016 November 2017 April 2018 earlier than expected. “100 Santas Visit!” Christmas event for Volunteering to harvest organic cotton in disaster Publicity for products from the city of Minamisoma through activities such as the screening of the Utagokoro docreconstruction support afflicted areas at a joint trade fair with the Aeon Council * Includes number of full-time employees who participated umentary film in each region in volunteer activities in disaster-hit areas 88 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 89 Activities That Widen the Circle of Tohoku Creation “Bustling Tohoku—Connect with Hometown Power” Main FY2017 Tohoku Reconstruction Support Activities 3. Environmental and social contribution activities that “coTOPICS create” the future of the region We are also working with the people of local communities on More than seven years have passed since the Great East Japan Aeon has carried out various support activities for disaster-stricken environmental and social issues through Project Aeon Joining Earthquake. As a community industry member, Aeon has striven areas since immediately after the Great East Japan Earthquake. In Four Policies for Recreating Tohoku Hands (P.88). This is supporting the healthy growth of Tohoku, to put its philosophy into action through the reconstruction of March 2012, one year after the calamity, Aeon commenced recovery urbanization, and the children of the region. Fukushima Prefecture. and reconstruction activities under the slogan, “Making our wishes for 1 Revitalization of local industries through business recovery from the 3.11 disaster come true.” Aiming for the “creation of 2  reation of employment and creation of an C Supporting the Tohoku Aeon Opening Aeon Mall Iwaki Onahama as a local areas (hometowns),” Aeon has started efforts, under the catchenvironment that is easy to work in Happy Yellow Receipt Disaster Prevention Mall phrase “Bustling Tohoku,” to help connect the energy of Tohoku Campaign 3 Environmental and social contribution activities throughout Japan and around the world. With this desire to create the Learning from the experience of that “co-create” the future of the region We would like to encourage everyfuture of Tohoku with “bustling energy,” and with our four policy pillars, the Great East Japan Earthquake, we will walk together with everyone towards creation in Tohoku. 4 Development of towns where people can live with one affected by the earthquake in in June 2018 we opened a “disassafety and peace of mind Iwate, Miyagi, and Fukushima with Iwate Prefecture ter prevention mall” to serve as a our customers throughout Japan. (Donation on 5/31) temporary evacuation shelter in Iwate Learning Relief Fund On the 11th of every month, also time of disaster, providing a ¥33.69 million 1. Revitalization of local industries through business known as Aeon Day, we conduct nearby place for residents of surAeon Mall Iwaki-Onahama In order to make Tohoku even more vibrant than in the past, we the “Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt rounding areas and a location for Miyagi Prefecture are engaged in projects to bring amazing products developed Campaign.” Beginning in 2012, we (Donation on 5/27) distributing supplies. In the event of an earthquake or other disasGreat East Japan Earthquake by local Tohoku producers into the hands of customers, includextended our March campaign to Miyagi Children’s Scholarship Fund ter, even after the store closes at night we will leave open the ing not only local customers but also customers in Tohoku, pedestrian deck and open in-store hallways and roof areas to prothree days, from the 9th to 11th. ¥33.86 million across Japan, and around the world, thereby revitalizing local vide temporary shelter for evacuees. The entire first floor is During this campaign period, we Fukushima Prefecture designed as a parking area, with the store area on the second, third, industries and the economy. (Donation on 6/3) will donate 1% of the total amount Great East Japan Earthquake and fourth floors to provide protection from flood damage in the The bustle on opening day on receipts given to us by our Fukushima Children’s Donation event of a tsunami. The piloti structure used on the first floor is Opening the Aeon Namie Store, a Supermarket That Had Been ¥33.80 million designed to more than withstand the highest level of tsunami customers. Hoped for Since the Earthquake Since starting in Tohoku in 2013, anticipated. We have our own emergency generators to provide In March 2019, we donated approxipower in the event of an outage, as well as water tanks to serve as Before the Great East Japan Earthquake, the town of Namie, total donations toward initiatives mately ¥101.36 million to support the Fukushima Prefecture, had a population of around 21,400. As futures of children in Tohoku. an emergency source if water supplies are cut off. Our standard to support children have electricity supply also uses substation equipment located higher of the end of May 2019, when the order or evacuation of the amounted to ¥1,013.81 million. than the second floor. We are collaborating with NHK (Japan’s area had been lifted, the town’s population had declined to national broadcaster) to swiftly provide disaster information using 1,051. With the restoration of electricity and gas services digital signage. In these ways, we aim to provide a venue that fosand the reopening of public transportation and schools, the Supporting Children through Tohoku Reconstruction Support Marine products Udo, a local fishing port ters local reconstruction by serving as a place where people in the town has been working to put lifestyle infrastructure back in WAON community can gather with peace of mind. place. However, an essential piece of infrastructure—a place to shop—had been missing. In July 2019, we opened the 2. Creation of employment and creation of an environment In May 2012, we issued Tohoku Reconstruction Support WAON Roof: Parking area hoped-for store to the south of Namie’s town hall. that is easy to work in through which we donate 0.1% of the amount used for scholarship 4F: Store The store provides some 12,000 items, including locally We are creating employment by opening stores in areas funds to support the lives and learning of children in the three prefeccaught fish, other food items, and everyday necessities. We afflicted by the disaster. tures of Iwate, Miyagi, and Fukushima who were affected by the disas3F: Store have also set up an order-based service using specialized We are also working to build an environment that is ter. The total amount donated by the spring of 2019 was ¥35,359,280. Southern evacuation deck Northern evacuation deck 2F: Store and tablets, allowing customers to place orders for items not in comfortable for anyone to work, including employees who are emergency evacuation route stock, such as bedding, large furniture, and baby products. We raising children, with initiatives such as the establishment of Aqua marine park City area have installed an eat-in space as part of sales activities aimed nursery schools at our business facilities. T.P6.30 Maximum expected water height 1F: Parking area at making the store a lifestyle hub for the community. No. 2 harbor road Funabikijo Harakida Line Before opening the store, in February 2019 Aeon Retail Co., Opening of nursery school at Aeon Mall Iwaki-Onahama Ltd. signed a memorandum related to the creation of a commercial environment in the town of Namie. Under this We opened an Aeon Yumemirai Nursery School at Aeon Mall Iwaki4. Development of towns where people can live with safety agreement, the two parties agreed to cooperate in establishing Onahama in May 2018 in light of the increasing number of children and peace of mind a commercial environment that would encourage people to on waiting lists in Natori City due to factors such as families We are aiming to build safe and secure places for people to live return to the town of Namie and promote a variety of initiatives moving from other areas. We will continue working to build a by enhancing preventative measures based on our experience to bring smiles to residents’ faces and energize the town. secure environment in which everyone in the region can work with Pedestrian decks connect landand sea-facing directions, facilitatfrom the Great East Japan Earthquake. ing emergency evacuation both at night and during the day. In-store peace of mind now and into the future. Expanding Local Temporary Shelters information displays are designed for ease of understanding. Aeon is strengthening safety measures that include securing energy supply systems such as independent power generation facilities, which allow shopping centers to be used as evacuation centers during a disaster. We have already completed the installation of these Vital equipment, such as water tanks, emergency generators, and facilities at 51 stores and aim electrical substations, are located out of reach of expected water An Aeon Yumemirai Nursery School to have more than 100 stores Aeon Namie Planting fragrant olive memorial trees levels. (Other Regions) outfitted by 2020. Aeon’s private power generators 90 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 91 Initiatives by Aeon Public Interest Incorporated Foundations AEON Environmental Foundation Promoting AEON Environmental Seminar 2018 We hold the AEON Environmental Seminar, which began in Environmental Education FY2016, in collaboration with Waseda University and environAEON Environmental Foundation Asian Students Environment Platform (ASEP) mental researchers and experts from various Asian countries. The AEON Environmental Foundation was established in 1990 to provide support to like-minded groups actively developing projects The Asian Students Environment Platform (ASEP) has been The purpose of the seminar is to develop regional societies in to protect the global environment. The Foundation has planted trees around the world and promoted a variety of joint environmental held annually since FY2012. With the objective of developing Asia, while fostering environmentally oriented human protection initiatives, such as the development of human resources in the fields of the environment and conservation of human resources who will be active globally in the field of the resources. The seminar in FY2018 was our third, and was held biodiversity. environment, this forum gathers university students from in Indonesia. The theme was “SDGs+1, A Proposal from Asia,” Established MIDORI Prize for Biodiversity across Asia to exchange views on biodiversity while learning and content included seminars by environmental experts, as (Number of trees planted Concluded a collaboabout differences in the natural environment, history, culture, well as spirited debate over how to build sustainability toward AEON Environmental reached one million for tree ration agreement Concluded a collaboEstablished Aeon Group Foundation conducted first planting project to revitalize Started Asian with the Japan ration agreement and values of each other’s countries. SDGs+1. Environmental Foundation tree planting project to reviEstablished Japan the forests at the Great Wall Students UNESCO Biosphere with the Remote 30th anniversary FY2018 was the seventh year for ASEP. We welcomed the In FY2019, the seminar will be held at Chulalongkorn (currently AEON talize the forests at Awards of China by the AEON Environment Reserve Network Sensing Technology of foundation’s Environmental Foundation) the Great Wall of China for Biodiversity Environmental Foundation) Platform Center of Japan establishment Yangon University of Economics as a new member. This year’s University in Thailand and themed “Now what actions should theme was “Gifts from the Rainforest.” In line with this theme, a we take?” 1990 1998 2009 2010 2012 2017 2019 2020 total of 72 students from nine universities in nine countries gathered to conduct fieldwork around Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. AEON Forest Programs In an effort to pass on a bountiful natural environment to the next generation and achieve a sustainable society, every year Through related activities, students learned about the rainforest environment and considered problems with the ecosystem. The AEON Environmental Foundation, with cooperation at the since its establishment the AEON Environmental Foundation At the same time, they gained a deeper understanding of the national and local government levels of each country, conducts has awarded an annual amount totaling around 100 million yen harmony between people and nature and initiatives targeting a tree-planting activities that aim to regenerate forests devasto various foundations conducting activities around the world. sustainable society. On the final day, they recommended “hartated by natural disasters. The Foundation’s current tree-plantTo respond immediately in our grant-making categories to the mony with nature and passing it on to the next generation.” ing initiatives are being carried out in different parts of the changing times, for our 28th grants (FY2018), we added In FY2019, ASEP will take place in Cambodia under the world, particularly in Asia, in addition to Japan. “education on the natural environment” as a new category to theme of “Ensuring Sustainable Peace.” During FY2018 in Japan, tree planting activities were consupport development of the next generation. ducted in conjunction with the Nationwide Tree Planting In 2018, 90.89 million yen was awarded to 102 organizations Countries Participating in ASEP Festival Fukushima 2018 Satellite Location as well as in in Japan and overseas that are engaged in tree planting, the Matsusaka, Mie Prefecture; Watari, Miyagi Prefecture; Aya, regeneration of mountain villages and the nearby woodlands The 2nd (2013) South Korea Miyazaki Prefecture; Taketa, Oita Prefecture; Chiba, Chiba and ocean, cleanup of rivers, education on the natural Joined from 1st time (2012) Aeon Environmental Seminar (Universitas Indonesia) Prefecture; and Okinawa Prefecture. Overseas, tree planting environment, wildlife protection, and protection of endangered The 1st (2012) Japan activities will be implemented in Yangon, Myanmar and species. To date, a total of 2,948 organizations have been The 5th (2016) Joined from 1st time (2012) AEON Future Earth Forum The 6th (2017) Jakarta, Indonesia. awarded grants, with a total of 2,682.89 million yen in grant The AEON Environmental Foundation has held the AEON In 2019, tree planting activities will be conducted Minamifurano, money. In June 2018, we held the first activity report by The 3rd (2014) China Joined from 1st time (2012) Future Earth Forum in collaboration with the University of Hokkaido; Matsusaka, Mie Prefecture; Ishinomaki, Miyagi supported organizations at Aeon Mall Takasaki. The 4th (2015) Vietnam Tokyo since FY2017. The third forum, in FY2018, was held at Prefecture; Sanmu, Chiba Prefecture; and Kujukuri Beach, Joined from 2nd time (2013) the University of Tokyo’s Yasuda Auditorium and themed “The Chiba Prefecture. Overseas, these activities will take place in The 7th (2018) Malaysia Overview of Support Provided Joined from 3rd time (2014) Blessings of Nature.” Following an expert’s keynote lecture, the Wuhan, China; Jakarta, Indonesia; Bidor, Malaysia; and Hanoi, high school and university students joined the forum to take Projects Total Amount Projects Total Amount Philippines Vietnam. Supported (Millions of Yen) Supported (Millions of Yen) Joined from 8th time (2019) part in a panel discussion across multiple generations. 1st 59 81.64 15th 151 148.42 Cambodia Tree Planting Activities Joined from 4th time (2015) 2nd 74 80.03 16th 121 148.50 Thailand 3rd 75 80.00 17th 116 100.00 Joined from 6th time (2017) 4th 86 79.30 18th 93 96.25 Indonesia Joined from 5th time (2016) 5th 87 79.00 19th 62 69.50 6th 112 80.00 20th 65 67.55 Myanmar Joined from 7th time (2018) 7th 138 100.00 21th 60 64.94 8th 129 99.50 22th 73 86.11 9th 130 100.00 23th 107 98.65 10th 147 99.30 24th 102 99.74 Watari, Miyagi Prefecture Yangon, Myanmar 11th 184 99.20 25th 80 92.90 12th 137 100.00 26th 99 97.97 13th 102 99.10 27th 102 95.00 14th 155 149.40 28th 102 90.89 Total Organizations supported to date: 2,948 Cumulative grant money: 2,682.89 million yen (as of February 2019) The third Aeon Future Earth Forum at the University of Tokyo’s Yasuda Matsusaka, Mie Prefecture Jakarta, Indonesia Environmental Assistance 7th Meeting of the Asian Students Environment Platform (ASEP) in Malaysia Since its establishment in 1990, the AEON Environmental Foundation has awarded grants for activities related to the sustainable use and the preservation of biodiversity in Japan The Association for Fostering a Green Environmental activity reporting meeting Globe (Aeon Mall Takasaki) and developing countries. Area of activity: Tsukuba, Ibaraki Prefecture 92 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 93 Initiatives by Aeon Public Interest Incorporated Foundations About UNESCO Biosphere Reserves AEON Environmental Foundation Biosphere reserves program was started in 1976 by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO). It has spread to every region of the world as one of the activities of the Man and the Biosphere Programme EcoPro 2018 AEON exhibited at EcoPro 2018, one of Japan’s largest environEnvironmental Partnership of UNESCO’s Natural Sciences Sector. As of July 2018, there mental exhibitions, held at Tokyo Big Sight. During the three were a total of 686 registered UNESCO biosphere reserves days, a large number of children visited our booth and studied The Awards for Biodiversity in 122 countries. 10 biosphere reserves have been registered about Aeon’s environmental activities, in addition to making The AEON Environmental Foundation inaugurated the “Japan in Japan. straps from acorns and thinned wood from UNESCO Biosphere Awards for Biodiversity” in 2009 to promote biodiversity conIn order to deliver abundant nature to the children who will Reserves across Japan. servation and sustainable use of biodiversity in Japan, as well support the future, both parties will leverage the opportunity Takasaki Aeon Cheers Club fieldwork as the MIDORI Prize for Biodiversity in 2010 (with the latter presented by this agreement and work together to implement Ichinokura (Minakami Biosphere Reserve) award being an international prize). With these two awards, we initiatives in the following four areas. publicly honor individuals and organizations every other year for outstanding environmental conservation activities. Areas of Collaboration In 2018, the MIDORI Prize for Biodiversity (international 1. Biodiversity Conservation prize) was awarded for the fifth time. The winners were Dr. 2. Sustainable use and development of resources Kathy MacKinnon, chair of the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) World Commission on 3. Environmental education utilizing UNESCO Biosphere Reserves Protected Areas (WCPA); Mr. Assad Serhal, Director General of 4. Raising awareness about the value and knowledge of UNESCO the Society for the Protection Biosphere Reserves of Nature in Lebanon (SPNL); and Dr. Abdul Hamid Zakri, Joint-Chair of the Malaysian Shiga Highlands UNESCO Biosphere Reserve Fair (Aeon Mall Matsumoto) Industry-Government Group for High Technology. The Aeon Environmental Foundation’s booth at EcoPro 2018 In 2019, the Japan Awards UNESCO Biosphere Reserves in Japan for Biodiversity (domestic Presentation ceremony and recipient prize) will be awarded. forum Mt. Odaigahara, Mt. Hakusan Tadami (Fukushima) Donating Solar Systems to Elementary and Junior High Palace Hotel (Tokyo) Mt. Omine and Osugidani (Ishikawa, Fukui, Toyama, Gifu) Registered in 2014 Schools (Nara, Mie) Registered in 1980 Since 2009, the AEON Environmental Foundation has been Registered in 1980 (Area extended in 2016) Collaboration with Japanese Biosphere Reserve Network donating solar systems to elementary and junior high schools (Area extended in 2016) In 2017, the Japanese Biosphere Reserve Network and the with the aim of promoting and spreading the use of renewable AEON Environmental Foundation concluded the first collaboraenergy, and to provide schools with the opportunity to utilize tion agreement in Japan related to the three functions (conserthe systems for environmental studies. To date, systems have Minakami vation, economic and social development, and academic been donated to a total of 48 schools in Japan, Malaysia, (Gunma, Niigata) research support) of Japanese biosphere reserves. The aim of Registered in 2017 Vietnam, and China. Sobo, Katamuki, and this agreement is harmony between “ecological conservation” In FY2018, we provided systems to three elementary and Okue (Oita, Miyazaki) and “sustainable use.” junior high schools in Hong Kong. We also provided systems to Registered in 2017 This collaboration agreement was concluded on the basis of three elementary and junior high schools in Hong Kong in the AEON Environmental Foundation’s support for the philosoFY2019. phy of the UNESCO biosphere reserves, which calls for placing importance not only on the protection and conservation of ecosystems but also on a harmonious relationship between nature and human society. Yakushima and Kuchinoerabu-Jima (Kagoshima) Three Functions Registered in 1980 (Area extended in 2016) Minami Alps Mt. Kobushi Shiga Highland 1 Conservation (preserving diversity) (Yamanashi, Nagano, (Yamanashi, Saitama, (Nagano, Gunma) Aya (Miyazaki) Shizuoka) Nagano, Tokyo) Registered in 1980 Registered in 2012 Registered in 2014 Registered in 2019 (Area extended in 2014) 2 Economic and social development 3 Academic research reports Zoning in Three Areas Materials provided by: The Japanese Coordinating Committee for MAB Core areas Following the presentation ceremony, students and their teacher touring a rooftop solar Rigorous protection, long-term conservation power system Shanghai Alumni Primary School (Hong Kong) Buffer areas Buffer areas for protection of core areas AEON Environmental Foundation Education and training, ecotourism Transition areas https://www.aeon.info/ef/en/ Areas where people live and can achieve sustainable development in harmony with nature Materials provided by: Japanese National Commission for UNESCO 94 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 95 Initiatives by Aeon Public Interest Incorporated Foundations School Construction Support Project drinking water to approximately 524,000 people in three counAEON 1% Club Foundation Under the belief that “enhancing basic education is indispenstries (Myanmar, Laos, and Cambodia), while it has also lessable for achieving a peaceful society,” we have been conductened the labor required to collect water, which thereby allows AEON 1% Club Foundation ing school construction support projects since 2000 in five more children to attend school. The AEON 1% Club Foundation, which celebrated its 30th anniversary in 2019, was established in 1989 with the philosophy that Asian countries with lagging development of educational infraIn FY2019, we plan to conAeon is a company that makes proper use of the benefits received from customers for the future and for the community. Our activistructure. Donations from Aeon customers across Japan and tinue to carry out the camties are centered on the sound upbringing of children who will lead the next generation, the promotion of international friendship and funding from the AEON 1% Club are utilized to build a total of paign in Cambodia and goodwill, and sustainable development of the local community. Major companies within the Aeon Group contribute 1% of their 416 schools in five countries: Nepal, Vietnam, Laos, Myanmar, Myanmar. pretax profits. and Cambodia. Some 370,000 students are studying at the schools that have been constructed. In addition to physically building the schools and estabAEON 1% Club started lishing plumbing facilities, we are also offering less tangible Established Aeon AEON 1% Club started ASEAN University Students Group 1% Club Small Ambassadors AEON 1% Club AEON 1% Club AEON 1% Club Environmental Forum (curAEON 1% Club support in the form of faculty education and so on. Part of Children washing their hands at a water (currently AEON (currently Teenage started support started Aeon started Aeon rently Asia Youth Leaders) started Aeon The foundation’s 30th the opening ceremonies have included a concert featuring supply facility installed at a school 1% Club Ambassadors) for construction Scholarship Scholarship and Aeon-UNICEF Safe eco-1 Grand anniversary of (Myanmar) Foundation) Program of schools Program Program Water Campaign Prix establishment children’s songs performed by sisters Saori Yuki and 1989 1990 2001 2006 2007 2010 2012 2019 Sachiko Yasuda, in addition Promotion of Friendship with to visits by participants who Foreign Countries came from Japan in order to share in the joy of the events. Teenage Ambassadors Program In FY2019, we plan to supThe Teenage Ambassadors Program facilitates school visits port school construction and for Japanese and foreign students and builds international Sound Development of AEON Eco-1 Grand Prix The AEON Eco-1 Grand Prix recognizes commendable ecoteacher training in Myanmar. Children having fun in their new classroom understanding and friendship through exchange. Interaction the Next Generation activities of high school students. The event offers a forum for (Myanmar) takes place through ambassador activities, exchange activities, and history/culture activities that bring together students AEON Cheers Club high school students from across Japan to report results and of similar age but different cultures, traditions, and lifestyles. The AEON Cheers Club provides hands-on opportunities for share information on their environmental activities. The Grand This program has been carried out every year since 1990, firstthrough ninth-grade students to learn about the environPrix was started in 2012 with the hope that it would be an Nepal 57 schools with 2,670 students from 18 countries (including Japan) paropportunity for the young people who will lead the next generaVietnam 30 schools ment. Young people can come together once a month or once ticipating to date. In FY2018, as one of the activities marking every two months to participate in the AEON Cheers Club envition to think about and act on environmental issues. the foundation’s 30th anniversary of establishment, the ronmental activities. Area meetings were held at Japan–China Teenage Ambassadors held a commemorative The theme for FY2018 was “energy.” Some 7,265 children two new locations in FY2018, program. Numerous particifrom 448 clubs around Japan participated in activities. In July Okayama and Osaka, in the Myanmar 56 schools pants from past years and and August 2018, the eighth AEON Cheers Club National aim of widening the “circle of others attended the proecology.” Meetings were held in Okinawa and Hokkaido, respectively. A Laos 122 schools gram, which looked back on total of 50 clubs, representing the top clubs selected at regional the past 10 years and promeetings, and 225 awardees gathered, with all participating in vided an opportunity to nature experience programs. Experience in removing the Uchida crayfish, an introduced species broaden the circle of friendIn FY2019, we plan to conCambodia 151 schools ship across generations. duct activities themed on the Japanese and Chinese high school stusun. Junior High School Students Essay Contest dents on a courtesy visit to the Chinese On the theme of “Food” that fosters healthy minds, bodies, and well-rounded humanity, we hold our Essay Contest for Junior Total 416 schools Foreign Ministry High School Students in which students express their feelings Japan–ASEAN Teenage Ambassadors Experiencing rice harvesting in of gratitude about memorable meals or dishes to a special Since the first Teenage Ambassadors Program was held in a farmers program someone through their essays. We are striving to heighten Malaysia in 1990, exchange programs have been conducted awareness of dietary education by honoring and widely publiAEON UNICEF Safe Water Campaign with eight ASEAN countries, including Indonesia, Cambodia, cizing outstanding essays from junior high school students In some areas of Cambodia, Laos, and Myanmar, it is difficult Thailand, the Philippines, Vietnam, Myanmar, and Laos. The around the country. In FY2018, we received a total of 313 to obtain clean water, so water for daily use is drawn from FY2018 theme was disaster prevention, and Thai high school essays on the theme of “Thanking the Cook: Gratitude for unhygienic ponds or from groundwater that may contain students visited their partner Memorable Meals and Dishes.” Recipients of the Gold Prize unhealthy substances. Furthermore, children have to spend countries. Learning about where able to learn about making local Aichi cuisine. Through valuable time walking long distances to collect water, with history and culture provided these experiences, they were able to deepen their understandsome of them unable to attend school. The AEON UNICEF Safe the children with an opportuing of dietary education. Water Campaign was started in 2010 in order to support the nity to reflect more deeply on health and education of children in this situation. Through the their own country. Japan Committee for UNICEF, donations from Aeon customers across Japan and funding from the AEON 1% Club go toward the supply of safe water and the building of water Thai high school students experiencing a supply infrastructure. To date, the campaign has brought safe class in Japan Reading aloud and introducing items receiving gold prizes 96 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 97 Initiatives by Aeon Public Interest Incorporated Foundations AEON 1% Club Foundation Japan–China Teenage Ambassadors Sustainable Development of Regional In FY2018, activities were held at three locations in Japan, increasing the total of activities to 52, for 9,973 participants, by Fukushima Kids Morimori Project Since the Great East Japan Earthquake, there has been conThe Teenage Ambassadors Program held with China in 2009 brought students together from Japan and Beijing. The Communities the end of March 2019. In FY2019, we plan to hold activities in cern that children in Fukushima Prefecture are not getting exchange received high praise from both the governments Preservation of Home Town Culture Sano New City, Akita, and Tottori Prefecture. enough playtime outside and are not receiving enough experiinvolved and from the participants themselves. To facilitate As a member of regional communities, the AEON 1% Club ence with nature. In response, children were invited to Shinano further friendship between works to spread traditional culture and historically significant Town, Nagano Prefecture, Japan and China, the program has been held every year customs that need to be handed down to children in future and the Afan Woodland in since 2009, with the program area expanding to include other generations, while providing opportunities for local residents to the Kurohime area of this areas. To date, a total of 1,271 high school students from deepen ties and form better communities. town, because these locaJapan and China have become small ambassadors for buildtions are known for their ing bonds of friendship. In Support for Regional and Community advanced forest therapy. The FY2019, exchanges will be Aiming to carry on traditional program provides children held with Beijing, Wuhan, and culture and history rooted in with the opportunity to exerSuzhou. regional communities, Aeon Nursery rhyme concert led by sisters Child-rearing seminar taught by Katsumi cise and come in closer conFukushima children experiencing nature at These activities have been supports festivals and citiSaori Yuki and Sachiko Yasuda Tokuda, Professor in Faculty of Medicine tact with nature. Afan Woodland at University of Tsukuba confirmed with Japan’s Foreign zen events across Japan. In Ministry as anniversary events FY2018, we provided support Fundraising to Support for People with Disabilities in Asia Emergency Relief Support Fund surrounding the Japan–China for 75 events, while also assistWe are supporting the activities of the NPO Association for In order to be of service to recovery efforts in disaster-stricken Youth Exchange Promotion ing with hosting a Traditional Aid and Relief, Japan (AAR Japan), which actively provides areas inside and outside Japan, we are quick to seek contribuVisiting Aeon’s Mikasa Farm in Hokkaido Year. at peak melon-harvesting season Handicrafts Exhibition under Morioka Sansa Odori festival in Iwate support for the education and employment of people with tions for emergency relief and recovery donations. the theme of “Look, Use, disabilities in Cambodia, Myanmar, and Laos, where social In FY2018, we provided support in relation to the heavy Asia Youth Leaders Enjoy, and Buy.” The event helped bring traditional handicrafts welfare programs are underdownpours in Western Japan in 2018, flooding in Myanmar, the Asia Youth Leaders is a program for bringing together youth closer to people’s lives. developed in comparison 2018 Hokkaido Eastern Iburi Earthquake, an earthquake in from different Asian countries to address social problems in with those of other counSulawesi, Indonesia, and Typhoon No. 21. the host country by taking part in discussions after doing field AEON Hometown Discovery tries. We have been conductwork and listening to lectures by experts. A total of 722 stuSeeking to help reacquaint ing fund-raising activities dents with different backgrounds from six countries (Indonesia, children who will lead the next since FY2016. Thailand, China, Japan, Vietnam, and Malaysia) explore solugeneration with the appealing tions to issues through debates and dialogues in English to aspects of their hometowns, foster global sensitivity and we enlisted actress Atsuko Child able to attend class with others mutual understanding of Asano to perform readings thanks to a special walker diverse values. of local folktales on stages During the designated erected at shrines and famous Future Agriculture Days Mekong–Japan Exchange historical sites throughout Yukura Temple in Hakodate, Hokkaido In cooperation with organizations working to revitalize agriculPresentation of emergency financial Presentation of emergency financial supYear, in FY2019 we will invite Japan. The project started ture, we started this activity in FY2016 as an initiative to supsupport for recovery from an earthport for recovery from heavy downpours in quake in Sulawesi, Indonesia Western Japan in 2018 children from a total of nine as a restoration support effort in the Tohoku region in 2012, port Japan’s next generation. countries (adding Cambodia, then branched out to other regions. Currently, junior high Myanmar, and Laos) and school students are invited to attend local performances Support Manufacturing by Persons with Disabilities Winning team in the ninth program Aeon started this project in 2011 to support recovery efforts and meeting in Hanoi, Vietnam. (Indonesia) across Japan. In FY2018, readings were held at Yukura Temple in Hakodate, revitalization in Tohoku. Through an NPO called the Association Hokkaido and Amaterasu Shinmeigu in Date, Fukushima for Aid and Relief, Japan, donations have been provided to faciliAEON Scholarship Prefecture ties in Iwate, Miyagi, and The AEON Scholarship is a subsidy program for college stuFukushima prefectures to dents from countries throughout Asia, as well as privately AEON Parenting Laboratory support employment opporfinanced international students from Asia coming to study in The AEON Parenting Laboratory is an activity that supports tunities for people with disSorting potatoes Japan. The program started in 2006 with the hope that recipipeople engaged in child-rearing in local communities and proabilities. The aim is to be of ents would serve as a bridge between Japan and their home vides opportunities for participants to become familiar with assistance in furthering the countries by helping these students actively engage in their Japanese nursery rhymes and songs. This activity has been Disaster Relief Assistance independence and social parfuture fields of specialty. In addition to economic support implemented mainly at Aeon Malls throughout Japan since We provide support for disaster relief and reconstruction so ticipation of people with throughout the year in Japan, scholarship recipients are pro2008 for children up to three years of age and their families. that people who have been affected by large-scale disasters disabilities. Child using a sewing machine to sew cloth vided with assistance for furthering their growth as global The program consists of two parts. Professor Katsumi Tokuda, can resume their normal daily lives as quickly as possible. items human resources by holding training seminars and offering who is known as a leading authority on child-rearing, conducts Furthermore, looking toward the future, we are implementing opportunities to participate in volunteer activities. At certifia seminar to offer child-rearing advice, and sisters Saori Yuki initiatives to support further development in areas affected by cate award ceremonies in and Sachiko Yasuda lead a nursery rhyme concert in which the Great East Japan Earthquake. each country, scholarship they sing together with parents and children at the venue. AEON 1% Club Foundation students present speeches highlighting their dreams http://aeon1p.or.jp/1p/en/ and aspirations. To date, the program has supported 6,302 students at 37 universities in seven countries. Holding up a certificate from the Yangon University of Foreign Languages for a commemorative photo 98 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 99 Environmental Management Environmental Policy System ISO 14001 Certification TOPICS Aeon Environmental Policy* Aeon established the Aeon Sustainability Principle in line with As of February 2019, 36 companies in the Aeon Group have We strive to balance enriching lifestyles with environInitiatives at Aeon Credit Service Co., Ltd. the Aeon Basic Principles as the fundamental policy governing acquired ISO 14001 certification, the international standard for mental conservation by providing safe and comfortable the environmental and social contribution activities that all environmental management systems. Each company manstores, products, and services to our customers. We Taking the impact of our business activities on the enviAeon Group companies should take part in. Following these ages its own Plan-Do-Check-Act (PDCA) cycle, achieving also operate an environmental management system to ronment into consideration, we are acquiring ISO 14001 policies, Aeon Decarbonization Vision 2050 and the Aeon results through efforts to continually reduce environmental implement measures, conduct periodical reviews, and Biodiversity Principle also represent environmental goals and impacts. certification with the aim of managing and promoting our promote continual improvements to environmental policies for the entire Group. In 2015, the ISO 14001 certification was revised to emphaenvironmental initiatives systematically. Aeon Credit performance. Effective measures are conducted following the establishsize integration of business processes and environmental Service Co., Ltd. set “reducing environmental impact by ment of environmental policies and environmental managemanagement systems, in addition to the improvement of top improving business efficiencies” as its environmental 1. We will strive to reduce the emission of greenhouse ment systems by each Group company based on their own management’s leadership and performance. objective. With this goal in mind, the company introduced gases in all of our business activities in order to realize unique characteristics. This is because the Aeon Group Aeon saw this revision as an opportunity to strengthen its various initiatives for working with customers to reduce a low-carbon society. encompasses a multitude of business areas and the chalmanagement framework in order to realize its basic policy for (1) We will continually improve the energy efficiency paper. These measures included using tablets for credit lenges that each Group company faces may differ depending sustainability from the dual perspectives of corporate growth of our stores. card applications and transitioning to Internet-based credit on their operating format and sector. As an example, Aeon Co., and realizing a sustainable society. In light of this, we have (2) We will strive to reduce the emission of greencard statements that can be viewed on the Web rather Ltd. undertakes environmental protection activities based on actively shifted toward building an environmental managehouse gases in all phases of our products’ supply than physically mailing out paper documents. In addition the Aeon Environmental Policy, which sets targets and objecment system that is integrated with our business. chain. to reducing paper, using Web-based statements helps tives for such activities pursuant to the key issues defined in the Aeon Sustainability Principle. reduce CO2 emissions, as it eliminates the need for physi2. We will promote conservation activities and ascertain List of ISO-Certified Companies (As of the end February 2019) Targets for the following fiscal year are determined by sharcal delivery. the benefits and impact of our business activities on ing the status of activities undertaken across the entire Group Company Company In FY2018, thanks to the cooperation of numerous cusnatural ecosystems. under the guidance of the executive officer in charge of the Aeon Co., Ltd. Aeon Kyushu Co., Ltd. tomers we succeeded in reducing annual CO2 emissions (1) We will strive to develop and procure products environment, social contribution, PR, and IR as well as by an Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. Aeon Credit Service Co., Ltd. by 19,500 tonnes. In FY2019, Aeon Credit Service plans to that use properly managed resources in considerevaluation of the progress toward meeting previous targets. Aeon Supercenter Co., Ltd. Aeon Ryukyu Co., Ltd. make Web-based statements the standard service offeration of sustainability. Maxvalu Minami Tohoku Co., Ltd. Maxvalu Kyushu Co., Ltd. (2) We will promote tree planting and raising activities Maxvalu Kanto Co., Ltd. Maxvalu Hokkaido Co., Ltd. ing, and aims to reduce CO2 emissions by 42,500 tonnes as Environmental Policy System as well as undertake activities that safeguard the a result. Maxvalu Nagano Co., Ltd. Aeon Delight Co., LTD. ecosystems of local communities. Maxvalu Hokuriku Co., Ltd. Mega Sports Co., Ltd. Peace Aeon Integrated Business Service Co., Ltd. Cox Co., LTD. 3. We will strive to implement resource recycling initiaAeon Big Co., Ltd. Maxvalu Tokai Co., Ltd.* Aeon Basic tives in order to use resources in a sustainable Wastewater Management Aeon Retail Store Co., Ltd. Research Institute for Quality Living Co., Ltd. Principles manner. My Basket Co., Ltd. Head Office Aeon Hokkaido Co., Ltd. C2 The Wastewater discharged from Aeon stores rarely if ever conCustomers (1) We will promote “reduce, reuse, and recycle” for all Aeon Bike Co., Ltd. Head Office Aeon Global SCM Co., Ltd. tains hazardous substances. Sometimes, however, this wastePeople Community the resources we use. Aeonliquor Co., Ltd. Head Office Guangdong Aeon Teem Co., Ltd. water may contain large amounts of oil, which can violate legal (2) We will strive to select raw and general materials Maxvalu Tohoku Co., Ltd. The Daiei, Inc. standards, clog drainage pipes, or cause other accidents. As a that have lower impact on the environment. Aeon Food Supply Ltd. Aeon Market Co., Ltd. result, Aeon uses DVDs and other teaching materials to conAeon —Aeon Decarbonization Vision Maxvalu Nishinihon Co., Ltd. The Maruetsu, Inc. duct training for its employees and the employees of its tenSustainability 2050 4. We will comply with legal requirements and with other Maxvalu Chubu Co., Ltd.* Aeon Delight (Jiangsu) Co., Ltd. Principle ants to ensure day-to-day maintenance is correctly performed, P.10 obligations related to the environment, and strive to Aeon Mall Co., Ltd. Aeon Delight (Wuhan) Co., Ltd. including compliance with cleaning grease traps. We have prevent pollution. In addition, we will communicate Total operating revenue from the 36 companies that have received ISO 14001 certifica—Aeon Biodiversity Principle been making improvements by strengthening day-to-day man—Aeon Sustainable Procurement this policy to all persons working for or on behalf of tion exceeds 70% of the Group’s total. * On September 1, 2019, Maxvalu Chubu Co., Ltd. and Maxvalu Tokai Co., Ltd. underwent agement, including regularly taking photographs of grease Groupwide Policy and 2020 Goals the organization as well as making it available to the Policy management integration, forming Maxvalu Tokai Co., Ltd. traps to monitor their condition and for use in providing instrucP.20、P.22 public. tions. We have also adopted a system of hygiene checking where the checks are handled by a third party. The continuous —Aeon Zero Waste Initiative 5. We will develop partnerships with many stakeholders, Concept implementation of these efforts is part of our method for mainincluding our customers, and widen the reach of our —Food waste reduction targets taining a proper level of management. initiatives. Furthermore, Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. and several other Aeon P.32 Group companies perform water quality testing concurrently Revised March 2018 including for sewage as part of annual voluntary inspections. Policy of Stores where values exceed our voluntary standards, which are Aeon Company B Company C Motoya Okada Individual Environmental Environmental Environmental even stricter than legal requirements, are required to take corPresident and Representative Executive Officer Companies Policy policies policies rective action that helps to improve our overall wastewater Aeon Co., Ltd. management practices. * The Aeon Environmental Policy is applied in the following Group companies: Aeon Co., Ltd., Aeon Retail Co., Ltd., Aeon Retail Store Co., Ltd., Aeon Supercenter Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Minami Tohoku Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Kanto Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Nagano Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Hokuriku Co., Ltd., Aeon Big Co., Ltd., Aeon Integrated Business Service Co., Ltd., My Basket Co., Ltd., Aeon Bike Co., Ltd., Aeonliquor Co., Ltd. 100 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 101 Environmental Management Environmental Education FY2018 ISO 14001 Targets and Performance Group Company Initiatives Aeon provides time in its various training sessions for employ[Companywide Targets] = Achieved • = Did not achieve, but will continue to make efforts ees to learn about its environmental principles and policies in Aeon Mall Co., Ltd. Initiatives Environmental order to raise their awareness of the environment. Without the understanding and cooperation of specialty Policy Category Target Results Evaluation Supervision We provide training for employees at each company that shops, Aeon Mall’s efforts will not be realized. At each mall, obtains ISO 14001 certification. For Aeon Retail Co., Ltd., we we also educate staff of specialty shops on environmental Target: 2,102,900 kWh introduced Web-based training tools and made it obligatory for Result: 2,148,094 kWh initiatives and rules on waste management. Stated target: 102.2% all employees to carry the ISO 14001 handbook. In these ways, The company’s medium-term environmental policy includes Promote energy conservation Comparison last year: 101.2% Aeon Co., Ltd. Low carbon Stores Reduce electric consumption to 5% of FY2016 Each Group we foster an understanding about our policies and objectives the goal of having all employees pass the Eco Test. To that Companies reaching targets: * Target varies according to company company and make employees aware of their roles. end, the entire company is pursuing initiatives such as enviMaxvalu Kanto Co., Ltd. Training seminars for internal environmental auditors led by Aeon Supercenter Co., Ltd. ronmental training for employees. Aeon Big Co., Ltd. qualified instructors are also held every year to facilitate smooth operation of the environmental management system. Aeon Delight Co., Ltd. Initiatives Target: 549,118 JPY As of February 2019, a total of 2,062 employees have attended Based on the Act on Rational Use and Appropriate Result: 564,658 JPY the seminars since 2000, when the ISO 14001 certification was Stated target: 102.8% Management of Fluorocarbons, which restricts emisReduce cost of materials Comparison last year: 98.1% acquired. sions on fluorocarbons that can cause global warming Scope: Polyester bags for clothing, sundries, and Companies reaching targets: Aeon Co., Ltd. food, standard polyester bags, etc. Each Group and ozone layer depletion, Aeon Delight monitors fluoroVs. fiscal 2016 Reduction of at least 10% Maxvalu Hokuriku Co., Ltd. company Aeon Supercenter Co., Ltd. carbon leakage through simple, regular testing of class I * Target varies according to company Aeon Big Co., Ltd. specified products, such as commercial air conditioners * Only Maxvalu Kanto measures by weight. Result was and refrigeration equipment. Resources Stores 101.2% of target. Since FY2013, Aeon Delight has registered with all of <Average> Japan’s 46 prefectures as an operator registered to fill Result: 0.486% and recover class I fluorocarbons. The company has also Stated target: 109.0% trained technicians on handling class I refrigeration fluoMaintain food waste-to-sales ratio at below Comparison last year: 96.0% Aeon Co., Ltd. 0.48% Companies reaching targets: Each Group rocarbons, as certified testers. In FY2018, Aeon Delight * Target varies according to company company Maxvalu Minami Tohoku Co., Ltd. had 554 certified testers. Aeon Big Co., Ltd. * Delicatessen items for Aeon Big Co., Ltd. only. Result was 96.4% of target. Branshes Co., Ltd. Initiatives Branshes received the Outstanding Performance Award in * Applicable companies: Aeon Retail Co., Ltd., Aeon Retail Store Co., Ltd., Aeon Supercenter Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Minami Tohoku Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Kanto Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Nagano Co., the Unit Department at the Eco Kentei Awards 2018, hosted Ltd., Maxvalu Hokuriku Co., Ltd., Aeon Big Co., Ltd. by the Tokyo Chamber of Commerce and Industry. This award highlighted Branshes’ ongoing efforts since 2010 to [Division Targets] reinvigorate a coral reef, the “Branshes Sango Forest.” This marked the sixth consecutive year of awards for Branshes. Environmental Category Target Results Evaluation Supervision Policy As of May 2019, the company has donated ¥525,000 raised through the sale of 14,739 hand towels to help revitalProduct case example Aeon Co., Ltd. ize 238 coral beds. As a new initiative, the company has Expand sales of sustainable seafood (MSA, ASC) Aeon Topvalu Co., Low carbon, Expand sales of air conditioners and other energy-saving begun introducing Fairtrade products. Branshes will sell Ltd. resources, and Products Expand sales of environment-friendly products products (HOME COORDY) Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. message cards (using paper handmade from banana skins) biodiversity Expand sales of TOPVALU Gurinai organic, natural and Each Group and continue operating a workshop where children and parfree from products company Expand sales of self + service products (innerwear) ents can use materials. Promote Aeon Cheers Club activities 330 stores out of the 461 stores conducted activities * The Eco Kentei Awards celebrate achievements by “eco-people” and “ecoTogether Implement more than four activities at all GMS; implemore than four times per year. Aeon Co., Ltd. units” (companies and groups) that serve as model efforts for environmental Partnerships with mentation rate of more than 80% (Implementation rate 71.6%) Each Group activities. Customers Complete wall newspapers at all GMS; completion rate Shops that did not conduct activities are under investicompany of more than 80% gation (store questionnaires). Aeon Global SCM Co., Ltd. Initiatives Aeon Global SCM continues to ask its contracted transport companies to cooperate on eco-driving. The company regularly issues “Eco Drive News” to share information on environmentally friendly driving. The company also has an award system for safe driving. Awards are given each month to people who work 20 days or more and drive 3,000 km or more who are tracked as exhibiting zero dangerous-driving signs, which include rapid acceleration, rapid deceleration, and speeding. In FY2018, out of 26,317 eligible people, 47 people received awards. 102 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 103 Environmental Management FY2018 Aeon Group Environmental Accounting Environmental Load in FY2018 Business Activities [Aeon Retail Co., Ltd.] Environmental Economic Benefits CO2 Reduction Output Main Category Subcategory Accounting Items Conservation Costs (Thousand JPY) (t-CO2) (Thousand JPY) Customer Packaging Generation of Disposal Installation cost for photovoltaic power systems 322,830 488,285 4,497 electricity Adoption of energy-efficient equipment Energy-saving (installation of LED lighting, visualization of energy 8,427,400 784,191 17,156 usage, etc.) Realization of Management of Adoption of natural refrigerant equipment, fluorocarbon Decarbonized Society fluorocarbons filling and leakage management 939,047 — — Carbon offsets Carbon offsets (CO2 emission trading) 4,399 — 170 Input Output CO2 absorption through tree planting*2 Distribution Adoption of modal shift, use of returnable containers 3,218,566 20,067 20,762 1,091 t-CO2 Subtotal 12,912,242 1,292,543 42,586 Products CO2 CO2 In-store Electricity: 1,814,489,000 kWh CO2 emissions*1 CO2 Private power generation: 921,396t-CO2 CO2 Aeon Hometown Forests Program tree-planting, 67,720,000 kWh 133,651 — — CO2 collection boxes ceremony, construction costs Renewable energy power CO2 Tree-planting generation: Discharge 202,559t activities Regular maintenance for planted zones 765,871 — — 3,198,000 kWh Discharged into air Conservation of The forest transcend project 1,804 — — Biodiversity Energy*4 Packaging Production Research, etc. on certified products, procurement Utility gas: 29,318,000m3 Shopping bags: 3,841t Stores Recycling 9,741 — — Separated certification guidelines LPG: 1,594t Food trays: 4,871t 128,355 t Subtotal 911,067 — — Heavy oil: 3,070kl Wrapping paper: 534t Food scrap recycling Kerosene: 99kl Paper bags: 927t Styrofoam volume CO2 reduction collection boxes reduction through collection Processing cost of recyclables collected in-store, proWaste oil recycling 1,561,768 78,162 109,986 of recyclable items Reduction of waste cessing cost of recycling of food residue Cardboard 25,721.0t-CO2*3 Plastic shopping bag reduction 767,478 525,092 81,542 Water Products 8,452,466 m Waste products Recycling Reduction of Third-party processing fees required under the Act on Well water Other materials* 4 74,204 t Better Use of amount of materials Disposal the Promotion of Sorted Collection and Recycling of 1,854,024 644,356 2,899 2,980,006 m3 OA, photocopy paper: 974 t Resources used in packaging Containers and Packaging and containers Home appliance Operating costs for home appliance recycling program 101,979 — — recycling Subtotal 4,285,249 1,247,611 194,427 Contributions to Contributions to the Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt 433,354 — — local communities Campaign* Input Output Human resources Activities of the Aeon Cheers Club 114,414 — — Recyclable Recycling Social Activities development CO2 emissions*5 items collected Suppliers Tohoku reconstrucCoastal forest regeneration in the disaster area Aeon 70,330 t-CO2 Aluminum cans: 1,238t 56,362 — — Energy*4 tion support future co-creation program Food trays: 591t manufacturers Light oil: 27,260kl Paper cartons: 1,153t Subtotal 604,130 — — Waste products Products PET bottles: 2,970t Cardboard Distribution center Preparation of the Aeon Sustainability Report, Media 96,545 — — operation of environmental website Exhibition at environmental events, advertising-related Environmental Exhibits 161,535 — — publications *1 Calculations based on energy consumption of equipment at stores and business sites. Calculated using the CO2 emissions coefficient (2.62 t-CO2/kl) for light oil. Communication Membership dues in and donations for environmental *2 Calculated based on the total number of trees planted Groupwide under the “Aeon Hometown Forests” program. Donations, etc. 616,528 — — *3 Calculated based on the 3R basic unit method (Waste Management and Recycling Department, Ministry of the Environment; March 2013). organizations (donations, etc. to local WAON) *4 Calculated by multiplying the ratio of Aeon Retail by the total energy used by Aeon Global SCM. Subtotal 874,608 — — *5 Calculated using the CO2 emissions coefficient (2.62 t-CO2/kl) for light oil. Generation of proProcessing waste generated by stores and offices, 11,172,062 — — cessing waste adoption of waste measurement equipment Management of Cost of implementing the environmental management 46,888 — — waste disposal system (ISO), waste management seminars Environmental Maintenance of Maintenance and management of equipment for Management preventing environmental pollution, prevention of equipment and 6,258,686 — — environmental accidents, and restoration in case of an devices accident Personnel costs Personnel costs 411,297 — — Subtotal 17,888,933 — — Total 37,476,228 2,540,154 237,013 Applicable companies: 68 consolidated Group companies (General Merchandise Store Business, Supermarket Business, Health & Wellness Business, Financial Services Business, Shopping center Development Business, Services & Specialty Store Business, shared function companies, etc.) * Activities of volunteer groups receiving Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign proceeds: (1) promoting welfare, (2) promoting environmental conservation and education, (3) promoting urban development, (4) promoting arts and culture, (5) promoting child health and safety 104 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 105 Data collection FY2018 Action Plan & KPIs Progress * Reporting period: March 1, 2018 to February 28, 2019 Summary of Actions/Initiatives Key Issue Main Category Subcategory KPI Scope Covered Target FY2018 Results Undertaken in FY2018 Total annual CO2 emissions Consolidated Group companies FY2010: 0.102 t/m2 (performance) 1) Ungraded and installed energy-saving equipment Reducing CO2 emissions factor (CO2 emissions/total in Japan and overseas (Japan, 0.0776 t/m2 (expected) 2) Promoted energy-saving activities through operational improvements floor area) China, and ASEAN) FY2017: 0.078 t/m2 (lighting, refrigerated/frozen cases, air conditioning, etc.): • Underwent inspection for rational energy management • Utilized energy advisory system • Reviewed our energy-saving checklist and use operating manual Total energy use factor Consolidated Group companies FY2010: 2.776 GJ/m2 (performance) • Received feedback from energy-saving activities in the SM business, Improving energy efficiency (amount of heat/total floor in Japan and overseas (Japan, 2.120 GJ/m2 (expected) shared positive case studies area) hina, and ASEAN) FY2018: 2.150 GJ/m2 • Promoted eco-tuning 3) Conducted energy management activities throughout the Group Reducing CO2 emissions from stores Comprehensively assess replenishment volume of fluo1) Underwent simple inspections on equipment along with regular followConsolidated Group companies FY2018: Operation of management system Implemented leakage management for Key Issue 1 up checks rocarbons in air conditioning compliant with the Fluorocarbons major companies within the Group, centered 2) Conducted regular reporting and management of luorocarbon leakage Realization of a Preventing leakage of fluorocarin Japan Recovery and Destruction Law on Group Company Aeon Delight Co., Ltd. and cold storage equipment volume Decarbonized bons and promoting use of natand prevent leakage Society ural refrigerant equipment [Natural Refrigerant Declaration Number of stores installing Consolidated Group companies 1) Continued to promote introduction of non-fluorocarbons Installed at 149 stores including 146 GMS Plan for installation 2) Examined the increased introduction of refrigerator/freezer cases with refrigerated display cases that in Japan for GMS, SM, and FY2018: introduction in all new stores and supermarkets, and 112 drugstores built-in CO2 refrigerants use natural frigerants small-sized store businesses (cumulative total of 635 stores) 3) Increased introduction at drugstores CO2 emissions per case during FY2018: CO2 emissions per case in FY2018: 117.4g 1) Revised the delivery network by reorganizing centers Reducing CO2 emissions Reducing CO2 emissions delivery from distribution cenAeon Global SCM Co., Ltd. Reduced CO2 emissions per case by 1%, of CO2/case 2) Continued eco-driving courses and driving from products and logistics through visualization in logistics from 121.9g/case in FY2017. (Down 3.7% from FY2017) 3) Excellent driver awards ters to stores Power generation capacity of Consolidated Group companies Generating electricity at Cumulative total output of approximately Installed solar panels in 32 stores Generating renewable energy enewable energy (purchased in Japan for GMS and SM Generating renewable energy 67,000 kW (Total 1,022 stores) stores power only) businesses 1) Held GAP briefing for contract manufacturers FY2020: 2) Held kick-off meetings and area meetings on organic products • Conduct management through the Good • Sales of products with GAP certification 3) Increased farms, processing bases, and participating operating Sustainable procurement initiaConsolidated Group companies Agricultural Practice (GAP) based on the based on GFSI: 92.2% (of private-brand companies Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI) for all products) tives in agricultural products in Japan 4) Expanded TOPVALU Gurinai Organic brand to 356 items, making it the private brands • Sales of organic products: Reached 20% largest lineup of organic products in Japan's retail industry (perishable • Have organic products account for 5% of of the total and processed products) agricultural product sales (as of the end of February 2019) FY2020: • Sales of products compliant with Food • Conduct management through Food Safety Management System (processing Sustainable procurement initiaConsolidated Group companies 1) Decided to seek Safe Quality Food (SQF) certification Safety Management System (FSMS) plants): 70% (of private-brand products) 2) Advanced measures for Tasmanian beef and Junkikei tives in livestock products in Japan based on GFSI or zonduct management • Sales of products compliant with Food (healthy chicken) through GAP based on GFSI for all private Safety Management System (farms): 25% brands (of private-brand products) Useing of sustainable Promoting sustainable procureFY2020: • Have all consolidated subsidiaries that • Percentage of companies with CoC certiresources ment (products) 1) MSC certification: 41 items spanning 22 fish species operate GMS or SM obtain Marine fication: 70% (Group total) Sustainable procurement initiaConsolidated Group companies 2) ASC certification: 18 items spanning 9 fish species Stewardship Council (MSC) or • Sales of products with MSC or ASC certi3) Established permanent Fish Baton area carrying only MSCand ASCtives in fishery products in Japan Aquaculture Stewardship Council (ASC) fication: 52.0% (of seafood) certified products at 67 stores of Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. Chain of Custody (CoC) certification • Percentage of sustainability-proven prod(as of the end of May 2019) • Provide sustainability-proven private ucts: 51.9% (private-brand products) Key Issue 2 brand products for all major fish species Conservation of Biodiversity FY2020: Percentage use of FSC-certified materials 1) Launched approximately 80 FSC®-certified stationery products and Sustainable procurement initiaConsolidated Group companies Use sustainability-certified (Forest in major categories H&BC private brand products Stewardship Council (FSC®) or equivalent) tives in paper, pulp, and timber in Japan • Health and beauty: 56.1% 2) Used FSC®-certified paper for apparel tags and food packaging of priraw materials for all private brands in • Stationery: 70.0% vate brand products major product categories FY2020: 1) Established RSPO Procurement Policy Sustainable procurement initiaConsolidated Group companies Use sustainability-certified (Roundtable on • Percentage use of RSPO-certified materi2) Held RSPO in-house seminar tives in palm oil in Japan Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) or equivalent) als: 0% 3) Investigated usage volumes in private brand products raw materials for all private brands 4) Considered RSPO procurement methods 1) Raised employee awareness Maintenance management of • Focusing on GMS and SM, spread plant2) Checked progress of each GMS under management plans and ensured Companies to implement the 100% implementation of planting zone ing zone management based on the manrigorous implementation Preserving biodiversity at store Aeon Aeon Hometown Forests management in Aeon Hometown Forests agement manual 3) Used Clean & Green Activities to ensure rigorous implementation of level Hometown Forests Program Program • Created opportunities for employees to weeding and cleaning by employees at each general merchandise store Program planting zones experience tree planting 4) Enhanced the competence of facility managers through training in Promoting the Aeon Forest planted zone management Circulation Program Positioned the course as a beginner's Community contribution Community contribution Creation of a model for activities to supinduction in a collaboration between the Held the Forest Transcend Product—Educating Forest-Conscious People port domestic forestry through collaborathrough forest conservation through forest conservation Aeon Co., Ltd. tion between the overnment, the general general public and a private enterprise as course for the development of forestry workers (final year) activities activities part of Mie Prefecture's measures to sup• Held wood education events utilizing thinnings from the course at stores public, and private enterprise port people employed in forestry 106 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 107 Data collection FY2018 Action Plan & KPIs Progress Summary of Actions/Initiatives Key Issue Main Category Subcategory KPI Scope Covered Target FY2018 Results Undertaken in FY2018 Amount for thirdparty processing to remake into product, Domestic consolidated compa1) Revise the standards for using plastic shopping bags, promote efforts to Reducing the amount of materirequired under the Law for the nies specified in the Law for the FY2010: 1,175 tons stop providing these bags free of charge, and reduce the amount of FY2018: 1092 tons packaging in private-brand product containers als used in packaging and Promotion of Sorted Collection Promotion of Sorted Collection FY2018: 20% reduction compared with 7.1% reduction compared with FY2010 2) In FY2019, planning to greatly reduce usage by eliminating free provision containers and Recycling of Containers and Recycling of Containers FY2010 of plastic shopping bags at food departments across all GMS and SM and Packaging (amount per and Packaging businesses ¥100 million in net sales) <Group company examples> 1) Reduced waste generated by the Company • Aeon Mall: Sorted waste into 18 basic categories. With the cooperation of Consolidated Group companies Consolidated and shared information on specialty stores, operated a system that quantifies the waste in each catReducing waste Reduction of waste emissions in Japan and overseas (Japan, Expansion of initiatives the initiatives of Group companies egory. Aimed for visualization and worked toward reduction of waste China, and ASEAN) (ongoing) 2) Collected and recycled sold products. Contributed to reducing waste generated by customers • Aeon Retail Co., Ltd., Cox Co., Ltd., Talbots Japan Co., Ltd., GFoot Co., Ltd., Initiatives for zero waste in etc. stores and products 1) Reduced selling price changes resulting from disposal of goods (food) 32.14 kg / ¥1 million Food-related companies of Reduce generation per unit (generation per 2) Sorted resources thoroughly Food waste emissions (basic Formulated guidelines for establishing tardomestic consolidated GMS ¥1 million in sales) 25% versus that of gets on food waste for each company 3) Conducted visualization through introduction of a weighing machine, unit per million yen in net sales) FY2015 by 2020 and reduce 50% by 2025 uniform management and SM businesses * for food retail businesses 4) Introduced area working and shared best practices among regions FY2015–FY2019 55% *Abide by the basic policy related to promoReducing food waste Food-related companies of tion of food circulation resource recycling, 1) Contracted recycling service providers to recycle waste oil and fish Key Issue 3 62.3% Food waste recycling rate domestic consolidated GMS etc. leftovers Better Use of * for food retail businesses 2) Built and operated recycling loops and SM businesses Resources * Increase of 1 percentage point year on year Consolidated Group companies By FY2020: Construct at over 10 locations 6 locations Construction of food recycling Expanded the number of food residue collection stores throughout Aeon in Japan for GMS and SM nationwide (targeting more than 1,000 Implemented food residue collection at Group companies loop stores) 146 stores businesses 65.6.% (29 Group Companies. Number of stores 1) Shared information with Group companies on stores that had stopped that have stopped providing free plastic providing free plastic shopping bags at cash registers and on refusal Percentage of customers Consolidated Group companies shopping bags at cash registers increased Reducing the number of plastic FY2017: Over 70% rates for plastic shopping bags at cash registers Together with customers declining plastic shopping bags in Japan for GMS and SM FY2020: Over 80% by 70 stores, 1,701 stores in total) 2) Strengthened promotion by SM companies and encouraged active parshopping bags (nationwide store average) businesses * Out of 1,701 stores, more than 80% of ticipation in regions in relation to agreement on ending free bag distribucustomers declined plastic shopping tion at cash registers bags Completion of internal training In FY2018, 93 employees participated in Provided training through external specialist institutions. Consolidated Group companies FY2018: 640 participants (total since course to improve manageFY2011) training for waste managers Total of 644 Doubled the number of training attendees through use of teleconferencing in Japan employees have participated since FY2011 and actively publicizing training at head office-related departments ment of waste emissions Strengthening the manageManagement system for waste Introduction rates of Group companies 1) Made operations more efficient and precise by outsourcing to specialment system emissions (95% or more) ized management service providers and introducing framework for cenElectronic manifest introducConsolidated Group companies 25 companies Increase electronic manifest introduction tralized management of electronic manifests and outsourcing contracts (50% or more, less than 95%) tion rate in Japan rate of Group companies 2) Implemented review of division of roles and communication rules 9 companies between stores, head office, and management contracting company, (less than 50%) and built checking system for internal audits, etc. 7 companies Product withdrawals increased, as we introduced thorough efforts to respond swiftly to address notifications of even minor defects, particularly Number of TOPVALU products Consolidated Group companies for food products. We also resolved defects by holding TOPVALU customer FY2020: 52 (apparel: 12; food: 30; living/ FY2018: 77 (apparel: 13; food: 53; living/ Quality control and disclosure removed due to serious in Japan and overseas (Japan, HBC: 10) HBC: 11) feedback committee meetings, aggregating requests and opinions from incident China, ASEAN) customers, and focusing discussions on issues that were particularly in need of resolution. As a result, the overall number of product-related notifications trended downward. The cumulative number of items in the TOPVALU Gurinai Free From series of pro1) Expand sales of a wide range of products in the TOPVALU Gurinai Free Consolidated Group companies cessed products that take into considerFrom series, including instant ramen noodles and delicatessen items Product development in line with Health & Health and allergy measures Health-conscious initiatives Wellness concept ation additives, raw materials, and 2) Promote a new style of dining that replaces rice with vegetables by in Japan and overseas ingredients that customers are concerned offering TOPVALU of a frozen Cauliflower/Broccoli Mixture that substiabout, reached 100. tutes for Rice. (As of June 1, 2019) Key Issue 4 1) Held seminars on assisting customers with dementia as part of prior Creating products Creating products and Training of personnel able to training when opening new stores or renovating stores and stores that stores that meet society's Consolidated Group companies Cumulative total as of FY2018: 75,253 2) Collaborated with government to hold seminars on assisting customers Catering to the elderly assist customers with FY2020: 80,000 personnel personnel with dementia meet society's expectations in Japan dementia 3) Had in-house instructors conduct seminars on assisting customers with expectations dementia Attach fireproof sheets to hanging smoke Number of seismically reinConsolidated GMS, SM, and DV barriers 1) Gave top priority to measures for attaching fireproof sheets to hanging At 4,226 Aeon Group stores Cumulative total as of FY2018: 722 sotres smoke barriers forced stores businesses in Japan 2) Also began reviewing costs of measures Taking disaster prevention * GMS, SM, DV, and DrgS stores measures Number of stores that can Consolidated GMS businesses Built facilities at 11 stores, in Fukutsu, Zama, Seifu Shinto, Iwaki Onahama, FY2020: 100 stores nationwide that can Completed installation at 51 stores by Tsunan, Kofu Showa, Miyazaki, Kumamoto, Shinyurigaoka, Itabashi, and serve as temporary shelters in Japan serve as temporary shelters end-FY2018 Sendai Oroshimachi 1) Feedback received via Internet mail increased due to the rise in smartNumber of service complaints Number of service complaints Number of complaints and Consolidated Group companies phone users FY2020: 2,420 or less FY2018: 16,534 Dialogue with customers Number of compliments Number of compliments 2) Reported customer feedback to relevant departments and promptly took compliments received in Japan and overseas measures in response. Examined preventive measures with relevant FY2020: 2,900 or more FY2018: 2,467 departments and notified all concerned about the measures 108 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 109 Data collection FY2018 Action Plan & KPIs Progress Summary of Actions/Initiatives Key Issue Main Category Subcategory KPI Scope Covered Target FY2018 Results Undertaken in FY2018 1) The transfer of overseas management responsibility to Aeon Topvalu Promotion of the Aeon Supplier (Hong Kong) necessitated additional auditors, so personnel were swiftly Added one additional staff member in Code of Conduct Number of Consolidated Group companies trained. Add one additional staff member in Hong Hong Kong, Malaysia, and Vietnam 2) We removed responsibility for quality control from overseas auditors Implementing fair business Aeonaccredited auditors for in Japan and overseas Kong, Malaysia, and Vietnam Total number of auditors: 8 in Japan, 24 who had until the previous year handled these activities, and trained perpractices based on respect second-party audits overseas sonnel with dedicated auditing responsibilities to also handle factory Fair business practices audits. for human rights (supply chain) Trading volume of Fairtrade Trading volume of Fairtrade Trading volume of Fairtrade Participated in both Fairtrade International's Fairtrade Sourcing Program Internationalcertified cacao beans: Internationalcertified cacao TOPVALU products 40 tons by FY2020 (10 times compared Internationalcertified cacao beans: 59.7 and Fairtrade (full certification) to expand fair trade raw material procurebeans tons ment amount with FY2012) Conducted level-based training 1) In senior management training program, targeted female managers to Consolidated Group companies develop female candidates for executive positions 26.5% Female manager ratio FY2020: 50% 9,444 people 2) In management training program, sought to change the mindset of male in Japan and overseas and female managers Key Issue 5 3) In career advancement training program, fostered female managers who Implementing Fair can balance family and work commitments Business Practices Promotion of diversity and Based on Respect respect for employees' human Number of employees on inter1) Discovered human resources through open recruitment for Human Rights Consolidated Group companies Total 598 people rights national personnel exchanges FY2020: Total 1,500 people (FY2013–FY2018) 2) For ASEAN operations, cultivated personnel with quality control responin Japan and overseas sibilities (20 per year) with the Group Implementing fair business Employment rate of people with disabilipractices based on respect 1) Regularly managed progress of employment situation Employment rate and number Consolidated Group companies ties: 2.56% FY2020: More than 3.0% 2) Shared information on challenges for employment of people with disfor human rights (employee) Number of people with disabilities of people with disabilities in Japan and overseas 10,000 people abilities among Group companies, and adopted and formulated employed: measures 6,827 people 1) Created Companywide General Business Owner Action Plan for Japan’s Act on Promotion of Women's Participation and Advancement in the Promote initiatives under the General Workplace enforced on April 1, 2016, General Business Owner Action Busines Owner Action Plan of Japan's Act Companies that acquired Platinum Creation of pleasant, comfortNumber of companies certified Consolidated Group companies Plan for Japan’s Act for Measures to Support the Development of the for Measures to Support the Development Kurumin: 3 company Next Generation Children, and Daimanzoku plan to bring together Aeon’s able workplaces to use the Kurumin logo in Japan and overseas of the Next Generation (expand number of Companies that acquired Kurumin: 21 initiatives aimed at promoting diversity. companies certified to use the Kurumin companies 2) Promoted Groupwide acquisition not only of Kurumin logo, but also logo) Eruboshi certification based on Japan's Act on Promotion of Women’s Participation and Advancement in the Workplace. FY2018: Submission rate of 20% or more at all GMS GMS businesses: Submission rate of 15% or more at all SM/ Submission rate of 20% or more at 331 Consolidated Group companies DS stores (61.9% overall) 1) Strengthened communication in stores Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt in Japan for GMS, SM, and DS SM/DS businesses: 2) Strengthened communication utilizing media Campaign submission rate FY2020: Submission rate of 15% or more at 768 3) Conducted proper management businesses Submission rate of 30% or more at all GMS stores Making contributions to local Submission rate of 20% or more at all SM/ (65.5% overall) communities DS Expand handling of region-specific Consolidated Group companies products Handling of region-specific Through food artisan activities, launched initiative in FY2018 targeting shiExpand handling of artisanal food Artisanal food products: Community involvement in Japan for GMS and SM products ASC: 27 prefectures, 40 items motsuma kanjukunashi (fully ripened pears from the city of Shimotsuma, products Ibaraki Prefecture) businesses Promote sixth industrialization using artisanal food ingredients 1) Focused rigorously on fundamentals and strengthened foundations Key Issue 6 • Held Aeon Cheers Club opening ceremony at all stores Collaborating with • Conducted trial on training to make wall newspapers Communities Consolidated GMS companies 2) In addition to the one-off Aeon TOPVALU Agricultural Eco-experience Developing the human Number of activities by the Conduct activities more than four times at Stores with more than four activities per and some SM companies in all stores carrying out activities year: 321 stores (71.7% overall) Project and Aeon Agri Experience Farm Program, we conducted an resources of the future Aeon Cheers Club ongoing educational program, the Aeon Cheers Club Farmers’ Program, Japan at nine locations in Japan. Proposed adoption at stores struggling with activities 3) Strengthened publicity FY2018: 49,570 trees Regeneration of coastal forests Consolidated Group companies (total 299,879 trees) In cooperation with national, prefectural, and municipal governments and Plant 300,000 trees within 10 years Tree planting in affected areas (FY2012–FY2021) * Reached March 2019 target of 300,000 local residents, we implemented tree planting activities and tended to in affected areas in Japan and overseas planted trees to restore coastal forests lost due to the tsunami. trees Great East Japan Earthquake reconstruction 1) Conducted local volunteer activities in affected areas assistance 2) Conducted volunteer activities within Grtoup companies and in regions Promotion of volunteer activito enable the provision of support without going to Tohoku Participation of Group employConsolidated Group companies Have 300,000 employees participate in volFY2018: 44,470 people ties among Group employees unteer activities within 10 years (total 328,979 people) 3) Promoted the Aeon Future Co-creation Program with the aim of supportees in volunteer activities in Japan and overseas ing solutions to local challenges through exchanges as disaster relief 4) Supported respective company activities that resulted from the Aeon Future Co-creation Program 110 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 111 GRI Standards Indicators Title Disclosure Contents Title Disclosure Contents Organizational Profile a. Composition of the highest governance body and its committees by: 102-1 Name of the organization a. Name of the organization. • Corporate Data i. executive or non-executive; a. A description of the organization’s activities. ii. independence; Activities, brands, products, 102-2 b. Primary brands, products, and services, including an explanation of any products or ser• An Overview of Aeon iii. tenure on the governance body; and services Composition of the highest vices that are banned in certain markets. iv. number of each individual’s other significant positions and commitments, and the nature 102-22 governance body and its • Corporate Governance 102-3 Location of headquarters a. Location of the organization’s headquarters. • Corporate Data of the commitments; committees a. Number of countries where the organization operates, and the names of countries where it v. gender; 102-4 Location of operations • Corporate Data has significant operations and/or that are relevant to the topics covered in the report. vi. membership of under-represented social groups; 102-5 Ownership and legal form a. Nature of ownership and legal form. • Corporate Data vii. competencies relating to economic, environmental, and social topics; a. Markets served, including: viii. stakeholder representation. i. geographic locations where products and services are offered; • An Overivew of Aeon a. Whether the chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer in the 102-6 Markets served ii. sectors served; • Global Expansion Chair of the highest goverorganization. 102-23 • Corporate Governance iii. types of customers and beneficiaries. nance body b. If the chair is also an executive officer, describe his or her function within the organization’s a. Scale of the organization, including: management and the reasons for this arrangement. i. total number of employees; a. Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees. ii. total number of operations; b. Criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members, including • Corporate Data whether and how: 102-7 Scale of the organization iii. net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector • Global Expansion Nominating and selecting organizations); i. stakeholders (including shareholders) are involved; • An Overivew of Aeon 102-24 the highest governance • Corporate Governance iv. total capitalization (for private sector organizations) broken down in terms of debt and body ii. diversity is considered; equity; iii. independence is considered; v. quantity of products or services provided. iv. expertise and experience relating to economic, environmental, and social topics are a. Total number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary), by considered. gender. a. Processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and b. Total number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary), by managed. region. b. Whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to stakeholders, including, as a minimum: c. Total number of employees by employment type (full-time and part-time), by gender. 102-25 Conflicts of interest i. Cross-board membership; Information on employees 102-8 and other workers d. Whether a significant portion of the organization’s activities are performed by workers who • Corporate Data ii. Cross-shareholding with suppliers and other stakeholders; are not employees. If applicable, a description of the nature and scale of work performed iii. Existence of controlling shareholder; by workers who are not employees. iv. Related party disclosures. e. Any significant variations in the numbers reported in Disclosures 102-8-a, 102-8-b, and 102Role of highest governance a. Highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and • Sustainability Management 8-c (such as seasonal variations in the tourism or agricultural industries). 102-26 body in setting purpose, updating of the organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, Structure f. An explanation of how the data have been compiled, including any assumptions made. values, and strategy and goals related to economic, environmental, and social topics. • Sustainable Management a. A description of the organization’s supply chain, including its main elements as they relate Collective knowledge of a. Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective knowl102-9 Supply chain 102-27 to the organization’s activities, primary brands, products, and services. highest governance body edge of economic, environmental, and social topics. a. Significant changes to the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or supply chain, a. Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s performance with respect to govincluding: ernance of economic, environmental, and social topics. i. Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings, Evaluating the highest govb. Whether such evaluation is independent or not, and its frequency. Significant changes to the and expansions; 102-10 organization and its supply 102-28 ernance body’s c. Whether such evaluation is a self-assessment. chain ii. Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alterperformance d. Actions taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with ation operations (for private sector organizations); respect to governance of economic, environmental, and social topics, including, as a miniiii. Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or relationships mum, changes in membership and organizational practice. with suppliers, including selection and termination. a. Highest governance body’s role in identifying and managing economic, environmental, and • Risk Management social topics and their impacts, risks, and opportunities – including its role in the implePrecautionary Principle or Identifying and managing • Sustainability Management 102-11 a. Whether and how the organization applies the Precautionary Principle or approach. • Environmental mentation of due diligence processes. approach 102-29 economic, environmental, Structure Management b. Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the highest governance body’s identiand social impacts • Sustainable Management a. A list of externally-developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or fication and management of economic, environmental, and social topics and their impacts, 102-12 External initiatives other initiatives to which the organization subscribes, or which it endorses. risks, and opportunities. Membership of a. A list of the main memberships of industry or other associations, and national or internaEffectiveness of risk mana. Highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk 102-13 102-30 • Risk Management associations tional advocacy organizations. agement processes management processes for economic, environmental, and social topics. Strategy Review of economic, envia. Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental, and social • Sustainability Management a. A statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as CEO, chair, 102-31 ronmental, and social Structure Statement from senior topics and their impacts, risks, and opportunities. 102-14 or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and • CEO Message topics • Sustainable Management decision-maker its strategy for addressing sustainability. Highest governance body’s • Sustainability Management a. The highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s Key impacts, risks, and 102-32 role in sustainability Structure 102-15 a. A description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. • Sustainable Management sustainability report and ensures that all material topics are covered. opportunities reporting • Sustainable Management Ethics and integrity • Corporate Governance Communicating critical 102-33 a. Process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body. • Sustainability Management Values, principles, stanconcerns • Sustainable Management Structure 102-16 dards, and norms of a. A description of the organization’s values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior. • The DNA of Aeon a. Total number and nature of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest goverbehavior Nature and total number of 102-34 nance body. a. A description of internal and external mechanisms for: critical concerns Mechanisms for advice and • Compliance b. Mechanism(s) used to address and resolve critical concerns. 102-17 i. seeking advice about ethical and lawful behavior, and organizational integrity; concerns about ethics (Corporate Ethics) a. Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives for the folii. reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and organizational integrity. lowing types of remuneration: Governance i. Fixed pay and variable pay, including performance-based pay, equity-based pay, bonuses, a. Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance and deferred or vested shares; body. iii. Termination payments; 102-18 Governance structure • Corporate Governance b. Committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental, and social 102-35 Remuneration policies iii. Termination payments; • Corporate Governance topics. iv. Clawbacks; • Corporate Governance a. Process for delegating authority for economic, environmental, and social topics from the v. Retirement benefits, including the difference between benefit schemes and contribution 102-19 Delegating authority • Sustainability Management highest governance body to senior executives and other employees. rates for the highest governance body, senior executives, and all other employees. Structure b. How performance criteria in the remuneration policies relate to the highest governance Executive-level responsibila. Whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics. • Sustainability Management body’s and senior executives’ objectives for economic, environmental, and social topics. 102-20 ity for economic, environStructure a. Process for determining remuneration. mental, and social topics b. Whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body. a. Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on ecoProcess for determining b. Whether remuneration consultants are involved in determining remuneration and whether 102-36 • Corporate Governance Consulting stakeholders on nomic, environmental, and social topics. remuneration they are independent of management. • Sustainability Management 102-21 economic, environmental, c. Any other relationships that the remuneration consultants have with the organization. b. If consultation is delegated, describe to whom it is delegated and how the resulting feedStructure and social topics back is provided to the highest governance body. Stakeholders’ involvement a. How stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration. 102-37 in remuneration b. If applicable, the results of votes on remuneration policies and proposals. a. Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each Annual total compensation 102-38 country of significant operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees ratio (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. 112 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 113 GRI Standards Indicators Title Disclosure Contents Title Disclosure Contents a. Ratio of the percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s higha. An explanation of how the organization manages the topic. Percentage increase in • Sustainable Management est-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median percentage 102-39 annual total compensation • Key Issue increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individb. A statement of the purpose of the management approach. ratio -Realization of a ual) in the same country. Decarbonized Society Stakeholder Engagement c. A description of the following, if the management approach includes that component: -Conservation of 102-40 List of stakeholder groups a. A list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. • Dialogue with Stakeholders Biodiversity Collective bargaining • Key Issue 5 i. Policies -Better Use of Resources 102-41 a. Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. -Creating Products and agreements -Labor Union Identifying and selecting ii. Commitments Stores That Meet Society’s 102-42 a. The basis for identifying and selecting stakeholders with whom to engage. The management approach stakeholders 103-2 Expectations and its components iii. Goals and targets -Implementing Fair a. The organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engageBusiness Practices Based Approach to stakeholder 102-43 ment by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engage• Dialogue with Stakeholders on Respect for Human engagement iv. Responsibilities ment was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. Rights a. Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, including: v. Resources -Collaborating with Key topics and concerns i. how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through Communities 102-44 • Dialogue with Stakeholders • Environmental raised its reporting; vi. Grievance mechanisms ii. the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. Management vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, programs and initiatives • Compliance Reporting Practice a. A list of all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates the management approach, including: • Sustainable Management Entities included in the conequivalent documents. Annual securities report: 102-45 solidated financial Status of affiliated compaEvaluation of the managei. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach; • ISO14001 Certification b. Whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or 103-3 statements nies (p. 7–p.19) ment approach ii. the results of the evaluation of the management approach; • Action Plan & equivalent documents is not covered by the report. iii. any related adjustments to the management approach. KPIs Progress a. An explanation of the process for defining the report content and the topic Boundaries. Defining report content and Economic Performance 102-46 b. An explanation of how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for defin• Sustainable Management topic Boundaries a. Direct economic value generated and distributed (EVG&D) on an accruals basis, including ing report content. the basic components for the organization’s global operations as listed below. If data are 102-47 List of material topics a. A list of the material topics identified in the process for defining report content. • Sustainable Management presented on a cash basis, report the justification for this decision in addition to reporting Annual securities report: Restatements of a. The effect of any restatements of information given in previous reports, and the reasons for * Not applicable during this the following basic components: Key management indicators 102-48 information such restatements. period i. Direct economic value generated: revenues; (p. 2) Direct economic value gena. Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the list of material topics and topic * Not applicable during this 201-1 102-49 Changes in reporting erated and distributed ii. Economic value distributed: operating costs, employee wages and benefits, payments to Boundaries. period Annual securities report: providers of capital, payments to government by country, and community investments; 102-50 Reporting period a. Reporting period for the information provided. • Editorial Policy Management indictors of iii. Economic value retained: ‘direct economic value generated’ less ‘economic value distributed’. submitting company (p. 3) 102-51 Date of most recent report a. If applicable, the date of the most recent previous report. • Editorial Policy b. Where significant, report EVG&D separately at country, regional, or market levels, and the 102-52 Reporting cycle a. Reporting cycle. • Editorial Policy criteria used for defining significance. Contact point for questions a. Risks and opportunities posed by climate change that have the potential to generate sub102-53 a. The contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. • Editorial Policy • Risk of Climate Change regarding the report stantive changes in operations, revenue, or expenditure, including: • Sustainable Management a. The claim made by the organization, if it has prepared a report in accordance with the GRI i. a description of the risk or opportunity and its classification as either physical, regulatory, • Aeon Decarbonization Claims of reporting in Standards, either: In preparing this report, we Financial implications and or other; Vision 2050 102-54 accordance with the GRI i. ‘This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option’; have referenced the GRI 201-2 other risks and opportuniii. a description of the impact associated with the risk or opportunity; Standards Standards’ core option. ties due to climate change ii. ‘This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Comprehensive iii. the financial implications of the risk or opportunity before action is taken; Annual securities report: option’. iv. the methods used to manage the risk or opportunity; Business and other risks a. The GRI content index, which specifies each of the GRI Standards used and lists all disclo(pp. 24–29) v. the costs of actions taken to manage the risk or opportunity. sures included in the report. a. If the plan’s liabilities are met by the organization’s general resources, the estimated value b. For each disclosure, the content index shall include: of those liabilities. i. the number of the disclosure (for disclosures covered by the GRI Standards); • Comparison with GRI b. If a separate fund exists to pay the plan’s pension liabilities: 102-55 GRI content index ii. the page number(s) or URL(s) where the information can be found, either within the Standards i. the extent to which the scheme’s liabilities are estimated to be covered by the assets that report or in other published materials; have been set aside to meet them; iii. if applicable, and where permitted, the reason(s) for omission when a required disclosure Defined benefit plan obligaii. the basis on which that estimate has been arrived at; cannot be made. 201-3 tions and other retirement iii. when that estimate was made. a. A description of the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking exterplans c. If a fund set up to pay the plan’s pension liabilities is not fully covered, explain the strategy, nal assurance for the report. • Realization of a if any, adopted by the employer to work towards full coverage, and the timescale, if any, by b. If the report has been externally assured: which the employer hopes to achieve full coverage. Decarbonized Society: i. A reference to the external assurance report, statements, or opinions. If not included in Greenhouse Gas d. Percentage of salary contributed by employee or employer. the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, a description of what has Emissions, Scope 1 and 2 102-56 External assurance e. Level of participation in retirement plans, such as participation in mandatory or voluntary and what has not been assured and on what basis, including the assurance standards (Third party verification) schemes, regional, or country-based schemes, or those with financial impact. used, the level of assurance obtained, and any limitations of the assurance process; a. Total monetary value of financial assistance received by the organization from any governii. The relationship between the organization and the assurance provider; ment during the reporting period, including: iii. Whether and how the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seek• Sustainability Management i. tax relief and tax credits; ing external assurance for the organization’s sustainability report. Structure ii. subsidies; Management Approach iii. investment grants, research and development grants, and other relevant types of grant; a. An explanation of why the topic is material. Financial assistance iv. awards; * Not applicable during this b. The Boundary for the material topic, which includes a description of: 201-4 received from government v. royalty holidays; period i. where the impacts occur; Explanation of the material vi. financial assistance from Export Credit Agencies (ECAs); 103-1 ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For example, whether the organization • Sustainable Management topic and its Boundary vii. financial incentives; has caused or contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships. viii. other financial benefits received or receivable from any government for any operation. c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Boundary. b. The information in 201-4-a by country. c. Whether, and the extent to which, any government is present in the shareholding structure. Market Presence a. When a significant proportion of employees are compensated based on wages subject to minimum wage rules, report the relevant ratio of the entry level wage by gender at significant locations of operation to the minimum wage. Ratios of standard entry b. When a significant proportion of other workers (excluding employees) performing the organilevel wage by gender comzation’s activities are compensated based on wages subject to minimum wage rules, describe 202-1 the actions taken to determine whether these workers are paid above the minimum wage. pared to local minimum wage c. Whether a local minimum wage is absent or variable at significant locations of operation, by gender. In circumstances in which different minimums can be used as a reference, report which minimum wage is being used. d. The definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’. a. Percentage of senior management at significant locations of operation that are hired from • Basic Principles on Proportion of senior manthe local community. Personnel 202-2 agement hired from the b. The definition used for ‘senior management’. • Basic Approach to local community c. The organization’s geographical definition of ‘local’. Personnel and Five Human d. The definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’. Resources Principles 114 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 115 GRI Standards Indicators Title Disclosure Contents Title Disclosure Contents Indirect Economic Impacts a. Energy consumption outside of the organization, in joules or multiples. Energy consumption outa. Extent of development of significant infrastructure investments and services supported. • Conservation of 302-2 b. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used. side of the organization b. Current or expected impacts on communities and local economies, including positive and Biodiversity c. Source of the conversion factors used. negative impacts where relevant. (Promoting the Aeon a. Energy intensity ratio for the organization. Forest Circulation Program) • Environmental • Collaborating with b. Organization-specific metric (the denominator) chosen to calculate the ratio. Management Communities (Making con302-3 Energy intensity c. Types of energy included in the intensity ratio; whether fuel, electricity, heating, cooling, (Environmental Load in Infrastructure investments tributions to local steam, or all. FY2018 Business 203-1 Activities) and services supported communities) d. Whether the ratio uses energy consumption within the organization, outside of it, or both. c. Whether these investments and services are commercial, in-kind, or pro bono • Creating products and a. Amount of reductions in energy consumption achieved as a direct result of conservation • KPI engagements. stores that meet society's and efficiency initiatives, in joules or multiples. (Key Issue 1 Realization of expectations (Catering to b. Types of energy included in the reductions; whether fuel, electricity, heating, cooling, steam, a Decarbonized Society) the Elderly, People with Reduction of energy • Environmental 302-4 or all. Disabilities, and People consumption Management Unable to Shop) c. Basis for calculating reductions in energy consumption, such as base year or baseline, including the rationale for choosing it. (Environmental Load in a. Examples of significant identified indirect economic impacts of the organization, including FY2018 Business positive and negative impacts. d. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used. Activities) Significant indirect eco* Not applicable during this 203-2 b. Significance of the indirect economic impacts in the context of external benchmarks and a. Reductions in energy requirements of sold products and services achieved during the nomic impacts period stakeholder priorities, such as national and international standards, protocols, and policy Reductions in energy reporting period, in joules or multiples. agendas. 302-5 requirements of products b. Basis for calculating reductions in energy consumption, such as base year or baseline, Anti-corruption and services including the rationale for choosing it. a. Percentage of the procurement budget used for significant locations of operation that is c. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used. spent on suppliers local to that operation (such as percentage of products and services Water Proportion of spending on purchased locally). 204-1 a. Total volume of water withdrawn, with a breakdown by the following sources: local suppliers b. The organization’s geographical definition of ‘local’. i. Surface water, including water from wetlands, rivers, lakes, and oceans; • Environmental c. The definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’. ii. Groundwater; Management Anti-corruption 303-1 Water withdrawal by source iii. Rainwater collected directly and stored by the organization; (Environmental Load in Operations assessed for a. Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption. iv. Waste water from another organization; FY2018 Business 205-1 risks related to corruption b. Significant risks related to corruption identified through the risk assessment. Activities) v. Municipal water supplies or other public or private water utilities. a. Total number and percentage of governance body members that the organization’s antib. Standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by region. a. Total number of water sources significantly affected by withdrawal by type: b. Total number and percentage of employees that the organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by employee category and i. Size of the water source; region. Water sources significantly ii. Whether the source is designated as a nationally or internationally protected area; • Aeon Code of Conduct 303-2 affected by withdrawal of iii. Biodiversity value (such as species diversity and endemism, and total number of proCommunication and trainc. Total number and percentage of business partners that the organization’s anti-corruption • Compliance water tected species); 205-2 ing about anti-corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by type of business • Aeon Supplier Code of policies and procedures partner and region. Describe if the organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures iv. Value or importance of the water source to local communities and indigenous peoples. Conduct have been communicated to any other persons or organizations. b. Standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. d. Total number and percentage of governance body members that have received training on a. Total volume of water recycled and reused by the organization. anti-corruption, broken down by region. b. Total volume of water recycled and reused as a percentage of the total water withdrawal as e. Total number and percentage of employees that have received training on anti-corruption, 303-3 Water recycled and reused specified in Disclosure 303-1. broken down by employee category and region. c. Standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. a. Total number and nature of confirmed incidents of corruption. Biodiversity b. Total number of confirmed incidents in which employees were dismissed or disciplined for corruption. a. For each operational site owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and Confirmed incidents of corareas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas, the following information: 205-3 c. Total number of confirmed incidents when contracts with business partners were termiruption and actions taken i. Geographic location; nated or not renewed due to violations related to corruption. d. Public legal cases regarding corruption brought against the organization or its employees ii. Subsurface and underground land that may be owned, leased, or managed by the Operational sites owned, organization; during the reporting period and the outcomes of such cases. leased, managed in, or adjaiii. Position in relation to the protected area (in the area, adjacent to, or containing portions Anti-competitive Behavior cent to, protected areas and of the protected area) or the high biodiversity value area outside protected areas; 304-1 a. Number of legal actions pending or completed during the reporting period regarding antiareas of high biodiversity Legal actions for anti-comvalue outside protected iv. Type of operation (office, manufacturing or production, or extractive); competitive behavior and violations of anti-trust and monopoly legislation in which the 206-1 petitive behavior, anti-trust, organization has been identified as a participant. areas v. Size of operational site in km2 (or another unit, if appropriate); and monopoly practices vi. Biodiversity value characterized by the attribute of the protected area or area of high biob. Main outcomes of completed legal actions, including any decisions or judgments. diversity value outside the protected area (terrestrial, freshwater, or maritime ecosystem); Materials vii. Biodiversity value characterized by listing of protected status (such as IUCN Protected a. Total weight or volume of materials that are used to produce and package the organizaArea Management Categories, Ramsar Convention, national legislation). Materials used by weight or tion’s primary products and services during the reporting period, by: 301-1 a. Nature of significant direct and indirect impacts on biodiversity with reference to one or volume i. non-renewable materials used; more of the following: ii. renewable materials used. i. Construction or use of manufacturing plants, mines, and transport infrastructure; Recycled input materials a. Percentage of recycled input materials used to manufacture the organization’s primary ii. Pollution (introduction of substances that do not naturally occur in the habitat from point 301-2 used products and services. and non-point sources); • Better Use of Resources iii. Introduction of invasive species, pests, and pathogens; a. Percentage of reclaimed products and their packaging materials for each product category. (Reducing Waste by Reclaimed products and iv. Reduction of species; 301-3 Collecting Resources in Significant impacts of activtheir packaging materials v. Habitat conversion; b. How the data for this disclosure have been collected. Stores, Reusing and 304-2 ities, products, and services Recycling Hangers) on biodiversity vi. Changes in ecological processes outside the natural range of variation (such as salinity Energy or changes in groundwater level). a. Total fuel consumption within the organization from non-renewable sources, in joules or b. Significant direct and indirect positive and negative impacts with reference to the following: multiples, and including fuel types used. i. Species affected; b. Total fuel consumption within the organization from renewable sources, in joules or multiii. Extent of areas impacted; ples, and including fuel types used. iii. Duration of impacts; c. In joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total: iv. Reversibility or irreversibility of the impacts. i. electricity consumption ii. heating consumption • Environmental iii. cooling consumption Management Energy consumption within iv. steam sold 302-1 (Environmental Load in the organization d. In joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total: FY2018 Business i. electricity sold Activities) ii. heating sold iii. cooling sold iv. steam sold e. Total energy consumption within the organization, in joules or multiples. f. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used. g. Source of the conversion factors used. 116 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 117 GRI Standards Indicators Title Disclosure Contents Title Disclosure Contents a. Size and location of all habitat areas protected or restored, and whether the success of the a. Production, imports, and exports of ODS in metric tons of CFC-11 (trichlorofluoromethane) restoration measure was or is approved by independent external professionals. • Key Issue 2 equivalent. b. Whether partnerships exist with third parties to protect or restore habitat areas distinct Emissions of ozone-depletb. Substances included in the calculation. -Conservation of 305-6 Habitats protected or from where the organization has overseen and implemented restoration or protection ing substances (ODS) 304-3 Biodiversity c. Source of the emission factors used. restored measures. (Creating Forests Where d. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used. c. Status of each area based on its condition at the close of the reporting period. Wild Birds Can Gather) a. Significant air emissions, in kilograms or multiples, for each of the following: d. Standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. i. NOX a. Total number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats ii. SOX in areas affected by the operations of the organization, by level of extinction risk: IUCN Red List species and Nitrogen oxides (NOx), iii. Persistent organic pollutants (POP) national conservation list i. Critically endangered *N  ot applicable during this sulfur oxides (SOx), and iv. Volatile organic compounds (VOC) 304-4 species with habitats in ii. Endangered 305-7 period other significant air v. Hazardous air pollutants (HAP) areas affected by iii. Vulnerable emissions operations vi. Particulate matter (PM) iv. Near threatened vii. Other standard categories of air emissions identified in relevant regulations v. Least concern b. Source of the emission factors used. Emissions c. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used. a. Gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. Effluents and Waste b. Gases included in the calculation; whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all. a. Total volume of planned and unplanned water discharges by: c. Biogenic CO2 emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. i. destination; d. Base year for the calculation, if applicable, including: Water discharge by quality 306-1 ii. quality of the water, including treatment method; i. the rationale for choosing it; and destination • Key Issue 1 iii. whether the water was reused by another organization. Direct (Scope 1) GHG ii. emissions in the base year; 305-1 Realization of a b. Standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. emissions iii. the context for any significant changes in emissions that triggered recalculations of base year emissions. Decarbonized Society a. Total weight of hazardous waste, with a breakdown by the following disposal methods where applicable: e. Source of the emission factors and the global warming potential (GWP) rates used, or a reference to the GWP source. i. Reuse f. Consolidation approach for emissions; whether equity share, financial control, or operaii. Recycling tional control. iii. Composting g. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used. iv. Recovery, including energy recovery a. Gross location-based energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 v. Incineration (mass burn) equivalent. vi. Deep well injection b. If applicable, gross market-based energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions in metric tons vii. Landfill of CO2 equivalent. viii. On-site storage c. If available, the gases included in the calculation; whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, ix. Other (to be specified by the organization) NF3, or all. • Environmental b. Total weight of non-hazardous waste, with a breakdown by the following disposal methods d. Base year for the calculation, if applicable, including: where applicable: Management • Key Issue 1 Waste by type and disposal Energy indirect (Scope 2) i. the rationale for choosing it; 306-2 i. Reuse (Environmental Load in 305-2 Realization of a method GHG emissions ii. emissions in the base year; FY2018 Business Decarbonized Society ii. Recycling Activities) iii. the context for any significant changes in emissions that triggered recalculations of base iii. Composting year emissions. iv. Recovery, including energy recovery e. Source of the emission factors and the global warming potential (GWP) rates used, or a reference to the GWP source. v. Incineration (mass burn) f. Consolidation approach for emissions; whether equity share, financial control, or operavi. Deep well injection tional control. vii. Landfill g. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used. viii. On-site storage a. Gross other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. ix. Other (to be specified by the organization) b. If available, the gases included in the calculation; whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, c. How the waste disposal method has been determined: NF3, or all. i. Disposed of directly by the organization, or otherwise directly confirmed c. Biogenic CO2 emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. ii. Information provided by the waste disposal contractor d. Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions categories and activities included in the iii. Organizational defaults of the waste disposal contractor calculation. a. Total number and total volume of recorded significant spills. e. Base year for the calculation, if applicable, including: • Key Issue 1 Other indirect (Scope 3) b. The following additional information for each spill that was reported in the organization’s 305-3 Realization of a GHG emissions i. the rationale for choosing it; financial statements: Decarbonized Society ii. emissions in the base year; i. Location of spill; * Not applicable during this iii. the context for any significant changes in emissions that triggered recalculations of base 306-3 Significant spills ii. Volume of spill; period year emissions. iii. Material of spill, categorized by: oil spills (soil or water surfaces), fuel spills (soil or water f. Source of the emission factors and the global warming potential (GWP) rates used, or a refsurfaces), spills of wastes (soil or water surfaces), spills of chemicals (mostly soil or erence to the GWP source. water surfaces), and other (to be specified by the organization). g. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used. c. Impacts of significant spills. a. GHG emissions intensity ratio for the organization. a. Total weight for each of the following: b. Organization-specific metric (the denominator) chosen to calculate the ratio. • Key Issue 1 i. Hazardous waste transported 305-4 GHG emissions intensity c. Types of GHG emissions included in the intensity ratio; whether direct (Scope 1), energy Realization of a ii. Hazardous waste imported indirect (Scope 2), and/or other indirect (Scope 3). Decarbonized Society Transport of hazardous * Not applicable during this 306-4 iii. Hazardous waste exported waste period d. Gases included in the calculation; whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all. iv. Hazardous waste treated a. GHG emissions reduced as a direct result of reduction initiatives, in metric tons of CO2 b. Percentage of hazardous waste shipped internationally. equivalent. c. Standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. b. Gases included in the calculation; whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all. • Key Issue 1 a. Water bodies and related habitats that are significantly affected by water discharges and/ Reduction of GHG 305-5 c. Base year or baseline, including the rationale for choosing it. Realization of a or runoff, including information on: emissions d. Scopes in which reductions took place; whether direct (Scope 1), energy indirect (Scope 2), Decarbonized Society Water bodies affected by i. the size of the water body and related habitat; * Not applicable during this and/or other indirect (Scope 3). 306-5 water discharges and/or ii. whether the water body and related habitat is designated as a nationally or internationally period e. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used. runoff protected area; iii. the biodiversity value, such as total number of protected species. 118 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 119 GRI Standards Indicators Title Disclosure Contents Title Disclosure Contents Environmental Compliance Training and Education a. Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws a. Average hours of training that the organization’s employees have undertaken during the and/or regulations in terms of: Average hours of training reporting period, by: 404-1 Non-compliance with envii. total monetary value of significant fines; per year per employee i. gender; * Not applicable during this 307-1 ronmental laws and ii. total number of non-monetary sanctions; ii. employee category. period regulations iii. cases brought through dispute resolution mechanisms. • Key Issue 5 a. Type and scope of programs implemented and assistance provided to upgrade employee b. If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with environmental laws and/or Programs for upgrading -Education System to skills. regulations, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. 404-2 employee skills and transiSupport Employees Supplier Environmental Assessment tion assistance programs b. Transition assistance programs provided to facilitate continued employability and the management of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment. New suppliers that were • Aeon Supplier Code of Percentage of employees 308-1 screened using environa. Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria. Conduct receiving regular perfora. Percentage of total employees by gender and by employee category who received a regular mental criteria 404-3 mance and career developperformance and career development review during the reporting period. a. Number of suppliers assessed for environmental impacts. ment reviews b. Number of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts. Diversity and Equal Opportunity c. Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts identified in the supply a. Percentage of individuals within the organization’s governance bodies in each of the followNegative environmental ing diversity categories: chain. 308-2 impacts in the supply chain i. Gender; and actions taken d. Percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts with which improvements were agreed upon as a result of assessment. ii. Age group: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old, over 50 years old; e. Percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative enviDiversity of governance iii. Other indicators of diversity where relevant (such as minority or vulnerable groups). • Key Issue 5 405-1 ronmental impacts with which relationships were terminated as a result of assessment, bodies and employees b. Percentage of employees per employee category in each of the following diversity -Promoting Diversity and why. categories: Employment i. Gender; a. Total number and rate of new employee hires during the reporting period, by age group, ii. Age group: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old, over 50 years old; New employee hires and gender and region. iii. Other indicators of diversity where relevant (such as minority or vulnerable groups). 401-1 employee turnover b. Total number and rate of employee turnover during the reporting period, by age group, Ratio of basic salary and a. Ratio of the basic salary and remuneration of women to men for each employee category, gender and region. 405-2 remuneration of women to by significant locations of operation. a. Benefits which are standard for full-time employees of the organization but are not promen b. The definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’. vided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation. These Non-discrimination include, as a minimum: a. Total number of incidents of discrimination during the reporting period. i. life insurance; b. Status of the incidents and actions taken with reference to the following: Benefits provided to fullii. health care; time employees that are Incidents of discrimination i. Incident reviewed by the organization; 401-2 iii. disability and invalidity coverage; not provided to temporary 406-1 and corrective actions ii. Remediation plans being implemented; iv. parental leave; taken or part-time employees iii. Remediation plans that have been implemented, with results reviewed through routine v. retirement provision; internal management review processes; vi. stock ownership; iv. Incident no longer subject to action. vii. others. Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining b. The definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’. a. Operations and suppliers in which workers’ rights to exercise freedom of association or cola. Total number of employees that were entitled to parental leave, by gender. Operations and suppliers in lective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk either in terms of: b. Total number of employees that took parental leave, by gender. which the right to freedom i. type of operation (such as manufacturing plant) and supplier; c. Total number of employees that returned to work in the reporting period after parental leave 407-1 of association and collective bargaining may be at ii. countries or geographic areas with operations and suppliers considered at risk. 401-3 Parental leave ended, by gender. risk b. Measures taken by the organization in the reporting period intended to support rights to d. Total number of employees that returned to work after parental leave ended that were still exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining. employed 12 months after their return to work, by gender. Child Labor e. Return to work and retention rates of employees that took parental leave, by gender. a. Operations and suppliers considered to have significant risk for incidents of: Labor/Management Relations i. child labor; a. Minimum number of weeks’ notice typically provided to employees and their representaii. young workers exposed to hazardous work. Minimum notice periods tives prior to the implementation of significant operational changes that could substantially 402-1 regarding operational affect them. Operations and suppliers at b. Operations and suppliers considered to have significant risk for incidents of child labor changes 408-1 significant risk for incidents either in terms of: b. For organizations with collective bargaining agreements, report whether the notice period of child labor i. type of operation (such as manufacturing plant) and supplier; and provisions for consultation and negotiation are specified in collective agreements. Occupational Health and Safety ii. countries or geographic areas with operations and suppliers considered at risk. Workers representation in a. The level at which each formal joint management-worker health and safety committee typic. Measures taken by the organization in the reporting period intended to contribute to the cally operates within the organization. • Key Issue 5 effective abolition of child labor. formal joint management– 403-1 -Aeon’s Health Forced or Compulsory Labor worker health and safety b. Percentage of workers whose work, or workplace, is controlled by the organization, that are Management committees represented by formal joint management-worker health and safety committees. a. Operations and suppliers considered to have significant risk for incidents of forced or coma. Types of injury, injury rate (IR), occupational disease rate (ODR), lost day rate (LDR), absenOperations and suppliers at pulsory labor either in terms of: tee rate (AR), and work-related fatalities, for all employees, with a breakdown by: significant risk for incidents i. type of operation (such as manufacturing plant) and supplier; 409-1 i. region; of forced or compulsory ii. countries or geographic areas with operations and suppliers considered at risk. Types of injury and rates of labor injury, occupational disii. gender. b. Measures taken by the organization in the reporting period intended to contribute to the 403-2 eases, lost days, and b. Types of injury, injury rate (IR), and work-related fatalities, for all workers (excluding employelimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. absenteeism, and number ees) whose work, or workplace, is controlled by the organization, with a breakdown by: Security Practices of work-related fatalities i. region; a. Percentage of security personnel who have received formal training in the organization’s Security personnel trained human rights policies or specific procedures and their application to security. ii. gender. 410-1 in human rights policies or c. The system of rules applied in recording and reporting accident statistics. procedures b. Whether training requirements also apply to third-party organizations providing security Workers with high incipersonnel. a. Whether there are workers whose work, or workplace, is controlled by the organization, dence or high risk of dis403-3 involved in occupational activities who have a high incidence or high risk of specific eases related to their diseases. occupation a. Whether formal agreements (either local or global) with trade unions cover health and Health and safety topics safety. • Key Issue 5 403-4 covered in formal agreeb. If so, the extent, as a percentage, to which various health and safety topics are covered by -Labor Union ments with trade unions these agreements. 120 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 121 GRI Standards Indicators Title Disclosure Contents Title Disclosure Contents Rights of Indigenous Peoples Marketing and Labeling a. Total number of identified incidents of violations involving the rights of indigenous peoples a. Whether each of the following types of information is required by the organization’s proceduring the reporting period. dures for product and service information and labeling: b. Status of the incidents and actions taken with reference to the following: i. The sourcing of components of the product or service; Incidents of violations i. Incident reviewed by the organization; • Key Issue 4 * Not applicable during this ii. Content, particularly with regard to substances that might produce an environmental or 411-1 involving rights of indigeRequirements for product -Quality Control and ii. Remediation plans being implemented; period social impact; nous peoples 417-1 and service information and Disclosure iii. Remediation plans that have been implemented, with results reviewed through routine iii. Safe use of the product or service; labeling -Labeling and Disclosing internal management review processes; iv. Disposal of the product and environmental or social impacts; Product Information iv. Incident no longer subject to action. v. Other (explain). Human Rights Assessment b. Percentage of significant product or service categories covered by and assessed for comOperations that have been pliance with such procedures. subject to human rights a. Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews a. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes con412-1 reviews or impact or human rights impact assessments, by country. cerning product and service information and labeling, by: assessments Incidents of non-complii. incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a fine or penalty; • Key Issue 4 a. Total number of hours in the reporting period devoted to training on human rights policies ance concerning product Employee training on 417-2 ii. incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a warning; -Quality Control and or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. • Key Issue 5 and service information and 412-2 human rights policies or iii. incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes. Disclosure b. Percentage of employees trained during the reporting period in human rights policies or -Human Rights Training labeling procedures b. If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. codes, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. Significant investment a. Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that a. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes conagreements and contracts include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening. cerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by: 412-3 that include human rights Incidents of non-complii. incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a fine or penalty; clauses or that underwent b. The definition used for ‘significant investment agreements’. human rights screening 417-3 ance concerning marketing ii. incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a warning; communications iii. incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes. Local Communities b. If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary a. Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assesscodes, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. ments, and/or development programs, including the use of: i. social impact assessments, including gender impact assessments, based on participaCustomer Privacy tory processes; • Key Issue 6 a. Total number of substantiated complaints received concerning breaches of customer priii. environmental impact assessments and ongoing monitoring; -Aeon Happy Yellow vacy, categorized by: Operations with local comReceipt Campaign Substantiated complaints i. complaints received from outside parties and substantiated by the organization; iii. public disclosure of results of environmental and social impact assessments; concerning breaches of * Not applicable during this munity engagement, -Aeon Cheers Club 418-1 ii. complaints from regulatory bodies. 413-1 iv. local community development programs based on local communities’ needs; customer privacy and period impact assessments, and (Upbringing of Next b. Total number of identified leaks, thefts, or losses of customer data. development programs v. stakeholder engagement plans based on stakeholder mapping; Generation) losses of customer data vi. broad based local community consultation committees and processes that include vulc. If the organization has not identified any substantiated complaints, a brief statement of this -Project Aeon Joining nerable groups; fact is sufficient. Hands vii. works councils, occupational health and safety committees and other worker representaSocioeconomic Compliance tion bodies to deal with impacts; a. Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and/or regulaviii. formal local community grievance processes. tions in the social and economic area in terms of: i. total monetary value of significant fines; Operations with significant a. Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities, Non-compliance with laws actual and potential negaincluding: ii. total number of non-monetary sanctions; * Not applicable during this 413-2 419-1 and regulations in the tive impacts on local i. the location of the operations; iii. cases brought through dispute resolution mechanisms. period social and economic area communities ii. the significant actual and potential negative impacts of operations. b. If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with laws and/or regulations, a Supplier Social Assessment brief statement of this fact is sufficient. New suppliers that were • Key Issue 5 c. The context against which significant fines and non-monetary sanctions were incurred. 414-1 screened using social a. Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using social criteria. -Aeon Supplier Code of criteria Conduct a. Number of suppliers assessed for social impacts. b. Number of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative social impacts. Negative social impacts in c. Significant actual and potential negative social impacts identified in the supply chain. 414-2 the supply chain and actions taken d. Percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative social impacts with which improvements were agreed upon as a result of assessment. e. Percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative social impacts with which relationships were terminated as a result of assessment, and why. Public Policy a. Total monetary value of financial and in-kind political contributions made directly and indiWe have formulated the Aeon Sustainability Principle and work proactively toward six key issues from the environmental and social perspectives we 415-1 Political contributions rectly by the organization by country and recipient/beneficiary. have established and the KPI we have set. b. If applicable, how the monetary value of in-kind contributions was estimated. <Environment> • Realization of a Decarbonized Society Customer Health and Safety • Conservation of Biodiversity Assessment of the health a. Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety • Better Use of Resources 416-1 and safety impacts of prodimpacts are assessed for improvement. <Society> • Creating Products and Stores That Meet Society’s Expectations uct and service categories a. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes con• Implementing Fair Business Practices Based on Respect for Human Rights cerning the health and safety impacts of products and services within the reporting period, • Collaborating with Communities Incidents of non-compliby: • Key Issue 4 ance concerning the health i. incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a fine or penalty; -Quality Control and * This table of GRI Standards is based on a summary of the Aeon Report (integrated report) and the Sustainability Data Book (this report). 416-2 and safety impacts of prodii. incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a warning; Disclosure ucts and services iii. incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes. -Dialogue with Customers b. If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. 122 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 123 Corporate Data Headquarters 1-5-1 Nakase, Mihama-ku, Chiba-shi, Chiba Fiscal Year End of February Aeon’s Website 261-8515, Japan Annual Shareholders’ Meeting Held by the end of May Our website covers activities and data not presented in the integrated report. Sections of the website provide a wide variety of information. Representative Motoya Okada, Stock Exchange Listing Tokyo Stock Exchange Representative Director, Independent Auditor Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu LLC Japanese President and Group CEO Transfer Agent Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited Corporate Investor Relations Environmental and Social Report Founded 1758 1-4-1, Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo Established September 1926 100-8223, Japan Three Headquarters Structure Number of Shareholders 767,999 Headquarters for Japan Shares Issued and Outstanding 871,924,572 (Location: Chiba City, Chiba Prefecture) Website https://www.aeon.info/en/ Headquarters for China (Location: Beijing, China) Headquarters for ASEAN (Location: Kuala Lumpur, Malasia) Groupwide Employees (FY2018, Figures Approximate) Working employees: 580,000 (400,000 women, 180,000 men) • Employees on indefinite-term contracts: 130,000 (56,000 women, 74,000 men) • Employees on definite-term contracts: 450,000 (340,000 women, 110,000 men) • Work locations: 510,000 in Japan, 70,000 overseas https://www.aeon.info/ https://www.aeon.info/ir/ https://www.aeon.info/environment/ * Business locations: 21,996 stores/locations * Major companies in Japan and overseas: 149 The corporate section presents information This section presents our management Our Environmental and Social Report pres(As of February 28, 2019) for various stakeholders. Please access the policy, financial and performance data, ents our basic environment and CSR polilatest company information and news stock information, IR materials, and other cies and specific initiatives. releases here. information. English Chinese List of External Awards (FY2018–) February 2018 Received a Special Jury Prize at the NIKKEI Smart Work Awards 2018 February 2019  Aeon Report 2018 awarded a Grand Prize for Global Warming program, an awards program that is held by Nikkei Inc. to select comCountermeasures Reporting, one of the top awards in the environpanies that are advancing work style reforms (Aeon Co., Ltd.) mental reporting category of the 22nd Environmental Communication Awards (Aeon Co., Ltd.) February 2018 Recognized as a “White 500” company under the 2018 Certified Health and Productivity Management Organization Recognition February 2019 In the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology’s Program, which was started jointly by the Ministry of Economy, Trade FY2018 Youth Experience Activity Promotion Corporate Awards, and Industry (METI) and the Nippon Kenko Kaigi (Aeon Kyushu Co., received the Accreditation Committee Award (Large Company Ltd.) Division) for Aeon Cheers Club initiatives (Aeon 1% Club Foundation) February 2018 Acquired the highest level of the Minister of Health, Labour and February 2019  Received the 11th Kanagawa Prefecture Barrier Free City https://www.aeon.info/en/ https://www.aeon.info/cn/ Welfare’s Eruboshi certification mark (Maxvalu Chubu Co., Ltd.) Development Award for efforts to incorporate barrier-free design at Aeon Mall Zama (Aeon Mall Co., Ltd.) March 2018 Received Hokkaido Social Contribution Award (distinguished service in disaster prevention) for high evaluation of disaster-prevention iniFebruary 2019 Recognized as “White 500” companies tiatives in the local community (Aeon Hokkaido Corporation) under the 2019 Certified Health and Productivity Management Organization September 2018  Received the 27th Food Health and Safety and Environmental Recognition Program, which was started Contribution Award, produced by the Japan Food Journal, in recognijointly by the Ministry of Economy, Trade Aeon Report Aeon History Museum tion of product development that incorporates the SDGs and internaand Industry (METI) and the Nippon tional social contribution activities (Aeon Co., Ltd.) Kenko Kaigi (three consecutive years for Based on Aeon’s value creation, we The Aeon History Museum presents Aeon Co., Ltd. and Aeon Retail Co., Ltd.) November 2018 Received the Minister’s Prize, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and introduce the Company’s mediumto the significance and essence of the Fisheries in the 19th Green Procurement Awards for initiatives to conMarch 2019 Selected as a Nadeshiko Brand, which is long-term perspective and specific iniBasic Principles Aeon has created and nect marine resources and a culture of eating fish to the next generagranted by the Ministry of Economy, tiatives aimed at economic growth. refined throughout its history. Visits to tion (Aeon Co., Ltd.) Trade and Industry and the Tokyo Stock Exchange to enterprises that are outhttps://www.aeon.info/en/ir/library/ the museum can be made with Aeon December 2018 Receive an A rank under the Development Bank of Japan (DBJ) health standing in terms of encouraging the aeon-report employees or by reservation. Please management ratings program and became the first retailer to receive empowerment of women in the workthe top ranking in three categories, including BCM and environmental place (two consecutive years for Aeon call 81-43-212-6614. rating (Aeon Co., Ltd.) Co., Ltd., three for Aeon Mall Co., Ltd.) Address: Aeon Head Office Annex 2F, March 2019 Received the Japan Fashion Association’s Agricultural Invigoration Award in the Japan Creation Grand Award for its pioneering efforts as 1-5-1 Nakase, Mihama-ku, AEON REPORT 2019 an agricultural company to foster interest in commerce among Chiba-shi, Chiba young people June 2019  ecame the first retailer to receive the Award for Distinguished B Services in Environmental Preservation, sponsored by the Ministry of the Environment, for Aeon Style Nara’s contribution to environmental production within Nara Prefecture (Aeon Retail Co., Ltd.) 124 S u sta i n a b i l i ty Da ta B ook 2019 S ust a ina bilit y Da t a Bo o k 2019 125 AEON CO., LTD. Headquarters: 1-5-1 Nakase, Mihama-ku, Chiba-shi, Chiba 261-8515, Japan Published Website: https://www.aeon.info/en/ January 2020
