Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report TABLE OF CONTENTS 3 Executive Statement 16 2030 Goal Tracking 34 Inclusive Growth 4 About Hilton 18 Destination 36 Human Rights 6 About Travel Stewardship 38 Community with Purpose 19 Environmental Impact Investment 7 Hilton Effect 20 Energy & Carbon 40 2020 and Beyond Foundation 22 Water 41 Appendices 9 Our Material Issues 24 Waste 42 Performance Table 10 Stakeholder 26 Responsible Sourcing 46 SASB Table Engagement 29 Social Impact 47 GRI Index 12 Governance and 30 Team Member 58 Assurance Statement Management Engagement 62 Materiality 14 LightStay 32 Diversity & Inclusion Assessment Detail 15 2019 Highlights Canopy Portland Pearl District EXECUTIVE STATEMENT Hilton was founded a century ago on the noble premise that travel could make the world a better place. Since then, we have shared the light and warmth of our hospitality with 3 billion guests, provided career opportunities to 10 million Team Members and invested $1 trillion in our communities. We call that positive impact the “Hilton Effect.” As I am writing this letter, travel is at a virtual standstill, and our business is suffering as a result of the COVID-19 global pandemic – but we are doing everything we can to keep the Hilton Effect going strong. We believe that no matter how profound our own challenges, the way that we respond to this global crisis says everything about who we are as a company and what our future will look like. That is why we took action to donate up to 1 million room Canada. On behalf of our entire Hilton family, I am thrilled nights to frontline medical professionals. And that is why to share all we have achieved together, and the humbling we have hotels all over the world doing extraordinary recognition we have earned as a result. In 2019, Hilton was: “ things to help their communities weather this storm. • Named the Global Industry Leader on the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices; • Featured in Fortune’s Change the World List for the We are in urgent need of second year in a row, the only hospitality company on bold, innovative solutions the list; and • Recognized on the CDP prestigious “A-List,” placing to tackle the challenges our in the top 2% of the thousands of companies that global society is facing.” were scored. As proud as we are of our accomplishments, we recognize that the world needs our positive impact now more than ever – and we are in urgent need of bold, When we emerge from this crisis, our bold Travel with innovative solutions to tackle the challenges our global Purpose 2030 Goals will continue to guide our corporate society is facing. At Hilton, we are raising our hands to responsibility strategy around the world. Our Goals, lead on these solutions, so that future generations can released in 2018, put us on a path to double our social Travel with Purpose for years to come. impact and reduce by half our environmental footprint by 2030. To help us reach our 2030 Goals, we launched the Hilton Effect Foundation in May, on our 100th Anniversary, to support projects and partnerships that will create a better world to travel. Christopher J. Nassetta At the heart of our efforts are our Team Members, President and Chief Executive Officer who volunteered over half a million hours in their local communities in 2019. They made it possible for us to expand our soap recycling program to nearly every hotel in our portfolio and to expand our food donation program to all our managed hotels in the United States and Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 3 ABOUT HILTON Hilton is one of the largest and fastest growing hospitality companies in the world. For more than 100 years, we have been an innovator in the industry, driven by the vision of our founder Conrad Hilton “to fill the earth with the light and warmth of hospitality.” As of December 31, 2019, our portfolio included 6,110 properties across 17 brands in 119 countries and territories. OUR BRANDS 17 Luxury & Lifestyle brands 119 Full Service countries & territories 6,110 Focused Service properties 971,000+ rooms Timeshare operating hotels OUR BUSINESS MODEL Operating hotels We organize our operations into two distinct and 65 (1%) separately managed operating segments: Owned / Leased / Joint 6,110 (i) Management and franchise of hotels brands Venture by Hilton on behalf of third-party hotel owners (ii) Our ownership segment, comprised of 703 (11.5%) total hotels that are owned or leased by Hilton or our Managed by Hilton affiliates 5,342 (87.4%) Franchised HILTON SUPPLY MANAGEMENT Hilton Supply Management (HSM) is the global procurement and supply chain arm of Hilton. HSM develops and negotiates product and service supply programs with 1,100+ suppliers that make available goods and services at the best combination of price, quality and service. A more detailed description of our business model can be found in our public filings. OUR GUESTS PERCENTAGE OF GUESTS RATING THEIR EXPERIENCE A As of December 31, 2019, we had 9 OR ABOVE OUT OF 10* more than 103 million members in our award-winning guest loyalty program, Hilton Honors. We are 2019 2018 2017 passionate about delivering exceptional experiences for every guest during every stay. 65.1% 64.7% 64.4% * Source: Hilton Satisfaction and Loyalty Tracking (SALT) Survey data 2017 2019, all open properties. Overall Experience calculated as the percent of respondents rating a 9 or 10 out of 10 on the Overall Experience question in the SALT survey. Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 4 ABOUT HILTON OUR TEAM MEMBERS Hilton defines Team Members as employees at Hilton corporate offices and its owned and managed properties, and employees of franchisees who work on-property at independently owned and operated franchise properties in the Hilton portfolio. Our Team Members are our greatest asset and we are committed to fostering a culture of inclusivity and empowering all Team Members to leverage their full potential. 2019 GLOBAL WORKFORCE 424,791 Team Members 53% 81% Women Non-Management 93% Full Time Employees 47% 19% Men Management 2019 U.S. WORKFORCE 4% 259,753 U.S. workforce that Team Members self identifies as having a disability Ethnicity (U.S.) Diverse 69% Non-Diverse 31% 52% 85% Age (U.S.) Women Non-Management Silent Gen 1% Baby Boomers 26% Gen X 35% Millennials 37% 48% 15% Gen Z <1% Men Management SELECTED RECOGNITION AND AWARDS • Global Industry Leader, Dow Jones Sustainability Indices • Named the #1 Best Company to Work For in the U.S. and the #2 World’s Best Workplace by Fortune Magazine • Only hospitality company on Fortune’s 2019 Change the World List for 2nd year in a row • Named the #1 Workplace for Diversity by Fortune • 100% rating on the Human Rights Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index for six years in a row • Made CDP’s prestigious 2019 “A List” for climate change • 2019 SEAL Business Sustainability Awards winner for Organizational Impact Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 5 ABOUT TRAVEL WITH PURPOSE The success of our business is linked to our ability to operate and grow sustainably. As one of the world’s largest hotel companies, Conrad Koh Samui we recognize that we have a critical responsibility to protect our communities and our planet, so destinations remain vibrant and resilient for generations of travelers to come. Travel with Purpose is Hilton’s corporate responsibility strategy to drive responsible travel and tourism globally. We have committed to double our investment in social impact and cut our environmental impact in half by 2030. Our overarching Travel with Purpose 2030 Goals are underpinned by sub-targets which closely align with the global Sustainable Development Goals (“SDGs”) adopted by the United Nations in 2015. Through Travel with Purpose, we seek to create positive environmental and social impact across our operations, supply chain and communities. We pursue best-in-class operational excellence, engage our guests and Team Members, and use our innovation and influence to make meaningful differences in the destinations and communities in which we operate. We track, analyze and report our environmental and social impact at each of our hotels, and our progress towards our 2030 Goals, using LightStay, our award-winning corporate responsibility management system. Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 6 HILTON EFFECT FOUNDATION OVERVIEW In 2019, in celebration of our 100th Anniversary, we launched the Hilton Effect Foundation with the mission to create a better world to travel. The Foundation is our primary international philanthropic arm, supporting efforts that help us meet our 2030 Goals. The Foundation is a U.S.registered 501(c)(3) charitable organization. By investing in our communities and the environment, the Foundation aims to help build resiliency for generations to come. The Foundation awards grants to projects and partners that DISASTER RELIEF will make a lasting positive impact on travel destinations The Hilton Effect Foundation invests in short-term relief around the world, in support of Hilton’s 2030 Goals. As and long-term resiliency efforts to support communities part of its strategic commitment, the Foundation also impacted by natural disasters and hardship. The supports Hilton’s signature multi-year partnerships with the Foundation supports organizations in their on-the-ground International Youth Foundation and World Wildlife Fund. response efforts in communities severely impacted. Since 2014, Hilton has invested more than $3.2 million in disaster 2019 HILTON EFFECT GRANTS relief and resiliency efforts. Hilton Effect Grants are awarded annually to nonprofits that help us advance our Travel with Purpose 2030 Goals. In 2019, the Foundation announced its inaugural 15 Hilton Effect Grants – investments that will amplify the Hilton Effect in more than 20 communities around the world. The map below identifies our 15 Hilton Effect Grant recipients and the communities they are impacting. Foxes Academy | UK Inclusive Growth Jobs for America’s Graduates | USA Youth Opportunity Ayder | Turkey Playground of Hope | Japan Inclusive Growth CFPA | China Youth Opportunity Warren Easton Charter Youth Opportunity School | LA, USA Team Rubicon | FL, USA Youth Opportunity Veterans & Villa Russiz | Italy Disaster Relief Youth Opportunity Youth Career Initiative | Vietnam Pronatura | Mexico Youth Opportunity UNICEF | Egypt Water Stewardship Magic Bus | India Youth Opportunity Youth Opportunity Hawaii State Division of Forestry and Wildlife | HI, USA Water & Destination Stewardship The Smith Family | Australia Youth Opportunity World Wildlife Fund | Kenya, Zambia, South Africa Water Stewardship WATER VETERANS & VETERANS & INCLUSIVE YOUTH WATER DISASTER INCLUSIVE YOUTH STEWARDSHIP DISASTER GROWTH OPPORTUNITY STEWARDSHIP RELIEF GROWTH OPPORTUNITY RELIEF Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 7 OUR 2030 GOALS By 2030, we are committed to double our investment in social impact and cut our environmental footprint in half through responsible hospitality across our value chain. 6 7 12 13 8 12 13 14 PRESERVING RESPONSIBLE RESOURCES SOURCING by supporting local by tracking entrepreneurs and against fostering responsible sciencepractices in our based targets supply chain for carbon, driving water stewardship, re-engineering waste and innovating every day for sustainable operations 3 11 12 15 4 8 12 RESPECTING DESTINATIONS CREATING OPPORTUNITIES by preserving local cultural by providing skills and employment and natural heritage and to the local community, investing fostering respect for all 1 8 12 in innovative local solutions and ENABLING BUSINESS deploying our commercial engine for by accelerating access to local hotel owners to grow tourism’s economic benefits for local businesses We have aligned our 2030 Goals to the applicable United Nations Sustainable Development Goals Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 8 OUR MATERIAL ISSUES Prior to launching our Travel with Purpose 2030 Goals in 2018, we updated our materiality assessment to test the validity of our direction and inform the definition of our Goals. We consulted with key internal and external stakeholders and integrated strategic insights. To ensure that our program remains aligned with our most material issues, we have undertaken the following: • Mapped 100% of our hotels and pipeline against selected external social and environmental risk indices • Integrated social and environmental risk questions, including questions around climate change risk, in Hilton’s annual internal Global Enterprise Risk Survey, which is distributed to over 200 Hilton leaders • Surveyed more than 145,000 Hilton guests and meeting planners to understand how they value a hotel company’s corporate responsibility practices • Continually undertake gap analyses against best practices and expectations from external organizations, including companies, investors, clients, governments, benchmarks and rankings in order to inform our program and our reporting • Map our programs against the UN SDGs Further detail on our materiality assessment and the steps we take to continually evaluate the materiality of our CR programs to our business and the industry can be found in the Appendix. We plan to re-complete our detailed materiality assessment in the near future to further inform our programs and focus our efforts as we work towards our 2030 Goals. Environment: HIGH Energy, Waste, Water Supply Chain Effective Partnerships Inclusive Growth & Human Rights: E X T E R N A L I M P O R TA N C E Modern Slavery Tolerance and Diversity Trafficking, Violence Data Privacy Diversity and Gender Equality Team Members Empowering Women Equal Opportunities Career Development Biodiversity Governance Bribery, Employee Welfare Corruption, Risk Management Local Communities Health & Safety (Guests and Economic impact Team Members) Volunteering Celebrating Cultural Diversity Supply of Skilled Team Members Food & Beverage Health and Guest Awareness Philanthropic Giving Nutrition Regulatory Compliance Veterans Disaster Support LOW I N T E R N A L I M P O R TA N C E Each impact area corresponds to each section of our value chain: Our Operations Our Communities Our Supply Chain Overarching Impact Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 9 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT We continually engage with our stakeholders to seek their expertise, expectations, feedback and priorities. This ongoing stakeholder engagement serves to inform our programs and refine our focus on our most material issues as we seek to redefine sustainable travel. HILTON LEADERSHIP INVESTORS Our Travel with Purpose (TWP) strategy is overseen by We believe that our Corporate Responsibility programs Hilton leadership at the very top of our business, and represent material, decision-useful information for our our leaders are frequently engaged on the development investors, and we are proudly committed to transparently and direction of our programs. The Board of Directors’ reporting on our environmental and social initiatives and Nominating and Environmental, Social and Governance impacts. We engage regularly with our investors on our (ESG) Committee is responsible for overseeing our CR programs and progress towards our 2030 Goals, and, corporate responsibility strategy, practices and policies, in addition to the information disclosed in this Report, we and receives annual updates on our progress towards have integrated key TWP information into our Form 10-K, our 2030 Goals. Our CEO and Executive Committee Proxy Statement and Annual Report. review progress towards our 2030 Goals alongside other key business priorities during Quarterly Business Our reporting integrates the recommendations of the Reviews. A quarterly TWP dashboard is also distributed Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and to all Hilton leadership, including General Managers at the Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures managed hotels. (TCFD), and we participate in numerous Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) questionnaires and rating TEAM MEMBERS indices, including the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, We activate our TWP programs through our incredible CDP, ISS ESG, MSCI, and Sustainalytics. Team Members, who bring our corporate responsibility efforts to life around the world every day. We maintain a OWNERS network of more than 1,250 TWP Champions, comprised We regularly consult with our owners on key TWP issues of leaders across our hotels and corporate offices who through our Owner Advisory Councils, including engaging we engage for expertise and guidance as we develop on proposed brand standards. We work with our owners our programs. Our Champions are also integral in to pilot new sustainability programs and initiatives, and implementing our initiatives, including our Global Team we provide regular updates on our CR programs and Member Volunteering program. In addition, any Team initiatives through our internal owner newsletters. We Member around the world can submit feedback and ideas reward our hotels that are demonstrating outstanding to the Corporate Responsibility team using our Corporate performance, as measured by LightStay, through annual Responsibility feedback platform. brand and regional Travel with Purpose awards. We train our Team Members on our CR programs in a GUESTS & CLIENTS variety of ways, including integration of TWP into New We are continually assessing the best opportunities to Team Member Orientation, numerous mandatory and engage with our guests and clients around our TWP voluntary Hilton University trainings, and sessions at our programs. Through in-hotel messaging and in-room internal conferences. We also offer extensive corporate collateral, including our Conserve to Preserve and Choose responsibility resources through our LightStay system to be Green programs, we bring our guests along on the and on our internal Intranet, The Lobby, both of which are Travel with Purpose journey. Our Sales teams also engage available to all Team Members. We obtain feedback from with our corporate clients on our TWP programs and our our colleagues on the effectiveness of our TWP programs Meet with Purpose sustainable meeting offering. Hotels through Hilton’s Global Team Member Survey. We offer that are implementing specific initiatives use collateral Team Member Resource Groups, sponsored by Hilton and messaging to share their progress with guests. executives, that foster an inclusive environment in our hotels and offices. We also operate an anonymous Hilton We work with our Guest Satisfaction, Public Relations and Hotline that Team Members, suppliers, business partners, Social Media teams to continually monitor and respond consumers and the community can use to report any to guest feedback and questions related to our Corporate potential violations of our Code of Conduct. Responsibility programs, and we take guest feedback into account as we shape our programs. Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 10 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT SUPPLIERS INDUSTRY We engage with our suppliers through our strategic We recognize that effectively addressing environmental sourcing initiatives, and we collaborate on key material and social issues requires significant collective action, responsible sourcing issues. We undertake supplier and we are proud to collaborate with our peers in the human rights audits and assessments in selected regions lodging industry on key CR issues. Through our industry and we promote sourcing from diverse suppliers through associations, including the International Tourism our Supplier Diversity Program in the U.S. Partnership (ITP), American Hotel & Lodging Association (AHLA) and World Travel & Tourism Council (WTTC), we We have integrated our Responsible Sourcing Policy contribute to the co-creation of industry commitments into all new supplier contracts, outlining the standards related to human rights, carbon, water, food waste and expected of Hilton suppliers. Suppliers are encouraged other critical topics. Among other initiatives, we worked to have appropriate management systems in place and with our peers to develop the ITP Principles on Forced to take steps to comply with our Policy, including holding Labor and the ITP Hotel Carbon Measurement Initiative their suppliers and subcontractors accountable. We also (HCMI) and Hotel Water Measurement Initiative (HWMI), reserve the right to conduct unannounced assessments, methodologies to consistently measure and report on audits and inspections of supplier facilities to ensure carbon and water in hotels. We are currently working with that reasonable efforts are being taken by our suppliers the lodging industry and WWF to develop a consistent to operate in a manner consistent with our Responsible methodology for the measurement of food waste. Sourcing Policy. We also participate in the Cornell Hotel Sustainability Benchmark (CHSB) Index, a free tool which benchmarks NGOs AND INTERNATIONAL carbon and water consumption across hotel brands. ORGANIZATIONS We partner with leading NGOs and international POLICYMAKERS organizations in support of our CR initiatives and Our Government Affairs team continually engages with 2030 Goals, and we have strategic partnerships with policymakers on key CR-related issues, and we participate organizations including World Wildlife Fund (WWF) and in multi-stakeholder initiatives across a wide variety of the International Youth Foundation (IYF). Through our topics in support of our Travel with Purpose 2030 Goals. partnerships we participate in expert forums and ongoing dialogues, and we contribute to white papers and other publications. Hilton CEO and World Travel & Tourism Council Chairman Chris Nassetta interviews President Barack Obama at the 2019 WTTC Summit in Seville, Spain. Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 11 GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT We leverage our Corporate Responsibility (CR) governance structure and our LightStay corporate responsibility management system to track and transparently report our progress as we work towards our 2030 Goals. GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT Our President and CEO is responsible for corporate We map 100% of our hotels and pipeline countries against responsibility-related issues and decisions on Hilton’s a series of external environmental and social risk indices Board of Directors. Hilton’s Executive Vice President defined by Verisk-Maplecroft that are updated at least (EVP), Communications & External Affairs, oversees annually. Information from these external indices is the Corporate Responsibility department, which is embedded in LightStay to help every hotel understand responsible for the company’s corporate responsibility the key priority areas in its local operating environment strategy, Travel with Purpose. The EVP, Communications and community. & External Affairs reports directly to Hilton’s President and CEO. A detailed update on Travel with Purpose, including progress towards our 2030 Goals, is reviewed in Quarterly Business Reviews with Hilton’s Executive Committee, including our President & CEO and our EVP, Communications & External Affairs. The Board receives periodic updates from our CEO and EVP, Communications & External Affairs, on the company’s corporate responsibility strategy and initiatives. The Board of Directors’ Nominating & ESG Committee is responsible for periodically reviewing and assessing the company’s CR strategy, practices and policies. The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for risk oversight, which includes understanding (1) material risks, (2) management steps to address these risks and (3) appropriate levels of risk for our company. Material CR risks, including risks related to climate As part of regular Board and committee meetings, the change, environmental impact, social impact, human Board of Directors is responsible for general oversight of rights and responsible sourcing, are integrated in Hilton’s Executives’ management of risks relevant to Hilton. Enterprise Risk Management System. Questions on those issues are fully embedded in our internal Global MATERIALITY Enterprise Risk Survey, which is distributed to more than Our Travel with Purpose programs and 2030 Goals 270 Hilton leaders. The survey results are shared with have been defined through iterations of materiality the Executive Committee, Board of Directors and Audit assessments based on internal and external data, and Committee to inform enterprise-wide strategic planning. continuous engagement with a broad set of internal and Health and safety risks are managed through a global external stakeholders, including Team Members, guests team, supported by tools and systems utilized across and subject matter experts. Our 2030 Goals align with the all managed hotels and corporate offices, and made United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. available to franchised properties. Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 12 GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT IMPLEMENTATION REPORTING Our Travel with Purpose performance is primarily We externally report on our Travel with Purpose strategy, managed through LightStay, which each of our hotels programs and progress towards our 2030 Goals in Hilton’s globally is required to use to measure and report 10-K, Annual Report and Proxy Statement, as well as in environmental and social impact. Hotels are also our annual CR Report and CR website. This year we took required to complete a detailed set of surveys that the step to report selected Sustainability Accounting capture CR initiatives, and every hotel has a set of Standards Board (SASB) metrics in our 10-K and in our annual goals that align with our Travel with Purpose CR Report. 2030 Goals. Key priorities are also embedded in a number of brand standards across some or all brands, The data that we report externally is captured in such as the use of LightStay, completing anti-trafficking LightStay and undergoes a rigorous internal and external training, recycling soap, purchasing locally-sourced review prior to publication. We have obtained external products and protecting endangered species. assurance over our environmental data since 2013 and external assurance over selected social impact metrics Several brands also have standards that require individual since 2018. hotels to establish Team Member community and/or environmental committees, which help to implement Travel with Purpose across the hotel’s operations, supply chain and communities. Strategic implementation is further supported through regional Corporate Responsibility and Brand teams, and a network of Travel with Purpose Champions, consisting of leaders in hotel operations (General Managers) or functions (midto senior management) appointed by their respective leadership. Asia Pacific (left) and Europe, Middle East and Africa (right) Travel with Purpose Champions at their annual meetings. TWP Champions are integral in driving implementation and adoption of Hilton’s CR programs across the hotels in their regions. Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 13 LIGHTSTAY Since 2009, Hilton has used LightStay, our award winning corporate responsibility management platform, to measure and manage our environmental and social impact across our global portfolio of managed and franchised hotels. Originally designed to track environmental data, LightStay has evolved to measure, manage and report all of Hilton’s environmental and social performance metrics. We have continued to enhance and customize LightStay with features that include localized risk indices on the most material issues for the company, such as disaster vulnerability, water risk and modern slavery risk, to inform each hotel’s priorities. LightStay’s machine-learning algorithm also predicts every hotel’s energy, water and waste performance and corresponding costs, and tracks actual consumption against these predictive models. As a global brand standard, every one of Hilton’s 6,110 hotels is required to use LightStay to track its corporate responsibility performance against prior years and against peers. In 2019, we achieved Global Sustainable Tourism Council (GSTC) Recognized Standard status for LightStay. LightStay features the following capabilities: ENGAGEMENT TOOLS STRATEGIC TRACKING • Best practice spotlights and improvement tips to • Global performance tracking for all hotels and provide recognition, inspiration and guidance corporate offices • Tools designed for hotel leaders to engage their teams • Measurement of sustainability metrics across 200+ on corporate responsibility best practices and analyze operational, design and construction practices their hotel’s environmental and social impact • Peer performance benchmarking between similar • Local priority area analysis and recommendations for Hilton properties impactful environmental and community projects • Environmental and social performance tracking based on geolocation risk mapping aligned with the 2030 Goals • Detailed tracking of hotels’ internal and external CR • Environmental and social impact data verified annually certifications and awards by an independent third party • Environmental footprint calculation tool for meetings and events ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT TRACKING • Tailored reports for individual hotels’ corporate clients, • Energy, carbon, water and waste through data-driven including our Meet with Purpose sustainable meeting modeling to analyze and predict utility consumption program and Meeting Impact Calculator and cost • Sourcing and procurement practices • Building and property operations • Environmental improvement projects SOCIAL IMPACT TRACKING • Volunteering events and hours • Program impact data (youth, refugees, women and girls, veterans, persons with disabilities) • In-kind donations (food, soap, items, etc.) • Local partnerships Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 14 2019 HIGHLIGHTS In 2019, we made significant strides towards our 2030 Goals to double our social impact investment and cut our environmental footprint in half. Named 2019 Global Achieved GSTC Recognized Standard Industry Leader on status for Lightstay, the Dow Jones company to receive this recognition Sustainability Indices Made Fortune’s 2019 Change Launched the Hilton Recognized for our the World List for the second year in a row, the only hospitality to create a better climate change on company on the list world to travel the 2019 CDP A-List DOUBLING OUR INVESTMENT IN SOCIAL IMPACT Fostered economic and Exceeded Open Doors Raised $3.2+ million social integration for pledge to connect, for disaster response nearly 11,000 refugees prepare or employ one to support Team through volunteering, million young people Members and community training and employment by 2019 members since 2014 since 2015 Procured goods and services from nearly Made our Invested 3,500 women-, Risks of Modern Slavery in Labor 549,887 minority-, veteran-, Sourcing freely available to the volunteering disabled-, refugeewhole industry via the International hours in local and LGBT-owned businesses Tourism Partnership communities CUTTING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT IN HALF Committed to Announced the expansion Expanded our industry-leading soap transitioning from of Hilton’s food donation initiative recycling program to 5,300 individual bath to all managed hotels across the properties, including all hotels in the toiletries to full-size U.S. and Canada U.S. and Canada dispensers by 2022 Became the sign the Cool Food Pledge, committing to reducing foodrelated greenhouse gas emissions Implemented global Distributed more than 13 million bars ban on plastic of recycled soap to those in need in straws, cocktail 127 countries, and diverted over 3.4M picks and stir sticks pounds of soap and plastic bottles Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 15 2030 GOAL TRACKING 2019 PROGRESS Our targets align with the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals, as noted below K E Y Making Progress On Track Complete CUTTING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT IN HALF ENERGY AND CARBON GOALS • Science-based target: reduce Scope 1 and 2 carbon intensity by 61% (MT CO2e/m2, 2008 baseline) • Create and partner with cross-industry networks to support a low-carbon future PROGRESS: On Track • 36% reduction in carbon emissions intensity (managed hotels) • 32% reduction in carbon emissions intensity (all hotels) • Continued to advance collaboration with World Wildlife Fund (WWF), World Resources Institute (WRI), The Climate Group, World Travel & Tourism Council (WTTC), International Tourism Partnership (ITP) and local organizations WATER GOALS • Reduce water use in our managed operations by 50% (liters/m², 2008 baseline) • Activate 20 context-based water projects in our communities and watersheds of top water risk PROGRESS: Making Progress • 22% reduction in water intensity (managed hotels) • 23% reduction in water intensity (all hotels) • 3 pilots initiated WASTE GOALS • Reduce waste in our managed operations by 50% (MT/m², 2008 baseline) • Reduce food waste sent to landfill by 50% in our managed operations (MT/m², 2017 baseline) • Send zero soap to landfill by recycling all used guest soap bars, where available PROGRESS: On Track • 44% reduction in waste intensity (managed hotels) • 35% reduction in waste intensity (all hotels) • 88% of portfolio participating in soap recycling • Food waste program established in the Americas and piloting in Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) and Asia Pacific (APAC) RESPONSIBLE SOURCING GOAL • Sustainably source (e.g. certified) all meat and poultry, produce, seafood and cotton at managed hotels (where available) PROGRESS: Making Progress • Cage-free eggs: 89% of spend in U.S.; 77% of spend in Europe (Luxury & Full Service managed hotels) • Seafood: 80 hotels in 6 countries have achieved Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) and/or Aquaculture Stewardship Council (ASC) Chain of Custody certification • Reviewing towel and bed linen supplier sustainability attributes OVERARCHING IMPACT DESTINATION STEWARDSHIP GOALS • Adopt a global standard for responsible travel and tourism, complementing our existing environmental certifications • Engage guests in supporting responsible travel in destination hot spots PROGRESS: On Track • Achieved Global Sustainable Tourism Council (GSTC)-Recognized Standard status for LightStay • Mapped 100% of hotels against key social and environmental risks Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 16 2030 GOAL TRACKING DOUBLING OUR INVESTMENT IN SOCIAL IMPACT INCLUSIVE GROWTH GOALS • Double our investment in programs that contribute to sustainable solutions and economic opportunity for all (2017 baseline) • Double our sourcing spend from local, small and medium-sized enterprises and minority-owned suppliers for managed hotels and corporate offices (2017 baseline) On Track • Double our investment in youth opportunity programs in countries with lowest youth wellbeing (2017 baseline) PROGRESS: • Exceeded our 2014 Open Doors pledge to impact 1M young people by 2019 • Impacted nearly 11,000 refugees since 2015 • Sourced from 3,476 women-, minority-, veteran-, disabledand LGBTQ-owned businesses • 50% of brands have at least one brand standard requiring local sourcing • Hired more than 30,000 veterans in the U.S. since 2013 HUMAN RIGHTS GOALS • Embed human rights due diligence across our global operations and in our supply chain, and partner with suppliers to address any form of forced labor or trafficking • Create and partner with cross-industry networks to advance international human rights On Track PROGRESS: • 94% of hotels with at least one Team Member trained in anti-human trafficking, including 78% of General Managers • Made our training on Key Risks of Modern Slavery in Labor Sourcing publicly available for free • 100% of hotels mapped against human rights risks, and 100 country-level human rights briefs and mitigation plans developed • 44 labor agencies audited • Active collaboration with industry organizations COMMUNITY INVESTMENT GOALS • Contribute 10 million volunteer hours • Participate in food donation programs, where allowed by law (managed hotels) • Double our monetary response, empowerment efforts and investment in resiliency against natural disasters (2017 baseline) On Track • Double Action Grants for hotel-led social and environmental impact projects in our communities • Promote environmental awareness and open our LightStay technology in school educational programs PROGRESS: • 1,429,295 hours volunteered since 2017, including 549,887 hours in 2019 • Rolled out food donation program to managed hotels in North America • $3.2+ million raised for disaster relief since 2014 • Launched the Hilton Effect Foundation as a vehicle to double investment in social impact and awarded 15 inaugural grants • Enhanced LightStay to improve tracking of skills-based and remote volunteering OVERARCHING IMPACT TEAM MEMBER ENGAGEMENT GOALS • Train employees at Hilton managed hotels on relevant environmental and social issues PROGRESS: • 94% of hotels with at least one Team Member trained in anti-human trafficking, including 78% of General Managers On Track • 100% of hotel General Managers and Engineers required to be trained in using LightStay system, and 15,000+ Team Members trained in using LightStay since 2017 SUPPLIER ENGAGEMENT GOALS • Encourage suppliers to set goals and validate through auditing and incentive program • Create framework for collaboration program with top-tier suppliers • Increase data visibility by incorporating social and environmental criteria into supplier registration and inquiry processes Making Progress PROGRESS: • Reviewing sustainability management tools to track and validate supplier performance, and collaborating with suppliers to improve sustainability of sourcing of products, including meat, seafood and plastics • Where relevant, we are routinely incorporating sustainability criteria into our sourcing exercises, catalogues and purchasing data Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 17 DESTINATION STEWARDSHIP Hilton recognizes that we have a responsibility to 2030 GOALS protect the environment and ensure the success of the • Adopt a global standard for responsible travel communities in which we operate, in order to preserve and tourism destinations for future generations of travelers. We are • Engage guests in supporting responsible travel taking steps to foster responsible travel and tourism in in destination hot spots our operations around the world. GSTC RECOGNITION In 2019 LightStay On Track achieved recognition by the Global Sustainable Tourism Council (GSTC), which PROGRESS: means that our LightStay management system is aligned • Achieved GSTC Recognized Standard status for with the UN-founded GSTC standard for good practice in LightStay hotel sustainability. This represents a significant step • Mapped 100% of hotels against key social and towards our goal of adopting a global standard for environmental risks responsible travel and tourism. We will identify opportunities to achieve GSTC certification for our hotels to ensure the sustainability of our operations. ADDRESSING BIODIVERSITY AND CLIMATE CHANGE RISK We are taking steps to assess our biodiversity risk as IDENTIFYING well as our exposure to physical climate risks, in HOT SPOTS accordance with guidance from the Sustainability We map 100% of our hotels Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and the and pipeline countries against Taskforce for Climate-Related Financial Disclosures a series of 26 risk indicators, from modern slavery to (TCFD). deforestation. We will be working with WWF to identify key destinations that might be experiencing higher social We have mapped all of our hotels against the World and environmental stress, to help us prioritize our Database of Protected Areas and the International destination stewardship efforts. Union for Conservation of Nature’s Red List of Threatened Species, and against Verisk-Maplecroft’s Climate Change Vulnerability Index. We have also mapped our U.S. hotels against 100-year flood zone HUMAN RIGHTS RISK MITIGATION areas, as designated by the U.S. Federal Emergency As described in our Slavery & Trafficking Statement, Management Agency (FEMA). We will work to develop we conduct country-level human rights due diligence mitigation plans for existing properties as well as for for all new country development. To date we have new developments in high-risk areas, leveraging our created risk-based, country-level mitigation plans established human rights due diligence processes. for more than 100 countries, applicable to all new Hilton-branded hotels in that country. AFRICA BIG FIVE In 2018, we launched our Big Five commitment to invest $1 million to drive sustainable travel and tourism in Africa. Our Big Five focus areas, which were selected as the most material risks $1M for our industry across the continent, are Youth Opportunity, Water Stewardship, Anti-Human Trafficking, Local Sourcing and Wildlife Protection. To date we have invested $626,000 in hotel projects and local activations with WWF, IYF and Vital Voices in support of our Big Five initiative. COLLECTIVE ACTION TOWARDS THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS • Working with WWF to identify and manage destinations hot spots • Collaborating with the International Tourism Partnership to foster collective action for safe migration between key source countries and destinations Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 18 ENVIRONMENTAL Impact Conrad Bora Bora Nui CUTTING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT IN HALF Hilton operates in some of the most beautiful destinations around the world, and we recognize our critical responsibility to protect our planet so that it remains healthy and vibrant for future generations. We are committed to halving our environmental impact throughout our value chain by conserving resources in our hotels, reducing the environmental footprint of our supply chain, and collaborating with our local communities to invest in projects that contribute to environmental stewardship and resiliency. We set and track energy, carbon, water and waste reduction goals for every hotel through our LightStay system, and our properties use LightStay to measure and manage their performance, identify priority areas, find and share best practices, and report ongoing sustainability initiatives. We recognize that successful, large-scale environmental change requires significant collective action, and we collaborate closely with our suppliers and with our peers within the travel and tourism industry to address environmental challenges and opportunities, through industry associations including the International Tourism Partnership, American Hotel & Lodging Association, and World Travel and Tourism Council. We also rely upon the expertise of our primary environmental partner, World Wildlife Fund, to help us develop our strategies around key environmental areas, including climate action, destination stewardship, food waste, water stewardship and sustainable seafood. Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 19 ENERGY & CARBON 2030 GOALS CARBON REDUCTION (MT CO2e/m2) • Science-based target: reduce Scope 1 and 2 carbon intensity 0% TRACKED BY by 61% (MT CO2e/m2, 2008 -5% -7% -8% baseline) -10% -7% -9% -15% • Create and partner with cross-17% -15% -18% -20% industry networks to support a -21% -20% -18% -23% low-carbon future -20% -25% -22% -24% -29% -30% -25% -32% -30% -27% -35% -32% -34% -36% -40% 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 On Track PROGRESS SINCE 2008: ENERGY REDUCTION (KWh/m2) Managed Hotels All Hotels • 36% reduction (managed hotels) • 32% reduction (all hotels) • Collaboration with WWF, WRI, 0% -5% TRACKED BY -7% The Climate Group, and more -5% -10% -5% -12% -10% -7% -14% -14% -10% -17% -15% -12% -19% -14% -21% -16% -22% -20% -24% CLIMATE LEADERSHIP -25% -19% -20% -22% -24% -26% -30% -35% -40% First hotel brand 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 to set science-based carbon We recognize climate change to be a critical threat to our planet, our reduction targets communities and our business, and we’ve made combatting it a top business priority. Our primary source of emissions is from the operation of our hotels, and this year we continued our relentless focus on driving energy efficiency. We also increased our focus on procuring renewable energy in line with our science-based targets. In addition to reducing our Scope 1 and 2 emissions from our managed hotels and Scope 3 emissions from Franchises, we have Named to purchased carbon credits to offset our Scope 3 corporate emissions from air CDP’s 2019 A-List travel and rental cars this year and committed to continue doing so henceforth, while also taking steps to reduce those emissions across our for our leadership in fighting company. climate change Fighting climate change will require significant levels of global collaboration and commitment that will transcend industries and geopolitical borders. We Offset believe in the need for immediate action, which is why in 2019 we joined over 100% 70 major businesses and U.S. labor unions in issuing a joint statement calling for accelerated action on climate change and urging the U.S. to remain in the of Hilton corporate Scope 3 Paris Climate Agreement. We are committed to doing our part and to working emissions from air travel and with suppliers and partners that can support us in this most critical of efforts. rental cars OUR SCIENCE-BASED TARGETS By 2030, we are committed to: We worked with the Science Based Targets • Reduce Scope 1 and 2 carbon intensity from initiative (SBTi) to institute carbon reduction Hilton-managed hotels by 61% targets that align with the reductions stipulated • Work with our Franchisees to reduce Scope 3 in the Paris Climate Agreement. carbon intensity from Franchises by 52% • Encourage suppliers to set goals around reducing their environmental and social impact Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 20 ENERGY & CARBON ENERGY EFFICIENCY 6,445 energy efficiency projects logged 100% of properties certified in LightStay in 2019 Only global to ISO 50001 (Energy Management System), hotel brand the largest certified 1,100 portfolio in the world to have joined The Climate hotels around the world completed LED re-lamping Group’s Energy Productivity 100 (EP100) initiative LOW-CARBON DIETS This year Hilton became the world’s first hotel company to sign the World Resource Institute’s Cool Food Pledge, committing to “As the first hotel group in the Cool Food Pledge, Hilton is leading the industry with their commitment reduce food-related emissions by to climate friendly food. promoting plant-based menu items Edwina Hughes, Head of Engagement, Cool Food Pledge RENEWABLE ENERGY As we drive energy reductions across our estate, we are also committed to increasing our use of renewable energy. Our operations teams continually assess opportunities to increase our procurement of renewables. Many of our hotels around the world are using on-site solar panels, including the Conrad Cartagena, Hampton Inn & Suites Roseburg Oregon, Hilton Garden Inn Sevilla, Grand Wailea and the Hilton Cape Town City Centre (pictured). The hybrid Photovoltaic and Thermal system at the Hilton Cape Town City Centre produces clean energy for the hotel. COLLECTIVE ACTION TOWARDS THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS • Joined businesses and U.S. labor unions in issuing a joint statement calling for accelerated action on climate change and urging the U.S. to remain in the Paris Climate Agreement • Continued to support the achievement of the ITP’s Carbon Goals Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 21 WATER 2030 GOALS WATER REDUCTION (liters/m2) TRACKED BY • Reduce water use in our 0% -2% -2% managed operations by 50% -4% -6% • Activate 20 context-based -5% -4% -5% water projects in our -7% -11% -10% -13% communities and watersheds -10% -15% of top water risk -15% -13% -17% -18% -14% -20% -20% -17% -18% -22% -20% -25% -22% -23% -30% Making Progress 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 PROGRESS: • 22% reduction Managed Hotels All Hotels (managed hotels) • 23% reduction (all hotels) We are focused on driving holistic water stewardship across our global • 3 context-based pilots operations, taking into account the contextual nature of water availability and initiated quality. To conserve water in our operations, our hotels are required to follow guidelines on low-flow fixtures, and we provide continual training to our Team Members on behavioral changes that can reduce resource consumption, COLLABORATIONS including conserving water. We also work with our suppliers and our community We participate in key collaborations impact partners to implement water stewardship projects in our value chain. and campaigns to drive collective action around water stewardship, We are behind target to hit our 2030 Goal to cut water consumption in our including: managed hotels by 50% per square meter. We are taking steps to understand why we are not achieving the water reduction goals that we have set for our hotels, and we continue to identify and implement opportunities to employ both water conservation technologies and behavioral techniques to reduce water consumption. In 2019, we began testing guest-facing messaging that encourages water conservation, and we plan to roll out this messaging to regions experiencing water shortages. We have also mapped all of our hotels against WWF’s Water Risk Filter, and we are using the results of this exercise to inform our strategy as we implement context-based water stewardship projects in our regions of highest water risk. Moving forward, we will continue to focus on improving our progress towards our water stewardship goal, and we’ve Ceres Connect the identified several solutions that we anticipate will assist us in further reducing Drops campaign our consumption. Team Members from Hilton Hawaiian Village volunteered with the Ko’olau Mountains Watershed Partnership to clear invasive species and outplant native species at the Manana Trail native forest restoration project. Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 22 WATER WATER EFFICIENCY We continue to identify opportunities to reduce water consumption within our hotels. Our brand standards require water fixtures to meet local requirements for water conservation. We continually train our Team Members to take steps to save water, and we seek suppliers and partners that can help us identify further opportunities to drive water efficiency. 100% 6,000 of hotels mapped against gallons saved each WWF’s Water Risk Filter day by the greywater recycling system at the Hilton Garden Inn Dubai Mall of the Emirates As part of Hilton’s Africa Big Five initiative, Hilton Garden Inn Lusaka, Zambia received a grant to build a water pump and pipe in partnership with Village Water Zambia. This project will provide clean water to local school children who are the most at risk from water-related illnesses. 1,700+ AFRICA BIG FIVE hotels have installed smart irrigation In 2018 we announced our commitment to controls and/or drip irrigation investing in sustainable travel and tourism in Africa through our Big Five initiative. Water stewardship is a key focus of this program. CONTEXT-BASED WATER PILOTS The localized nature of water risk means that successful water stewardship must take into account the specific context of the water basin. In recognition of this, when we set our 2030 Goals we committed to implement 20 context-based water pilots in our communities and watersheds of top water risk. We have mapped all of our hotels against WWF’s Water Risk Filter, and to date we have initiated three context-based water stewardship pilot programs in the following watersheds: Santa Ana Watershed Boland Water Source Area Yangtze River Basin (Los Angeles, California) (Cape Town, South Africa) (Shanghai, China) In 2020 we will seek to finalize these pilot programs and select our next set of locations. We will also continue to seek opportunities to further align our efforts with the public sector, municipalities and other water basin stakeholders in all of the water basins in which we operate. COLLECTIVE ACTION TOWARDS THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS • Signatory to the CEO Water Mandate’s UN Water Action Platform to further our commitment to fighting the global water crisis Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 23 WASTE 2030 GOALS LANDFILLED WASTE REDUCTION (MT/m2) • Reduce waste in our managed operations by 50% 0% TRACKED BY -6% • Reduce food waste sent to landfill by 50% in our managed -10% -7% -13% -15% operations -13% -19% • Send zero soap to landfill -20% -18% -24% -25% -21% -28% by recycling all used guest -31% -31% -32% -25% soap bars -30% -28% -35% -32% -35% -40% -37% -41% -44% -50% 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 On Track Managed Hotels All Hotels PROGRESS: • 44% reduction in landfilled We work with our partners, including our waste haulers, waste (managed hotels) suppliers and donation partners, to find innovative ways • 35% reduction in landfilled to address waste. Our waste reduction strategy seeks to waste (all hotels) reduce the overall amount of waste produced in our hotels, • 88% of portfolio participating in while taking steps to divert remaining waste from landfill soap recycling through donation, composting, recycling, energy from • Food waste program waste incineration and other diversion opportunities. While 35% of waste established in the Americas we continually seek and deploy options and innovations diverted from and piloting in EMEA and APAC to reduce waste across all aspects of our operations, in 2019 we were especially focused on three material areas of landfill (managed hotels only) waste: soap recycling, food waste and single-use plastics. SOAP RECYCLING We are proud to have been the first hotel brand to make soap recycling a brand standard, and the first to set the commitment to send zero soap to landfill. We operate the largest soap recycling program in the industry, and in 2019 we expanded our soap bar recycling program to 5,300 hotels (88% of our portfolio) – including all hotels in the U.S. and Canada. Used soap from our guest rooms is collected by our housekeeping teams and sent to our soap recycling partners, such as Clean the World, Soap Aid, Soap Cycling and Sundara, who sanitize the soap and turn it into new bars for donation. 5,300 hotels participating 13M+ bars of recycled soap Donated to those in need in 127 In 2019 our All-Suites and Focused Service brands successfully completed countries the Clean the World Challenge, recycling enough soap to create more than 2M new bars that have been distributed to communities in need. Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 24 WASTE FOOD WASTE Our food waste reduction program is an integral We have worked with WWF to deploy our comprehensive component of our efforts to cut our environmental food waste reduction program to our hotels in the footprint in half by 2030. Food production is the single Americas, including expanding our food donation biggest cause of deforestation, water extraction, and program to all managed hotels in the U.S. and Canada. habitat and biodiversity loss, and yet globally one-third In 2019, we piloted our food waste program in our of food is wasted. Based on waste audits at our hotels, Asia-Pacific and Europe, Middle East and Africa regions we estimated that in 2017 approximately 41% of the in preparation for 2020 rollout. The program, which waste that we produced was food waste. We are leverages the Hotel Kitchen toolkit, guides hotels focused on improving our measurement capabilities to through techniques for reducing food waste in every better understand our current food waste levels and step of the Food & Beverage process, from purchasing reduce this amount, to help mitigate the related and menu planning to donation of excess edible items environmental impacts from food loss. and disposal of remaining inedible food. 6M+ 60% 890 pounds of food waste reduction in buffet waste in hotels globally diverted from landfills 6 hotels in Egypt and the Middle have implemented by Americas hotels East through use of food waste composting programs measurement technologies SINGLE-USE PLASTICS We take the global issue of plastic pollution seriously as a threat to the communities, environments and destinations in which we operate. We continue to refine our approach to reducing single-use plastics in our hotels, continually seeking opportunities to transition to reusable items where ever possible. In 2019, we took steps to reduce our use of disposable plastics, and we will further drive these efforts in 2020. Announced that we will continue to transition from individual bath toiletries to full-size dispensers across our global portfolio by 2022 Removed plastic water bottles from all meetings and events at managed hotels in Asia Pacific and Europe, Middle East and Africa Implemented global ban on plastic straws, cocktail picks and stir sticks Conrad Maldives Rangali Island More than 1,000 hotels offer our Meet with commissioned international artist John Purpose sustainable meeting program, which Melvin to create an art installation from plastic waste, to catalyze conversations on includes a focus on reducing waste in meetings. sustainability and environmental protection. COLLECTIVE ACTION TOWARDS THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS • Member of the United States Department of Agriculture, Environmental Protection Agency, and Food and Drug Administration’s U.S. Food Loss and Waste 2030 Champions network of organizations that have committed to fighting food waste Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 25 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING 2030 GOALS With global operations spanning 119 countries and territories, we • Sustainably source all meat and recognize the immense economic, environmental and social impact poultry, produce, seafood and cotton at we have on our supply chain. In 2016, we announced our global managed hotels (where available) commitment to responsibly source our seafood by 2022. Since then we • Encourage suppliers to set goals and expanded our focus to include other aspects of responsible sourcing, validate through auditing and incentive including our 2030 Goals to sustainably source meat, poultry, produce, program seafood and cotton, and to collaborate with our suppliers to improve • Create framework for collaboration our responsible sourcing. We continue to work with our suppliers to program with top-tier suppliers drive progress towards our responsible sourcing goals. • Increase data visibility by incorporating social and environmental criteria The spend data reflected in this section is based on 2019 data from into supplier registration and inquiry Hilton Supply Management (HSM), Hilton’s central purchasing processes organization. HSM manages national and regional procurement contracts for our managed hotels, with many of our franchised hotels also participating in HSM contracts. Making Progress SUSTAINABLE SEAFOOD PROGRESS: In partnership with World Wildlife Fund (WWF), Hilton is committed to • Cage-free eggs: 89% of spend in U.S.; responsibly sourcing seafood globally by 2022. This includes 77% of spend in Europe (Luxury & Full banning the procurement of endangered species, sourcing Service managed hotels) at least 25% of our seafood globally from fisheries and • Seafood: 80 hotels in 6 countries have farms certified by the most credible sustainability achieved MSC and/or ASC Chain of standards, the Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) and the Custody certification Aquaculture Stewardship Council (ASC), and ensuring the remaining • Reviewing towel and bed linen supplier portion of our seafood is working towards certification, sustainable sustainability attributes improvement or are on WWF green lists. Achieved MSC and/or ASC Chain of Custody 80 hotels in certification at 6 countries Worked with WWF to invest in 6 Fishery Improvement Projects in our supply chain to improve ocean health and support local community livelihoods 19 U.S. seafood suppliers engaged to develop roadmaps and reporting in support of our 2022 seafood targets Local fishermen improve sustainability practices through WWF’s Honduran Spiny Lobster Fishery Improvement Project supported by Hilton. © Antonio Busiello WWF-US. Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 26 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING ANIMAL WELFARE Distributed our Hilton strives to work towards the legal, ethical, humane treatment of animals across our value chain. Our Cage-Free approach to animal welfare is informed by the Five Freedoms of care and codified in our Animal Welfare Egg Policy Statement. to all hotels, in 18 native languages In May 2019, Hilton announced an expanded commitment to source 100% of our shell, liquid and egg products across our global portfolio from cage-free sources by the 89% (U.S.) end of 2025. We are committed to transparently sharing our progress towards this commitment as we work with 77% (Europe) eggs from cage-free sources (by dollar our hotels and suppliers. spend for Hilton-managed Full Service and Luxury hotels) We were unable to meet our 2018 commitment to source gestation crate-free pork for our Luxury and Full Service hotels in the U.S and Europe, due to limited availability Please refer to our Animal Welfare Fact Sheet in our supply chain and inconsistent legal limits on how for more information on our animal welfare long sows are held in gestation crates. We continue to practices and progress towards our goals. work with our pork suppliers to transition towards grouphoused pork and gestation crate-free pork. SUPPLIER DUE DILIGENCE Based on our supply chain risk assessment, we identified In line with our goal to responsibly source cotton, we are the following categories for additional attention from currently reviewing our towel and bed linen suppliers’ a modern slavery perspective: services, meat, seafood, sustainability attributes, including: produce, garments and textile. We continued to roll • Production locations out our training on Key Risks of Modern Slavery in • Third-party labor audits Labor Sourcing and our due diligence process on all • OekoTex 100 certification outsourcing agencies in EMEA, and extended it to • Wash performance and product life recruitment agencies. Responsible 44 200+ 91% Sourcing labor agencies audited suppliers and hotel leaders attended our Hilton Supply assigned labor sourcing leaders in EMEA Policy Management responsible sourcing workshops in South trained in key risks of Modern Slavery included in all new contracts America and Southeast Asia COLLECTIVE ACTION TOWARDS THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS • Signatory to the World Travel & Tourism Council’s Declaration on Illegal Trade in Wildlife, committing to not knowingly purchase, utilize or facilitate the sale of illegally harvested wildlife products Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 27 Impact SOCIAL DOUBLING OUR SOCIAL IMPACT INVESTMENT As a business of people serving people, our primary focus is creating a culture that best serves our guests, Team Members, business partners and community members. We foster inclusive growth by enabling everyone to participate in and benefit from travel. From empowering our Team Members to bring their full selves to work to creating opportunities for all in our communities; from creating market access for local and diverse suppliers to showcasing local culture to our guests – we are committed to driving positive social impact. We contribute our time, skills and resources to build capacity and resilience in our destinations, including in times of disaster, and we are taking significant steps across our value chain and within our industry to foster respect for human rights for all. Ismaeil Dawod, originally from Syria, is finishing his twoyear apprenticeship at Hilton Frankfurt. Watch Ismaeil’s story in our Room 702 video series. Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 29 TEAM MEMBER ENGAGEMENT 2030 GOALS We are in the business of people serving people, and we invest in • Train employees at Hilton managed our Team Members to ensure their continued success. We engage hotels on relevant environmental and with our Team Members around the world to support their careers social issues and development, and we train our Team Members on relevant environmental and social issues in support of our 2030 Goals. On Track PROGRESS: • 99% hotels with at least one Team Member trained in anti-human trafficking • 100% of hotel General Managers and Engineers required to be trained in using LightStay system, and 15,000+ Team Members trained in using LightStay since 2017 Launched in 2017, Thrive at Hilton is our promise to our Team Members, to help them grow and flourish in body, mind and spirit. LEARNING & DEVELOPMENT Growing Professionally: All Team Members deserve a Growing Leaders: We believe that everyone is a leader great career, a great leader and a development path that and that’s why we’re committed to leadership enables them to thrive. We offer tools and resources for development for all Team Members. them to grow personally and professionally. • Lead@Hilton: The Lead@Hilton framework gives • Hilton University: Team Members can access free all Team Members the opportunity to grow as a online learning from SkillSoft, Culture Wizard (our leader – from entry level to senior executive. From online cultural university) and a six-part eLearning our Leadership Unscripted video series where senior course from ThriveGlobal leaders share career advice and insights to our virtual • Mobile apps for CultureWizard, LinkedIn Learning development programs created in partnership with and SkillSoft Harvard, everyone has development opportunities and • Best-in-class hospitality learning via eCornell: resources to help them achieve their career goals. Hospitality-focused courses (among many other • General Manager (GM) Academy: Our groundbreaking topics) available for free from Cornell University new General Manager Academy will develop our hotel • GED assistance and tuition reimbursement programs: leaders with a curated path to build GM skills and a We offer assistance to Team Members earning their career coaching hotline for hotel leaders. The new GED, completing a college degree or pursuing a GM Academy creates a pipeline of GMs that are fully graduate certificate developed as leaders. • Passport to Success: As a part of Hilton’s commitment to creating opportunities for young people, Hilton 25,000 courses, videos, book partnered with the International Youth Foundation (IYF) and co-developed a life skills training to upskill summaries and job aids available entry-level Team Members. The training has been through Hilton University embedded in Hilton’s apprenticeships curriculum. Growth in Numbers 75,000+ new and early-stage managers developed each year 58% of SHINE 1 (development program for future hotel executive roles) trainees promoted 46% of SHINE 2 (development program for future General Managers) trainees have been promoted Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 30 TEAM MEMBER ENGAGEMENT ENGAGING WORKPLACE CATCH We celebrate our Team Members through Catch Me at ME My Best, our spontaneous recognition program aimed at catching Team Members in the act of delivering exceptional hospitality. We also celebrate our Team Members during International Housekeeping Week BestAT MY and Team Member Appreciation Week. We cultivate an inclusive environment with best-in-class Team Member Resource Groups and regional inclusion councils that drive our diversity and inclusion strategy around the globe. In our Heart of House areas at hotels and corporate offices, we bring Team Members together in inspiring spaces to ensure they have the fuel to collaborate, innovate and thrive. Team Members also receive new You’ve Been”Caught at Your Best” Under Armor wardrobes designed to ensure they can In 2019, there were more than two million Team Member dress for success, comfort, pride and individuality. “catches” for more than 243,000 Team Members at our managed and franchised hotels in 107 countries. PERKS AND BENEFITS FOR ALL Hilton offers perks and benefits for careers and well-being, including family support: • Parental leave: New parents receive fully paid time off including fathers and adoptive parents. In 2019, we expanded paid parental leave to four weeks for all with an additional eight weeks of paid leave for moms giving birth. • Adoption: Financial assistance is available for all adoptive parents, including LGBTQIA+ Team Members. • Milk Stork: Our new partnership to allow all new moms on business travel to ship or carry breast milk home to their babies at no cost. Named the # 1 Best Company to Work For in 2 the U.S. and the # World’s Best Workplace by Fortune Magazine Ten Team Members are selected each year for the “Give a Dream, Live a Dream” fourweek paid Thrive Sabbatical – a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to give back to the community or achieve a personal goal. Mira Macud, Administrative Assistant at Conrad Dubai received a Thrive Sabbatical to return to her home country to learn American Sign Language at the Philippine School for the Deaf, allowing her to have a conversation with her 15-year old son for the first time. Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 31 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION Diversity and Inclusion is about creating a sense of belonging that celebrates, supports and, most of all, respects all people. Hilton scored in the top ten in multiple categories of DiversityInc’s Top Companies for 2019 list because of our commitment to a culture of inclusion – for guests and Team Members of every background, gender, sexual identity, ability, heritage and belief. We have created numerous initiatives to expand Diversity & Inclusion at Hilton our culture of diversity and make Hilton a “for all” career destination. 69% of all U.S. Team Members are Ethnically Diverse • Partnerships with multicultural, LGBTQIA+ and disability-focused organizations 43% of Global Managers are Women • Recruitment and scholarships that support 37% of Global Team Members are Millennials diversity and the economically disadvantaged • Non-college-degree-based hiring and 40+ languages are represented across promotion • Accommodations for employees with physical 170+ nationalities globally or cognitive disabilities “ GROWING AN INCLUSIVE WORKPLACE We require hotel and corporate Team Members globally to complete our Inclusive & Respectful Workplace curriculum To be the most hospitable company in the annually. The training is part of our ongoing commitment world, we need to be the most inclusive. We to provide a welcoming environment for Team Members want our Team Members to be able to bring and guests. The four components include: Anti-Trafficking their whole selves to work every day.” (all Team Members), Diversity & Inclusion/Unconscious Bias Matt Schuyler, Chief Human Resources Officer (all Team Members), Code of Conduct (managed hotels and corporate Team Members), Harassment Free Workplace (managed hotels and corporate Team Members). 88% 100% 100% of hotels globally have trained all of U.S. managed rating on the Human Team Members in Diversity & hotels delivered Rights Campaign’s Inclusion and Unconscious Bias, Harassment-Free Corporate Equality including 100% of managed Workplace training Index for the sixth hotels in the U.S. year in a row HILTON TEAM MEMBER RESOURCE GROUPS ABILITIES ASIAN & PACIFIC MILLENNIAL NEXTGEN ISLANDER AFRICAN AMERICAN HISPANIC/LATINO MILITARY WOMAN EXPANDED TO 39 GLOBAL CHAPTERS AND 274 OWNED AND MANAGED PROPERTIES IN THE U.S. IN 2019 Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 32 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION WOMEN WOMEN REPRESENT: Women at Hilton – in corporate offices and across owned and managed properties – account for more than half of all employees in the U.S. To ensure they’re 50% 48% of our Board of our top 10% empowered to be their best, Hilton has invested in a of Directors earners globally growing list of family-friendly benefits. In 2019, Hilton ranked #1 on the Best Workplaces™ for Women U.S. list by Fortune and Great Place to Work. 52% 54% of our Team of managers and Members in executives in the U.S. the U.S. VETERANS Hilton has a long legacy of supporting the military, dating back to our founder, Conrad Hilton, a proud World War I veteran. In 2019 we achieved our Operation: Opportunity target of hiring 30,000 veterans, military spouses and Over the last three years, Hilton has hired an caregivers over the past six years across hotels, corporate average of nine veterans or military family offices and work-from-home positions in the U.S. We members every day in the U.S. have expanded our commitment to hire 25,000 additional veterans, military spouses and caregivers by 2025. This commitment is the largest in the hospitality industry and one of the largest in the U.S. private sector. SUPPLIER DIVERSITY STRATEGIC We engage, support and create business opportunities in our communities. Diversity is continually promoted within our business through our supplier diversity program, multicultural marketing to diverse customer Partners segments, partnerships with numerous diverse nonprofit organizations, and development of property ownership opportunities for women and minorities. We partner with key stakeholders to create opportunity for suppliers, guests, communities and owners. Through our award-winning supplier diversity program, which began nearly a decade ago, we have cultivated relationships with nearly 3,500 women-, minority-, Veteran-, and LGBTQ-owned businesses, by developing strategic alliances with companies whose culture and values are consistent with ours. In 2018, womenand minority-owned businesses accounted for over $436 million of our supplier spend. COLLECTIVE ACTION TOWARDS THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS • Partnering with industry associations and expert NGOs to foster access to opportunities and skills for all current and future Team Members Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 33 INCLUSIVE GROWTH 2030 GOALS We believe economic growth should be inclusive, creating • Double our investment in programs that opportunities for all. At Hilton, inclusive growth means that contribute to sustainable solutions and we enable and empower everyone to participate in and economic opportunity for all (2017 baseline) benefit from the golden age of travel. We build partnerships • Double our sourcing spend from local, small and and develop innovations to foster inclusive growth across medium-sized enterprises and minority-owned our operations, communities and supply chain. suppliers for managed hotels and corporate offices (2017 baseline) • Double our investment in youth opportunity We track our inclusive growth impact on programs in countries with lowest youth LightStay and Hilton University, as well as wellbeing (2017 baseline) through our Human Resources and partner data. YOUTH IMPACTED 1.3M 1M TRACKED BY 900K On Track 800K PROGRESS: • Exceeded our 2014 Open Doors pledge to impact 610K 1 million young people by 2019​ • Impacted nearly 11,000 refugees since 2015 500K • Sourced from 3,476 women-, minority-, veteran-, 310K disabledand LGBTQowned businesses • 50% of brands have at least one brand standard 130K requiring local sourcing • Hired more than 30,000 veterans in the U.S. since 2013 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 1,300,000+ young people impacted since 2014, YOUTH ENGAGEMENT exceeding our pledge to Open Doors Young people are our future Team Members, guests and for 1 million youth by 2019 business partners. Investing in their skills and opportunities is necessary to sustain the growth of our business and the success of our communities. In 2014, Hilton pledged to Passport to Success for Hospitality is a life-skills impact 1 million youth by its centennial anniversary in 2019. curriculum co-developed with the International Youth We are proud to have surpassed this goal. Foundation. The training is available in-person and online. Nearly 8,500 young people have received the training We have implemented many programs to connect, prepare since 2014. and employ youth, including our three flagship programs: Careers@Hilton is our campaign to raise awareness of hospitality as a career. Hotels and offices hosted over 3,400 projects including job fairs, career guidance talks, trainings and job shadowing events, reaching 208,000 young people. Opening Doors in Space: Our DoubleTree brand partnered with Scholastic to engage 140,000 students around hospitality, STEM and space at the occasion of the first cookie baked in space. Going forward, we will increase our focus on youth programs in countries with lower youth wellbeing, as informed by the Global Youth Wellbeing Index. Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 34 INCLUSIVE GROWTH REFUGEE ENGAGEMENT Hilton was the first hospitality company to join the Tent Partnership for Refugees in 2018, pledging to impact 16,000 refugees through employment, hospitality training programs and procurement from refugee-run businesses by 2030. Hilton also supports refugees through in-kind donations to and skills-based volunteering with refugee centers. In 2019, we updated LightStay to enable hotels to report their refugee impact, leading to increased representation of our impact. We plan to use this updated data to inform Hilton McLean Tysons Corner partnered with Tables Without our objectives going forward. Borders to welcome Chef Nejat for a month-long paid training program, which culminated in a pop-up dinner series featuring dishes from his home country of Afghanistan. Nearly 11,000 3,000+ refugees supported through Hilton’s refugees supported in Germany since 2016, volunteering, training, employment exceeding our Wir Zusammen pledge and procurement practices since 2015 LOCAL SOURCING We promote local culture and products by sourcing locally. By staying with us, our guests are contributing to our work to break down the barriers for local, small and diverse entrepreneurs to enter hotel supply chains. Hotels self-report impact numbers on LightStay, and we are working towards improving our controls to ensure data quality. We are also in the process of establishing our 2017 spend baseline. 50% of brands include at least one brand standard Hemamalika Wjeratna, a smallholder producer in Thanthirimale, Sri requiring local sourcing Lanka, took part in International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) training to learn sound farming practices. Hilton partners with IFAD to connect smallholder farmers to our hotels in Argentina, Seychelles and Sri Lanka. Credit: IFAD. COLLECTIVE ACTION TOWARDS THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS • Working with the International Tourism Partnership to provide hospitality training and careers to young people from disadvantaged background through the Youth Career Initiative • Working with the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) to provide access to market for smallholder farmers that receive technical assistance in the Seychelles, Sri Lanka and Argentina Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 35 HUMAN RIGHTS 2030 GOALS As a business of people serving people, respecting • Embed human rights due diligence across our human rights is a core part of our mission. Our human global operations and in our supply chain, and rights strategy is informed by the UN Guiding Principles partner with suppliers to address any form of for Business and Human Rights. forced labor or trafficking • Create and partner with cross-industry networks Our commitments and expectations are set out in to advance international human rights our Code of Conduct, Human Rights Principles and Responsible Sourcing Policy, including the prohibition of forced labor, bonded labor, child labor, slave labor, human trafficking and recruitment fees. The policies also detail the prohibition for any Hilton property, product or service from being used in any manner that supports or On Track PROGRESS: enables any form of abuse and exploitation. Learn more • 94% of hotels with at least one Team Member about our human rights journey here. trained in anti-human trafficking, including 78% of General Managers • Made our training on Key Risks of Modern Slavery in Labor Sourcing publicly available for free • 100% of hotels mapped against human rights risks, and 100 country-level human rights briefs and mitigation plans developed • 44 labor agencies audited • Active collaboration with industry organizations OPERATIONS We recognize the risk that hotels may be used by traffickers for commercial sexual exploitation. To best equip our teams to identify the signs and report them appropriately, annual anti-trafficking training is mandatory for all hotel-based Team Members. Team Members can raise concerns via the anonymous Hilton Hotline, and are strongly encouraged to A Housekeeper at Embassy Suites Buckhead reviews the list report potential signs of trafficking to hotel management, of signs of trafficking on a pamphlet developed with It’s a who are trained to best assess the situation and contact Penalty, with whom Hilton partnered during the 2019 Super Bowl to continue raising awareness about human trafficking local law enforcement as appropriate. across 60+ hotels in Atlanta. 100% 124,500+ 4,717 Hotel-based Team Members required to be trained Team Members trained in General Managers trained in anti-human trafficking (managed and franchised) anti-trafficking since 2017 by the end of 2019 COLLECTIVE ACTION ON FORCED LABOR We supported the development and launch of the International Tourism Partnership (ITP) Human Rights Statement and Principles. To bring the Principles to life, we donated our industry-first training on Key Risks of “ Hilton’s training is used across our membership of leading hospitality companies to better equip their teams to identify and address the risks of modern Modern Slavery in Labor Sourcing to ITP and made it slavery within their recruitment practices.” freely available to the whole industry. Madhu Rajesh, Director, International Tourism Partnership ITP FORCED LABOR PRINCIPLES • Every worker should have freedom of movement • No worker should pay for a job Signatory to the ECPAT Code • No worker should be indebted or coerced to work to prevent human trafficking in tourism since 2011 Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 36 HUMAN RIGHTS SUPPLY CHAIN Our Responsible Sourcing Policy outlines the standards expected of Hilton 44 audits conducted suppliers. Based upon spend and identified regional risks, we require priority on outsourcing suppliers to undergo a deeper due diligence. agencies LABOR SOURCING We require outsourcing agencies in EMEA to conduct third-party audits and will expand this to other regions. We enhanced our recruitment manual and 91% processes in the Middle East to continue fostering ethical recruitment. labor sourcing leaders trained in modern In 2019 we shared our best practices and contributed to the development of slavery (EMEA) industry guidance through a Qatar working group on fair recruitment. GOODS SOURCING 100 We have developed an initial risk-based prioritization of goods suppliers. countries assessed In 2019, we piloted due diligence for our textile suppliers. for human rights risks GLOBAL FREEDOM EXCHANGE In 2013, Hilton and Vital Voices co-created the Global Freedom Exchange (GFE), a leadership training program for women advocates fighting human trafficking on the front lines. In 2019, we accelerated efforts to provide destination-specific capacity building. We reconvened all 24 Fellows from 11 countries across the African continent for continuous learning, including co-creation sessions with Hilton regional leaders. 80% $259K report improved capability disbursed to support 27 GFE Fellows’ organizations in 20 countries, benefiting: for impact 830 4,630 1,800 public officials community trafficking through training members through prevention survivors through rehabilitation 126 anti-trafficking leaders from 50 countries COLLECTIVE ACTION TOWARDS THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS • Co-founded the World Travel & Tourism Council’s Anti-Trafficking Task Force in 2019 • Co-created International Tourism Partnership’s Human Rights strategy and Forced Labor Principles • Co-founder of UK Stop Slavery Hotel Industry Network • Supported launch of the American Hotel & Lodging Association’s No Room For Trafficking campaign Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 37 COMMUNITY INVESTMENT 2030 GOALS As stewards of the destinations in which we operate, we • Contribute 10 million volunteer hours are committed to investing our skills and support to build • Participate in food donation programs where communities’ resilience and growth. allowed by law (managed hotels) • Double our monetary response, empowerment Our Team Members extend our hospitality beyond the efforts and investment in resiliency against walls of our hotels through our global volunteering natural disasters (2017 baseline) programs. With the combined power of 420,000 Team • Double Action Grants for hotel-led social and Members across 6,110 communities, we contribute our environmental impact projects in time and expertise to strengthen the communities where our communities we work, live and travel. • Promote environmental awareness and open our LightStay technology in school Hotels are encouraged to voluntarily track their educational programs community impact activities in LightStay, logging detailed information on volunteer events and donations. In 2019, only 30% of hotels recorded volunteering data, which based on our reviews is significantly underrepresentative of the actual levels of volunteering taking place at our hotels around the world. We are On Track taking steps to strengthen our reporting guidelines, PROGRESS: criteria and hotel engagement to improve reporting of • 1,429,295 hours volunteered since 2017, including volunteer events, to enable us to more accurately track 549,887 hours in 2019 and report our global community impact. • Rolled out food donation program to managed hotels in North America • $3.2M+ raised for disaster relief • Launched the Hilton Effect Foundation as a vehicle to double investment in social impact and awarded 15 inaugural grants VOLUNTEERING • Enhanced LightStay to improve tracking of skills-based and remote volunteering In 2019, Hilton Team Members volunteered 549,887 hours across 107 That’s equal to $14M countries through 10,431 invested in our communities events globally through volunteerism* 1.4M+ 130 hotels across the world participated in over 370 clean-up events in 2019, from parks and cities to beaches, helping to keep destinations clean and welcoming for all. In the Middle East, hotels took it underwater, organizing ‘Dives Against Debris’ in partnership with Project AWARE®, a community movement coordinated by volunteer hours PADI with the purpose of ocean protection and conservation. since 2017 *Based on Independent Sector 2019 rate of $25.43 per hour for volunteering Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 38 COMMUNITY INVESTMENT FOOD DONATIONS We are committed to donating food from our managed hotels, where legally allowable. Our hotels partner with local food rescue organizations to provide excess prepared food to those in need in our communities, and we have developed guidance materials, including a Food Donation Toolkit, to support these efforts. In 2019, we expanded our food donation program to all of our managed hotels in the U.S. and Canada, representing one of the largest hotel food donation initiatives to date. With our food donation program in North America alone, we expect to donate enough food to feed more than 160,000 people while also diverting millions of pounds of food waste from landfills. DISASTER RELIEF We operate in areas where the risk of natural disaster or other catastrophic losses exists, and Hilton is deeply committed to supporting our Team Members and communities in times of hardship. Hilton and the Hilton Effect Foundation invest in short-term relief and long-term resiliency efforts to support communities impacted by disasters. Hilton also operates a Team Member Assistance Fund that aids Team Members impacted by disaster and hardship. Since 2014, Hilton has raised more than $3.2 million to support these efforts. Volunteers with Team Rubicon repair a roof as part of their Puerto Rico Rebuild Program. Team Rubicon, a 2019 Hilton Effect Grant recipient, supports $3.2+ million communities impacted by disaster by leveraging the skills and experiences of military veterans and uniting them with first responders. Raised for disaster response to support Team Members and communities INVESTING FOR RESILIENCE AND GROWTH Hilton invests in our communities around the world through our primary international philanthropic arm, the Hilton Effect Foundation. In 2019, we supported more than 20 organizations to strengthen the positive impact they are creating every day in the communities we serve. From investing in Hawaii watershed improvement projects that increase water conservation to tackling youth unemployment through skills training in Italy, we believe in Hilton’s ability to effect positive change, leaving our communities and the environment more resilient for generations of travelers to come. COLLECTIVE ACTION TOWARDS THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS • Founded the Hilton Effect Foundation to accelerate our capability to address root cause challenges to achieve the SDGs • Investing our skills to build capacity for organizations at the front line of fighting poverty and protecting the environment Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 39 2020 AND BEYOND We entered 2020 with a clear vision and path forward for the year – a plan that prioritized continued progress towards the achievement of our 2030 Goals and maintaining our industry leadership in corporate responsibility. While the COVID-19 global pandemic has required us to alter our everyday actions and reconsider the way we operate as a business, our commitment to our Team Members, guests, community members and the environment remains unchanged. The unprecedented impact of the pandemic has shone a light on the power of collective action towards a common goal. We have seen countless stories, large and small, of individuals and communities around the world coming together to support each other. We have been proud to see our hotels rally to help their communities weather this storm, offering free rooms to healthcare workers, donating to those in need, and truly living out the light and warmth of hospitality that our founder Conrad Hilton so deeply believed in. We have been humbled by the suppliers and business partners that have offered their help to our Team Members and to our business during this difficult time. “ During this time of extreme need, we have focused our business on supporting those most impacted. We activated our Team Member Assistance Fund to help our people and their families affected by the virus, and we created a workforce center to connect displaced Coming out of this crisis, Team Members to short-term job opportunities. In support of our communities, we provided grants through the need for corporate the Hilton Effect Foundation to organizations fighting the spread of infection and aiding communities in need, responsibility leadership and we enabled our Team Members and guests to donate their Hilton Honors Points to support our community will be greater than ever.” partners. We were also proud to partner with American Express to donate up to 1 million hotel rooms to frontline medical professionals. While it is too early to fully understand the impact that 2020’s events will have on the global economy or on our business, we believe that our core business of connecting people to each other across communities and nations will only grow in importance in the months to come. We are also confident that our company is well positioned to navigate the challenges we currently face, and we will emerge from this situation a stronger, more resilient Hilton. Our 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report showcases the significant work our hotels and company accomplished in the last year, but the progress we have made on our social and environmental programs is just the beginning as we enter uncharted territory. We believe that coming out of this crisis, the need for corporate responsibility leadership will be greater than ever. As we move through 2020 and beyond, we are committed to continue seeking the right partners, leveraging technology and innovation, and deploying the passion of our Team Members to work towards our 2030 Goals and the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. And when our guests are able to travel again, we will welcome them with the same hospitality we have proudly shared for the last 100 years. Katie Beirne Fallon, The Hilton San Diego Bayfront joined hotels around the world in Executive Vice President, honoring healthcare workers battling the COVID-19 pandemic. Communications & External Affairs Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 40 APPENDIX 2019 Hilton Corporate Responsibility Report | 41 PERFORMANCE TABLES At Hilton, we closely track and report on our environmental and social impact. We use LightStay, our award-winning corporate responsibility performance measurement platform, to measure our hotels’ impacts in the communities in which they operate. We believe that transparent external reporting allows us to better engage our stakeholders on the most material issues impacting our business and collaborate on solutions to address them. Accuracy of our data is important to us, which is why we have obtained independent external assurance over all of the data points listed below. Learn more about our assurance process here and read more about our environmental and social impact in our CR Report. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ENERGY & CARBON: Hilton is committed to reducing our Scope 1 and 2 carbon intensity by 61% by 2030, in line with our science-based targets. Since 2008, we have achieved a 36% reduction in Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions. 2008 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 2019 2018 2017 (Baseline) Scope 1 direct emissions Emissions (MT CO2e) 476,036 533,382 505,640 437,087 Emissions intensity (MT CO2e/m2) .0199 .0233 .0236 .0307 Scope 2 indirect emissions Location-based emissions (MT CO2e) 1,949,324 1,873,715 1,811,065 1,562,544 Location-based emissions intensity (MT CO2e/m2) .0815 .0819 .0846 .1098 Market-based emissions (MT CO2e) 1,931,834 1,845,111 1,785,222 1,792,500 Market-based emissions intensity (MT CO2e/m ) 2 .0808 .0807 .0834 .1260 Total Scope 1 + 2 emissions Location-based emissions (MT CO2e) 2,425,360 2,407,097 2,316,705 1,999,631 Location-based emissions intensity (MT CO2e/m ) 2 .1014 .1052 .1083 .1405 Market-based emissions (MT CO2e) 2,407,870 2,378,493 2,290,862 2,229,587 Market-based emissions intensity (MT CO2e/m2) .1007 .1040 .1071 .1567 Scope 3 emissions Franchises — emissions (MT CO2e) 3,884,715 3,685,459 3,473,170 3,019,210 Franchises — emissions intensity (MT CO2e/m ) 2 .0971 .0997 .1000 .1363 Emissions from business travel (MT CO2e) 26,754 31,016 28,145 Emissions from waste (MT CO2e) 117,772 120,372 118,609 125,821 Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 42 PERFORMANCE TABLES 2008 ENERGY 2019 2018 2017 (Baseline) Energy consumption (MWh) Managed 6,828,225 6,728,534 6,419,729 5,289,613 Franchised 11,838,738 11,084,182 10,647,230 8,445,834 Total 18,666,964 17,812,716 17,066,959 13,735,447 Energy use intensity (MWh/m2) Managed .2856 .2942 .3000 .3861 Franchised .2960 .2999 .3066 .3813 Total .2921 .2977 .3041 .3831 WATER: Hilton is committed to reducing our water consumption intensity in our managed operations by 50% by 2030. Since 2008, we have achieved a 22% reduction in water consumption at our managed hotels and a 23% reduction across our total portfolio. 2008 WATER 2019 2018 2017 (Baseline) Water consumption (megaliters) Managed 14,026 13,841 13,372 10,335 Franchised 23,327 21,777 21,057 16,988 Total 37,353 35,618 34,429 27,323 Water consumption intensity (liters/m2) Managed 586 605 625 754 Franchised 583 589 607 767 Total 585 595 610 762 Water withdrawal (megaliters) Managed 56,103 55,363 52,628 41,342 Franchised 93,309 87,110 84,229 67,951 Total 149,412 142,473 136,857 109,293 Water withdrawal intensity (liters/m2) Managed 2,346 2,420 2,459 3,018 Franchised 2,333 2,357 2,426 3,068 Total 2,338 2,381 2,439 3,049 Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 43 PERFORMANCE TABLES WASTE: Hilton is committed to reducing our waste intensity in managed operations by 50% by 2030. Since 2008, we have reduced our waste to landfill by 44% at our managed hotels and by 35% across our total portfolio. 2008 WASTE 2019 2018 2017 (Baseline) Total waste generated (MT) Managed 192,230 192,163 185,104 159,537 Franchised 332,103 320,074 304,369 264,321 Total 524,334 512,238 489,473 423,860 Total waste intensity (MT/m2) Managed .0080 .0084 .0087 .0112 Franchised .0083 .0087 .0088 .0119 Total .0082 .0086 .0087 .0117 Landfilled waste (MT) Managed 125,289 128,055 126,180 133,852 Franchised 281,772 270,761 257,539 221,765 Total 407,061 398,817 383,719 355,617 Landfilled waste intensity (MT/m ) 2 Managed .0052 .0056 .0059 .0094 Franchised .0070 .0073 .0074 .0100 Total .0064 .0067 .0068 .0098 Waste diversion from landfill (MT) Managed 66,941 64,108 58,924 25,686 Franchised 50,332 49,313 46,830 42,556 Total 117,273 113,421 105,755 68,243 Waste diversion rate (%) Managed 34.8% 33.4% 32.0% 16.1% Franchised 15.2% 15.4% 15.4% 16.1% Total 22.4% 22.1% 21.6% 16.1% Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 44 PERFORMANCE TABLES SOCIAL IMPACT INCLUSIVE GROWTH: Hilton empowers everyone to participate in and benefit from travel and tourism across our value chain. INCLUSIVE GROWTH 2019 2018 2017 Supplier Diversity Program (number of women, minority, veteran and LGBTQ-owned businesses 3,476 3,352 3,000 we have supported) Open Doors Pledge — Youth impacted (number of 1,323,414 919,772 795,848 young people)1 Refugees impacted2 10,883 5,392 2,376 1 Figures provided are cumulative impact since launch of the pledge in 2014. 2 Figures provided are cumulative impact since 2015. HUMAN RIGHTS: We are committed to embedding human rights due diligence across our global operations and supply chain by 2030. HUMAN RIGHTS 2019 2018 Mandatory Anti-Trafficking Training (% of General Managers 78% 68% having completed) COMMUNITY INVESTMENT: We are committed to doubling our investment in social impact by 2030. COMMUNITY INVESTMENT 2019 2018 2017 Volunteering (number of hours) 549,887 513,055 365,553 Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 45 SUSTAINABILITY ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (SASB) We seek to provide material, decision-useful sustainability information to our investors in line with the recommendations of the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB). We considered SASB’s Hotel & Lodging and Restaurant Standards in developing the following table of key sustainability metrics for our managed, owned and leased properties. We also report selected SASB data in our 2019 10-K. SASB TABLE SASB CODE METRIC 2019 2018 2017 Energy Management SV-HL-130a.1 Total energy consumed, in gigajoules per square meter 1.03 1.06 1.06 Total energy consumed, in million gigajoules (1) 24.6 24.2 23.1 Percent total energy from grid electricity 53.8 54.0 48.8 Percent total energy from renewables 1.4 1.2 2.1 Water Management SV-HL-140a.1 Amount withdrawn, in cubic meters per square meter 2.35 2.42 2.46 Amount withdrawn, in million cubic meters (m3) (1) 56.1 55.4 52.6 Amount consumed, in cubic meters per square meter 0.586 0.605 0.615 Amount consumed, in million cubic 14.0 13.8 13.4 meters (m3) (1) Percent in regions with high or extremely high baseline 32 33 33 water stress SV-HL-160a.2 • Hilton Corporate Responsibility Environmental management policies and practices to Statement preserve ecosystem services • Hilton Environmental Statement Waste Management FB-RN-150a.1 Amount generated, in metric tons per square meter 0.0080 0.0084 0.0087 Amount generated, in million metric tons (1) 0.192 0.192 0.185 Percent food waste (2) 41.0 41.0 41.0 Percent diverted from landfills 34.8 33.4 32.0 Labor Practices SV-HL-310a.1 Voluntary turnover rate for lodging facility employees 19.0% — — (U.S. only, includes retirements) SV-HL-310a.4 • Code of Conduct Policies and programs to prevent worker harassment • Diversity & Inclusion Brochure 1 While Hilton’s energy, water and waste intensity decreased on a per square meter basis from 2017-2019, absolute consumption increased as a result of a 11.7 percent increase in the total floor area of Hilton’s managed, owned and leased properties, from 21.4 million square meters as of December 31, 2017 to 23.9 million square meters as of December 31, 2019. 2 Food waste percentage estimated based on a sample of approximately 50 food waste reduction pilots worldwide. Hilton continues to refine its food waste reporting in alignment with the WRI’s Food Loss and Waste Protocol. Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 46 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) Our reporting follows the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) disclosure framework, which is an internationally recognized set of indicators for economic, environmental and social aspects of business performance. The tables below set forth how the GRI framework has been applied to our corporate responsibility reporting process in alignment with global best practices. In the GRI Index, we provide our stakeholders with references where they can locate content of interest. We also provide direct answers to specific indicators covered in the GRI framework. GENERAL DISCLOSURES: ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE INDICATOR DESCRIPTION RESPONSE AND/OR REFERENCES 102-1 Name of the Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc. (“Hilton”) organization 102-2 Activities, brands, Hilton is a leading global hospitality company with a portfolio of 17 world-class brands products, and comprising more than 6,110 properties, with more than 971,000 rooms in 119 countries and services territories as of December 31, 2019. Dedicated to fulfilling our mission to be the world’s most hospitable company, Hilton has welcomed more than 3 billion guests in our 100-year history. In 2019 we earned the top spot on the World’s Best Workplaces list, and we were named the 2019 Global Industry Leader on the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices. Our premier brand portfolio includes: our luxury and lifestyle hotel brands, Waldorf Astoria Hotels & Resorts, LXR Hotels & Resorts, Conrad Hotels & Resorts and Canopy by Hilton; our full-service hotel brands, Signia by Hilton, Hilton Hotels & Resorts, Curio Collection by Hilton, DoubleTree by Hilton, Tapestry Collection by Hilton and Embassy Suites by Hilton; our focused service hotel brands, Motto by Hilton, Hilton Garden Inn, Hampton by Hilton, Tru by Hilton, Homewood Suites by Hilton and Home2 Suites by Hilton; and our timeshare brand, Hilton Grand Vacations. In January 2020, we launched a new brand, Tempo by Hilton. Please refer to the following for further detail: About Hilton 2019 Annual Report 2019 Form 10-K (Item 1. Business) 102-3 Location of Our corporate headquarters are located at 7930 Jones Branch Drive, McLean, Virginia 22102 headquarters in the United States. 102-4 Location of At year-end 2019, Hilton managed or franchised hotels and resorts in 119 countries and operations territories. Refer to About Hilton for more information. 102-5 Ownership and Hilton is a publicly traded company incorporated in the United States. legal form 102-6 Markets served 2019 Form 10-K (Item 1. Business) 102-7 Scale of the As reported in our 2019 Form 10-K, at year-end 2019 Hilton managed or franchised 6,110 organization properties comprising 971,780 rooms in 119 countries and territories. We have over 424,000 Hilton Team Members worldwide: we employ over 174,000 people at our managed, owned and leased properties and at our corporate locations, and more than 250,000 franchise employees work on-property at independently owned and operated franchise properties in the Hilton portfolio. 102-8 Information on We disclose detailed information about our employees and other workers in the following: employees and 2019 CR Report (About Hilton, p. 5) other workers 2019 Annual Report 2019 Form 10-K (Item 1. Business – “Overview”) Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 47 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE (CONTINUED) INDICATOR DESCRIPTION RESPONSE AND/OR REFERENCES 102-9 Supply chain What we buy, source, use and serve every day are essential components of the exceptional experience that we aim to deliver to every hotel, every guest, every time. As such, Hilton manages a large global supply chain containing key components, which include food and beverage, information technology, furniture, fixtures, equipment, linens and apparel. Additional information on our supply chain and responsible sourcing efforts can be found in our 2019 Annual Report (About Hilton, p. 4; Responsible Sourcing, p. 26-27), our Responsible Sourcing Policy and Hilton’s Slavery and Trafficking Statement 2019. 102-10 Significant There have been no significant changes to our organization or our supply chain during the changes to the reporting period. organization and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, we adhere to the principle that businesses should Principle or support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. approach Through our Travel with Purpose 2030 Goals, we are committed to cutting our environmental footprint in half and doubling our social impact by 2030. In 2018 Hilton became the first major hotel company to set science-based carbon targets approved by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) and aligned with the Paris Climate Agreement. Hilton commits to reduce Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions 61% per square meter by 2030 from a 2008 base year. Hilton also commits to work with our franchisees to reduce Scope 3 GHG emissions from Franchises 52% per square meter by 2030 from a 2008 base year. Additional information on our management approach, programs, targets and performance can be found throughout our 2019 CR Report and in our Environmental Policy Statement. 102-12 External Since 2012, Hilton has been a signatory to the UN Global Compact, a voluntary initiative initiatives based on a CEO-led commitment to implement ten sustainability principles supporting the goals of the UN. We have also aligned our corporate responsibility strategies and objectives to support the UN Sustainable Development Goals – a global framework for coordinated action to address critical topics by 2030. We participate in leading industry initiatives designed to collaboratively advance sustainability across the travel and tourism industry, including our work with the International Tourism Partnership and the World Travel & Tourism Council. We are committed to fighting climate change, and we are proud to have been the first major hotel company to set science-based carbon targets approved by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi). We are also members of The Climate Group’s EP100 initiative and signatories to the UN CEO Water Mandate. In 2018, Hilton was the first hospitality company to join the Tent Partnership for Refugees, pledging to impact 16,000 refugees through employment, hospitality training programs and procurement from refugee-run businesses by 2030. In 2019 we joined businesses and U.S. labor unions in issuing a joint statement calling for accelerated action on climate change and urging the U.S. to remain in the Paris Climate Agreement. In 2019 we also became the first hotel company to join the WRI’s Cool Food Pledge, committing to reduce food-related greenhouse gas emissions. Please refer to our 2019 CR Report for further detail. Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 48 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE (CONTINUED) INDICATOR DESCRIPTION RESPONSE AND/OR REFERENCES 102-13 Membership of Hilton engages with trade associations, nongovernmental organizations and other stakeholders associations on an ongoing basis to inform them about our priorities, seek their views and expertise, inform our programs and create innovative partnerships to redefine sustainable travel. In 2019, we continued to engage with our stakeholders to seek their expertise, expectations, feedback and priorities. Please see our 2019 CR Report (Stakeholder Engagement, p. 10-11) for further detail on our stakeholder engagement process. In 2019, key memberships and affiliations included the following: World Travel and Tourism Council: The World Travel and Tourism Council (WTTC) works to raise awareness of travel and tourism in one of the world’s largest industries. In 2018, our Chief Executive Officer became the Chairman of the WTTC. We are also members of the WTTC Climate Change Task Force, which works to identify industry priority action areas for the future and evaluate industry progress against climate change commitments. American Hotel & Lodging Association: Hilton is a member of the American Hotel & Lodging Association (AHLA) and chairs the AHLA Sustainability Committee, which focuses on environment, engineering and corporate responsibility for the hotel and lodging industry. Our Chief Executive Officer serves on the Executive Committee of the AHLA. International Tourism Partnership: The International Tourism Partnership (ITP) brings together the world’s leading international hotel companies to provide a voice for environmental and social responsibility in the industry. Hilton is a founding member of this travel industry consortium and participates in various working groups, including the Hotel Carbon Measurement Initiative, the Hotel Water Measurement Initiative, the Youth Career Initiative and the Human Rights Working Group. Our Executive Vice President of Corporate Affairs is the Vice Chair of the Board for ITP. Diversity & Inclusion Associations: Hilton has partnered with many organizations that promote diversity and inclusion, including American Hotel & Lodging Educational Foundation, American Resort Development Association, Ascend Pan-Asia Leaders, Asian Hotel Owners Association, Asian Pacific Islander American Scholarship Fund, Catalyst, Gay & Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation, Human Rights Campaign, International Gay & Lesbian Travel Association, Latino Hotel Association, League of United Latin American Citizens, National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), National Association of Black Accountants, Inc., National Association of Black Hotel Owners, Operators & Developers, National Black MBA Association, Inc., National Business & Disability Council, National Center for American Indian Enterprise Development Council, National Council of La Raza, National Gay & Lesbian Chamber of Commerce, National Hispanic Corporate Council, National LGBTQ Task Force, National Minority Supplier Development Council, National Society of Black Engineers, National Urban League, National Veteran-Owned Business Association, Out & Equal Workplace Advocates, OutServe – SLDN, Point Foundation, Prospanica, Reaching Out MBA, Services & Advocacy for LGBT Elders (SAGE), U.S. Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, U.S. Pan Asian American Chamber of Commerce, WEConnect International and Women’s Business Enterprise National Council. STRATEGY INDICATOR DESCRIPTION RESPONSE AND/OR REFERENCES 102-14 Statement 2019 CR Report (Executive Statement, p. 3) from senior decision-maker 102-15 Key impacts, 2019 Annual Report risks, and 2019 Form 10-K (Item 1A. Risk Factors) opportunities 2019 Form 10-K (Item 1. Business – “Corporate Responsibility”) 2019 CR Report (Our Material Issues, p. 9) Our 2030 Goals Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 49 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) ETHICS AND INTEGRITY INDICATOR DESCRIPTION RESPONSE AND/OR REFERENCES 102-16 Values, Vision, Mission and Values principles, Hilton Code of Conduct standards and norms Corporate Responsibility Statement of behavior Responsible Sourcing Policy Human Rights Principles Hilton Slavery and Trafficking Statement 2019 102-17 Mechanisms Hilton Code of Conduct for advice and Hilton EthicsPoint Hotline concerns about ethics 2019 CR Report (Stakeholder Engagement, p. 10-11) GOVERNANCE INDICATOR DESCRIPTION RESPONSE AND/OR REFERENCES 102-18 Governance The Board of Directors’ Nominating and ESG Committee is responsible for periodically structure reviewing and assessing the company’s CR strategy, practices and policies. Our Board receives periodic updates from management on Travel with Purpose initiatives. Quarterly reports on progress toward the 2030 Goals are provided to the Executive Committee, including our CEO. Board of Directors Nominating and ESG Committee Charter 2019 Proxy Statement 2019 CR Report (Governance and Management, p. 12-13) 102-22 Composition Committee Composition of the highest Nominating and ESG Committee Charter governance body and its 2019 CR Report (Governance and Management, p. 12-13) committees 102-23 Chair of the Our Board of Directors is chaired by Jonathan Gray, a non-executive. Mr. Gray has served highest as a director of Hilton since 2007. Additional information on Mr. Gray’s background and governance body qualifications can be found on our Board of Directors webpage. 102-24 Nominating and Committee Composition selecting the Nominating and ESG Committee Charter highest governance body 102-25 Conflicts of Corporate Governance Guidelines (“Conflicts of Interest”) interest 102-26 Role of highest Nominating and ESG Committee Charter governance body in setting purpose, values and strategy 102-28 Evaluating the Corporate Governance Guidelines (“Evaluation of Board Performance”) highest governance body’s performance 102-35 Remuneration 2019 Proxy Statement policies 102-36 Process for 2019 Proxy Statement determining remuneration Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 50 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT INDICATOR DESCRIPTION RESPONSE AND/OR REFERENCES 102-40 List of We engage with a broad range of internal and external stakeholders on an ongoing basis, stakeholder including our Hilton Team Members, franchise employees, guests, policymakers, NGOs and groups international organizations, investors, owners and suppliers. 2019 CR Report (Stakeholder Engagement, p. 10-11) 102-41 Collective As of December 31, 2019, approximately 31 percent of our employees worldwide and 37 percent bargaining of our employees in the U.S. were covered by various collective bargaining agreements agreements generally addressing pay rates, working hours, other terms and conditions of employment, certain employee benefits and orderly settlement of labor disputes. 2019 Form 10-K (Item 1. Business — “Employees”) 102-42 Identifying and We engage with stakeholders that can help inform and enhance our business and corporate selecting responsibility strategy. stakeholders From developing hotel concepts and products in partnership with owners and guests to evolving our internal programs to engage Hilton Team Members and build a common culture with franchise employees to working with governments on policy reforms to dialoguing with conservation organizations on a variety of products in our supply chain, we view stakeholder engagement as an enabler of continuous improvement, innovation and reputation management. 2019 CR Report (Stakeholder Engagement, p. 10-11) 102-43 Approach to 2019 CR Report (Stakeholder Engagement, p. 10-11) stakeholder Our 2030 Goals engagement Hilton Corporate Responsibility Policy Statement 102-44 Key topics and Through engagement with both internal and external stakeholders, we are able to identify concerns raised interests and concerns that should be taken into consideration as we continue to grow. Our Travel with Purpose strategy was developed by mapping social and environmental issues that are impacted by our business and will continue to be critical to our long-term success. We continue to revisit and evolve our approach based on key topics and concerns raised by stakeholders. We manage key topics and concerns relating to customer satisfaction through our Service and Loyalty Tracking (SALT) program and social media monitoring. Additional information on our approach and industry recognitions for customer service can be found at Hilton Customer Help. REPORTING PRACTICE INDICATOR DESCRIPTION RESPONSE AND/OR REFERENCES 102-45 Entities included in 2019 Form 10-K (Item 1. Business) the consolidated financial statements 102-46 Defining report We have conducted a materiality assessment to inform the selection of topics for our content and Corporate Responsibility Report, in alignment with the framework and best practices set topic boundaries forth in the GRI Standards. 102-47 List of material 2019 CR Report (Materiality Assessment, p. 9, 62-65) topics Hilton Slavery and Trafficking Statement 2019 102-48 Restatements of None during the reporting period. information 102-49 Changes in None during the reporting period. reporting 102-50 Reporting period Our reporting period is for the calendar year 2019. Unless otherwise noted, reported environmental and social figures refer to our impact across our owned, managed and franchised portfolio. We use 2008 as our baseline for our energy, carbon, water and waste reporting. Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 51 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) REPORTING PRACTICE (CONTINUED) INDICATOR DESCRIPTION RESPONSE AND/OR REFERENCES 102-51 Date of most 2019 recent report 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 Contact point For more information, contact us at corporate_responsibility@hilton.com for questions regarding the report 102-56 External We recognize that the accuracy and credibility of our data is critical to managing our impact assurance and transparently reporting on our performance. That is why we have worked with Dekra Certification, Inc. to obtain limited independent assurance over our environmental impact data (greenhouse gas emissions, energy, water and waste) since 2013. Since 2018, Dekra has also provided limited assurance over selected social impact metrics. Please see our 2019 Assurance Statement for more information. SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES: MANAGEMENT APPROACH DISCLOSURES AND INDICATORS MATERIAL GRI INDICATORS RESPONSE AND/OR REFERENCES ASPECTS ECONOMIC Economic 201 Management 2019 Annual Report Performance approach disclosure 2019 Form 10-K (Item 1. Business) 201-1 Direct economic 2019 Annual Report value generated and 2019 Form 10-K distributed 201-2 Financial implica2019 CDP Climate Change Questionnaire tions and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change 201-3 Defined benefit plan 2019 Annual Report obligations and oth2019 Form 10-K (Item 1. Business – “Employee Benefit Plans”) er retirement plans Indirect 203 Management Social Impact Economic approach disclosure 2019 CR Report (p. 29-39) Impacts Hilton Corporate Responsibility Policy 203-1 Infrastructure 2019 CR Report (p. 29-39) investments and 2019 Assurance Statement services supported Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 52 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) MANAGEMENT APPROACH DISCLOSURES AND INDICATORS (CONTINUED) MATERIAL GRI INDICATORS RESPONSE AND/OR REFERENCES ASPECTS ENVIRONMENTAL Anti205 Management Bribery and corruption are explicitly prohibited in our Code of Conduct, with Corruption approach disclosure oversight from our Group Finance and Risk Management functions. Internal Audits are also conducted at the Group’s hotels and corporate offices in Asia Pacific, Europe and the Middle East. In the United States, these audits are conducted by an independent third-party auditor. Additionally, we conduct background checks on all prospective partners. We maintain a whistleblower policy and procedure to encourage the reporting of any inappropriate activity. Any failures to comply with the Code of Conduct are investigated and disciplinary action is taken as appropriate, up to and including termination. All General Managers and senior colleagues are expected to actively support anti-corruption policies at individual hotels and properties. Certifications of compliance with the Code of Conduct are obtained from all hotels annually, with a mid-year update. 205-2 Communication and 2019 CR Report (Human Rights, p. 36) training on antiHilton Code of Conduct corruption policies and procedures Responsible Sourcing Policy Hilton EthicsPoint Hotline Energy 302 Management 2019 CR Report (Energy & Carbon, p. 20-21) approach disclosure CDP Climate Change Response Hilton Environmental Policy Hilton Energy Stewardship Policy 302-1 Energy consumpIn 2019, our total energy consumption was 18,666,964 megawatt hours. tion within the Please view our 2019 CR Report (Energy & Carbon, p. 20-21, and Performance organization Table, p. 43) for further detail. Our 2019 energy data has been externally assured, as noted in our 2019 Assurance Statement. 302-3 Energy intensity In 2019, our normalized energy use intensity was .2921 megawatt hours per square meter, representing an annual decrease of 1.9% per square meter and a 2.4% decrease per occupied room across the Hilton global portfolio of owned, managed and franchised hotels. Please view our 2019 CR Report (Energy & Carbon, p. 20-21, and Performance Table, p. 43) for further detail. Our 2019 energy data has been externally assured, as noted in our 2019 Assurance Statement. 302-4 Reduction of energy Across our global operations (owned, managed and franchised hotels), Hilton consumption has reduced total energy use intensity by 23.7% since 2008. For our managed portfolio only, we have reduced total energy use intensity by 26.0% since 2008. Reductions in energy have been achieved as a result of ongoing energy conservation activities, efficiency projects and implementation of innovative energy-saving technologies. Refer to our CDP Climate Change Response for further detail on our energy performance and energy reduction activities. Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 53 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) MANAGEMENT APPROACH DISCLOSURES AND INDICATORS (CONTINUED) MATERIAL GRI INDICATORS RESPONSE AND/OR REFERENCES ASPECTS ENVIRONMENTAL (CONTINUED) Water and 303 Management 2019 CR Report (Water, p. 22-23) Effluents approach disclosure CDP Water Response Hilton Environmental Policy 303-3 Water withdrawal In 2019, our total net fresh water withdrawal was 149,412 megaliters (149.4 million cubic meters). Municipal water comprised 98.7% of our water footprint, with 1.3% in surface water and groundwater consumption. Our normalized water consumption intensity was 585 liters per square meter, representing an annual decrease of 1.8% per square meter across the Hilton global portfolio of owned, managed and franchised hotels. Across our global operations (owned, managed and franchised hotels), Hilton has reduced total water use intensity by 23.3% since 2008. For our managed portfolio only, we have reduced total water use intensity by 22.3% since 2008. Please view our 2019 CR Report (Water, p. 22-23, and Performance Table, p. 43) for further detail. Our 2019 water data has been externally assured, as noted in our 2019 Assurance Statement. Emissions 305 Management 2019 CR Report (Energy & Carbon, p. 20-21) approach disclosure CDP Climate Change Response Hilton Environmental Policy Hilton Energy Stewardship Policy 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG In 2019, our Scope 1 emissions were 476,036 metric tons of CO2e. emissions Please view our 2019 CR Report (Energy & Carbon, p. 20-21, and Performance Table, p. 42) for further detail. Our 2019 Scope 1 emissions data has been externally assured, as noted in our 2019 Assurance Statement. 305-2 Energy Indirect In 2019, our Scope 2 location-based emissions were 1,949,324 metrics tons of (Scope 2) GHG CO2e. Our Scope 2 market-based emissions were 1,931,834 metrics tons of CO2e. emissionse Please view our 2019 CR Report (Energy & Carbon, p. 20-21, and Performance Table, p. 42) for further detail. Our 2019 Scope 2 emissions data has been externally assured, as noted in our 2019 Assurance Statement. 305-3 Other indirect Per our Operational Control boundary, onsite emissions at properties owned (Scope 3) GHG and operated by franchisees are reported as Scope 3 emissions. In 2019, Hilton’s emissions Scope 3 emissions from franchisees were 3,884,715 metric tons CO2e. The total includes emissions from on-site fuels combustion (965,670 metric tons CO2e) and indirect emissions from the generation of electricity, heat or steam purchased from a utility provider (2,919,045 metric tons CO2e). In addition, in 2019 we generated Scope 3 emissions of 26,754 metric tons CO2e from employee business and air travel, and 117,772 metric tons CO2e from the disposal of waste associated with our operations. Please view our 2019 CR Report (Energy & Carbon, p. 20-21, and Performance Table, p. 42) for further detail. Our 2019 Scope 3 emissions data has been externally assured, as noted in our 2019 Assurance Statement. 305-4 GHG emissions In 2019, our total Scope 1 and 2 location-based emissions intensity was .1014 intensity metric tons per square meter, which represents a 3.6% decrease over prior year. Our total 2019 market-based Scope 1 and 2 emissions intensity was .1007 metric tons per square meter, representing a 3.2% decrease over prior year. Please view our 2019 CR Report (Energy & Carbon, p. 20-21, and Performance Table, p. 42) for further detail. Our 2019 Scope 1 and 2 emissions data has been externally assured, as noted in our 2019 Assurance Statement. 305-5 Reduction of GHG From 2008-2018, Hilton has reduced our total Scope 1 and 2 emissions intensity by emissions 36% across our global portfolio of owned and managed properties. Reductions in emissions have been achieved as a result of ongoing energy conservation activities, efficiency projects, and implementation of innovative energy-saving technologies, as well as renewable energy projects and the purchase of Renewable Energy Credits. Refer to our CDP Climate Change Response for further detail on our emissions performance and reduction activities. Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 54 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) MANAGEMENT APPROACH DISCLOSURES AND INDICATORS (CONTINUED) MATERIAL GRI INDICATORS RESPONSE AND/OR REFERENCES ASPECTS ENVIRONMENTAL (CONTINUED) Effluents 306 Management 2019 CR Report (Waste, p. 24-25) and Waste approach disclosure Hilton Environmental Policy 306-2 Waste by type and In 2019, our landfilled waste was 407,061 metric tons. Our normalized landfilled disposal method waste intensity was .0064 metric tons per square meter, representing an annual decrease of 4.4% per square meter across the Hilton global portfolio of owned, managed and franchised hotels. Across our global operations, Hilton has reduced landfilled waste intensity by 34.8% since 2008. For our managed portfolio only, we have reduced landfilled waste intensity by 44.3% since 2008. Our 2019 landfill diversion rate for our global operations was 22.4%, while the managed portfolio achieved a diversion rate of 34.8% in 2019. Our diversion rate accounts for ongoing waste streams that are recycled, composted, incinerated for waste-to-energy, or otherwise diverted from landfill. Please view our 2019 CR Report Waste, p. 24-25 and Performance Table, p. 44) for further detail. Our 2019 waste data has been externally assured, as noted in our 2019 Assurance Statement. Environmental 307 Management Hilton Environmental Policy Compliance approach disclosure 307-1 Non-compliance In 2019, Hilton did not identify any known instances of non-compliance with with environmental environmental laws and/or regulations. laws and regulations Supplier 308 Management 2019 CR Report (Responsible Sourcing, p. 26-27) Environmental approach disclosure Responsible Sourcing Policy Assessment Hilton Environmental Policy 308-1 New suppliers that We have conducted a thorough analysis of our most material sourcing were screened categories: seafood, meat and proteins, produce, and apparel and linens. To drive using environmental responsible sourcing across these categories, we created a dedicated role and criteria a cross-functional advisory group. This group oversees the development of our comprehensive responsible sourcing strategy and guides global decisions related to implementation. Additional information can be found on our 2019 CR Report (Responsible Sourcing, p. 26-27) SOCIAL Employment 401 Management 2019 Annual Report approach disclosure 2019 Form 10-K (Item 1. Business) Great Places to Work Discover Hilton Corporate Awards Diversity & Inclusion Brochure Hilton Slavery and Trafficking Statement 2019 2019 CR Report (About Hilton, p. 5 and Team Member Engagement, p. 30-31) 401-2 Benefits provided to Discover Hilton full-time employees Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 55 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) MANAGEMENT APPROACH DISCLOSURES AND INDICATORS (CONTINUED) MATERIAL GRI INDICATORS RESPONSE AND/OR REFERENCES ASPECTS SOCIAL (CONTINUED) Training and 404 Management A comprehensive approach to recruiting, training/mentoring, leadership Education approach disclosure development and talent management allows us to understand where and how we can improve around the world. Our leadership roadmap helps our current and future leaders at all levels discover their talents, enhance their leadership skills and develop their careers with us. We offer a mix of opportunities for leaders at all levels and ensure we retain the best talent around the world. Our Thrive@Hilton platform is designed to help our Team Members understand our people programs and flourish in every area of the business. 404-1 Average hours of Hilton employees complete an average of 57 hours of training per year. training per employee per year 404-2 Programs for Hilton Team Members have many opportunities to learn from some of the upgrading employee great thinkers, innovators and teachers of our time. Hilton University features skills and transition a broad range of proprietary content from Hilton, as well as top-tier external assistance programs partners like Harvard, Cornell, Thrive Global TED and LinkedIn Learning. Hilton’s Leadership Development framework, Lead@Hilton, develops leaders at every level of the organization through a multifaced approach—Learn with Us, Learn from Leaders, Learn by Doing and Learn on Your Own. Learning takes place in a variety of formats in multiple languages across over 25,000 courses, including Virtual Instructor Led Training, Virtual Reality, digital learning, videos, e-books, podcasts, webinars and classroom training. We strive to make learning easily accessible and relevant to all Team Members, to support their growth in their current and future roles. Required and voluntary trainings help Hilton Team Members develop new skills, expand upon existing knowledge, and benefit from coaching and leadership advice. Many of our hotels and our corporate offices offer tuition reimbursement for courses directly related to the job, to prepare Hilton Team Members to take on additional responsibilities, gain certifications or complete a degree. 404-3 Percentage of Hilton Team Members are evaluated through our Performance Management employees receiving Review process; this includes setting objectives and, goals, addressing concerns regular performance and providing regular feedback and coaching. and career development reviews Diversity 405 Management Diversity & Inclusion Brochure and Equal approach disclosure Great Places to Work Profile Opportunity 405-1 Diversity of Four of Hilton’s eight Board members are women (50%) and 54% of managers governance bodies and executives in the United States are women. 53% of the global workforce and employees and 52% of the U.S. workforce are women. 69% of all U.S. Team Members are ethnically diverse, and 37% of global Team Members are millennials. Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 56 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) MANAGEMENT APPROACH DISCLOSURES AND INDICATORS (CONTINUED) MATERIAL GRI INDICATORS RESPONSE AND/OR REFERENCES ASPECTS SOCIAL (CONTINUED) Human 412 Management Human Rights Principles Rights approach disclosure Hilton Slavery and Trafficking Statement 2019 Assessment CR Report (Human Rights, p. 36-37) Hilton Corporate Responsibility Policy 412-1 Operations that Hilton Slavery and Trafficking Statement 2019 (Our Risk Identification have been subject and Management) to human rights CR Report (Human Rights, p. 36-37) reviews or impact assessments 412-2 Employee training Hilton Slavery and Trafficking Statement 2019 on human rights CR Report (Human Rights, p. 36-37) policies or procedures Local 413 Management CR Report (Social Impact, p. p. 29-39) Communities approach disclosure Hilton Corporate Responsibility Policy 413-1 Operations with CR Report (Social Impact, p. 29-39) local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs Supplier 414 Management CR Report (Responsible Sourcing, p. 26-27 and Human Rights, p. 36-37) Social approach disclosure Responsible Sourcing Policy Assessment Human Rights Principles Hilton Slavery and Trafficking Statement 2019 414-1 New suppliers that CR Report (Responsible Sourcing, p. 26-27 and Human Rights, p. 36-37) were screened using Hilton Slavery and Trafficking Statement 2019 (Our Risk Identification labor practices and Management) criteria Customer 418 Management Global Privacy Statement Privacy approach disclosure 418-1 Substantiated No known significant breaches occurred during the reporting period. complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 57 ASSURANCE STATEMENT 2019 INDEPENDENT LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT FOR HILTON, INC. To the stakeholders of Hilton, Inc.: This assurance statement has been prepared by Dekra Certification, Inc. (Dekra) at the request of Hilton, Inc. (Hilton). Dekra has conducted an independent assessment of Hilton’s publicly reported corporate responsibility data (“Reported Data”), detailed in the tables below, covering the period from January 1, 2019 to December 31, 2019. Objective and Level of Assurance The objective of the assessment was to provide a limited level of assurance that the Reported Data is free of material misstatements. A limited level of assurance indicates that Dekra’s assessment did not discover evidence of errors in the Reported Data. When evaluating potential errors in the Reported Data, Dekra used a materiality threshold of 5%. Scope and Criteria The Reported Data covers Hilton corporate offices and all Hilton properties, managed and franchised, for the reporting period of 1/1/19 to 12/31/19. This includes direct (Scope 1) and indirect (Scope 2) greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from the operation of Hilton owned and managed properties and Hilton’s corporate offices, Scope 3 emissions from Hilton’s franchised properties, and other Scope 3 emissions from business travel and waste. GHG reporting covers the following gases: CO2, CH4 and N2O. The Reported Data also includes Hilton’s social impact data: youth impacted, volunteering hours, disaster relief and Action Grants funds distributed, number of diverse suppliers and anti-trafficking training. Hilton’s Reported Data was prepared following the guidance of the World Resource Institute / World Business Counsel for Sustainable Development (WRI/WBCSD) Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (“GHG Protocol”) and Hilton’s internal procedures. The specific data assessed is presented in Tables 1, 2 and 3 below. Assurance Standard and Assessment Activities Dekra conducted the verification of the Reported Data in accordance with ISO 14064-3:2006 Specification with guidance for the validation and verification of greenhouse gas assertions for the GHG data and Dekra’s Verification Approach for the environmental impact data. The verification activities were documented in a sampling plan created and updated by taking into account Hilton’s data management system and findings uncovered during the verification process. They key activities included: • Interviews with individuals responsible for the collection and analysis of the Reported Data via Hilton’s LightStay platform. All Hilton properties are required to report energy, waste, and water activity data into LightStay monthly. All properties also use LightStay to record social impact metrics, such as volunteer hours and donations. Dekra reviewed the quality assurance activities in place and the treatment of incomplete activity data. • In 2019 Dekra auditors visited 62 Hilton properties worldwide, covering all regions and all brands. During these audits, auditors: verified the accuracy of data input into LightStay be reviewing utility bills and meter logs; verified that all energy sources on site were being included in LightStay; and assessed the competence of individuals responsible for inputting data into LightStay. • Recalculation of emissions from activity data to verify emissions factors and Global Warming Potentials (GWP) calculations were applied correctly. • Evaluation of a sensitivity analysis developed to determine the potential impact of Hilton’s assumptions regarding incomplete and incorrect data. • Review of raw corporate responsibility data to review for anomalies and confirm the adequacy of Hilton’s internal data cleansing procedures. Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 58 ASSURANCE STATEMENT Conclusion Dekra can provide Limited Assurance that the Reported Data listed in Tables 1 and 2 is free of material misstatements. During its assessment, Dekra did not find any evidence indicating the Reported Data was incorrect, nor did Dekra find any evidence that, where applicable, the calculation and reporting of data was not in conformance with the guidance and methodology of the GHG Protocol or Hilton’s internal procedures. Recommendations As part of the assurance engagement, Dekra has provided Hilton with a series of recommendations to ensure the continual improvement of the collection, storage, analysis, and reporting of specific sustainability performance data at the corporate and facility level. TABLE 1 – GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Intensity 2019 total Intensity MT INDICATOR Change from MT CO2e CO2e/m2 2018 Scope 1 Direct emissions 476,036 0.0199 -14.6% Scope 2 Indirect emissions (Location-based) 1,949,324 0.0815 -0.5% Scope 2 Indirect emissions (Market-based) 1,931,834 0.0808 0.1% Scope 1 + 2 emissions (Location-based) 2,425,360 0.1014 -3.6% Scope 1 + 2 emissions (Market-based) 2,407,870 0.1007 -3.2% Scope 3 emissions from Franchises 3,884,715 0.0971 -2.6% Scope 3 emissions from Landfilled Waste 117,772 0.0049 -6.4% Scope 3 emissions from Business Travel 26,754 — -13.7% Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 59 ASSURANCE STATEMENT TABLE 2 – OTHER ENVIRONMENTAL DATA Intensity Change INDICATOR 2019 total Intensity from 2018 Energy consumption MWh MWh/m2 % Managed 6,828,225 0.2856 -2.9% Franchised 11,838,738 0.2960 -1.3% Total 18,666,964 0.2921 -1.9% Water consumption Megaliters Liters/m2 % Managed 14,026 586 -3.1% Franchised 23,327 583 -1.3% Total 37,353 585 -1.8% Water withdrawals Megaliters Liters/m 2 % Managed 56,103 2,346 -3.1% Franchised 93,309 2,333 -1.0% Total 149,412 2,338 -1.8% Landfilled Waste Metric Tons MT/m 2 % Managed 125,289 0.0052 -6.4% Franchised 281,772 0.0070 -3.8% Total 407,061 0.0064 -4.4% Waste diverted from landfill Metric Tons MT/m2 % Managed 66,941 0.0028 -0.1% Franchised 50,332 0.0013 -5.7% Total 117,273 0.0018 -3.2% Waste diversion rate (%) Managed 34.8% — 1.4% Franchised 15.2% — -0.2% Total 22.4% — 0.3% Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 60 ASSURANCE STATEMENT TABLE 3 – SOCIAL IMPACT DATA INDICATOR 2019 total Disaster relief funds distributed to Hilton Team Members through the $107,977 Hilton Responds Fund (USD) Hours volunteered by Hilton Team Members 549,887 hours Grants awarded to community partners through the Hilton Effect Foundation $580,000 Youth impacted through Hilton’s Open Doors pledge 403,642 young people Property GMs that have completed Anti-Trafficking training 78% Number of diverse suppliers supported through Supplier Diversity Program 3,476 suppliers Attested By: Justin Dunning Cem Onus CARB Accredited GHG Verifier Managing Director Executive Order H-15-038 Dekra Certification, Inc Lead Auditor Processing Sustainability, LLC About Dekra DEKRA Certification, Inc. is an ANSI-ASQ National Accreditation Board (ANAB) accredited Certification Body and conforms to the requirements of ISO 17021-1:2015: covering the auditing and certification of management systems. Dekra has certified Hilton to the ISO 9001, 14001, and 50001 standards since 2010. Two key principles for Certification Bodies are Impartiality and competence. Dekra did not assist or consult with Hilton at any time in generating the Reported Data within the scope of the assurance statement. Dekra has procedures in place to ensure its work is free from bias and is not unduly influenced by outside parties. The Dekra employees and contractors who participated in assurance activities were free from personal, financial, or other relationships that would potentially compromise their impartiality. Likewise, the personnel who performed assurance activities were all experienced environmental and energy auditors. The competence of these individuals is continually monitored and recorded. All assurance activities were subject to Dekra’s peer review and quality assurance processes. Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 61 MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT DETAIL 2014 MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT The materiality assessment was complemented We engage with stakeholders on an ongoing basis to with deeper analysis in two key areas: supply chain inform our strategy and get insight on their expertise, and human rights. expectations, feedback and priorities. In 2014, we conducted an in-depth materiality assessment. We interviewed a panel of internal and external stakeholders and reviewed a number of internal and external The supply chain mapping exercise analyzed: documents to gather the information. • Interviews with 17 internal supply chain stakeholders Internal stakeholders on their sustainability and across seven support functions and operations responsibility priorities for Hilton and beyond: • Gap analysis against best practices from other 1,100 50+ external organizations • Spend data through Hilton Supply Management Team Member corporate (the procurement arm of Hilton) surveys across Team Member • Category risk assessments across environmental, social markets interviews and economic factors based on external indices Internal data and documents review: The global human rights impact assessment • Spend data (to identify areas of impact) followed a robust methodology informed by • LightStay data – data on all of our hotels’ energy, water the United Nations (UN) Guiding Principles on and waste reported since 2009 Business and Human Rights, and based on: • Strategic documents, policies and sustainability reports • Interviews with 14 internal human rights stakeholders External stakeholders on their sustainability and across eight support functions and operations responsibility expectations from hotels: • Gap analysis against best practices from other external organizations 400 400+ 200 • Likelihood, scale, severity and remediability of impacts • Company’s operating context (influence, business guest surveys hotels nongovernmental dependencies, structure) (U.S. and China) covered by organizations owner in six markets interviews • International Tourism Partnership materiality matrix, based on stakeholder engagement roundtables with investors, labor unions, NGOs, ownership groups, certification bodies and industry groups in London and Hong Kong • In-depth engagement with key partners (e.g., the International Youth Foundation and the World Wildlife Fund) External data review: • Competitor benchmark • Utility cost trends in key markets • Media analysis • Online hotel discussion and rating platforms (reviewed for insight on traveler priorities) • Priorities of suppliers, clients, investors and policymakers Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 62 MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT DETAIL 2017-18 ENHANCEMENT AND SITUATIONAL ASSESSMENT OF KEY TOPICS Throughout 2017 and early 2018, we conducted an update of our materiality assessment to test the validity of our direction and inform the definition of our Travel with Purpose 2030 Goals (launched in May of 2018). We consulted with key internal and external stakeholders and integrated strategic insight based on the following reviews: • Mapped 100% of our Hotels and pipeline countries • Gap analysis against best practices and/or against 24 chosen social and environmental risk expectations from other external organizations indices from Verisk-Maplecroft. We found that the (companies, investors, clients, governments, prevalence of water and modern slavery risks were benchmarks and rankings). The trend shows increasing more significant and higher than in 2014. expectations for transparent, science-based and • Surveyed 73,000 Hilton Guests in November 2017, and meaningful targets, practices and impact in terms of 72,000 Hilton Guests in May 2018 who recently stayed human rights and environmental management. We at our hotels. The results confirmed that Guests value notably reviewed the expectations for the following a hotel company’s corporate responsibility practices rankings, which we report to each year. and that local sourcing is important to them. 86% guests say hotel environmental and social responsibility is important to them, and that it will have The Dow Jones Sustainability Indices tracks at least some influence in their booking decisions over the stock performance of the world’s leading the next 12 months, an 8 point increase compared to companies in terms of economic, environmental the previous 12 months. and social criteria. The Indices’ methodology is 33% guests actively seek this information before aligned with their research on the most financially booking, including 44% of under-25-year-olds. material topics as well as accepted sustainability reporting frameworks such as GRI, SASB and CDP. 56% guests buy local, organic or fair trade at least We also evaluate our performance against the once a week. JUST Capital rankings, which assesses companies that put workers, customers, communities and the environment at the heart of just business practices. • Included social and environmental risk questions in This year, we are publicly reporting more of our the annual internal Global Enterprise Risk Survey, social impact metrics in line with their focus on distributed internally to over 200 Hilton leaders. We transparency. identified human rights as a material issue at an enterprise level. • Mapped our CR programs against the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We found that we contribute to all 17 of the SDGs, and can have the most significant impact on four SDGs in particular. Human Rights were included in one of the top risk categories that emerged from the Survey. Corporate Responsibility (CR) was included in the annual financial report for the first time in 2018. Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 63 MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT DETAIL DEFINING OUR 2030 GOALS We developed our Travel with Purpose 2030 Goals, in line with our materiality matrix, with an overarching commitment to cut our environmental footprint in half and double our investment in social impact by 2030. This framework is supported by 23 detailed objectives which address our material issues. See below for our list of material issues mapped against our Hilton enterprise and Travel with Purpose 2030 Goals. Value Chain Impact Area Material Issue Hilton Goals SDG Area Social Impact Inclusive Talent Double our investment in youth opportunity programs in Communities SDG 1 Growth Pipeline countries with lowest youth well-being SDG 4 Diversity and Double our investment in programs that contribute to Operations SDG 8 inclusion sustainable solutions and economic opportunity for all (e.g., women, veterans, persons with disabilities, etc.) Equal Double our sourcing spend from local, small and Supply Chain opportunities medium-sized enterprises and minority-owned suppliers Human Human Embed human rights due diligence in our supply chain Supply Chain SDG 8 Rights trafficking and partner with suppliers to eradicate any form of forced labor or trafficking Create and partner with cross-industry networks to Communities advance international human rights Community Economic Promote environmental awareness and open our Communities SDG 1 Investment impact LightStay technology in school educational programs SDG 11 Volunteering Contribute 10 million volunteer hours to activate our Communities SDG 12 Travel with Purpose commitment in our communities Disaster relief Double our monetary response, empowerment efforts Communities support and investment in resiliency against natural disasters Philanthropic Double Action Grants for social and environmental imCommunities giving pact projects in our communities Participate in food donation programs where allowed Communities by law Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 64 MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT DETAIL Value Chain Impact Area Material Issue Hilton Goals SDG Area Environmental Impact Energy & Energy and Reduce Scope 1 and 2 carbon intensity by 61% Operations SDG 7 carbon climate Create and partner with cross-industry networks to Communities SDG 12 change support policies for a low carbon future and to advance SDG 13 international human rights Water Water Reduce water use in our managed operations by 50% Operations SDG 6 Activate 20 context-based water projects in our Communities SDG 12 communities and watersheds of top water risk Waste Waste Reduce waste output in our managed operations by 50% Operations SDG 3 SDG 12 Zero soap to landfill by recycling all used Guest soap bars Operations where available Reduce food waste sent to landfill by 50% in our managed Operations operations Responsible Responsible Sustainably source (e.g., certified) all meat and poultry, Supply Chain SDG 12 sourcing sourcing produce, seafood and cotton at managed hotels SDG 14 (where available) SDG 15 Overarching Impact Team Career Train employees at Hilton-managed hotels on relevant Operations SDG 13 Member Development environmental and social issues Engagement Supplier Effective Encourage suppliers to set goals and validate through Supply Chain SDG 12 Engagement partnerships auditing and incentive program Increase data visibility by incorporating social and Supply Chain environmental criteria into supplier registration and enquiry processes Create framework for collaboration program with Supply Chain top-tier suppliers Driving Guest Adopt a global standard for responsible travel and tourOperations SDG 11 Responsible awareness of ism, complementing our existing environmental certificaTourism and CR issues tions Travel Engage Guests in supporting responsible travel in Operations destination hot spots Modern Create and partner with cross-industry networks to Communities slavery advance international human rights Hilton 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report | 65 DoubleTree by Hilton Hainan Xinglong Lakeside 7930 Jones Branch Drive • McLean, Virginia 22102
