CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 CONTENTS 04................INTRODUCTION 04.............................Message from Our Executive Chairman & CEO 08.............................About This Report 08.............................About Cushman & Wakefield 13..............................CSR Highlights 15...............................CSR Priorities 17...............................Stakeholder Engagement 18.................OUR IMPACT ON OPERATIONS 18..............................Ethics and Compliance 22.............................Supply Chain Management 24.............................Environmental Performance 30.............................Occupational Health and Safety 32................OUR IMPACT ON CLIENTS 32.............................Building the Future of Real Estate 35.............................Adding Sustainable Value in Real Estate 46................OUR IMPACT ON PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES 49.............................Diversity and Inclusion 54.............................Learning and Development 56.............................Community Engagement and Economic Development 64................GRI CONTENT INDEX 74.................UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2 | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 3 MESSAGE FROM OUR EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN & CEO (102-14) I am pleased to share Cushman & Wakefield’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report, which showcases how our organization made a significant impact in 2019 on our operations, our clients, and our people and communities. This report aligns our firm’s strategy with five of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals that have the most material relevance to our business and where we can make the greatest contributions. Additionally, I’m pleased to reaffirm Cushman & Wakefield’s support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Notable CSR highlights from 2019 include: • We were again named an ENERGY STAR® Partner of the Year by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency for the seventh consecutive year. • We improved our operational efficiency, reducing global greenhouse gas emissions by 10% between 2017 and 2019. • We continued to focus on gender equity at our firm: Globally, women represented 43% of new hires, 39% of our total workforce, and 40% of our Board of Directors. • We were named a Best Place to Work for LGBTQ+ Equality and received a 100% score on the Human Rights Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index. • Forbes named our firm to their America’s Best Large Employers and America’s Best Employers for Diversity rankings. Our leading global brand continued to earn strong third-party recognition throughout the year, including being named the #1 commercial real estate advisor in the world by Euromoney and the #2 global commercial real estate brand by The Lipsey Company. We also received top honors for real estate outsourcing by IAOP. In addition to these achievements, 2019 was an excellent year for our company with strong financial performance as we continued to build an integrated global services platform that delivers the best outcomes for clients. We also spent time last year refreshing our strategic priorities, purpose statement and values, which describe the culture of our firm and what our various stakeholders can expect from us: Our Purpose: We make an impact. Our work creates meaningful value for our clients, our business, our shareholders, our people, our communities and world. Our Values: • We are inclusive. We value difference and a culture where everyone belongs. • We are driven. Drive keeps us decisive and agile. • We succeed together. Individually, we’re good, but together, we’re great. • We deliver insight. We believe in ideas and strive for innovation. 4 | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 While we’re proud of the success we achieved last year, 2020 has brought to light new challenges and opportunities. As we look to the future, we realize we have much work to do to continue to grow on the health and humanitarian fronts. The coronavirus pandemic is still very much a threat at the time of this report, and a public health crisis of this stature will have lingering consequences for the world. The health and safety of our people, clients and communities will remain our top priority as we navigate through this challenging time. Also, I would be remiss not to acknowledge the unrest in the U.S., and the response from nations around the world, to the untimely death of George Floyd and many, many others who have fallen victim to systemic inequality and injustice. Our stated values of “We Are Inclusive” and “We Succeed Together” are at the front and center of what we believe in as a company, and as we take this time to listen and learn from our employees, we are simultaneously evaluating how we can take action to progress our company and industry. With that, I invite you to continue reading our 2019 CSR Report to learn more about our accomplishments and how we made an impact last year. Brett White Executive Chairman & CEO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 5 OUR RESPONSE TO THE CORONAVIRUS PANDEMIC Putting Our People First Joining Forces with Well Living Lab, The coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic has left Delos and Hines to Advance Returnan extraordinary impact on the world, and its To-Workplace Guidelines effects are still being realized across sectors As a Founding Alliance Member of the Well and industries. Our commitment during this Living Lab, a Delos and Mayo Clinic collaboration unprecedented time remains to our clients, and dedicated to researching the indoor environment’s to our 53,000 people who have worked tirelessly impact on human health, Cushman & Wakefield to continue to deliver exceptional service and supports the advancement of science to generate maintain essential operations in buildings we evidence-based findings through human-centered manage. We recognize all our employees for research to be used in practical ways to create their dedication, but especially those janitors, healthier spaces for people. tradespeople and building managers who put their lives at risk every time they left their houses While organizations all over the world tackle to ensure essential buildings were clean, safe and how to safely return their workforces to offices, operational during the pandemic. Well Living Lab aligned with Delos, Cushman & Wakefield and Hines to create a comprehensive In reinforcing our firm’s purpose statement, We plan to study the design and operation of make an impact, Cushman & Wakefield launched workspaces to help prevent the spread of a Global Employee Assistance Fund, part of a respiratory viruses. Cushman & Wakefield is $5 million commitment to employee assistance contributing its expertise in workplace strategy programs. Additionally, members of Cushman & and design practices, including protocols for Wakefield’s global management team have chosen maintaining physical distancing policies and other to voluntarily forgo a portion of their salaries in concepts for returning to offices. support of frontline employees, and all employees have been given the opportunity to make a charitable donation to the employee fund. Responding to the safety and financial relief of We’re pleased to continue our collaboration our employees during this pandemic puts into with Delos and the Well Living Lab as we action the words that define the Cushman & work together to promote a safe workplace as Wakefield culture: We make an impact. This offices reopen. Our clients are very interested is an opportunity to exemplify our purpose, in new workplace strategies that align with our values and our commitment to our people the science at the forefront of the fight against around the world. COVID-19. Despina Katsikakis Michelle MacKay Head of Workplace Chief Operating Officer Business Performance 6 | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Leading Recovery Readiness Cushman & Wakefield formed the Recovery It is vitally important to the health and Readiness Task Force (RRTF) to lead the safety of workers around the world that development of best practices, products and organizations take well thought through partnerships to prepare clients for post-COVID-19 precautions when introducing their recovery and the return to the workplace. The employees back to the workplace. Our RRTF released a comprehensive guide, accessible workplace experts, in conjunction with our on our website, for real estate tenants and top researchers, have created this guide landlords on reopening workplaces as areas to make this monumental migration from stabilize from the pandemic and stay-at-home home more approachable – with quick and restrictions are lifted. In creating the guide, customizable solutions that are cost-effective Cushman & Wakefield leveraged insights and best to implement and achieve health and safety practices from its early experience leading recovery objectives. readiness efforts in China, where we moved 10,000 companies and nearly a million workers back into John Forrester 800 million square feet of buildings we manage President and Executive through a joint venture with Vanke Service. The Chair of the RRTF recommended practices and protocols have already been implemented at locations across the globe with tremendous success, and the guide itself has been downloaded by thousands of organizations across sectors and industries. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 7 ABOUT THIS REPORT (102-46, 102-50, 102-52, 102-54, 102-56) This is our annual Corporate Social Responsibility Report, covering our global activities during 2019. Our intended audience for this report includes our employees, clients, investors and communities. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. In preparing this report, we have applied the GRI Reporting Principles for defining report content as well as quality. In this way, we believe we present both relevant and balanced information that is useful to all stakeholders. The information in this report includes quantitative data and examples of practice from the calendar year 2019, covering our operations around the globe. This report has not been externally assured but has been subject to rigorous internal reviews and checks. All monetary figures are expressed in U.S. dollars. ABOUT CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD (102-3, 102-4, 102-5, 102-6, 102-7, 102-8) Cushman & Wakefield (NYSE: CWK) is a leading global real estate services firm, headquartered in Chicago, that delivers exceptional value for real estate occupiers and owners. Cushman & Wakefield is among the largest real estate services firms with approximately 53,000 employees in 400 offices and 60 countries. In 2019, the firm had revenue of $8.8 billion across core services of property, facilities and project management, leasing, capital markets, valuation and other services. Our ordinary shares have been listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol “CWK” since August 2, 2018. To learn more, visit www.cushmanwakefield.com or follow @CushWake on Twitter. OUR BUSINESS 400 OFFICES $8.8B* 2019 REVENUE 53,000 EMPLOYEES (approx.) *USD (approx.) 60 COUNTRIES 4.1B SQUARE FEET (approx.) MANAGED 8 | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Cushman & Wakefield is organized into three geographic segments: the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA); and Asia Pacific (APAC). The Americas consists of operations located in the United States, Canada and key markets in Latin America. EMEA includes operations in the United Kingdom, France, Netherlands and other markets in Europe and the Middle East. APAC includes operations in Australia, Singapore, China and other markets in the Asia Pacific region. OUR PEOPLE AMERICAS APAC EMEA 32,500 14,500 6,000 EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES (approx.) (approx.) (approx.) 235 OFFICES 59 OFFICES 108 OFFICES (approx.) (approx.) (approx.) ORGANIZATIONAL CHANGES (102-10) In 2019, we continued to expand our global platform through infill M&A and strategic recruiting throughout the year. We completed five acquisitions in 2019, strengthening our service offerings and recurring revenue mix globally. Additionally, we formed a joint venture with Vanke Service, a Chinese facilities and property management leader, to provide services to local, regional and multi-national organizations in Greater China. This asset services company allows us to deliver better value for our clients and currently has more than 1,000 commercial property and facility management projects under management in over 80 cities across Greater China, with more than 20,000 employees. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 9 PURPOSE AND VALUES (102-16) Our Purpose WE MAKE AN IMPACT. Our work creates meaningful value for our clients, our business, our shareholders, our people, our communities and world. Our Values WE ARE INCLUSIVE. WE ARE DRIVEN. We value difference and a culture Drive keeps us decisive and where everyone belongs. agile. WE SUCCEED TOGETHER. WE DELIVER INSIGHT. Individually, we’re good, but We believe in ideas and strive together, we’re great. for innovation. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (102-18) Our Board of Directors is comprised of nine Directors, eight of whom are independent. Our Board of Directors has three committees: the Nominating & Corporate Governance Committee, the Compensation Committee and the Audit Committee. All of the committees share responsibility for environmental, social and governance decision-making (where relevant). 10 | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 SERVICES (102-2, 102-6) Fueled by ideas, expertise and dedication across borders and beyond service lines, we create real estate solutions to prepare our clients for what’s next. Occupier Services Investor Services We provide a full suite of services to occupiers We provide a full suite of services to real of real estate with needs ranging from localized estate investors with needs ranging from transactions to large global outsourcing localized transactions to regional and solutions. global portfolio advisory solutions. INDUSTRIES & SPECIALTIES Airports Global Supply Chain Net Lease Investment Automotive Government Not-for-Profit Banking/Financial Healthcare Ports & Intermodal Build-to-Suit Hospitality Rail Data Centers Industrial Retail eCommerce Land Technology Education Legal/Professional Third-Party Logistics (3PL) Energy (oil & gas) Life Sciences/Pharma Food & Beverage Multifamily CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 11 Cushman & Wakefield employees at our Chicago headquarters 12 | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 CSR HIGHLIGHTS $5M Continued commitment to United Nations Global Compact Launched the Global Employee Assistance Fund in 2020 as part of a $5 million commitment to Forbes America’s Best employee assistance programs for those Employers 2019 and Best impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic Employers for Diversity 2019 Named Best Place to Work for NEW HIRES TOTAL WORKFORCE LGBTQ+ Equality BOARD OF DIRECTORS for earning 100% 43% on Human Rights Campaign’s Women at 39% Corporate Equality Index Cushman & 40% Wakefield (2019) National Equality Standard in UK from Ernst & Young 2,600+ Research and Insights > $275M 4 spent with more than Cushman & Wakefield 2,300 offices certified to the diverse suppliers in the U.S. and Canada WELL Building Standard™ 138+ To date, led reduction in total Scope 1, 2, and 3 of LEED®, Fitwel®, WELL MSF emissions between and/or ENERGY STAR®2017 and 2019 certified space in the U.S. 300+ MSF of LEED® and/or ENERGY STAR®-certified space under management in the U.S. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 13 AWARDS & RECOGNITION America’s Best America’s Best Employers ENERGY STAR® Partner Employers 2019 for Diversity 2019 of the Year Sustained Forbes Forbes Excellence Award U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Best for Vets 2020 Military Friendly® World’s Top CRE Advisor Employers 2019 Employer and Consultant Military Times Silver Award Euromoney Top 2 Commercial Real Best Place to Work for IAOP’s The Global Estate Brand LGBTQ Equality Outsourcing 100® The Lipsey Company 100% on the Human Rights Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index Corporate Culture of International Ethics Safety Award Standards (IES) Coalition, National Safety Council Business Supporter 14 | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 CSR PRIORITIES UN Global Compact and Sustainable Development Goals (102-12) In 2015, the United Nations adopted a plan for achieving a better future for all by 2030, defining 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and 169 related targets as a universal call to action for all countries to work together to end poverty, protect the planet and improve the lives and prospects of everyone, everywhere. Businesses play a significant role in achieving these goals. When considering Cushman & Wakefield’s CSR priorities and how we make an impact, we aligned our approach with these international targets by identifying five of the 17 SDGs that have the most material relevance to our business and where we can make the greatest relative contribution. The SDG icons throughout this report indicate which sections are applicable to each goal. SDG DESCRIPTION In 2018, Cushman & Wakefield became a participant of the UN Global Compact, a Ensure healthy lives and promote voluntary initiative based on CEO commitments wellbeing for all at all ages to implement universal sustainability principles and to take steps to support UN goals. As the world's largest corporate sustainability initiative, Promote sustained, inclusive and the mandate of the UN Global Compact is to sustainable economic growth, full guide and support companies to align strategies and productive employment and and operations with ten principles in the areas decent work for all of human rights, labor, environment and anticorruption. Business participants are required Build resilient infrastructure, to communicate their progress to their own promote inclusive and sustainable stakeholders on an annual basis and to post a copy industrialization and foster on the UN Global Compact's website. This report innovation serves as our Communication on Progress. Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 15 Material Topics (102-46, 102-47, 102-49, 103-1) Cushman & Wakefield completed a comprehensive materiality assessment in 2017. In 2019, we updated our materiality assessment to reflect additional topics considered material to clients and investors after becoming a public company. We achieved this by engaging an external consultant; reviewing common Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) questions from clients, as well as other feedback from stakeholder engagement; and benchmarking topics disclosed by our peers. Based on these findings, we added six additional material topics to our 2019 report. Below is the final list of material topics, which was approved by company leadership: MATERIAL TOPIC DESCRIPTION BOUNDARY RELATED SDGs Indirect economic Greater good measures and initiatives Our business has indirect impacts on the impacts that indirectly benefit the world. economy and communities in which we work. Employment Professional opportunities and Our approach has a direct impact on employee benefits offered by our firm. employees within the firm. Training and Investment in our employees’ Our approach has a direct impact on education development and career progression. employees within the firm. Occupational health Initiatives to measure, manage and Our approach has a direct impact on and safety reduce safety incidents and protect employees within the firm, as well as clients employee health. and suppliers. Diversity and equal Opportunities for employees of Our approach has a direct impact on opportunity diverse backgrounds at all levels of our employees within the firm. business, especially women. Local communities Benefits delivered to local Through our business, we have the potential communities. to directly and indirectly impact the communities in which we work. Supplier social Prevention and mitigation of negative Through our approach, we have a direct assessment social impacts in the firm’s supply impact on our clients by ensuring ethical chain. practices. GHG emissions Greenhouse gas emissions resulting How we use resources within our operations from our operations. directly impacts the environment. Anti-corruption Business practices that serve to avoid Our anti-corruption and ethical business corruption, such as our Global Code of practices directly impact the reputation of Business Conduct. our firm within the business community. Energy* Energy used in our operations. How we use resources within our operations directly impacts the environment. Water* Water used in our operations. How we use resources within our operations directly impacts the environment. Effluents and Waste* Waste resulting from our operations. How we use resources within our operations directly impacts the environment. Environmental Complying with environmental laws Our compliance with laws and regulations compliance* and regulations. directly impacts the environment, as well as our business reputation. Human rights* Upholding human rights policies and Our human rights and anti-discrimination regulations. policies directly impact our employees and suppliers. Sustainability A commitment to advancing Our approach has a direct impact on our services* sustainability, human health and employees, clients and the communities in wellness in buildings and communities. which we work. *New material topics added in 2019 16 | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT (102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44) We engage with a wide variety of stakeholders to inform our corporate responsibility work and advance our company’s commitments. We define them as those individuals, groups or organizations who can influence or are affected by our business activities. They include shareholders, clients, employees, suppliers, industry associations, competitors, communities, governmental organizations, media and more. We interact with key stakeholder groups throughout the year in a number of ways, including quarterly earnings calls, town halls, client and employee satisfaction surveys, our employee intranet and industry events. Our key stakeholder groups are those who influence our business directly. KEY GROUPS THEIR EXPECTATIONS OUR RESPONSE TYPES OF ENGAGEMENT Employees Our employees expect a We provide an inclusive • Global employee Intranet friendly and productive workplace where employees • Global internal workplace that values their are encouraged to ask communications contributions and provides questions, provide feedback • Town halls opportunities for growth and and bring forward new ideas. development. See the section on Our Impact • Employee Engagement on People and Communities. Survey • Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) Clients Our clients want to be ahead Leveraging our global platform, • Global website of the curve when it comes to we continually strive to deliver • Client satisfaction surveys their real estate. They look to the best possible service and • Industry events us for forward-thinking advice solutions to our clients. See and solutions for how to best the section on Our Impact on • Client webinars maximize their operations in Clients. both the shortand long-term. Shareholders Our shareholders expect our Throughout the year, we • Quarterly earnings calls firm to not only deliver strong regularly communicate • Investor Relations website financial performance on directly or indirectly with our • Investor presentations and an annual basis, but to also shareholders on our financial events provide an excellent example and non-financial performance. of corporate and environmental See the section on Our Impact • Annual shareholder meeting stewardship. on Operations. • Annual Report Suppliers and We partner with suppliers and We engage with a diverse • Supplier Code of Conduct Vendors vendors who share the same range of suppliers, empowering • Supplier diversity initiatives values and principles that them to represent who we are we do. After all, they are an and what we believe in. See extension of our firm. the section on Our Impact on Operations. Communities and the As a corporate citizen, We engage with communities • Local community Environment Cushman & Wakefield plays and contribute to the wellbeing involvement / charity work an important role within local of individuals. We are a positive • Sponsorships and donations communities. Not only does steward of the environment • Cushman & Wakefield the firm enhance community and conserve resources where Charitable Foundation life, but it’s also accountable we can. See our sections on for delivering environmentally Our Impact on Operations and sustainable real estate Our Impact on People and solutions. Communities. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 17 OUR IMPACT ON OPERATIONS Cushman & Wakefield operates out of approximately 400 offices in 60 countries, with more than 53,000 employees serving clients worldwide. With such a large footprint, it’s critical that we work with integrity at all times, asking our employees to adhere to a rigorous Ethics and Compliance program year-round. Whether our focus is on human rights, health and safety, anti-corruption or supply chain management, we remain committed to consistently doing the right thing for our clients, employees and suppliers. It’s important we do the right thing for the environment as well. As such, we remain focused on continually measuring and managing environmental performance and practices in our operations and improving them over time. ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE As one of the world’s leading commercial real Global Ethics and Compliance Policies estate services firms, we hold ourselves to the highest standards of corporate integrity and Global Anti-Bribery & Corruption Policy strive to create a culture in which everyone acts Global Charitable Contributions and Sponsorships out of personal accountability for protecting our Policy business, our reputation, our commitments to our Board of Directors, our clients and all those Global Code of Business Conduct we serve. We aim to uphold all applicable laws Global Economic Sanctions Policy and regulations affecting our business around the world without exception and to uphold our Global Vendor/Supplier Integrity Policy own standards of ethical behavior. By protecting Global Conflicts of Interest Policy our industry-leading reputation, built over more than 100 years of working to robust standards Global Due Diligence Policy of compliance, ethics, and anti-bribery and Global Whistleblower Policy corruption, we are positioned to make an impact by helping our clients achieve what’s next. Global Client/Third Party Privacy & Confidentiality Policy Our global Ethics and Compliance program is Insider Trading Policy led by our Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer and supported by regional compliance professionals Code of Business Conduct for Members of the across the globe. Board of Directors Policy Concerning Related Party Transactions Ethical Policies and Practices Our Global Code of Business Conduct, published in UK Modern Slavery Act Policy several languages, defines the conduct expected of Global Workplace Privacy Policy all officers and employees of the company. Annual New policy developed in 2019, issued in 2020 online training and certification to the Global Code of Business Conduct is mandatory for all employees. The Code is updated annually, taking into account new considerations that arise during the year. We have several other policies in place that are revisited regularly and updated annually. 18 | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Human Rights (412-103, 412-1) Cushman & Wakefield respects human rights within Cushman & Wakefield respects the religious beliefs our company and throughout our supply chain. and practices of all employees and will make, on In 2020, we updated our Global Code of Business request, an accommodation for such observances Conduct to reflect how we promote human rights when a reasonable accommodation is available. by upholding the UN Global Compact in our Our teams around the world are championing business practices. We conduct business with workplace inclusion through the ongoing efforts integrity, honesty and transparency, and adhere to of ERGs. Learn more in the Our Impact on People the following principles: and Communities section of this report. > Provide safe, healthy and compliant working We recognize that there are indirect risks to human conditions rights through our supply chain. Employees and vendors/suppliers are expected to comply with our > Maintain awareness of and comply with all Global Vendor/Supplier Integrity Policy as well as applicable laws and regulations of the countries the Company’s Global Code of Business Conduct where we operate and the Company’s other policies and standards > Encourage a diverse workforce and provide a referenced within those policies. To date, we have workplace free from discrimination, harassment not been aware of any instances of slavery or or any form of abuse human trafficking in our business or supply chain. We maintain an external hotline where employees, > Treat employees fairly, including with respect to clients and third parties can report suspected wages, working hours and benefits slavery or human trafficking in our business or supply chain. > Prohibit all forms of forced or compulsory labor > Prohibit use of child labor Our employees are expected to treat others with dignity and respect at all times. We are committed to the prevention of harassment in our workplace and in all work-related settings. Such conduct, whether verbal, physical or visual, is prohibited. We do not tolerate acts of violence or physical intimidation, and threats of either are also prohibited. Retaliation of any kind against an employee making a good faith complaint of harassment is not tolerated. Employees engaging in retaliatory conduct will be subject to disciplinary action up to and including termination of employment. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 19 Communications and Training Protecting Personal Information In 2019, we increased employee engagement In 2019, we continued our risk-based approach through communications related to our Global in protecting the personal information we hold Compliance Portal, a one-stop-shop for compliance on behalf of our company, third parties and resources, and Charitable Giving Tool, an internal employees. We hired an EMEA Privacy Lead to online platform through which all charitable oversee and enhance our General Data Protection contributions and charity-related sponsorships Regulation (GDPR) program. In addition, we must be requested and approved. These kept an ear to the ground on the development compliance platforms increase the visibility of each of California Consumer Privacy Act regulations employee’s responsibilities as a corporate citizen. to ensure our practices are compliant and inline with industry standards. We also created a Our mandatory annual trainings are determined Global Workplace Privacy Policy, which describes after consideration of risk areas identified in the ways we handle and protect the personal compliance incident trends and various risk information of our staff members. assessments. In 2019, we launched the following mandatory trainings: Anti-Corruption • Code of Conduct (205-103, 205-1, 412-1) • Global Conflicts of Interest Cushman & Wakefield has zero-tolerance for • Business Courtesies corruption, bribery or extortion. Our new Global Charitable Contributions and Sponsorships • Anti-Corruption & Foreign Corrupt Practices Policy outlines our approach to being a good Act (FCPA): Focus on Red Flags, Third Parties corporate citizen; we never offer or accept gifts, and Due Diligence payments or hospitality to encourage or reward a decision. The policy is a key part of our AntiBribery & Corruption Program. Additionally, our Reporting Misconduct commitment to ethical business practices is upheld We encourage a culture where employees are by incorporating the principles of our Global Antiempowered to speak up to address potential Bribery & Corruption Policy in everyday business breaches of compliance or expected ethical transactions. conduct. We urge employees to report concerns and do not tolerate acts of retaliation against We do not authorize, tolerate or get involved in those who do. Confidential reports can be made to any business practice – even if it is “customary” local management, a regional legal or compliance in a particular jurisdiction – that does not comply officer, human resources managers or through our with our Global Anti-Bribery & Corruption Policy global 24/7 multilingual Ethics Hotline. and applicable laws. To the extent any applicable law requires standards that are stricter than the requirements of this policy, the stricter standards are followed. 20 | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Our business activities are subject to a number of laws that prohibit various forms of corruption, including local laws that prohibit both commercial and governmental bribery and anti-bribery laws that have a global reach, such as the FCPA and the UK Bribery Act. Additionally, our business activities are subject to various economic and trade sanctions programs and import and export control laws, including (without limitation) the economic sanctions rules and regulations administered by the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control, which prohibit or restrict transactions or dealings with specified countries and territories, their governments, and in certain circumstances, their nationals, as well as with individuals and entities that are targeted by list-based sanctions programs. We maintain written policies and procedures and implement anti-corruption and anti-money laundering compliance programs, as well as programs designed to enable us to comply with applicable economic and trade sanctions programs and import and export control laws. Through our Enterprise Risk Management Program, we maintain a systematic, disciplined approach to evaluating and improving the effectiveness of governance, internal controls and risk management processes throughout our global operations. We carry out annual Global Enterprise Risk Assessments which include corruption risk. See our 2019 Form 10-K, pp. 13 – 14 for more information on risks related to corruption. Additionally, all of our global operations are subject to internal and supplier policies that cover human rights, such as our Global Code of Business Conduct and Global Procurement Policy. Cushman & Wakefield in Greater China completed a rigorous audit by Standard Global Services (SGS), an internationally recognized inspection, verification, testing, and certification body, and was awarded SGS’ first ISO 37001 Anti-Bribery Management Systems Certificate in China’s real estate industry. The certificate marks the recognition of Cushman & Wakefield’s efforts to create an honest, clean and transparent business environment both internally and externally by a trustworthy third-party institution. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 21 SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (102-9, 102-10, 414-103, 414-1) Our global supply chain is comprised of thousands Supplier Diversity and Inclusion of suppliers and vendors of goods, services A key element of maintaining an ethical supply and equipment for our primarily office-based base is our focus on inclusion. We aim to improve operations, supporting our facilities management diversity across the Cushman & Wakefield supply activities through C&W Services. Due to the nature chain based on five key elements: of these operations, most of our procurement is local. We did not undergo any significant changes > Supplier identification to our supply chain in 2019. > Performance management We respect human rights throughout our supply > Development & mentoring chain and strive to engage with suppliers that are aligned with our values and principles and uphold > Outreach high standards of business integrity and ethical conduct. This minimizes risk to our business and > Continuous improvement is important for our clients, who are increasingly demanding transparency about our supply chain activity. We engage with our suppliers on matters relating to social and environmental sustainability, ensuring they understand and comply with our In 2019, we spent more than $275 Global Vendor/Supplier Integrity Policy, which million with more than 2,300 sets out our expectations in the areas of business diverse suppliers in the U.S and integrity, labor practices, health and safety, Canada. environmental management, and anti-bribery and corruption. We screen suppliers to the best of our ability for social standards through confirmation of compliance with our Global Vendor/Supplier Integrity Policy. In 2020, we intend to implement a new supplier onboarding program that will enable us to improve tracking of supplier compliance and collect more data, such as information relative to supplier sustainability practices. 22 | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Diverse suppliers by type in 2019 in Diverse supplier spend in 2019 the U.S. and Canada in the U.S. and Canada MBE 11% MBE 23% WBE Small 21% 44% Small 64% VET WBE 4% 28% VET 5% MBE: Minority Business Enterprise WBE: Women’s Business Enterprise VET: Veteran-owned Business Small: Small Business Note: Over time, we have improved data collection around our supply chain and are now able to report supplier information and spend more comprehensively compared to previous years. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 23 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE (102-11, 302-103, 303-103, 305-103, 306-103, 307-103) Cushman & Wakefield is committed to being a responsible steward of the environment. As a global real estate services firm largely operating in leased office space, our direct environmental impacts are primarily due to office energy and water consumption, business travel, and waste generation. Our Global Environmental Policy defines our commitments to environmental responsibility. We adhere to the precautionary principle and seek to identify all environmental risks and opportunities associated with our business including climate change and resource depletion. We aim to conduct our operations and deliver our products and services with the highest standard of environmental care and social responsibility, and strive for continual improvement. We manage our energy use, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, water withdrawals, waste generation and environmental compliance by: > Collecting measured performance data where available for our operations globally > Monitoring resource use at our facilities > Calculating and disclosing our annual resource consumption and GHG emissions > Communicating our environmental performance to our stakeholders > Providing education and training to employees on environmental management topics All suppliers and subcontractors are expected to operate in an environmentally responsible manner and adhere to applicable environmental standards. Certain locations are managed through a formal ISO 14001-certified environmental management system (EMS). 24 | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Energy and Greenhouse Gas Emissions We support global efforts to mitigate the effects Environment Rating System (NABERS), Fitwel® of climate change and work to reduce our energy and the WELL Building Certification. As part of consumption and resulting GHG emissions across our corporate standard, we consider energy and our global offices and activities. sustainability best practices, such as, regularly purchasing ENERGY STAR® equipment for our We consume energy and generate direct GHG offices. emissions (Scope 1) through stationary and mobile fuel combustion and indirect GHG emissions Through our partnership with BuildingOS software (Scope 2) through purchased energy at our provider Lucid, Cushman & Wakefield collects office facilities. Additionally, we calculate other building energy data through an online platform we indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) associated with call ES Edge. We utilize this platform to model each employee business travel (commercial air and rail), Cushman & Wakefield building, collect available certain extraction, production, and distribution utility bill data, and calculate the associated losses due to fueland energy-related activities carbon emissions. ES Edge also uses utility bill and waste generated in operations. data to identify potential energy and cost savings opportunities. We intend to start collecting water Over the past several years, while our global and waste data through ES Edge in the future. footprint has grown as we have expanded our business internationally, we have significantly We account for Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions improved our energy and emissions efficiency across all of our global operationally controlled through ongoing improvements in energy controls, owned and leased operations. This includes all full real estate consolidation efforts, installation service and operating lease locations where the of energy-efficient appliances, and employee energy utilities are inclusive of rent obligations education and behavioral change. Where feasible, and/or not specifically metered for our operations. we occupy offices that are certified under a For these operations, where purchased energy sustainability rating system such as ENERGY activity data is unavailable, we apply industry best STAR®, Leadership in Energy and Environmental practice methodologies for estimation. Design (LEED®), National Australian Built CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 25 Energy Consumption (302-1, 302-3) In 2019, our offices consumed approximately 349,827 gigajoules (GJ) of direct and purchased energy, including electricity, steam, cooling and natural gas—a 28% decrease from 2017. We also consumed 157,036 GJ of fuel from our mobile sources—a 6% increase from 2017. Total Energy Consumption 700,000 700,000 Total Energy Consumption (GJ) Total Energy Consumption (GJ) 600,000 600,000 500,000 500,000 400,000 400,000 300,000 300,000 200,000 200,000 100,000 100,000 0 0 2017 2018 2017 2019 2018 2019 Electricity Transportation Fuel Natural Electricity Fuel Steam Gas Heating Transportation Cooling Natural Gas Heating Steam Cooling In 2019, Cushman & Wakefield’s global average office energy use intensity (EUI), measured as total office energy consumption per square foot, was 22.6 kWh/sq.ft./year, which represents a slight increase from 2018 and nearly 18% reduction from 2017. Office OfficeEnergy Energy Intensity byRegion Intensity by Region (kWh/sq.ft./year) (kWh/sq.ft./year) Latin America 9.9 10.1 Greater China 22.0 21.0 EMEA 23.7 24.0 Asia Pacific 21.1 20.3 Nor th Amer ica 22.5 23.8 TOTAL 22.1 22.6 0 5 10 15 20 25 2018 2019 Note: Office energy intensity per region is not available for 2017 26 | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 GHG Emissions (305-1, 305-2, 305-3) In 2019, Cushman & Wakefield’s operations emitted approximately 65,688 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO₂e) Scope 1, Scope 2, and Scope 3 GHG emissions. This represents an absolute 3% increase in total emissions compared to 2018. Between 2017 and 2019, Cushman & Wakefield achieved: > 10% absolute reduction in total Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions > 24% reduction in total Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions per employee > 4% reduction in total Scope 1 and 2 emissions per million square feet of office space Total GHG Emissions Total GHG Emissions 80,000 70,000 60,000 50,000 tCO2e 40,000 30,000 20,000 10,000 0 2017 2018 2019 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 2019 GHG Emissions by Type 1% 4% Facility Purchased Energy 10% Mobile Sources 13% 42% Business Travel Air Upstream Energy Emissions Facility Natural Gas 14% Waste Generated in Operations 16% Business Travel Rail CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 27 Water and Waste (303-1, 303-2, 303-3, 306-2) Waste is generated at Cushman & Wakefield In 2019, we generated a total of approximately offices and water is withdrawn for consumption 4,025 short tons of non-hazardous waste in our by employees and visitors. In 2019, we began office buildings, of which we estimate a total of estimating our waste generation and water approximately 266 short tons that was recycled or consumption across all of our global operationally diverted from landfill disposal. None of our offices controlled owned and leased operations. Because generate hazardous waste. the majority of Cushman & Wakefield offices are leased and we are often co-located with other Water is consumed through irrigation, cooling tenants, it is challenging to obtain actual resource and in office kitchen areas and restrooms. In data. Therefore, our water and waste data is based 2019, Cushman & Wakefield offices withdrew an on regional industry averages per square foot for estimated total of approximately 89.4 million large office buildings. We intend to put systems ingallons of water from third-party municipal place to collect actual data in the future wherever suppliers and utilities. Cushman & Wakefield feasible. has not identified any substantive water-related impacts associated with our activities so have not engaged stakeholders to manage water as a shared Total Waste Generation and Diversion Total Waste Generation and Diversion resource. Wastewater is properly discharged to 6000 municipal treatment facilities, in accordance with 5000 local and national rules and standards. 4000 Short tons 3000 2000 Environmental Compliance 1000 (307-1) 0 2017 2018 2019 Cushman & Wakefield did not receive any Waste Generated Waste Diverted material fines or non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws or regulations in 2019. Total Water Withdrawls Total Water Withdrawls 120,000,000 99,789,814 100,000,000 90,601,414 89,376,519 80,000,000 Gallons 60,000,000 40,000,000 20,000,000 0 2017 2018 2019 28 | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Reducing Single-Use Items in the UK Our Cushman & Wakefield operations in the UK have undertaken several initiatives within the last year to reduce office waste. In 2018, we partnered with CupClub a returnable packing service for drinks aimed at eliminating single-use cups, to pilot the service at our Old Broad Street office. CupClub was introduced to our Portman Square Office in 2019, with all other Cushman & Wakefield offices in the UK switching to ceramic cups. This has contributed to achieving a 70% recycling rate across our UK offices in 2019. Our Old Broad Street, Portman Square and King William Street offices have successfully eliminated all single-use plastic cups and utensils, and send zero waste to landfills. Both Old Broad Street and King William Street offices recently received a Platinum Clean City Award from the City of London Corporation. This award recognizes businesses in the city who have demonstrated best practices in environmental management at their offices, with a focus on eliminating single-use items. This award is a notable achievement and highlights our ongoing commitment to becoming more sustainable as a business. At a time of a global climate emergency it’s important that Cushman & Wakefield demonstrates leadership on reducing our own environmental impact. This award is testimony to the hard work team members across the firm are putting into reducing this impact. Andrew Baker Head of Energy, Infrastructure and Sustainability CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 29 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY (403-103) Providing a safe workplace that protects our This is supported by maintaining regular employees from safety risks and hazards is an communications with all colleagues and making ongoing priority for Cushman & Wakefield. To safety resources easily accessible to employees ensure this, we remain committed to acting through a single online global platform. in accordance with all applicable safety laws, All of our HSSE management systems are regulations and our own stringent safety standards aligned with ISO or equivalent standards. Our UK in all of our locations around the globe. In turn, we and Singapore offices are now certified under expect our employees to perform their work safely, ISO45001. Our offices in Australia and New observing all safety policies and procedures, and Zealand are certified AS/NZS 4801-2001 and parts we support and encourage our employees to speak of Asia are certified OHSAS 18001. up to ensure potential safety hazards are identified and eliminated. Cushman & Wakefield is also committed to providing learning opportunities to all our Although our Health, Safety, Security and employees and professionals focusing on our Environment (HSSE) program is regionally based, legislative obligations and those environments and we provide and maintain a set of global HSSE tasks that have a higher level of risk. We partner guidelines which set out our minimum expectations with online HSSE training providers around the around managing high risk activities that assist us world with the capacity to deliver content in local in responding to the needs and requirements of languages; selecting those whose course libraries various countries and businesses in a consistent contain relevant, up-to-date content and the way. Our 360° HSSE Model is based on shared capability to assign, deliver and track employee responsibility, collaboration and accountable training. Employee training records are immediately leadership. Led by a global HSSE team, in line with accessible by Cushman & Wakefield managers and our global HSSE policies, we strive for continuous demonstrate compliance with prescribed training improvement in safety performance by focusing on requirements. In 2019, GOS and Asset Services regular hazard identification and risk assessments employees completed over 50,000 courses, on the environments we work in and the tasks we while C&W Services employees in the U.S. and perform. Canada completed 118,439 training sessions. India employees and managed contractors completed 25,780 training sessions in 2019. 30 | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Injury Rates (403-2) Our global HSSE team tracks injury and illness rates per region. Accidents are reported in accordance with regional policies and legislative requirements, which vary from region to region. Some report via phone, others through email and some through an online accident reporting system. Employees LOST-TIME INJURY FREQUENCY RATE TOTAL RECORDABLE CASE FREQUENCY (LTIFR) RATE (TRCFR) Per 200,000 hours Per 200,000 hours 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 North 0.94 0.79 0.8 1.97 1.83 1.91 America South 1.07 1.13 1.58 1.58 1.38 1.88 America APAC 0.11 0.31 0.26 0.19 0.41 0.4 Greater 0.17 0.09 0.16 0.17 0.09 0.16 China EMEA 0.04 0.03 0.05 0.17 0.12 0.16 GLOBAL 0.32 0.39 0.45 0.62 0.82 0.88 Notes: • Data includes both direct employees and contractors managed by Cushman & Wakefield. Injury rates reported by region and not by gender. • The recorded Occupational Disease Rate (ODR) for the last three years has been zero. • Workplace recordable injuries/illnesses are Lost Time Injuries (LTIs) plus Medical Treatment Injuries (MTIs). • Common types of injuries include superficial injuries, open wounds, dislocations, strains, sprains and fractures primarily resulting from body stress, slips, trips and falls. • There have been no fatalities recorded over the past three years. SAFETY AWARDS • Singapore: SBS Transit Rail Contractor Safety Day Award (Bronze) 2019 • Singapore: BCA Green Mark Platinum Award • Singapore: 2019 bizSAFE Partner Award • India: Helmet of Honour Award for the month of March (2019) • United States: National Safety Council (NSC) Corporate Culture of Safety Award CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 31 OUR IMPACT ON CLIENTS (203-103, 203-2) BUILDING THE FUTURE OF REAL ESTATE Our clients rely on us to help them navigate the ever-changing landscape of commercial real estate. Whether it’s keeping up with new technologies, trends or work preferences, there’s so much to stay on top of in order to stay competitive and relevant in today’s fast-paced world. It’s also critical for attracting and retaining top talent. Today’s employees want to work for a company that is not only focused on its environmental footprint, but also on providing a workplace that promotes the health and wellbeing of its employees. In this section, we share some of the ways in which we added sustainable value in real estate last year by helping our clients go green, embedding sustainable practices throughout their portfolios, enhancing the way people live and work, and helping them prepare for what’s next in their real estate cycles. Investing in the Future of Real Estate through Research Cushman & Wakefield’s research teams around KEEPING OCCUPIERS AND INVESTORS the world make an impact by producing timely ON THE EDGE OF WHAT’S NEXT insights, thought leadership, market briefings and webinars that cover emerging trends and E-scooter sentiment by city 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Cities are faced with some challenges that have arisen from the increasing popularity of micro-mobility. One major concern for cities is the number of dockless e-scooters piling up on sidewalks, leading some to add developments in the industry and economy. In Atlanta 79% 21% designated parking for e-scooters to alleviate congestion. Austin 76% 24% For example, in-street zones have been created for Denver 76% 24% dockless e-scooters and bikes in Santa Monica, California. Chicago 75% 25% And, in Washington D.C., street corrals have been created by repurposing on-street parking spaces. Washington D.C. 72% 28% Los Angeles 71% 29% Additionally, some cities are managing increased San Jose 69% 31% congestion by turning to geofencing, a virtual perimeter Seattle 68% 32% that limits where scooters can be driven and parked. Micro-mobility New York City 67% 33% In San Jose, California, geofencing is being considered San Francisco 52% 48% to deactivate scooters when they’re on sidewalks and reactivate when they are in bike lanes. In Santa Monica, Positive view Negative view Bird, an e-scooter sharing company, created a speed zone 2019, we continued to enhance our research mania that geo-speeds scooters down to a maximum speed of 8 Source: Cushman & Wakefield Research, Populus mph (from 15 mph) on beach bike paths . Cities have begun implementing rules to regulate operators in their markets, which has resulted in a new source of revenue generation for municipalities. Some of these regulations have resulted in permits and/or licensing fees, with others including per trip and per vehicle fees. Relocation and vehicle impoundments have resulted in some hefty fines. Micro-mobility: Generally refers to single occupant Despite the various complications that e-scooter sharing modes of transportation such as bikes has brought to some cities, the public views them as a coverage of impactful topics by publishing more viable alternative for short-distance travel. According to a and electric scooters (e-scooters). recent Populus survey of more than 7,000 individuals in 11 cities, support for micro-mobility is strong with more than 70 percent of those surveyed having a favorable opinion. E-scooters and bikes, referred to as micro-mobility, Other forms of transportation, including bikes, ridesharing are reshaping transportation in cities around the and public transit, garner approximately 50 percent world. The future of transit is filled with lightweight positive consumer sentiment on average, illustrating the electric vehicles giving people the ability to travel popularity of e-scooters. and move quickly and cheaply. Micro-mobility is one of the fastest growing transportation trends in recent history in terms of adoption. Bike sharing has grown at more than a 14 percent compound annual growth rate (CAGR) over the last than 2,600 research publications, which are readily five years. However, the adoption of e-scooters has surpassed this—capturing 3.6 percent market share¹ in the almost 150 U.S. cities where they operate since their launch in late 2017. Both have disrupted ridesharing services for short trips, which isn’t surprising since 46 percent of car trips in urban areas are less than three miles¹, and micro-mobility options are often more convenient than taxis, public transportation or walking. They can also be cheaper—Quartz estimates that an e-scooter ride is $3 to $4 cheaper per ride for a oneto two-mile trip² compared to a ridesharing accessible on our website. trip³. 6 THE EDGE * All dollar amounts listed are in USD. 1 Based on percentage of people who use the service 2 “Shared Mobility in the U.S.: 2018”, (April 2019), www.nacto.org, accessed April 2019 3 According to a November 28, 2018 interview of David Estrada, a top policy expert from Bird by Governing.com. 4 THE EDGE We also publish The Edge Magazine, Cushman & Micromobility Wakefield’s global publication featuring innovative Learn more about one of the fastest thought leadership on the latest trends impacting growing transportation trends in recent history in terms of adoption. real estate occupiers and investors, authored by our own subject matter experts.* *The information and outlooks contained in these reports Industrial warehouse & distribution reflect the state of the economy and markets in 2019, and do Third-party logistics providers (3PLs) have long provided shared services and expertise needed to assist companies with warehousing and distribution needs. New companies, such as FLEXE, have emerged over the past few years to provide different types of flexibility Coeverything and cost savings for tenants in the ecommerce fulfillment, retail distribution, inventory and overflow space. Property type: Industrial not represent current forecasts. Visit cushmanwakefield.com Lifecycle: Mature B L U R R I N G T H E B O U N D A R I E S O F M I X E D U S E S PA C E S Server & cloud storage The data center industry continues to The boundaries of space and use are blurred as we live in an increasingly use colocation as a model, in which “coeverything” world. The sharing economy has eliminated market companies can lease space and services for their computing needs inefficiencies while providing cost savings for consumers and tapping alongside other enterprises with similar into the demand for increased access. The shorter-term sharing of homes, requirements. These arrangements music and vehicles are bleeding into slightly longer-term sharing of offices, reduce costs for clients while removing retail space and apartments—representing shifts in consumer habits and for the latest insights and thought leadership. the hassle of managing the bulk of their IT services (see article on page 20, “Data varying degrees of disruption. centers: from niche to mainstream”). Property type: Data Center Lifecycle: Mature Pop-up shops In an increasingly digital world, pop-up shops are an avenue for online brands Coeverything has furthered to dip into physical store space. It is Food halls beneficial for small business operators Food halls, the coeverything dining the evolution of the mixedhoping to build an in-person connection solution, allow for sharing amenities like use trend by providing with new customers and for larger eating areas and kitchens. These marketflexible options for companies who want to temporarily style hubs offer convenience and higher integrating complementary occupy space in high-traffic locations. traffic to food service providers in an Additionally, pop-ups can help industry where the median lifespan of a uses at a single site. Quite established brands efficiently test new restaurant with five or fewer employees literally, the walls between concepts or build public relations buzz. is between 3.75 and 4.5 years overall.⁶ living, working, traveling and Property type: Retail Property type: Retail (dining) shopping are breaking down, Lifecycle: Growth Lifecycle: Growth delivering customizable operations for customers, occupiers and investors. DESPINA KATSIKAKIS JOSH KURILOFF Head of Occupier Business Executive Vice Chairman Performance Global Advisory Board despina.katsikakis@cushwake.com josh.kuriloff@cushwake.com 6 “Only the Bad Die Young: Restaurant Mortality in the Western US.” DAVID C. SMITH CAITLIN SIMON Vice President, Americas Head Managing Director 35 of Occupier Research Investor Services david.smith4@cushwake.com caitlin.simon@cushwake.com SUSAN TJARKSEN KRISTINA GARCIA Managing Director Associate Director, Capital Multifamily Advisory Group Markets Multifamily Research susan.tjarksen@cushwake.com kristina.garcia@cushwake.com 32 THE EDGE Coeverything Explore how the boundaries of space and use are blurred as we live in an increasingly “coeverything” world. 32 | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 TOP 2019 CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD RESEARCH CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD RESEARCH The U.S. yield curve is once again causing angst, but the worries there too, are likely overdone. The spread between EXECUTIVE the U.S. 10-year and the 3-month Treasury yield was inverted for most of May and the first half of June. This of BENEFITS OF COWORKING course makes investors uncomfortable because an inverted yield curve has proven to be a reliable predictor of past What are the main benefits of recessions. In fact, since 1970, the yield curve has inverted seven times and every time this has been followed by a SUMMARY recession, at various lags. This track record in predicting recessions is second to none, which is why it is attracting so implementing coworking as part of a much attention in the financial markets. CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD RESEARCH company’s real estate portfolio? However, the recent curve inversion is occurring for reasons that are quite different than ones that have signaled recessions in the past. Typically, recessions occur because of the Fed’s efforts to address an economy that is overheating or showing signs that it may soon do so. With core inflation still well below 2% and trending lower, there is very little evidence indicating the U.S. economy is overheating, or is at the cusp of doing so. More likely, the recent inversion is due to other factors, such as a flight to quality in financial markets (e.g., U.S. bonds) due to the trade disGlobal Macro Forecast: Benefits by Current Coworking Usage Benefits by Overall Perceptions of Coworking pute and slowing global growth. It is unlikely that the current inversion is signaling an imminent recession. Moreover, the current state of the yield curve does provide opportunities for investors to reengineer their debt, switching out Still Good, PERCEPTIONS of shorter-term debt and locking in more longer-term debt at lower rates. As we look ahead to the second half of the year and to 2020, certainly there are downside risks which we will conJust Not As Good tinue to monitor. But there is also compelling evidence that the economic fundamentals are not the source of any OF COWORKING No, not currently using coworking Yes, currently using coworking Negative / Very negative Neutral Positive / Very positive risks to the outlook. Indeed, assuming policy missteps do not derail momentum, the IMF projects global growth will June 2019 improve in the second half of 2019 and return to 3.6% in 2020. Few analysts, if any, are calling for a global downturn to occur anytime soon. The economic expansion, which in the U.S. will officially be the longest on record come 70% 40% this July will in all probability continue to move forward. Overall, the global backdrop is still pretty good, just not as Executive Summary good. And property markets have performed just fine when growth was “good but not great’’—this time shouldn’t be • Global economic growth has downshifted. Real GDP is projected to grow by 3.3% in 2019—still reasonable, 60% any different. but a big pullback from the close to 4% growth registered at the peak in 2017. 30% 50% • Demand metrics for property also slowed in Q1 2019 but remained positive; vacancy is holding steady and rents are appreciating across most product types and geographies. 40% 20% • While slowdowns are uncomfortable, they are necessary; there are also benefits. REAL ESTATE Kevin Thorpe Rebecca Rockey 30% Chief Economist, Global Head of Research Economist, Americas Head of Forecasting • Although the U.S.-China trade dispute has taken a turn for the worse, there are economic incentives kevin.thorpe@cushwake.com rebecca.rockey@cushwake.com CRE EXECUTIVE PERSPECTIVES to get a deal done in short order. COSTS 20% Connect on Twitter and on LinkedIn Connect on Twitter and on LinkedIn 10% • The U.S. yield curve is causing angst again, but the recent inversion is occurring for reasons that are quite differ10% ON COWORKING ent than ones that have signaled recessions in the past. A U.S. recession is not imminent. 0% 0% • Assuming no major policy missteps, the global expansion will continue; property markets have proven they perform just fine when growth is “good but not great.” Ability to quickly Reduced real Attracts / retains Networking with HOW AND WHY Attracts employees FLEXIBLE / retainsTHE Improved efficiency of employees WORKPLACE Increased employee engagement / MATTERS ramp portfolio up / estate costs employees other companies / The global economy has cooled and, by extension, so too have the property markets. The combination of fading fiscal down employees satisfaction stimulus in the U.S., escalating trade tensions, tighter credit policies in China, four rate hikes by the Federal Reserve in About Cushman & Wakefield 2018 and Brexit uncertainty has contributed to the slowdown. Trade is slowing this year, as is investment and global Cushman & Wakefield (NYSE: CWK) is a leading global real estate services firmconsumption. Real global GDP is projected to grow by 3.3% in 2019—a still reasonably solid rate but slower than the WORKFORCE COMPANIES NOT CURRENTLY UTILIZING COWORKING RESPONDENTS WITH POSITIVE VIEWS OF COWORKING ARE that delivers exceptional value for real estate occupiers and owners. Cushman 3.6% growth in 2018. It feels much slower than the near-4% growth registered in 2017. ARE MORE LIKELY TO SEE TALENT ATTRACTION AND MORE LIKELY TO SEE OPPORTUNITIES TO INCREASE TALENT & Wakefield is among the largest real estate services firms with approximately 51,000 employees in 400 offices and 70 countries. In 2018, the firm had None of these developments are overly alarming or even fully RETENTION, ENGAGEMENT AND EFFICIENCY. UTILIZATION NETWORKING AS BENEFITS. revenue of $8.2 billion across core services of property, facilities and project unexpected. Slowdowns happen and many of these risks Synchronized Slowdown management, leasing, capital markets, valuation and other services. To learn to the outlook have been on the horizon for some time. The REAL GDP GROWTH, Y/Y % CHANGE more, visit www.cushmanwakefield.com or follow @CushWake on Twitter. U.S.-China trade dispute is a concern, but even on that front most would agree there are clear economic incentives for 8.0 8 a speedy resolution. Importantly, the underlying economic 7.0 fundamentals that drive demand for property remain healthy. 6.0 Most notably, job growth remains steady. The global econo5.0 my is tracking to create close to 29 million net new jobs this year. That will translate into 79,000 new jobs per day and 4.0 © 2019 Cushman & Wakefield. All rights reserved. The information contained within this report is gathered from multiple sources believed to be reliable. another 250 million square feet (msf) of office absorption in 3.0 The information may contain errors or omissions and is presented without any warranty or representations as to its accuracy. markets around the world. We can double that figure on the 2.0 industrial-logistics side. It is unlikely that businesses would be 1.0 expanding at this rate if the global economy weren’t still in EXECUTIVE SUMMARY PERCEPTIONS OF REAL ESTATE COSTS WORKFORCE reasonably good shape. 0.0 China Singapore Canada Eurozone Australia United States Japan United COWORKING UTILIZATION So yes, the global economy has slowed—and yes, it’s still 2017 2018 2019 2020 Kingdom good, just not as good. Source: IMF, Cushman & Wakefield Research Global Macro Forecast | June 2019 cushmanwakefield.com 2019 Coworking Report Global Macro Forecast This report reveals corporate This report analyzes multiple factors perceptions of the value of flexible contributing to economic slowdown and workspace and coworking strategies. what they mean for property markets around the world. Within the urban environment, successful instil a sense of purpose in China. By real estate projects today are not just utilising this approach, the planning and about bricks, mortar, glass, metal and management of urban public spaces can other building materials. Successful real then be performed by an inclusive group estate projects, whether they are projects who encourages social capital, shared globally or in China, are about people. values, a sense of ownership and a more They are about people in general across all enhanced experience of the place and the Outlook 2020 Demographics generations. They are also about people city as a whole by urban citizens around and where they want to spend more time the region. in, whether it’s working, shopping, visiting or living. As for office space, and in particular, • FOCUS on the development/ regeneration of schemes that no smart office buildings, in the future, these longer align with the demographic Influenced by people, real estate-associated buildings will not just be about energy profile of an area. Designed for dense urban centres and adapted features, such as design, technology, and sustainability targets. Smart office to different age profiles and organised activities, etc., all combine to buildings will also enjoy a prolonged diverse cultural backgrounds. ARE YOU play a key role in encouraging individuals effective economic lifespan. In the future, to stay in/use a real estate project in a city smart office buildings in China will also • PROVIDE office space and residential units as a package to large occupiers, a little longer, whether it be: form a virtuous circle by establishing and facilitating the attraction of new talent. providing platforms to further push the ο Urban public space; user/visitor experience via the greater EXPERIENCED? • IDENTIFY AND RETHINK redundant ο Office space; inter-sharing and analysis of real estateassets (car parking, fuel-filling stations, non-performing retail galleries) and related information and data. What’s WHAT ο Retail space; adapt them to demographically driven more, to augment the office workplace requirements: last mile logistics, click & ο Industrial Logistics space; collect, flexible office space, micro living. experience, companies in China will see ο Hotel space, or; office workplace design, office workplace • CONCENTRATE on residential space ο Residential space. technology and office workplace wellness for the middle-income population, YOU and wellbeing as being high corporate priorities as they try to stay ahead of the DEMOGRAPHIC adapted to the increasingly smaller households and to different age groups. When considering urban public space, Develop the micro living concept. a ‘place-led’ placemaking approach will curve in terms of business competition. Promote diversity of residential property at affordable prices. NEED • ALIGN private-sector developments with placemaking, creating welldesigned public spaces and successful real estate projects ensure the development accounts for differing expectations that are prevalent TO across the demographic spectrum. KNOW 8 Real estate has not kept pace with changing demographics 6 Part 1 Executive summary CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD GREATER CHINA China’s RESEARCH ‘New’ Economy Smart, Sharing and Green 1 Experiential Real Estate in China Outlook 2020 Learn how real estate-associated From the EMEA Research & Insight team, features such as design, technology and this report addresses the key challenges and organized activities all combine to play opportunities that will define the future of a key role in how individuals experience European commercial real estate. different settings. Tech Disruptor Series Cushman & Wakefield’s four-part series explores technologies that have the most potential impact to disrupt CRE. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 33 Staying Ahead of the Technology Curve Cushman & Wakefield has joined forces with innovative companies, startup accelerators and venture capital firms as part of our strategy to ensure our capabilities evolve as quickly as the technologies transforming our industry. Our investment in cuttingedge PropTech, or real estate technology, through these relationships provides us with invaluable insights that enable us to better advise our clients on how to manage their properties. In 2019, we continued to collaborate with leading organizations. SALTMINE In June, we announced a collaboration with Saltmine, a San Francisco-based software-as-a-service startup that provides design data technology for the commercial real estate industry. Through the use of cutting-edge A.I. planning and 3-D space visualization technology, the Saltmine platform enables Cushman & Wakefield professionals to quickly create space plans, test fits and conduct virtual tours of potential workspaces, providing clients with a new way to visualize and plan their current or future workspace. This collaboration puts clients in the driver’s seat, allowing them to make faster, betterinformed decisions about their workspace. For more information, visit Saltmine. We’re committed to identifying and working FIFTH WALL with organizations that can help us develop In July, we announced our strategic partnership with the next generation of technology solutions for our clients, our colleagues and the built Fifth Wall, the world’s largest venture capital firm environment. We believe we’ve found great focused on technology solutions for the global real partners, and together, we can help put estate industry. Fostering collaboration between Cushman & Wakefield’s clients at the center innovative technologies for the of some of the most innovative technology built world and industry-leading solutions in our industry. incumbents from all sectors of the real estate industry, Fifth Wall’s Adam Stanley second fund, which includes Cushman & Wakefield, Chief Information Officer & is one of the largest real estate venture capital funds Chief Digital Officer raised to date, closing at $503 million. For more information, visit Fifth Wall. 34 | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 ADDING SUSTAINABLE VALUE IN REAL ESTATE At Cushman & Wakefield, we believe that property We are actively advising clients in the following should be sustainable. As such, we are fully areas: committed to reducing our own and our clients’ > ESG, carbon and wellbeing strategy, target environmental impact across the property lifecycle. setting and implementation We have three internal sustainability teams in place to help us get there: our Energy/Resource > Energy efficiency opportunity identification, Management team; our Asset Services and projects and emissions reduction programs Property Management team; and our Corporate Sustainability Solutions team. > Net zero carbon buildings and strategies In addition to reducing environmental impacts, > Science based targets sustainable portfolios also have significant > Green procurement commercial benefits; they have a reduced risk of obsolescence, lower operating costs, better > Building certifications including LEED®, occupier retention and greater social impact – all BREEAM®, WELL, Fitwel®, ENERGY STAR®, things we believe in as a company. NABERS Our Sustainability Solutions team helps our clients > Compliance programs (Article 8, EU EED, EPC, drive exceptional outcomes across a range of TM44) geographies, sectors and portfolio types. ESG is an integral part of our own and our clients’ strategies, > ISO 14001 and ISO 50001 certification and we are committed to delivering best-in-class > Strategy consulting outcomes for both. > Green funds and loans > Green asset valuations > Intelligent building, innovations, renewable and low carbon technologies To date, we’ve led 138+ MSF of LEED®, Fitwel®, WELL and/or ENERGY STAR®-certified space in the U.S. 300+ MSF of LEED® and/or ENERGY STAR®certified space under management in the U.S. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 35 Our team includes over 150 energy and sustainability experts across the globe. Many employees are experienced with sustainability rating systems, and over 380 employees are certified as LEED accredited professionals (LEED APs) or LEED Green Associates. Many experts on our Sustainability Solutions team are WELL-accredited professionals, denoting expertise in the WELL Building Standard™ and a commitment to advancing human health and wellness in buildings and communities. Several are also faculty members and actively support training programs, events and meetings to raise awareness of the benefits of WELL Certification. Additionally, as members of the Fitwel® Advisory Council, we also help our clients achieve Fitwel certification, which supports health across a range of wellbeing categories. In 2019, we assisted approximately 80 clients in the U.S. and EMEA in becoming LEED, WELL and/or Fitwel certified. Applying Our Expertise in Our Own Offices In 2019, we continued to certify Cushman & Wakefield offices to the rigorous WELL Building Standard, reflecting a strong commitment to the health, wellbeing and comfort of our employees. Our Portfolio Services Center Americas office in St. Louis earned the distinction based on seven categories of building performance — Air, Water, Light, Nourishment, Fitness, Comfort and Mind — and achieved a Silver level rating, and our 900 Wilshire Blvd. office in Los Angeles went above and beyond to achieve Gold level by incorporating measures like quarterly water testing. In 2018, Cushman & Wakefield’s Chicago global headquarters and our Atlanta office were awarded WELL certification at the Silver level. Several more of our offices are in the process of pursuing LEED and Fitwel certifications. In Australia, three offices have achieved NABERS certification. 36 | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 GAINING RECOGNITION FOR GOING GREEN Our sustainability efforts continued gaining recognition from third parties in 2019. ENERGY STAR® Partner of The Year: International WELL Building Institute™ Sustained Excellence Recognition Cushman & Wakefield was presented with the Cushman & Wakefield was recognized by the 2019 ENERGY STAR® Partner of the Year Sustained International WELL Building Institute™ (IWBI™) for Excellence Award for continued leadership and its outstanding achievement in advancing health superior contributions to ENERGY STAR®. In 2020, and wellbeing for people through WELL projects in we earned this distinction for the eighth year in a row. China. Corrine Chen, Cushman & Wakefield’s Head of Sustainability Services, Project & Development Services, China, received the WELL Leadership Excellence in Carbon Challenge Recognition Award alongside 38 other Asiabased industry leaders at the IWBI™ Asia awards Our Smart and Green Services Platform team in celebration in Shanghai in 2019. China was invited to attend Greenbuild China 2019. Our experts delivered an educational session on the topic “Green Retail – How to Realize Full Energy Project of the Year Sustainable Development” at the summit and were honored with the 2019 “Excellence in Carbon C&W Services’ HVAC modernization project for Challenge” for four projects under management, a cosmetic development and manufacturing highlighting our mission to help our clients and company’s 245,000-square-foot Toronto facility partners achieve sustainable development and was named 2019 Energy Project of the Year by mitigate their environmental impact on the planet. Energy Into Action and the Government of Ontario, Canada. The company’s executives were interested in redesigning the entire production floor at their Toronto facility, while also concurrently reengineering the site’s mechanical infrastructure. As a WELL project leader at Cushman & Our subject matter experts worked with the Wakefield, I’m truly honored to receive the client to develop specific goals, including the 2019 Leadership Recognition Award from modernization of the HVAC system to support the International WELL Building Institute. cosmetic manufacturing plus improved efficiency With this award, we celebrate our win as a across lighting, compressed air and control company to put people, health and wellbeing systems. The project ultimately exceeded the at the center of what we do. client’s energy reduction targets, cutting electricity costs by 45% and their natural gas costs by 27%. Corrine Chen This translates into about $350,000 in annual Head of Sustainability Services savings. Project & Development Services China CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 37 CUSTOM SUSTAINABILITY SOLUTIONS FOR OUR CLIENTS This section includes several examples of how we are making an impact on our clients by partnering with them to deliver sustainable and healthy buildings that maximize employee comfort, wellbeing and productivity. AMERICAS Going the Extra Mile for Akamai Akamai is a content delivery network, cybersecurity and cloud service company headquartered out of Cambridge, Massachusetts. Cushman & Wakefield is helping Akamai drive their wellness strategy through their physical space. Our project scope includes air, water, nourishment, light, fitness, comfort and mind. Formerly occupying space in six different buildings within Cambridge’s Kendall Square, Akamai is moving towards a more consolidated and efficient real estate approach to minimize disruption and missed opportunities while maximizing the employee and client experience. Akamai’s vision for their new headquarters is a singular and integrated campus, connecting all departments and groups seamlessly and thoughtfully. The new 19-story, 480,000 square foot design strategically organizes all collaborative spaces around a sinuous, continuous path throughout the entire building, encouraging both planned encounters and serendipitous interactions. The path, a mile-long experience known as the “AkaMile,” takes visitors along a journey of exploration and education around what services Akamai can offer its customers, as well as how it has become a leader in the tech industry. 38 | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Taking Energy Efficiencies to a New Level in Virginia Our Energy & Sustainability Services team has partnered with the ownership (MetLife Investment Management) and property management at 1320 North Courthouse Road in Arlington, Virginia since 2010 to improve the building’s overall performance through integrated services and sustainable programs. From 2015 to 2019, Cushman & Wakefield helped the 377,000-square-foot building: > Reduce energy costs, single energy source and utility electricity by 42%, saving $380,292; > Reduce energy consumption by 4,662,893 kilowatt-hours (kWh) or 42%; and > Reduce CO₂e emissions by 3,296,665 Supporting VF Corporation’s Strong kilograms (kgCO₂e) or 42%. Commitment to Sustainability With our support, 1320 North Courthouse has VF Corporation (VF), one of the world’s largest also achieved a trifecta of certifications including apparel and footwear companies headquartered ENERGY STAR®, LEED Platinum and Fitwel, and in Denver, Colorado, has engaged Cushman & has improved overall scores in each through a Wakefield to lead the sustainability efforts for its variety of multi-year plans to promote energy new global headquarters in Denver, which will conservation, reduce waste, increase efficiencies house several of its iconic brands under one roof, through smart technology and enhance tenant including The North Face®, Jansport®, Eagle Creek®, health. Our efforts have led to the building winning Smartwool®, Altra®, and Icebreaker®. Located in the MetLife Investment Management’s ESG Challenge heart Denver’s LoDo district, the new site fits well Regional Award for the Washington, D.C. market in within VF’s sustainability priorities. The new office 2019, 2018 and 2017. offers convenient access to all forms of public transportation and numerous bike trails, as well as secure “parking” for commuter bikes on site, and walkable access to the many amenities located in the city center. The project is targeting Platinum LEED certification in an effort to reflect VF’s strong commitment to its purpose of “powering movements of sustainable and active lifestyles for the betterment of people and our planet.” CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 39 Cushman & Wakefield Denver office 40 | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 EMEA Achieving First Fitwel Certification for Nuveen and DTZ Investors Cushman & Wakefield’s Energy, Infrastructure & Sustainability team supported Nuveen Real Estate, one of the largest real estate investment managers in the world, in achieving its first Fitwel certification in 2019 for an office building in London. The building’s BREEAM Excellent sustainability features and well-connected location made it a strong candidate for certification, achieving a Fitwel Achieving ISO 50001: Energy 2-Star rating. Management System Standard in Additionally, we helped DTZ Investors (DTZi) Barcelona achieve its first Fitwel-certified asset for a 105,000-square-foot office and retail building. Cushman & Wakefield helped UBS achieve the The team worked with the DTZi asset manager rigorous ISO 50001 standard for its star asset, and the Cushman & Wakefield property manager World Trade Center (WTC) Almeda Park in to develop a wellbeing strategy and improve the Barcelona, Spain, through an active sustainable wellbeing credentials of the building for occupiers, property management strategy that was fully earning a Fitwel 2-Star rating. integrated with the business park’s LEED certification plan. The Cushman & Wakefield team achieved ISO 50001 by: updating the air conditioning system; improving lighting; enhancing the management, monitoring and operational control systems; developing training, communication and quality control plans; and deploying energy criteria. Having the ISO 50001 standard will help tenants meet their energy Identifying Sustainability Opportunities efficiency targets, guarantees the development for Danfoss of sustainable management activities in the WTC community, and better positions the asset in a Our Energy, Infrastructure and Sustainability competitive market. team secured its largest-ever single instruction last year to audit more than 8.5 million square feet of manufacturing and office space across 30 different sites in 10 countries on behalf of Danish manufacturing group Danfoss. Danfoss signed the UN Global Compact, committing to universal principles covering social and environmental responsibility in 2002. Danfoss has appointed us to further its commitment by identifying significant opportunities for cost savings and sustainability improvements across its entire European operations. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 41 Innovating in the Netherlands Last year, our Netherlands team created a strategic data analytics platform to collect, validate, monitor and analyze the sustainability data of real estate portfolios. The platform, called Cwing Sustainability, facilitates oversight of the collection of energy, carbon emissions, water, waste and certifications data in order to analyze, set performance targets and improve the sustainability performance for our clients. Not only does this save time and improve data quality, it enables clients to continuously monitor performance and strategically focus on improvement of data availability. Through the Cwing platform, our clients are able to consistently report high-quality sustainability data in their annual reporting, CSR reporting and on their GRESB performance. Example of sustainability score Achieving Dual Environmental in Cwing platform Certification for INVESCO Cushman & Wakefield obtained a dual environmental certification for INVESCO for Prisma Tower, located in the La Défense business district of Paris. When INVESCO set out to enhance the value of its asset, we assisted them in choosing and achieving the HQE Exploitation certification, then took advantage of this management system to more easily obtain a BREEAM In-Use certification. In partnership with the company ERGELIS, we have implemented an energy management system that has saved 20% of energy usage over three years for the benefit of the building’s tenants. As a result, we reached the HQE certification at the outstanding level on Building Management and Asset Performance in 2019. 42 | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 APAC Enhancing Client Projects in China Achieving Green Star Certification for Mastercard’s Global Tech Hub Our Smart and Green Services Platform in China offers in-depth insights and high-quality solutions In 2019, Cushman & Wakefield’s Sustainability for clients looking to go green. In 2019, the team Solutions team pioneered a revolutionary Green continued to secure assignments to consult on Star solution for Mastercard’s new Global Tech Hub significant projects. in Sydney, Australia. The new fit-out design of the Tech Hub was required to align with Mastercard’s We were commissioned to provide property Commitment to the Science Based Targets management and advise on building Initiative which involves reducing its greenhouse recommissioning to reduce energy usage and gas emissions by 20%. enhance utilities for Phoenix Center in Beijing. Additionally, the building successfully received The team engaged with the Green Building LEED v4.1 Operations + Maintenance Platinum Council of Australia (GBCA) to recommend, and certification with our green building certification eventually partner with to create, a custom and services which supports the property’s green groundbreaking new rating tool to assess both values and promotes its sustainability efforts. the fit-out design and operational performance of tenancies. Through application of the new rating tool, Mastercard is now able to achieve Green Star First LEED v4 for New Construction Certification for the fit-out project. (NC) Platinum and Green Building Label Three-Star Dual Certification in China Cushman & Wakefield’s Project & Development Services Sustainability team certified one of the first-ever LEED v4 for NC Platinum plus Green Building Label Three-Star projects in China. This construction project will be one of the largest coffee bean roasting factories in the world in-line with sustainable development. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 43 Endorsing ESG Efforts in Australia Domain Holdings Australia (Domain), a property Cushman & Wakefield facilitated an ESG Materiality technology and services business in Australia, Assessment workshop to draw out the critical selected Cushman & Wakefield’s Sustainability material issues relevant to Domain, then developed Solutions team to develop an inaugural ESG plan a dynamic plan highlighting more than 25 and policy. Domain’s reach includes 5.6 million recommended actions to reduce ESG risks, all of Australians who have increasing stakeholder which were endorsed by Domain’s Board. The ESG interest in the organization’s approach and Policy outlines Domain’s position on the material management of ESG issues, and the company ESG issues impacting operations and will also faced increasing pressure from investors to apply to suppliers and others with whom Domain demonstrate how they are incorporating climatehas business relationships. The work carried out related issues into business strategy and risk will help improve Domain’s CDP scoring, which the management. Sustainability Solutions team is also completing on behalf of the organization. 44 | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Memberships and Associations (102-13) We engage with the following industry associations. Asian Association for Investors in Non-Listed Real Estate Vehicles (ANREV) Asia Pacific Real Estate Association BBP – Better Buildings Partnership (UK) Building Decarbonization Coalition Building Owners and Managers Association (BOMA) British Council of Offices (BCO) China Real Estate Association Center for Active Design (Fitwel) Commercial Real Estate Women (CREW) Network CoreNet Global Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce (FICCI) Healthy Building Alliance Institute of Real Estate Management (IREM) International Association of Outsourcing Professionals (IAOP) International Council of Shopping Centers (ICSC) International Facility Management Association (IFMA) International WELL Building Institute™ (IWBI™) Japan Association of New Economy MIPIM Property Council of Australia Property Industry Foundation (Australia) Real Estate Developers’ Association of Singapore (REDAS) Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) Urban Land Institute (ULI) U.S. Green Building Council World Green Building Council CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 45 OUR IMPACT ON PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES Putting Our People at the Center of What’s Next Cushman & Wakefield proudly puts our people at the center of everything we do. That’s because Employees by gender in 2019 we are a people business first, fueled by ideas and insights. To that end, we invest in our people by focusing on learning and development, work-life balance, and diversity and inclusion practices – all while providing a healthy culture where employees Women feel engaged and empowered to be themselves at 39% Men work. 61% We offer an equal opportunity workplace where our people feel safe, respected, rewarded and appreciated for their contributions. We also strive to be a good corporate citizen, helping others NDT (nondeclared or transgender): .0009% where we can within our local communities. Employees by age in 2019 We realize that our clients are more successful, and we are more successful, when our workforce reflects the world around us. At Cushman & Wakefield, a rich tapestry of cultures, backgrounds Below 30 Above 50 20% and experiences contribute to a more enjoyable 30% work experience where innovation can thrive. 30 – 50 50% Our business is built on the strength of our people and our ability to succeed together. Recruiting, developing and retaining Employees by geography in 2019 the right talent that reflects the diverse communities in which we operate is crucial to our continued growth and ongoing success.” APAC* 21% Michelle Hay Chief Human Resources EMEA 12% Americas Officer 67% * Includes Greater China 46 | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Collective Bargaining Hiring and Turnover (102-41) (401-103, 404-2) Globally, Cushman & Wakefield respects the rights Our people have earned a strong reputation by of its employees to join labor organizations or successfully executing some of the most iconic refrain from doing so and follows all applicable and complex real estate assignments in the world. laws. Countryand service line-specific policies Because of this legacy of excellence, our leading and handbooks help employees navigate their platform and brand strength, we attract and employment rights. retain top talent in the industry. Our people come from a diverse set of backgrounds, cultures and In 2019, approximately 19% of our employees in expertise that creates a culture of collaboration the Americas and Asia Pacific were subject to and collective success. collective bargaining agreements. We work to mitigate turnover by continuing to build an inclusive culture, focusing on the manager-employee relationship, and providing our employees with opportunities to support their ongoing career growth. Our industry is subject to a relatively high turnover of brokers and other key revenue producers as competition for Leasing and Capital Markets professionals is significant. We and our competitors use equity incentives and sign-on and retention bonuses to help attract, retain and incentivize key personnel. In 2019, our turnover rate was 29%. Additionally, our people are our top priority while they’re employed with us, and in circumstances where an employee decides to retire or where staff reductions or organizational changes are implemented, we provide transition assistance. This is provided at no cost to the employee through an outplacement consultant to facilitate their next steps in determining the direction of their career. Transition plans vary, but often include career and interview coaching, job leads, webinars and social media strategy development. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 47 Every Voice Counts We are committed to building a diverse and engaged workforce and supporting an inclusive environment where employees can do their best work. One tool we use to check on the health of our organization is the annual Global Employee Engagement Survey. We partner with an external firm, Perceptyx, to administer this survey and report the results back to us. We use the same set of questions year-over-year which allows us to identify trends and measure progress over time. In 2019, the survey was sent to a random representative sampling of 30% of all Cushman & Wakefield employees. Results from the survey were shared with global leadership, who used the data to set the firm’s strategic objectives and priorities for 2020. KEY RESULTS INCLUDED: 81% score on Women’s response to each of 10 D&I survey engagement index items improved, representing a significant increase and narrowing 87% score for pride the gap between men and women’s responses within this category in the company From 2018 to 2019, scores in the following categories improved Culture was described as significantly: diverse, professional, Empowerment inclusive, collaborative, Resources & Support and respectful Work-Life Balance 48 | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION (405-103) Workplace Diversity and Inclusion Cushman & Wakefield is an equal opportunity employer that strives to ensure diversity and inclusion (D&I) is culturally rooted – embedded in all D&I Priorities of our processes and part of the normal course of • Ensure all senior leaders and managers business. are prepared to lead by example on Our management and senior leadership uphold D&I initiatives, playing an active part this culture by focusing on our people strategy: in developing a culture where all We will attract, retain, and develop the best people employees can thrive by building an inclusive culture, focusing on the • Evaluate and improve talent lifecycle manager-employee relationship. activities to build and support a truly We are committed to advancing our people strategy diverse workforce that is representative by concentrating on D&I priorities to achieve: of the communities in which we operate > A workforce that is more diverse than any in • Support special project and development the CRE industry; opportunities, special interest networks and communications initiatives designed > Processes that build diversity into everything to advance our D&I efforts we do, making it something that all employees understand and embrace; and > An inclusive culture that is acknowledged by our people and clients as driving creativity, new thinking and a sense of belonging. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 49 D&I Training Our commitment to D&I includes educating our people and providing practical tips about how to build a more inclusive culture. In 2019, we implemented a quarterly D&I education series, offering training courses, informational videos and graphics, opportunities to get more involved with Cushman & Wakefield’s ERGs, ways to acknowledge colleagues for their success and more. Quarterly topics included: > Unconscious Bias Fostering a culture that embraces diversity and inclusion is a foundational component > Being an Advocate for Others of our success as a company. It’s at the center of our people strategy and – most > Micro-affirmations and Micro-inequities importantly – we produce the best outcomes for our clients when we harness the power of > Demonstrating Inclusiveness diverse teams and diverse perspectives. Brett White Our Global Policy on Inclusion Executive Chairman & CEO and Diversity and Global AntiHarassment and Anti-Discrimination Policy enforce one of our key values as a company: We are inclusive. We value difference and a culture where everyone belongs. 50 | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Representing Employees Across the Firm We are focused on attracting, hiring, retaining and Our ERGs often serve as internal consultants to developing top talent, and have built a network help us shape policies and better serve the needs of ERGs that reflect our people across the firm. of diverse groups of employees. For example, our ERGs are voluntary, employee-led groups who join leadership partnered with UNITY to create and together at work based on shared characteristics, implement LGBTQ+-friendly policies, including life experiences or interests. These groups foster requiring vendors to follow the firm’s antidiverse and inclusive workplaces aligned with our LGBTQ+ discrimination guidelines and providing organization’s values, objectives and business tools and resources to HR in order to actively practices. recruit members of the LGBTQ+ community. For these efforts, Cushman & Wakefield received a In 2019, our extensive ERG network continued perfect score of 100 for the second consecutive to grow with the launch of four new groups in year on the 2020 Corporate Equality Index (CEI) the Americas, increased membership and the administered by the Human Rights Campaign expansion of several groups globally. In 2020, Foundation, earning the distinction of a Best Place we’re introducing two more groups: Leading with to Work for LGBTQ+ Equality. Education & Awareness of Disabilities (LEAD) and Parent & Caregivers Together (PACT). Our ERGs are highly valued at our firm as they empower employees to connect creatively with colleagues to host events, provide educational opportunities, and share ideas to elevate the employee experience. We couldn’t be prouder of achieving top marks from the HRC Foundation, which reflects a tremendous effort on the part of our LGBTQ+ colleagues and allies here at Cushman & Wakefield. A more diverse workforce reflects our clients, creates more opportunities for innovation and helps us to better understand markets on local and global levels. Janice O’Neill Global Head of Talent Management and Diversity CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 51 NEW AMERICAS ERGs IN 2019 ERGs THAT CONTINUED TO GROW IN 2019 BUILD (Blacks United in Leadership and Development) BUILD was created to foster the advancement CWFL (Cushman & Wakefield Future Leaders) of our professionals that identify as Black or CWFL’s primary objective is to assist members African descent. The group works to promote in developing leadership skills through career and leadership development and collaboration, continuing education, community engage top talent to help drive performance at service and recognition. Cushman & Wakefield. I N I T I AT I V E P R O G R A M AT C U S H M A N & WA K E F I E L D UNITY Veterans Initiative Program UNITY’s mission is to increase visibility and Cushman & Wakefield’s Veterans Initiative provide an open-minded support system Program offers a culture that celebrates for conducting business and addressing the veterans’ contributions and leadership, personal requirements of our lesbian, gay, rewarding work related to veteran skills and bisexual, transgender, queer/questioning talents, and a community of camaraderie. (LGBTQ+) and allies community. HOLA (Hispanic & Latino Advancement) HOLA’s mission is to attract, develop and grow WIN (Women’s Integrated Network) the Hispanic and Latino community at Cushman WIN develops and supports the talents of & Wakefield by providing an inclusive and women at Cushman & Wakefield by providing connected platform from which all employees a platform that values diverse perspectives will benefit. and leverages leadership skills to benefit our firm, clients and the industry as a whole. ASPIRE (Asians + Pacific Islanders in Real Estate) ASPIRE’s mission is to create an inclusive network that promotes the career development and professional advancement of Asian and Pacific Islander employees at Cushman & Wakefield while establishing a community that celebrates the members’ cultural identity. 52 | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Engaging Our People Around the World Inspire Women at Cushman & Wakefield Inspire is Cushman & Wakefield’s UK ERG network Achieving gender equality is a shared responsibility which works to promote and progress D&I and for communities, companies and global economies help embed it as part of our culture, leading alike, and we believe Cushman & Wakefield plays an efforts around equality for different groups and important role in shaping the future of commercial raising awareness for mental illness and health in real estate in this regard. Last year, globally, women the workplace. The ERGs were extremely active represented 43% of new hires, 39% of our total in 2019 in pursuing their own agendas as well as workforce, and 40% of our Board of Directors. collaborating to recognize common goals around > Each year, we host celebrations around the intersectionality. world in recognition of International Women’s Based on 2019 efforts and initiatives, Inspire was Day. awarded the National Equality Standard (NES) > In 2019, our ERG WIN (Women’s Integrated accreditation. An initiative by Ernst & Young, this Network), whose mission is to accelerate the rigorous standard sets equality, diversity and advancement of women at our firm, continued inclusion criteria against which firms benchmark to grow with more than 2,500 members in themselves. In going through the accreditation 48 chapters across the globe. More chapters process, we challenged the way we do things, the are anticipated to launch in 2020. As a way resources and support we provide colleagues, and to support the development and retention the way our leaders behave to ensure we support of women at our firm, WIN offers a one-year, a culture in which everyone feels included and can formal mentorship program where senior-level thrive. women are paired with a mid-career-level woman who shows high potential. Australia D&I Network > Cushman & Wakefield is a leading supporter In 2019, Australia’s D&I Network celebrated a of CREW (Commercial Real Estate Women) year since its relaunch, which aimed to increase Network, the premier business network engagement, enhance internal governance to dedicated to transforming the commercial real strengthen the D&I Network brand, and create an estate industry by advancing women globally. elevated profile within Cushman & Wakefield. For the past two years, we have served as a As part of the relaunch, a new sub-committee Program Partner and Premier Lead Sponsor of structure was developed based on specialist the Global Agenda Program. Additionally, we networks, including Gender, Life & Family encourage women within our firm to become Values, Disability Support, Multi-Cultural Values, active in local chapters and participate in LGBTQ+ and Indigenous Engagement. The new CREW Network’s Leadership Development structure has been a success, ensuring alignment Program. among our people and allowing greater focus on these important issues. The D&I Network is fully committed to our diverse workforce and will continue to support development of policies, procedures and processes that create a respectful, inclusive culture. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 53 LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT (404-103, 404-2) We offer a full suite of learning and development Manager-Employee Relationship activities delivered through on-the-job training, Program e-learning, coaching, mentoring and instructor-led learning modules. Topics include commercial real The manager-employee relationship is an estate, Cushman & Wakefield service lines, jobessential part of creating an environment where specific and cross-skills development, leadership employees can do their best work to serve our and management effectiveness, professional clients and communities. Our talent development skills, sales skills, account management, client strategy focuses on strengthening this important service, health and safety, as well as D&I. Our fully relationship through cultural behaviors that foster implemented learning management system (LMS) inclusiveness, respect, collaboration and trust. provides easy access to on-demand learning resources and online training, available to techThrough webinars in Workday Learning, managers enabled employees via Workday Learning. gain tools, explore best practices, and leverage skill-building opportunities that strengthen team In addition to required Compliance and Information performance through clear communication, Security training, we encourage employees to effective hiring, measuring performance, and complete online learning courses beyond companyproviding coaching and feedback. mandated training based on development needs and interests. We believe learning opportunities Business Development Training are not restricted to courses; in fact, most learning happens through direct experience at work and In 2019, we began offering new training to support exposure to different teams and networks. our producers and their role in elevating the client experience and driving organic growth by teaching We also offer non-traditional learning and them skills and behaviors to engage prospects/ development opportunities, including an clients, win business and grow relationships. apprenticeship program at several key client Through a series of learning activities coupled with locations which provides training and development in-market mentoring and coaching, participants for careers in the skilled trades, and a returnship learn key concepts—such as prospecting, pursuits, program focused on people who have been away pitching and client service—that take their skills to from the traditional workforce for a period of the next level. time and may require supplemental training and mentoring upon returning to work. 54 | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Enhanced Performance Management Program (404-3) Our Performance Management Program (PMP) underscores Cushman & Wakefield’s commitment to talent development by providing employees and managers an opportunity to regularly engage in coaching and career discussions to increase engagement and support performance over time. Our PMP includes three designated times for formal check-ins between employees and managers: Goal Setting, Mid-Year Review and Year-End Review. Outside of these formal process activities, managers are expected to establish a regular routine of delivering feedback. These discussions emphasize ongoing development and ensure employees know what is expected of them. In 2019, we piloted our enhanced PMP to roll out in 2020, which includes a newly added cultural behavior section, defining our expectations for how we act as leaders and employees. The enhanced performance review now includes a rating on behaviors that are important to building a collaborative and inclusive culture at Cushman & Wakefield. 72% of eligible* employees completed a performance review in 2019. *All regular employees and those with salary-based components to their compensation are eligible to participate in our formal performance management process. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 55 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (203-103, 203-2, 413-103, 413-1) employees, giving each employee an opportunity Cushman & Wakefield is committed to supporting to suggest worthy and fitting causes in their the communities where our employees live and communities. The Foundation has supported a work around the world, as well as in communities variety of organizations that support our main where the need is greatest. Because our business focus areas, including Hugh O’Brian Youth is real estate, we aim to make a tangible positive Leadership (HOBY), Boys & Girls Clubs of America, impact wherever we have a footprint. Ronald McDonald House Charities, United Way and Throughout our long history, our culture of local Habitat for Humanity, to name a few. community service and engagement has included Primary focus areas of our Charitable Foundation: support for many organizations. Each of our three regions—Americas, EMEA and APAC—operates > STEAM (science, technology, engineering, arts independent charitable initiatives, leading their and math) education own regional programs. > Affordable housing and the prevention of In 2018, we formalized our commitment to homelessness community support in the form of the Cushman & Wakefield Charitable Foundation to provide a > After-school enrichment programs for formal channel for strategic philanthropic support underserved or at-risk youth (although not replacing local initiatives which will We also make an impact on local communities and continue around the world). In 2019, we finalized economies by forming strategic relationships and a governance framework for the Foundation, investing in initiatives that support job placement, received our first round of funding and became enhance our service offerings and clients’ operational. We launched in the U.S. and opened performance, and diversify our industry and supply the Foundation for requests for grants to all U.S. chain. 56 | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 ENGAGING COMMUNITIES AROUND THE WORLD From St. Louis to Beijing, Cushman & Wakefield is committed to providing support to those who need it most within our local communities. AMERICAS Raising Money for Children’s Health in Supporting Community in the St. Louis Twin Cities Once again, Cushman & Wakefield supported More than 80 Cushman & Wakefield employees Ronald McDonald House as the title sponsor for gathered at Avenues for Homeless Youth, a its 34th Annual Cushman & Wakefield/Ronald nonprofit supporting homeless teens and young McDonald House Golf Tournament & Dinner adults in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, for the local Auction, which took place in St. Louis. Sixty office’s 8th Annual CommUNITY Day celebration. Cushman & Wakefield colleagues in St. Louis Employees broke into teams and handled deferred volunteered at the event, which brought in more maintenance on the Avenues property, while key than $1 million that will go toward the nonprofit’s Cushman & Wakefield vendors also volunteered goal of helping sick children and their families stay their services for projects that went beyond together. general maintenance. The total work was valued at more than $110,000. This project is one of eight Bowling for a Good Cause in projects focused on lower income areas in the Twin Connecticut Cities that the Cushman & Wakefield MinneapolisIn 2019, Cushman & Wakefield was proud to raise St. Paul office has been involved in. Projects to date $91,000 for First Candle at its 7th Annual Bowlare valued at more than $1.5 million in total value. A-Thon in Norwalk, Connecticut. Over the past seven years, the Bowl-A-Thon has raised over $500,000 for various organizations throughout the community. First Candle is a Connecticut-based 501(c) (3) non-profit committed to ending Sudden Infant Death Syndrome (SIDS) and other sleep-related infant deaths while providing bereavement support to families who have experienced a loss. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 57 Advancing Community Development EMEA in Brazil After opening in 2005, the Heliópolis Community Library in São Paulo, Brazil underwent a revitalization process last year focusing on community development and the children of the “Casa dos Curumins” (Children’s House) Project, which offers children and adolescents protection from hunger and violence. Cushman & Wakefield supported the library’s revitalization by giving approximately $49,000. Additionally, our Brazil offices donated children’s books, participated in a children’s music and arts gathering, and volunteered to paint the library in 2019. Helping Fund the Fight Against As a result of our support of Heliópolis Community AIDS in Spain Library and the efforts of our local WIN chapter, The Fight AIDS Foundation is a non-profit Cushman & Wakefield was awarded a Human organization based in Barcelona, where scientists Rights and Diversity Seal from the City of São and healthcare professionals work together to Paulo in the both care for HIV patients and carry out clinical “Youth” and research. For many years, this research has also “Women” encompassed other related areas of medicine categories. The which affect a wider population, such as cancer, initiative by the other infectious diseases, cardiovascular health São Paulo City and aging. A group of colleagues from our firm Hall is aimed organized a fundraising campaign, as well as at recognizing attended the foundation’s gala in late 2019 to help public, private finance research on this disease. One million euros and third were raised, and Cushman & Wakefield was part of sector companies that develop good practices in this incredible success. managing diversity and promoting human rights in 10 different categories. We were also nominated by the GRI Club Real Estate Brazil in the “Best Social Providing Economic and Social Action Project” category of the GRI Awards 2019 Opportunities for Youth in the UK for our work with the library. Inspire, Cushman & Wakefield’s UK D&I network, increased and expanded our outreach program by working with a number of carefully selected partners, including Ahead Partnership, London Youth Rowing and RICS Inspire Future Talents, to connect with kids in schools and colleges to increase awareness of real estate – specifically within less privileged communities. This also helps to increase the diversity of entrants into our industry, especially as it relates to our existing apprenticeship program. 58 | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 APAC Supporting Exceptional Students in Sponsoring Women and Girls’ China Education in India Cushman & Wakefield in Greater China is a longIn 2019, Cushman & Wakefield partnered with the standing patron of Peking University, a highly Pardada Pardadi Educational Society (PPES), an ranked and prestigious university in China and organization that has been working for holistic around the world. In 2007, we donated more than rural development through social and economic $780,000 to set up the Cushman & Wakefield empowerment of women and girls in Western Scholarship Fund in support of the education Uttar Pradesh, India. PPES provides free education, of Peking University students who have shown job opportunities, healthcare and livelihood excellence in character and academic performance. enhancement for girls and women from the To date, the scholarship has supported 350 marginalized sections of society and enables them students across more than 10 departments in the to break out of the cycle of poverty. university. To date, we have proudly supported two projects, including sponsoring school education for 200 Donating School Supplies in the girls and supporting higher education for enrolled Philippines women by providing a consolidated grant of Since 2016, Cushman & Wakefield in the approximately $42,000 to PPES. Cushman Philippines has been participating in the My & Wakefield in India is also single-handedly Dream in a Shoebox campaign, which helps send supporting the education of 50 girls and is underprivileged children to school. Last year, our committed to helping them get jobs after they employees donated 863 boxes filled with school graduate. supplies in support of these young learners as they strive for a brighter future for themselves, for their families, and for the community. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 59 STRATEGIC RELATIONSHIPS THAT SUPPORT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Honoring and Supporting U.S. Veterans Welcoming U.S. veterans to our firm as colleagues is an exceptional opportunity and responsibility, and the highest priority of Cushman & Wakefield’s Veterans Initiative Program. The program helps ensure that we provide rewarding work related to veterans’ skills and talents, as well as a culture that honors and respects their contributions in the military and in our organization. Nearly 400 veterans were hired in 2019 alone, and we now have more than 800 self-identified veterans working at our firm while consistently maintaining a retention rate of over 90%. We recognize that companies want to partner with more diverse suppliers such as veteran-owned businesses. To that end, in 2019, we formed a strategic alliance with DHC Real Estate Services, LLC, a service-disabled-veteran-owned small business (SDVOSB) founded by Jonathan Luttwak, a former U.S. Army captain and New York-based commercial real estate professional. This alliance is a win-win because it enables publicand private-sector enterprises to increase their commitment to supplier diversity, and to meet state and federal mandates, while also maintaining access to the global, multidisciplinary platform of services offered by Cushman & Wakefield. We are also proud of our partnership with Operation This alliance with DHC Real Estate Services Finally Home, a charitable group that provides reaffirms our commitment to the military mortgage-free homes to service members and their and veteran community, which is a core component of our corporate culture. It also families who have become wounded, ill or injured as allows us to provide an outstanding solution a result of their service. In 2019, we participated in for our clients who are looking to bolster the fundraising and building of a home for disabled their commitment to supplier diversity — veteran Lt. Garrett Spears and his family in San particularly those looking to partner with a Antonio, Texas. veteran-owned firm. As a result of all of our efforts, we were awarded Best for Vets Employers 2019 by Military Times, named to Frank Stanley Best of the Best 2020 by U.S. Veterans Magazine for Director of Veterans Programs at Cushman & Wakefield the second year in a row, and made the 2020 Military Friendly® Employers List. 60 | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Providing Opportunities in Facilities Services Since C&W Services employs thousands of individuals in facility services, we are always “We help people on this journey looking to address the shortage of skilled labor in unlock something deeper within. this sector through apprenticeships, scholarships, Whether that something is mentoring programs, and engaging with social as seemingly simple as more enterprises. esteem, or as elusive as a career that can once and for all disrupt In 2018, we joined forces with Cara, a nonprofit the generational effects of organization based in Chicago that seeks to take poverty, we are not just about people out of poverty by training them for and jobs – we are about the sense of connecting them to meaningful work. Since the hope, the power of mojo, and the bounce of a new beginning you organization’s inception, several Cara participants feel when one person’s power is have been hired by C&W Services in janitorial and finally in full effect.” office services roles with a voluntary retention rate of 86%. In 2020, our plans include holding Cara Employee another training session for Cara and partnering with Goodwill of Silicon Valley to launch a similar training program in California that focuses on retail, e-commerce, facility maintenance and warehouse logistics opportunities. Additionally, C&W Services recently launched a new program that helps people kickstart their careers in facilities services via scholarships to local trade schools. While in school, participants check in monthly with C&W Services during their first year and complete an internship with us during their second year. Once participants graduate, they work at a C&W Services client site for at least two years. Two graduates who accepted scholarships from C&W Services in 2019 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 61 Committing to the Minority-Owned Enhancing our Capabilities through Business Community Minority Business Cushman & Wakefield has a long-standing In 2019, we formed a joint venture (JV) between strategic alliance with JRT Realty Group Inc., a C&W Services, Inc. and Alutiiq Logistics & woman-owned, full-service commercial real estate Maintenance Services, LLC (ALMS) – a certified services firm established to address industry-wide small, Alaska Native-owned business and wholly supplier diversity initiatives. Today, the company is owned subsidiary of Alutiiq, LLC (Alutiiq). This recognized as an industry leader and the nation’s JV was formed to help clients meet the highest largest certified Minorityand WomanOwned standards of facility performance while achieving Business Enterprise (M/WBE) commercial real their diversity spending goals. estate firm. The JV provides janitorial, maintenance, The purpose of the alliance, formed in 2003, is controlled environments cleaning, production to boost equality in the commercial real estate environment maintenance, landscaping and workplace for both women and minorities. Our office services to clients across North America. continued support demonstrates Cushman & The JV is participating in the U.S. Small Business Wakefield’s desire to embrace and support Administration’s (SBA) Mentor-Protégé Program, diversity not only with those we employ, but also under which the JV is qualified to bid on and with the independent firms with which we partner. perform certain set-aside contracts. Through this program, mentors offer their protégés valuable mentoring to develop the protégé’s capabilities in various areas. As a company, we have long been committed to developing a highly skilled workforce that can address customers’ critical need for safe and efficient facility service delivery. The SBA Mentor-Protégé program is a very effective means for C&W Services to support ALMS with the deep resources in innovation, subject matter expertise and employee development. Paul Bedborough Chief Executive of C&W Services 62 | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Providing Opportunities to Those with Disabilities Cushman & Wakefield is proud to offer opportunities to those with disabilities. Across the globe, we partner with several organizations in support of these individuals. Cushman & Wakefield actively promotes our relationship with Jobsupport, the leading employment service for people with intellectual disability in Australia, encouraging peers and clients to follow our lead. Cushman & Wakefield works with front-ofhouse office managers in both corporate and client offices to identify a range of tasks that Cushman & Wakefield’s Access & Inclusion suit the requirements of partnership with Vivid Sydney, a 23-night-long Jobsupport candidates. festival in its 10th year, has transformed from the The roles offered are designed to allow candidates provision of accessible infrastructure and tours for to succeed in daily tasks, while providing enriching community groups, to building Australia’s largest opportunities for personal and professional growth. inclusive playground called the playSPACE. We A critical component of this partnership is for collaborated with other organizations to build the leadership to ensure that Jobsupport employees are playSPACE for children with disabilities or special provided with the same opportunities as all other needs so they could play, participate and belong, Cushman & Wakefield colleagues. no matter their level of ability. The design process involved extensive participation from artists with To further promote Jobsupport, Cushman & disabilities, giving them the opportunity to create a Wakefield partnered with the Department of world where everyone belongs. Family and Community Services on the ‘See the Possibilities’ campaign, which engages employers The playSPACE attracted over 211,000 visitors across Australia to share the value that people and has become a mainstay for Vivid Sydney’s with a disability bring to a business. The campaign annual program. In 2019, 150 Cushman & Wakefield showcases stories from both employer advocates employees volunteered throughout the three-week and employees and asks employers to pledge in duration of Vivid Sydney. support of hiring people with disability and to take the next steps to build a more inclusive workforce. C&W Services Singapore was presented with a Certificate of Recognition by SG Enable at the 5th Enabling Employers Awards ceremony. The award was given to C&W Services Singapore in recognition of the firm’s support and efforts in integrating persons with disabilities into the workplace. The award demonstrates the firm’s wider goals to build a culture of diversity and inclusion, one of the key values at Cushman & Wakefield. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 63 GRI CONTENT INDEX (102-55) General Standard Disclosures – 2016 Disclosure Section/Response Omissions Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization Cover No 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services About Cushman & Wakefield, p. 11 No 102-3 Location of headquarters About Cushman & Wakefield, p. 8 No About Cushman & Wakefield, 102-4 Location of operations No pp. 8 9 102-5 Ownership and legal form About Cushman & Wakefield, p. 8 No About Cushman & Wakefield, 102-6 Markets served No pp. 8 9, 11 About Cushman & Wakefield, 102-7 Scale of the organization No pp. 8 9 Number of temporary employees is not provided Our Impact on People and by gender and 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Communities, p. 9, GRI Content region. Number Index, p. 68 of full-time and part-time employees is not provided. Supply Chain Management, 102-9 Supply Chain No pp. 22 23 Significant changes to the organization and its About Cushman & Wakefield, p. 9, 102-10 No supply chain Supply Chain Management, p. 22 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Environmental Performance, p. 24 No 102-12 External initiatives Material Topics, p. 15 No Memberships and Associations, 102-13 Membership of associations No p. 45 Strategy Messages from Our Executive 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker No Chairman and CEO, pp. 4 5 Ethics and Integrity Values, principles, standards, and norms of 102-16 About Cushman & Wakefield, p. 10 No behavior Governance 102-18 Governance structure About Cushman & Wakefield, p. 10 No Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder Engagement, p. 17 No Data is only Our Impact on People and available for 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Communities, p. 47 Americas and APAC regions 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement, p. 17 No 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Engagement, p. 17 No 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Stakeholder Engagement, p. 17 No 64 | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 General Standard Disclosures – 2016 Disclosure Section/Response Omissions Reporting Practices Entities included in the consolidated financial Refer to our 2019 Form 10-K, 102-45 No statements Exhibit 21.1 About this Report, p. 8, Material 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries No Topics, p. 16 102-47 List of material topics Material Topics, p. 16 No GHG emissions for 2017 and 2018 102-48 Restatements of information No were restated as noted on p. 72 102-49 Changes in reporting Material Topics, p. 16 No 102-50 Reporting period About this Report, p. 8 No 102-51 Date of most recent report 2018 No 102-52 Reporting cycle About this Report, p. 8 No 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Back cover No Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI 102-54 About this Report, p. 8 No Standards 102-55 GRI content index GRI Content Index, pp. 64 73 No 102-56 External assurance About this Report, p. 8 No Specific Standard Disclosures Material Topic GRI Standard Disclosure Section/Response Omissions All GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Material Topics, p. 16 No Management material topic and its Approach 2016 Boundary Economic C&W’s Indirect GRI 103: 203Management Approach Our Impact on Clients, No Economic Impacts Management 103 p. 32, Community Approach 2016 Engagement and Economic Development, p. 56 GRI 203: Indirect 203-2 Significant indirect Our Impact on Clients, No Economic Impacts economic impacts pp. 32 44, Community 2016 Engagement and Economic Development, pp. 56 63 Anti-Corruption GRI 103: 205Management Approach Ethics and Compliance, No Management 103 pp. 20 21 Approach 2016 GRI 205: Anti205-1 Operations assessed Ethics and Compliance, No Corruption for risks related to p. 21, Form 10-K, 2016 corruption pp. 13 14 Sustainability — — — Our Impact on Clients, — Services pp. 32 44 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 65 Specific Standard Disclosures Material Topic GRI Standard Disclosure Section/Response Omissions Environmental Energy GRI 103: 302Management Approach Environmental No Management 103 Performance, p. 24 Approach 2016 GRI 302: Energy 302-1 Energy consumption Environmental No 2016 within the organization Performance, p. 26, GRI Index, p. 71 302-3 Energy intensity Environmental No Performance, p. 26, GRI Index, p. 71 Water GRI 103: 303Management Approach Environmental No Management 103 Performance, p. 24 Approach 2016 GRI 303: Water 303-1 Interactions with water Environmental No and Effluents 2018 as a shared resource Performance, p. 28 303-2 Management of water Environmental No discharge-related Performance, p. 28 impacts 303-3 Water withdrawal Environmental No Performance, p. 28, GRI Index, p. 73 GHG Emissions GRI 103: 305Management Approach Environmental No Management 103 Performance, p. 28 Approach 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG Environmental No emissions Performance, p. 27, GRI Index, p. 72 GRI 305: Emissions 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope Environmental No 2016 2) GHG emissions Performance, p. 27, GRI Index, p. 72 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) Environmental No GHG emissions Performance, p. 27, GRI Index, p. 72 305-4 GHG emissions intensity GRI Index, p. 72 No Effluents and GRI 103: 306Management Approach Environmental No Waste Management 103 Performance, p. 24 Approach 2016 GRI 306: Effluents 306-2 Waste by type and Environmental No and Waste 2016 disposal method Performance, p. 28, GRI Index, p. 73 Environmental GRI 103: 307Management Approach Environmental No Compliance Management 103 Performance, p. 24 Approach 2016 GRI 307: 307-1 Non-compliance with Environmental No Environmental environmental laws and Performance, p. 28 Compliance 2016 regulations 66 | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Specific Standard Disclosures Material Topic GRI Standard Disclosure Section/Response Omissions Social Employment GRI 103: 401Management Approach Our Impact on People No Management 103 and Communities, p. 47 Approach 2016 GRI 401: 401-1 New employee hires and GRI Index, p. 69 No Employment 2016 employee turnover Occupational GRI 103: 403Management Approach Occupational Health & No Health and Safety Management 103 Safety, p. 30 Approach 2016 GRI 403: 403-2 Types of injury and rates Occupational Health & Breakdown Occupational of injury, occupational Safety, p. 31 by gender not Health and Safety diseases, lost days, available 2016 and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities Training and GRI 103: 404Management Approach Learning and No Education Management 103 Development, p. 54 Approach 2016 GRI 404: Training 404-2 Programs for upgrading Our Impact on People No and Education 2016 employee skills and and Communities, transition assistance pp. 47, 54 programs 404-3 Performance Reviews Learning and Breakdown by Development, p. 55 gender and level not available Diversity and Equal GRI 103: 405Management Approach Our Impact on People No Opportunity Management 103 and Communities, Approach 2016 pp. 49 51 GRI 405: Diversity 405-1 Diversity of governance GRI Index, p. 70 No and Equal bodies and employees Opportunity 2016 Human Rights GRI 103: 412Management Approach Ethics and Compliance, No Management 103 p. 19 Approach 2016 GRI 412: Human 412-1 Operations that have Ethics and Compliance, No Rights Assessment been subject to human p. 19 rights reviews or impact assessments Local GRI 103: 413Management Approach Community Engagement No Communities Management 103 and Economic Approach 2016 Development, p. 56 GRI 413: Local 413-1 Operations with Community Engagement Percentage of Communities 2016 local community and Economic operations not engagement, impact Development, p. 56 59 available assessments, and development programs Supplier Social GRI 103: 414Management Approach Supply Chain No Assessment Management 103 Management, p. 22 Approach 2016 GRI 414: Supplier 414-1 New suppliers that were Supply Chain Percentage of Social Assessment screened using social Management, p. 22 new suppliers 2016 criteria screened using social criteria not available CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 67 102-8 Information on employees Employees by geography 2017 2018 2019 Americas 28,534 30,987 32,444 Asia Pacific 9,674 9,821 10,165 EMEA 5,314 5,464 5,793 TOTAL 43,522 46,272 48,402 Employees by geography and 2017 2018 2019 gender Women Men NDT Women Men NDT Women Men NDT Americas 10,611 17,434 489 12,003 18,975 9 12,700 19,715 29 Asia Pacific 3,234 6,439 1 3,421 6,400 0 3,563 6,601 1 EMEA 2,475 2,835 4 2,533 2,928 3 2,758 3,027 8 TOTAL 16,320 26,708 494 17,957 28,303 12 19,021 29,343 38 GRAND TOTAL 43,522 46,272 48,402 Notes: • Represents total headcount for all employees at year-end except where noted below. • All employee data is based on our HRIS-tracked employees. • Excludes employees who are not tracked in our HRIS. In 2019, this represented 4,264 employees in China and data from some 2019 acquisitions that is not yet entered into our HRIS. • Excludes temporary employees on contracts that do not include employee benefits. In 2019, the total number of temporary employees was 624, including 255 student interns. • Excludes contingent workers who are retained on a limited basis as needed for short-term assignments, special assignments, or large-scale projects. Contingent employees represent less than 5% of the total workforce. • Asia Pacific includes Greater China. The regions were combined in 2019 for reporting purposes. • NDT refers to employees non-declaring gender or identifying as transgender. 68 | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 GRI 401: Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover New hires and turnover New hires Leavers by gender Number Rate Number Rate Women 7,181 38% 5,875 31% Men 9,671 33% 8,178 28% Non declared or transgender 62 N/A 35 N/A OVERALL 16,914 35% 14,088 29% New hires and turnover New hires Leavers by age Number Rate Number Rate Below age 30 6,647 67% 4,966 50% Age 30 – 50 7,801 32% 6,718 28% Above age 50 2,466 17% 2,404 17% OVERALL 16,914 35% 14,088 29% New hires and turnover New hires Leavers by geography Number Rate Number Rate Americas 11,976 37% 9,427 29% Asia Pacific 3,259 32% 3,187 31% EMEA 1,679 29% 1,474 25% OVERALL 16,914 35% 14,088 29% CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 69 Notes: • Represents total headcount for all employees at year-end except where noted below. • All employee data is based on our HRIS-tracked employees. • Individual employee category turnover rates are calculated by dividing the total joiners/leavers in that category by the total average population of that category at the end of 2019. • New hires and employee turnover by region is not yet available for some 2019 acquisitions. • Excludes employees who are not tracked in our HRIS. In 2019, this represented 4,264 employees in China and data from some 2019 acquisitions that is not yet entered into our HRIS. • Excludes temporary employees on contracts that do not include employee benefits. In 2019, the total number of temporary employees was 624, including 255 student interns. • Excludes contingent workers who are retained on a limited basis as needed for short-term assignments, special assignments, or large-scale projects. Contingent employees represent less than 5% of the total workforce. • Asia Pacific includes Greater China. The regions were combined in 2019 for reporting purposes. • The turnover rate by gender excludes employees categorized as NTD, as this represents a small percentage of overall employees. GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Diversity by level, Total Age Age Women Men NDT Age 30 – 50 age and gender Population below 30 above 50 Board of Directors 10 40% 60% 0% 0% 40% 60% Executives 15 7% 93% 0% 0% 33% 67% Managers 6,325 36% 64% 0% 3% 61% 36% Non-managers 42,052 40% 60% <0.001% 23% 48% 29% Notes: • Excludes employees who are not tracked in our HRIS. In 2019, this represented 4,264 employees in China and data from some 2019 acquisitions that is not yet entered into our HRIS. • Excludes temporary employees on contracts that do not include employee benefits. In 2019, the total number of temporary employees was 624, including 255 student interns. • Excludes contingent workers who are retained on a limited basis as needed for short-term assignments, special assignments, or large-scale projects. Contingent employees represent less than 5% of the total workforce. 70 | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 GRI 302: Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 302-3 Energy intensity Total energy consumption in joules or multiples broken out by electricity, 2017 2018 2019 heating, cooling and steam consumption Electricity (GJ) 222,441 219,054 221,681 Steam (GJ) 87,905 894 894 Cooling (GJ) 0 1,519 1,519 Natural Gas Heating (GJ) 175,600 126,199 125,733 Transportation Fuel (GJ) 148,182 163,837 157,036 Total fuel consumption within the organization from 323,782 290,037 282,769 non-renewable sources in joules or multiples (GJ) Total fuel consumption within the organization from 0 0 0 renewable sources in joules or multiples (GJ) Total energy consumption within the organization in 634,128 511,504 506,863 joules or multiples (GJ) Total energy consumption normalized by square feet 0.137 0.125 0.118 (GJ/GSF) Notes: • Cushman & Wakefield collected energy consumption data from our facilities. We did not sell any energy in 2019. • Energy consumption information was converted to GJ and kWh using conversion factors from the US EPA Center for Corporate Climate Leadership. Where actual electricity and natural gas consumption information was unavailable, this was estimated using industry averages from the US Energy Information Administration Commercial Buildings Energy Consumption Survey (CBECS), prorated by office floor area. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 71 GRI 305: Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 2017 2018 2019 Scope 1 emissions (tCO₂e) 18,902 17,373 16,873 Scope 2 emissions (tCO₂e) (location-based) 34,158 27,126 27,722 Scope 3 emissions (tCO₂e) 20,291 19,435 21,093 Total Scope 1, 2 (location-based) and 3 emissions 73,351 63,935 65,688 (tCO₂e) Scope 1, 2 (location-based) and 3 emissions 1,105 873 841 normalized by person (tCO₂e /million employees) Notes: • We calculate our greenhouse gas emissions inventory in accordance with the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting Standard using an operational control boundary. The GHG Protocol defines the operational control approach to include operations where the company has the full authority to introduce and implement operating policies. Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions from all global owned and leased facilities and vehicles worldwide are included in our inventory. • Energy consumption is estimated for leased facilities or mobile sources where we do not have access to metered energy data. • Scope 1 emissions include stationary combustion of fuels in our buildings and combustion of transportation fuels in our mobile fleet. • Scope 2 emissions include indirect purchased energy for consumption in our buildings. • We measure and report our Scope 3 emissions for business travel, fuel and energy related activities and waste generated in operations. • GHG emissions evaluated as part of this inventory include all six greenhouse gases (CO₂, CH₄, N₂O, HFCs, PFCs, SF₆). C&W does not produce significant biogenic emissions. • Global warming potentials used to convert emissions into CO₂e are sourced from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Fourth Assessment Report. • Emission factor sources include: U.S. EPA Emission Factor Hub, March 2020; U.S. Electricity: Year 2018 eGRID Subregion Emission Factors (eGRID 2018, January 2020); International Electricity: Year 2011 factors from “CO₂ Emissions from Fuel Combustion (2013 Edition)”, IEA, Paris; Commercial Air Travel: UK DEFRA 2019 Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting: Methodology Paper for Emission Factors. Year 2017 Factors. From August 2019 Release. • Scope 2 emissions presented in this report are location-based emissions, which are calculated using the average electricity grid factor for each region or sub-region. • 2017 and 2018 inventory adjustments were made to previously reported values to account for methodology improvements to data quality and structural changes due to mergers and acquisitions activity. 72 | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 GRI 303: Water and Effluents and GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 303-3 Water withdrawal 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 2017 2018 2019 Total Hazardous Waste Generated (short tons) 0 0 0 Total Non-hazardous Waste Generated (short tons) 3,982 3,466 4,025 Total Non-hazardous Waste Landfilled (short tons) 3,719 3,237 3,759 Total Non-hazardous Waste Recycled (short tons) 263 229 266 Total water withdrawls (gallons) 99,789,814 90,601,414 89,376,519 Notes: • We use the operational control approach in compilation of our water and waste inventory in accordance with the GHG Protocol accounting principles. All global owned and leased facilities are included. • All water withdrawals information is estimated using industry average intensities by region as we do not have access to reliable measured data at this time. Industry average water estimation intensities from the US DOE’s Commercial Buildings Energy Consumption Survey (CBECS 2012) Table W1, February 2017. • Water withdrawn in areas of water stress is not tracked. • All waste generation and diversion via recycling from landfill is estimated using industry average intensities for large commercial office buildings. Estimation intensities are sourced from the US California Environmental Protection Agency, Integrated Waste Management Board, Waste Disposal and Diversion Findings for Selected Industry Groups, Table 21, June 2006. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 73 UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Principles Report Section Human Rights Businesses should support and respect the protection of Ethics and Compliance, Principle 1 internationally proclaimed human rights; and pp. 19, 21 22 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human Ethics and Compliance, Principle 2 rights abuses. pp. 19, 21 22 Labor Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Our Impact on People and Principle 3 effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Communities, p. 47 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced Ethics and Compliance, Principle 4 and compulsory labour; pp. 19, 21 22 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour; Ethics and Compliance, Principle 5 and pp. 19, 21 22 Ethics and Compliance, p. 19, Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in Principle 6 Our Impact on People and respect of employment and occupation. Communities, p. 50 Environment Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Principle 7 Environmental Performance, p. 24 environmental challenges; Environmental Performance, p. 24 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater Principle 8 Adding Sustainable Value in Real environmental responsibility; and Estate, p. 35 44 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of Adding Sustainable Value in Real Principle 9 environmentally friendly technologies. Estate, p. 35 44 Anti-Corruption Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Ethics and Compliance, Principle 10 including extortion and bribery. pp. 18, 20 22 74 | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 75 (102-53) Cushman & Wakefield (NYSE: CWK) is a leading global real estate services firm that delivers exceptional value for real estate occupiers and owners. Cushman & Wakefield is among the largest real estate services firms with approximately 53,000 employees in 400 offices and 60 countries. In 2019, the firm had revenue of $8.8 billion across core services of property, facilities and project management, leasing, capital markets, valuation and other services. To learn more, visit www.cushmanwakefield.com or follow @CushWake on Twitter. Cushman & Wakefield’s 2019 CSR Report and past reports are available on our website: www.cushmanwakefield.com/en/about-us/corporate-social-responsibility We welcome your comments, queries and feedback. Please reach out to: Maria D’Avanzo Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer +1 212 841 7605 maria.davanzo@cushwake.com Haley Friedlich Corporate Relations and Policy Manager +1 312 424 8078 haley.friedlich@cushwake.com This report may contain forward-looking statements, which rely on a number of estimates, projections and assumptions concerning future events. Should any such estimates, projections and assumptions or other uncertainties and factors materialize in ways that Cushman & Wakefield did not expect, there is no guarantee of future performance and the actual results could differ materially from the forward-looking statements in this report. Please refer to our most recent quarterly report filed on Form 10-Q, and our most recent annual report filed on Form 10-K, and in particular any discussion of risk factors or forward-looking statements therein, which are available on the SEC’s website (www. sec.gov), for a full discussion of the risks and other factors that may impact any forward-looking statements that may be included in this report. Except to the extent required by applicable securities laws, we undertake no obligation to update or publicly revise any of the forwardlooking statements that may be included here.
