Co-developing for a sustainable future Sustainability Report 2019 Contents Introduction to AAK..................................................................................................... 2–7 Statement by CEO Johan Westman........................................................................... 8–9 The AAK House of Sustainability................................................................................ 10–11 UN Global Compact commitments............................................................................. 12–13 Contributions to the Sustainable Development Goals................................................ 14–15 Global sustainability ambitions and achievements..................................................... 16–17 Our Customers........................................................................................................... 18–25 Our Suppliers............................................................................................................. 26–39 Our Planet.................................................................................................................. 40–49 Our People................................................................................................................. 50–55 Our Neighbours.......................................................................................................... 56–61 Our Customers, p. 18 Our Suppliers, p. 26 Sustainability approach.............................................................................................. 62–69 Appendix 1: GRI Index............................................................................................... 70–73 Appendix 2: Reporting Principles............................................................................... 74–75 Appendix 3: Progress on the SDGs........................................................................... 76–78 AAK is supporting UN Global Compact. AAK supports and contributes to the UN Sustainable Development Goals. AAK reports in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option and the report is adapted Our Planet, p. 40 Our People, p. 50 to comply with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act based on the Directive 214/95/EU rules on disclosure of non-financial and diversity information by large companies. 1 The first choice for value-adding vegetable oil solutions AAK’s sustainability promise Scope At AAK, sustainability is part of our DNA. Hand in hand This is a stand-alone Sustainability Report that encomwith financial growth, social and environmental responpasses the AAK Group, including production sites, sibility is key to our continued development and future administrative offices, sales offices, customer innovation success. We believe that building sustianability into our centers, and sourcing operations. Environmental data is everyday activities helps us achieve our vision of being restricted to production sites only. the first choice for value-adding vegetable oil solutions. During the last five years, AAK has experienced In order to achieve this and structure our sustainability significant changes in regard to the scope of our producwork we have created the AAK House of Sustainability. tion sites, with mergers and aquisitions completed in This is a model for sustianable growth that covers five India, USA and Colombia, as well as greenfield investfocus areas: Our Customers, Our Suppliers, Our Planet, ments in China and Brazil. The latest acquisitions made Our People, and Our Neighbours. It represents how we 2019, such as MaasRefinery i Rotterdam, Foodservice continuously work to ensure that sustainability is part of company BD Foods and Soya International in England our DNA, and guides our way of working with stakeare not included. holders across the value chain. As soon as new entities join AAK we focus delibe­ rately to improve and align environmental and social A global team effort parameters with AAK´s sustainability standards and This Sustainability Report aims to provide a clear picture after one year they are included in the Sustainability of how AAK integrates sustainable practices on a daily reporting. basis. It is a global team effort involving colleagues from We identify key raw materials based on volumes, all sites, who contribute with their experiences about position in supply chain and risks together with our the company’s many environmental and social initiapartner Proforest. The key raw materials are presented tives. The report also includes statements, initiatives, in Our Supplier section of the report. projects and views from across the entire organization The AAK Sustainability Report is available in English that demonstrates how sustainability is firmly anchored and Swedish and can be downloaded as a PDF from within our activities and mindset. www.aak.com. To obtain a printed copy, please contact Corporate Communications at comm@aak.com. 2 AAK in 60 seconds We develop and provide value-adding vegetable oil Operational key figures solutions in close collaboration with our customers, (SEK million unless otherwise stated) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 enabling them to achieve long-lasting business results. Volumes, thousand tons 1,833 1,966 2,129 2,239 2,290 We do so through our in-depth expertise in oils & fats Net sales 20,114 22,057 26,436 27,592 28,510 within food applications, working with a wide range of Adjusted operating profit (EBIT)* 1,411 1,615 1,786 1,956 2,157 raw materials and broad process capabilities. Through our unique co-development approach, we Operating profit 1,409 1,615 1,786 1,956 2,142 bring together our customers’ skills and know-how with Operating profit per kilo, SEK 0.77 0.82 0.84 0.87 0.94 our capabilities and mindset. By doing so, we solve Cash flow from operating activities 1,736 1,213 1,099 1,090 1,558 customer-specific needs across many industries – Chocolate & Confectionery Fats, Special Nutrition, Earnings per share, SEK** 3.70 3.95 4.71 5.21 5.86 Plant-based Foods, Bakery, Dairy, Personal Care, Equity per share, SEK** 26.13 29.65 30.21 35.11 40.74 and more. Dividend per share, SEK** 1.29 1.46 1.63 1.85 *** AAK’s proven expertise is based on more than 140 Return on Capital Employed, R12m, percent 15.7 15.8 15.6 15.8 14.9 years of experience within oils & fats. With our headquarters in Malmö, Sweden, more than 20 production CEO salary, SEK million per annum 20.1 20.1 15.1 12.5 18.7 facilities and customization plants, sales offices in more Number of employees 2,738 2,971 3,399 3,609 3,884 than 25 countries, our more than 3,800 employees are Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR) **** 0.6 0.6 0.8 0.6 0.4 dedicated to providing innovative value-adding solutions Absence rate, percent 3.6 3.0 2.3 3.5 3.6 to our customers. Women on the Board of Directors, percent 50 50 66 57 50 We are AAK – The Co-Development Company Energy consumption per unit processed material (GJ) 2.37 2.33 2.25 2.36 2.18 * Adjusted for non-recurring items and acquisition costs ** Share data recalculated in accordance with the decided share split (6:1) by the Annual General Meeting on May 30, 2018 *** As communicated in a press release on March 30, 2020, the Board of Directors has, due to corona pandemic, proposed to postpone the decision on the dividend for 2019. For further information, please see AAK Annual Report 2019 page 47. **** Please see GRI index 403-9. 3 AAK in the world A global perspective Contrary to popular belief, oils and fats are essential for AAK provides tailored vegetable oil solutions to the us to maintain a healthy body. We need fat for energy, global food, confectionery and cosmetics industries. to absorb vitamins, produce hormones and to provide Leading businesses worldwide rely on our expertise, us with important fatty acids that our bodies are unable experience and innovation to deliver lasting value in to synthesize. markets shaped by shifting consumer trends. Over many decades, AAK has developed an unparalAfter more than a century in the business, we deliver leled depth of experience and know-how regarding the the highest quality made from natural and renewable properties, benefits and attributes of fats. This allows raw materials. Our products are derived from a wide us to create highly specialized solutions for customers range of raw materials, such as coconuts, palm fruits that support their production process and enhance the and kernels, rapeseed, shea kernels, soy beans and quality and value of their end products. The interest in sunflower seeds, which are responsibly sourced from plant-based foods and thereby also plant-based fats is all over the world. AAK connects to a broad range of increasing, not only due to the health benefits but also customers in markets worldwide through our global due to other sustainable value-adding factors in the network of production sites, sales offices and network value chain of these essential ingredients. of agents and distributors. It is important that we are close to our costumers to Co-development creates value sufficiently and effectively address their needs. This way One of AAK’s greatest strengths is our unique cowe are a global company with strong local presence. development approach. This was born from our strong We utilize and add value to the natural properties relationships with customers, where we bring the most of vegetable oils and fats and then work closely with value by working in close collaboration to deliver the customers across the value chain to create solutions most effective outcome at every stage. tailored to their product development goals. This methodology enables us to work as an efficient team from idea to launch, drawing upon the right An essential ingredient expertise at the right time to create solutions with better Vegetable oils and fats are present in many of the ideation, faster development times and more effective products we use and consume on a daily basis. implementation. 4 4 Production sites Customization sites Sales offices Sourcing operations Customer Innovation Centers 5 AAK’s role in the value chain We have illustrated AAK’s role in the value chain in Code of Conduct for Suppliers of Raw Materials with order to assist in identifying the steps involved in the focus on environmental and social sustainability issues. making of our products and solutions. At AAK, we In our operations we aim to minimize our environ­recognize that our responsibility in the value chain goes mental footprint and create a good working environbeyond our own operations. Every step is connected to ment. Downstream of our own operations the impact multiple stakeholders such as employees, communities, relates to ensuring a high quality of products and ecosystems and business partners around the world. relevant information of where and how our products In the illustration you can see that we are located have been produced and the potential positive impact it in the middle of the value chain, sourcing multiple raw has created. materials globally that we process and refine to provide Our direct responsibility and requirements can look solutions to our customers’ end products. It means that different in the various supply chains that we are operwe have a key responsibility managing and mitigating ating in. Priorities and management approach therefore the significant impact we have in terms of what we can also differ from raw material to raw material. influence as buyer, producer and supplier. Please read more about the work we do upstream in The impact we can have and how we manage it “Our Suppliers” section and about the work we do in our rely upon an evaluation of risks and our position in the operations in “Our Planet” and “Our People” section and supply chain. Upstream, our key responsibility is to the work we do downstream of our value chain in “Our ensure traceability and compliance with the AAK Group Customers” section. 6 Our Planet and Our People Our Suppliers Traceability Legal Human rights Labor rights Anti-corruption Environment Process Food safety compliance efficiency Traceability Legal compliance Buying Retailing Human rights Consumers Smiley Mills Mills Refining Factory Factory Crushing Crushing Blending Factory Labor rights Refining Refining AAK segments Chocolate & Confectionery Fats Special Nutrition Plant-based Foods Cultivation Cultivation Bakery Consumer goods Dairy Factory Anti-corruption Products Personal Care Foodservice Technical products & Feed Palm Coconut Shea Rapeseed Environment Our Customers Palm kernel Soya Traceability Legal Food safety Health Environment Process Human rights Smallholder compliance efficiency 7 President and CEO: Sustainability – a key enabler for future success At AAK, we deliver plant-based oils and fats solutions This groundwork and valuable insights combined with Sustainability progress for all key raw materials with care for the planet and the people that we reach continued support of the ten principles of the UN Global We have for many years been working on achieving through our business. I am proud to share the progress Compact and the Sustainable Development Goals will sustainable development in our supply chains. We see we have made during 2019 in this annual Sustainability be our guiding stars and support our role in creating this experience as a great strength of the company, Report. Our achievements are the result of a tremenvalue-adding sustainable oil solutions going forward. demonstrating our ability to upscale initiatives that dous amount of dedication from AAK colleagues and show significant positive impact. A great example of ­collabo­ration partners around the globe. Ambitions and achievements during 2019 this is our direct shea sourcing program Kolo Nafaso in The AAK ambitions have been met in many ways during West Africa. During 2019, we have grown this initiative Sustainability – part of our DNA 2019. Our colleagues are making efforts to create a safe tremendously and today more than 230,000 women Sustainability has been at the core of AAK for many workplace, education of our employees is strengthening shea collectors are engaged in the program with years. It has a strong alignment to who we are and skills and people’s engagement show how we can access to pre-financing, training and logistical support. how we run our business and our company. We also act as catalysts for sustainable change in societies A journey that has given us valuable experience to see it as fundamental to our continued development where we operate. These are efforts where the impact further apply and build on. and future success. Drawing on a diverse range of raw is hard to measure but we know it’s there and that it’s material sources, AAK has a responsibility and a role ­significant. Furthermore, I would like to emphasize some Minimizing our environmental impact to play in enabling sustainable foods to consumers. specific ambitions and activities that demonstrate imporOur ambition to minimize our environmental impact By ensuring responsible supply chains, minimizing our tant steps not only for AAK but also for our customers, is shown in our ever-expanding efforts to prevent the environmental impact and by being a knowledgeable our suppliers and our planet. negative effect of our production sites. We have seen partner on sustainability we can provide value-adding improvements for three significant resource efficiency sustainable solutions to our customers and thereby A leading and knowledgeable partner on sustainability indicators during 2019. The total energy consumption consumers. Together with an increasing concern about health and per processed unit decreased by 7 percent, and In 2019, we initiated a strategy process to identify the environment, AAK has seen the demand for plantthe water consumption per unit processed material opportunities for future growth, and sustainability was based foods grow over the last few years. During 2019, decreased by 2.3 percent compared to 2018. In confirmed as one of the key enablers going forward. we launched AkoPlanet™, a portfolio with solutions for ­addition, we reduced our greenhouse gas emissions Three-year plans are initiated in order to strengthen plant-based foods that are good for both people and the per processed unit raw material by 4.4 percent. Work sustainability as an enabler with focus on our significant environment. This important step will lift our capabilities is now ongoing to identify further improvements to impact in our supply chains and prerequisites to grow in to respond to a fast-moving market segment not only reduce our environmental impact. a sustainable manner. The AAK materiality analysis was with our solutions but also with our knowledge and also revisited during the year and new information was experience with sustainable value-adding solutions and collected from important stakeholders regarding how we impactful work carried out in our supply chains. can improve and enable their sustainability ambitions. 8 The Call to Action 2019 close out a decade of exceptional global heat, retreating ice and record sea levels driven by greenhouse gases from human activities. As I write this, the ongoing corona pandemic is also profoundly impacting people´s health, societies, and business operations across the world. The uncertainty in our industry has increased, especially in the short term. However, in a more long-term perspective we remain prudently optimistic about the future. AAK realizes the urgency related to climate change and we are committed to reduce our emissions and meet required ambition levels based on solid groundwork. During 2020 we will identify climate risk, frameworks and actions that can enable us to reduce our climate impact in the most effective way. Climate change impact assessments have been initiated at all production sites and during 2020 we will also initiate climate change impact assessments in our supply chain to identify how to lift the shared responsibility together with relevant stakeholders. This will provide valuable input for our actions both in terms of reduction of greenhouse gases and to how we can build the resilience of the company when facing climate changes. It is not only our response to fight climate change but an investment that will build long-term value for AAK. The health and well-being of our planet and our people is the responsibility of all of us and we are committed to do our part. Johan Westman, President and CEO 9 9 The AAK House of Sustainability Sustainability is key to our growth and essential to Policies and codes achieve our vision of being the industry’s first choice AAK’s sustainability policies and codes are based on AAK Sustainable Growth for value-adding vegetable oil solutions. Our House of the UNGC as well as on our own principles and are Sustainability has guided our continued progress and implemented globally across all AAK business activities. Global Sustainability Team represents the foundational structure of our sustainaThe policies and codes are aligned with many of our bility initiatives and how we make it part of our DNA. customers’ requirements and values, which strengthens Ambitions and GRI our strategic alignment. AAK’s policies and codes are UNGC principles and SDGs available at our website, www.aak.com. The UN Global Compact (UNGC) is a solid platform Our Customers Our Suppliers Our Planet Our People Our Neighbours Monitoring Sharing & and a broad concept based on ten universal principles Five sustainability focus areas & Dialogue Partnerships within Human and Labor Rights, Environment, and We have defined five sustainability focus areas – the Anti-corruption. It involves all of the major players in “pillars” – that are important to our business: Our global business and sustainability, including the GRI Customers, Our Suppliers, Our Planet, Our People, Policies & Codes (Global Reporting Initiative), ETI (Ethical Trading and Our Neighbours. They provide an overview of our Initiative), ICC (International Chamber of Commerce), progress and guide us in setting objectives and focusing UNGC principles & SDGs and OECD (Organization for Economic Cooperation and our resources. Development). AAK has been a participant of the UNGC since 2003. Sustainability ambitions and GRI in 2007. It consists of local sustainability teams with To maintain momentum and drive improvement, we core competencies that cover our sustainability scope. UN Sustainable Development Goals have defined key ambitions within each of the five focus The Global Sustainability Manager reports to the Chief In 2015, all member states of the United Nations areas. Achievements and future ambitions are publicly Strategy & Sustainability Officer, who is a member of adopted 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), available in our Sustainability Report. Furthermore, AAK’s Executive Committee. which aim to end poverty, protect the planet, and ensure based on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the prosperity for all, with specific targets to be achieved by GRI Standard guidelines, we globally monitor indicators Sharing and partnerships 2030. As a global company, AAK recognizes that busiof importance for our stakeholders and ourselves. To Sharing knowledge, ambitions and achievements with nesses have to play an important role in this process do this, we use the materiality analysis methodology our stakeholders is a fundamental part of our approach. and thus we have included the SDGs in our model. We outlined in the GRI Standard. In our annual Sustainability Report, we share global are developing further ways to support the process and information based on the GRI framework, supported by monitor and report on our progress. Global sustainability team a variety of local projects and initiatives that illustrate The engine behind many of our sustainability activities is how our sustainability work comes to life. Furthermore, our decentralized global sustainability team, established we regularly report progress on the implementation of 10 our Responsible Sourcing Policy and our Responsible Sourcing programs in AAK’s progress reports on sustainable palm and shea. Reports and policies are publicly available on our website. The UN Global Compact encourages companies to engage in partnerships to tackle global challenges more effectively. AAK embraces the view that by working with other businesses, NGOs and governmental agencies, we can accomplish more. For example, AAK is partici­ pating in, or partnering with, RSPO (Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil), GSA (Global Shea Alliance) and Proforest. Monitoring and dialogue Our sustainability approach is not static, but adjusted to input from stakeholders such as customers, investors, NGOs, and employees. We monitor new and upcoming legislation, follow trends in our communities, and benchmark our sustainability practices against those of retailers, customers, and competitors. Find out more Our overall objective to grow AAK sustainably and progress within sustainability as a whole is governed with help from the pillars in the AAK House of ­Sustainability. If you would like to learn more, please watch the short, animated video under AAK House of Sustainability at our website. 11 11 UN Global Compact commitments The United Nations Global Compact is an initiative Principles Examples of AAK commitments for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, Human rights Businesses should support AAK supports the ten principles of UNGC in the labor, environment and anti-corruption. With more and respect the protection areas of human and labour rights and communithan 9,900 company participants in 160 countries, of internationally proclaimed cates this to all employees in our Group Code of the UN Global Compact is the world’s largest volunhuman rights; and Conduct. The Code is accepted and sighed by all tary corporate sustainability initiative. AAK has been Make sure that they are not AAK employees (page 17). participating in UN Global Compact since 2003. complicit in human rights AAK Supplier Code of Conduct and Code of abuses. Conduct for Suppliers of Raw Materials is an integral part of the approval system for suppliers and our direct suppliers are required to approve and sign it (page 55). AAK has an active whistleblower function implemented. Labor Businesses should uphold AAK recognise the rights of its workers to freedom of freedom of association and association and collective bargaining, including the the effective recognition right to freely form and join independent trade unions. of the right to collective Labor rights are addressed in AAK’s Sustainability bargaining; Policy (page 55). The elimination of all forms Modern slavery issues are addressed in AAK’s of forced and compulsory ­statement on Modern Slavery Act (page 27). labor; AAK does not support any form of discrimination. The effective abolition Anti-harassment and discrimination will be part of of child labor and; the Ethical Behavior training to be developed and The elimination of launched during 2020. See page 17. ­discrimi­nation in respect of employment and occupation. 12 Principles Examples of AAK commitments Environment Businesses should AAK supports the precautionary approach both support a ­precautionary in terms of product development and innovation approach to environmental and in terms of environmental awareness challenges; initiatives (pages 26–39). Undertake initiatives to Our community engagement initiatives are promote greater environexamples of how AAK engages employees in mental responsibility; taking a greater environmental responsibility Encourage the deve­ (pages 56–59). lopment and diffusion of Best practice, best available technology, benchenvironmentally-friendly marking and scalable solutions are measures technologies. applied to achieve AAK ambitions (examples on pages 43 and 45). Anti-corruption Businesses should work Anti-corruption is addressed in AAK Code against corruption in of Conduct, the Supplier Code of Conduct, all its forms, including the Code of Conduct for Suppliers of Raw extortion and bribery. Materials and the Code of Conduct for Agents and Distributors. Two mandatory e-learning modules addressing anti-corruption have been passed by more than 90 percent of our employees at risk of encountering corruption (page 55). Code of Conduct and anti-corruption is part of the AAK evaluation and audit procedures of suppliers. 13 13 Contributions to the Sustainable Development Goals In September 2015, the United Nations (UN) adopted The Kolo Nafaso program also continued to the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) relevant contribute to equal rights and to provide for all countries. AAK has a strong commitment to economic resources by opening 4,249 bank sustainability and we have welcomed the SDGs. We accounts, training 2,456 women in rocket see the SDGs as an integrated part of our sustainability stove construction and, not least, by work and they are incorporated in our model, the AAK supporting the female extension House of Sustainability. AAK plays an active role in officers who play a critical role in supporting the delivery of the SDGs. As part of our helping the participants grow as annual review process, we, in 2019, identified eleven strong female leaders. SDGs that represent our ability to contribute and make a substantial positive impact. For more information about our progress and contribution Our significant impact to the eleven identified In 2019, our progress in contributing to the UN Sustainsustainable development able Development Goals was especially evidenced goals, please see appendix 2 in our supply chains. The inclusion of smallholder at the end of the report. suppliers is one of the areas where AAK continues We will continue to monitor to have a positive and growing impact, including our our contribution towards work with smallholders within oil palm in Malaysia and achieving the SDGs and their Mexico, coconuts in Indonesia, and shea in Burkina specific sub-targets with focus Faso, Ghana and Ivory Coast. on positive impact throughout One of the biggest contributions in 2019 was related our value chain. to our efforts with the Kolo Nafaso program in West Africa, which increased by 72 percent. We were able to offer training to an additional 96,615 women, providing instructions in cooperative business skills, good agricultural practices, and water usage. 14 Contributes to: AAK joins the Young SDG Innovators program During 2019, the UN Global Compact initiated a through new technologies, initiatives, and business program to identify young talent within organizations in models, and to deliver on their company’s sustainability order to collaborate and accelerate business innovation objectives. AAK is proud to have two employees joining towards the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). this program, which we hope will provide more know­ The program aims to encourage future business ledge and innovation for creating sustainable solutions. leaders and changemakers to drive innovative solutions “It is very inspiring to be a part of this group of young people who are all motivated to push the sustainability agenda to the next level. One of the best aspects of the program, for me, is to discuss our ideas with each other, because everybody comes from very different industries. This gives feedback from unexpected angles, which allows “out-of-the-box discussions.” Laura Schlebes, Multi-oil Sustainability Manager ”The program is providing guidance on how companies can drive the sustainability agenda and create greater value for employees, customers, and the planet. Through workshops, educational materials, and connections, we get a bird’s eye view of our role in the supply chain and the positive impact we have in other sectors. It has allowed us to cross-fertilize learnings and best practices that are proven to succeed in creating profitable growth, and more importantly, protecting our environment at the same time.” Javier Gines Galera, Global Innovation Lead, Plant-based Foods 15 Global sustainability ambitions and achievements We are proud to present AAK’s global sustainability ambitions and achievements in brief. The achievements are commented on in more detail in the five sections to which they apply: Our Customers, Our Suppliers, Our Planet, Our People, and Our Neighbours. Area Ambitions 2019/2020+ Status Comments Our A leading and knowledgeable partner on sustainability An ambition that always guides us to become even stronger and more knowledgeable on sustainability for our customers. Customers Continously co-develop sustainable solutions AAK has developed new sustainable solutions that meet our customers expectations during 2019 (pages 22 and 24). Ongoing: AAK Code of Conduct for Agents and Distributors signed by all 98% Several new partnerships established during 2019 and great efforts have been made to ensure that agents and agents and distributors distributors sign and understand the Code of Conduct. Intro to anti-corruption and competition law compliance e-learning 93/94% The introduction to anti-corruption and competition law compliance e-learnings will continuously be rolled out to all modules passed by all relevant employees relevant employees and employees entering the organization (page 55). Training on Code of Conduct for Agents and Distributors developed Ongoing AAK wishes to reinforce the understanding of our Code of Conduct for Agents and Distributors by providing training. and launched by 2020 Area Ambitions 2019/2020+ Status Comments Our Progressing on sustainability for each of our key raw materials An ambition that ensures continuous progress, traceability, compliance and high sustainability standards in our supply Suppliers chains. Verified deforestation-free* 2020: Progressing on verified deforestation free palm supply base 26% This calculation combines our RSPO-segregated volumes with estimates based on an equal weight from each mill in our supply base. 2020: Minimum 90% verified deforestation-free soy Ongoing 91 percent of supply base is identified as low risk and work is ongoing with Proforest on a methodology to verify. Continuously increase our impact on smallholders’ livelihoods We are running smallholder projects in our palm, shea, coconut and soy supply chains (pages 26–39). Ongoing: Meeting the AAK policy requirements is a combination of RSPO certified volumes, progress on supplier engagement and 2019: All sourced palm oil meeting AAK’s policy requirements 31% measuring supplier compliance. A new reporting tool to calculate will be launched in 2020. 31% of our supply base was RSPO certified in 2019. 2019: Develop and launch e-learning on Code of Conduct for The e-learning was developed in 2019 and will be launched in 2020. Suppliers of Raw Materials 2019: AAK Palm Oil Policy and Actions and Responsible sourcing 98% of our suppliers have signed the Palm oil Policy and 99% of relevant employees passed AAK Palm Oil Policy and of Shea in AAK e-learning modules passed by all relevant action e-learning and 95% passed the Responsible sourcing of Shea e-learning module. employees Code of Conduct for Suppliers of Raw Materials signed by all raw 98% of our palm oil suppliers have signed the Code of Conduct for Suppliers of Raw Materials and work is ongoing to material suppliers provide a global percentage as the suppliers are currently managed in different regional systems. Please see GRI 308-1 and 414-1 on page 75. Code of Conduct training provided to all strategic raw material AAK has not directly engaged in any workshops during 2019, but 104 mills in our palm oil supply chain have participated suppliers in workshops through Proforest. The top two suppliers in the coconut supply chain were engaged in 2019. * An ambition based on a verification methodology that has been developed with our partner Proforest. 16 Area Ambitions 2019/2020+ Status Comments Our Minimize our environmental impact and increase resource An ambition that drives our improvement work and our ability to manage direct environmental aspects. Planet efficiency per processed unit raw material 2030: Reduce GHG emissions per processed unit raw material by -4.4% AAK will review the present target during 2020 to ensure we are ambitious enough to meet the needed GHG reduction 22% (baseyear 2012*) levels in line with the science based target methodology. 2020: Climate change risk assessment at all production sites 56% The assessments will continue during 2020 and will provide valuable input for AAK to further strengthen its climate related activities (page 47). Ongoing: The waste to landfill statistics have been reduced by 48% since last year but AAK has still not reached the initial goal of Less than 1.5% of waste disposed at landfill 2.5% 1.5% (page 48). Area Ambitions 2019/2020+ Status Comments Our Working towards an injury free workplace An ambition that drives our safety in the workplace. The Lost time injury rate ended up on 0.4 in 2019. A 30 percent People reduction since last year. 2022: All employees trained in ethical behavior Initiated To reinforce the emphasis and compliance with AAK Code of Conduct, this ambition includes focus on anti-harassment and discrimination training. Ongoing AAK Code of Conduct signed by all employees All employees shall be aware of and behave according to our Code of Conduct. Continuously improve the competences and engagement of Different trainings and development programs have been conducted during 2019 to improve the competences and our people engagement of our people (page 53). Area Ambitions 2019/2020+ Status Comments Our Relevant local community projects and activities An ambition that will enforce our role as a responsible corporate citizen. Neighbours Sites have been engaged in relevant local community projects and activities in line with our Community Engagement Guidelines. * See GRI Index 305-4 on page 72. 17 Our Customers Our customers come first Our business is nothing without our customers. They form the backbone of our vision and the driver behind our goals. Each solution we co-develop is geared to solve a specific customer challenge and to deliver lasting business value that builds and protects their brand. In this respect, any interaction with customers is fueled by a genuine desire to help, to share our expertise, to support the development of strong brands and to achieve results based on sound business ethics and the highest standards of excellence. Over the years, AAK has established long-standing carry flavor, supply essential fatty acids, provide relationships with customers built on mutual respect and structure, responsible supply chains and much more. In a detailed understanding of customer needs. Knowing each case, AAK’s understanding of customers’ requireyour customers means knowing your markets, and that ments is crucial when developing the right solution. In gives AAK a head start when responding to market cooperation with our customers’ key people, our experts trends. From time to time, AAK has even set new trends test applications, co-develop product and supply chain Key achievements through the development of cutting-edge solutions. solutions, and explore new production methods. We Food safety certified Oils and fats from AAK perform valuable functions always aim to be a leading and knowledgeable partner Percent of production sites in customers’ products and sustainable value-adding on sustainability to our customers. 100 benefits. They may ensure the right meltdown property, 80 100 100 100 100 100 60 40 20 Our Customer achievements 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Third-party certifications Increasing demand for sustainable products Sedex* members and passed SMETA audit At AAK, we understand the value of having independent AAK will always make sure that sustainable options are Percent of production sites organizations review our processes to verify that the available and that we enhance the value of these types 100 final product complies with specific standards for safety, of solutions. 80 quality, and environmental protection. The level of food We produce different sustainability communication 76 82 60 69 69 safety and RSPO supply chain certifications on our materials for customers, such as progress reports and 60 40 production sites remained high during 2019. presentations, and we continuously work to expand our employees’ knowledge to increase the demand for 20 Code of Conduct for Agents and Distributors sustainable products. 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 After successfully implementing our Code of Conduct * Sedex is a global membership organization to manage with all employees, and our Supplier Code of Conduct Employee skills and product governance ­performance around labor rights, health and safety, environment and business ethics and SMETA is the corresponding audit. with our raw material suppliers, we began implementing Our skilled Customer Innovation (CI) and sales teams our Code of Conduct for Agents and Distributors. In make sure that requirements are understood and RSPO supply chain certification Percent of production sites processing palm oil 2019, we achieved 98 percent implementation, 93 that we meet our customers’ needs. This is done by 100 percent among our agents, and 99 percent of our following up on the approval process of the products, 100 100 100 100 80 distributors signed the Code of Conduct. To ensure that ensuring integrity, safety and feasibility of the products 92 we continuously develop our business relationships on through to trials and launch. The sales team is also 60 common values, we will further build on the ability to there together with the quality department to follow up 40 train our business partners. on any product failures or complaints that will be logged 20 according to our customer complaints procedure. 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 19 AAK receives gold rating by EcoVadis EcoVadis has awarded AAK with a gold rating for three years in a row. Ecovadis is a collaborative platform that enables companies to monitor the sustainable performance of their suppliers. AAK was assessed on environment, labor practices, fair business practices, and sustainable procurement. All answers provided for the assessment were supported by documents such as published reports, procedures, checklists, and other evidence of compliance. This enables us to focus on the AAK management system and how we can make further improvements. Award for Kolo Nafaso as Sustainability Pioneer In November 2019, AAK was presented with a Sustainable Beauty Award and named winner in the Sustainability Pioneer Category thanks to our direct sourcing program Kolo Nafaso in West Africa. The program has grown exponentially since it was founded ten years ago and the award is an acknow­ledgement of all the hard work and dedication that the AAK teams have made on the ground in West Africa. Consequently, cosmetic manufacturers have been able to increase the social value of their brands. 20 Contributes to: Partnerships built on trust It is important to show that AAK is a responsible, trustworthy supplier. Customers must be able to rely on us as a safe partner, also in regards to working in an Third-party certification of ethically sound manner. AAK production sites Best practice and standards We use third-party organizations to verify that our 100 percent of AAK sites are certified to one production facilities operate sustainably. When a or more internationally recognized food safety facility has passed an audit (e.g. SMETA) or obtains standards (FSSC 22000/ISO 22000/BRC) certifications (e.g. ISO 14001 or ISO 9001), we can be sure that key elements such as labor rights, health and 100 percent of sites handling palm oil have RSPO Supply Chain Certification safety, environmental risk management, and business ethics, are indisputable parts of our everyday working 82 percent of sites are members of Sedex and practices. have passed the ethical audit SMETA A certified site according to these industry standards 58 percent of sites are quality management will ensure that targets and action plans are met, with certified according to ISO 9001 continuous progress towards our environmental and quality management goals. AAK sees a great value in 35 percent of sites are environmentally this and we aim to increase the number of certified sites certified according to ISO 14001 with focus on ISO 14001 and ISO 9001. All production sites are certified in ­accordance with In addition, various production sites are also international food safety regulations and quality control certified according to other standards such as functions ensure that every delivery meets specifinational energy standards, the KRAV organic cations and requirements. This way, we can be sure standard, feed safety, health and safety, Halal that our daily routines are according to best practice, and Kosher production. meet the highest quality standards, and that we never compromise our customers’ brands. 21 Sharing sustainability best practices AAK aims to support the industry in sustainability best Another example was our participation at FiE (Food practices and, in turn, share knowledge and experiingredients Europe) in Paris in December 2019. Not ence with our customers. In this way, we can increase only was our booth made entirely from sustainable awareness and demand for sustainable solutions by materials, but we also showcased several of our demonstrating the value-adding impact they deliver. sustainability initiatives, including new plant-based During 2019, AAK has taken sustainability a step solutions for the cheese and meat segments as well as further. One example of this is the creation of our updates on our Kolo Nafaso program. AkoPlanet™ platform, showcased for the first time During the event, AAK also joined forces with TREE at the Plant-based World Expo in New York during AID to raise awareness on climate change by planting summer 2019. AkoPlanet™ enables customers to create a tree for each visitor that came to our booth. We also sustainable plant-based foods in response to increasing did this during another event called Food Life Matters i demand for more environmentally-friendly solutions to London. After the shows, 834 trees were registered to feed the world’s growing population. be planted in Africa. Valued product information for our customers It is usually the minimum requirement for product Product Information Sheet/Product Specification Quality & Product Safety Sheet information that is stipulated by legislation that is used in Specifies the physical and chemical properties of the Contains additional information related to the product our business. However, they vary according to whether products and is often part of a contract. such as allergens, GMOs, residues, country of origin, the product is standard or highly refined, and whether raw materials and additives, typical fatty acid composian ingredient or a final consumer product. Same thing Material Safety Data Sheet tion, etc. when it comes to nutrition solutions for infants or elderly. Relates to safety issues, often concerning transport. AAK’s product information sheets sometimes have This is a legal requirement for chemicals, but not for For some products, a Certificate of Analysis accomdifferent names in different countries, but in general, food. However, most customers demand this information panies the delivery. The certificate is produced by the three types of information are available: and we provide it. relevant AAK laboratory and confirms compliance with agreed product specifications. 22 Welcome to AAK ACADEMY™ One particularly important aspect of our co-development market trends and improve their product development in and developing new product concepts and we continapproach is to run courses at our Customer Innovation key areas, including healthiness, sustainability, functionuously develop knowledge and expertise by working Centers through AAK ACADEMY™. Not only does ality, cost-efficiency, and new concept creation. We also closely with leading businesses worldwide. We strive this enable us to deliver a more complete service to organize customer-specific academies to engage key to use and share knowledge around sustainable raw customers, but it also provides the perfect platform personnel from different functions, such as Research materials, operations and practices. Sustainability is at to share knowledge on the importance and value of & Development, Quality Assurance, production, and our core and that is being recognized by our customers. sustainable solutions. marketing. What did you achieve over 2019, and what’s next? Martin Persson, Commercial Product Manager, Dairy, What do customers get out of it? In our latest AAK Ice Cream ACADEMY™, we introduced gives us some insights into what AAK ACADEMY™ is, Each AAK ACADEMY™ course are an excellent oppornew ways to explore the connection between product and the value it provides: tunity for people to get a deeper understanding of how development and consumer demand for sustainable AAK oils and fats can support our customers’ current alternatives. With the current speed of change in the What is AAK ACADEMY™? and future business plans and product roadmaps. market, we believe this strong link is critical to help our AAK ACADEMY™ organizes application-focused Through our AAK Co-Development Innovation days, customers be even more successful in their upcoming courses based on customer needs and challenges. we also facilitate the ideation of possible sweet spots product launches. Usually held at our premises, but sometimes at a and solutions by presenting new concepts and market For 2020, there are more academies coming, now customer’s own facility, these courses take a holistic trends as inspiration. We evaluate customers’ products in the planning phase, which will continue to highlight approach that cover many different areas, such as and their value chain for improvements, which helps the importance of sustainability and how we are the consumer trends, concept ideation, and product them prioritize the development of new ideas. right partner to help customers integrate this into their development. development processes. How does this support our ambition to be a “strong and How does it work? knowledgeable sustainability partner”? We keep the courses flexible to suit customers, Within AAK ACADEMY™, sustainability has gone from segments or markets, but typically they have a formal being a single agenda point to something that is incorset-up with a mixture of attendees from different porated into other topics. Sustainability is a complement companies. We focus on helping people to understand as well as a strong factor for making business decisions 23 Driving sustainable innovation and meeting customer needs Sustainability is becoming more important in AAKs way AkoPlanet™ solutions are made with responsibly of driving innovation and meeting our customers needs. sourced, traceable raw materials to ensure consumers’ New food product solutions are created that not only plant-based choices are also as beneficial for the planet. benefit the environment, but that are more commercially These are often customized towards a specific sustainviable and support stakeholder requirements throughout ability promise. For example, we can offer a rapeseed the value chain. solution with a Life Cycle Assessment for a customer to help monitor and understand their impact on global Sustainable and healthy businesses are rapeseed supply chains. made with AkoPlanet™ AkoPlanet™ is AAK’s umbrella brand for plant-based Energy-saving benefits of AAK Lipex SheaLiquid™ foods and a platform for co-developing oils and fats Another example of how AAK is driving sustainable solutions for plant-based meat and dairy. innovation is through our liquid shea solution, which has “Conscious consumers are choosing to reduce or been proven in laboratory trials to save up to 50 percent replace meat and dairy in their diet. This is driven energy and 30 percent time in production compared to primarily by sustainability and health concerns, however solid shea butter. they are still also looking for a taste experience,” says The study was conducted under strictly controlled Catherine Hansen, AAK’s Global Product and Market conditions and compared hot processing of a body Manager for Plant-based Foods. ”That’s why we’ve lotion made with 6 percent solid shea butter with low developed AkoPlanet™, so consumers can enjoy more temperature processing of the same formulation using plant-based foods that have a positive impact on 6 percent liquid shea. the planet without having to compromise on taste or AAK’s liquid shea offers all the functionality and skin texture.” nourishing benefits of solid shea butter. In addition, the Based on a deep understanding of oils and fats raw material requires less packaging than solid shea chemistry, our AkoPlanet™ team works with food manubutter and is produced using kernels from a segregated facturers to develop great-tasting plant-based products supply chain traceable to the AAK Kolo Nafaso program, with enhanced taste and texture, from more succulent making it an even more sustainable solution. burgers and creamier frozen desserts to sliceable or shreddable cheese with superior melting properties. 24 Customer survey – We listen, we care, we act! The right partner with the right sustainable solution In 2018, AAK conducted a global customer survey to At AAK, we put customers first. That is why “Our Our aim is to support our customers in safeguarding assess whether we live up to our promise of being our Customers” is the first pillar in our model for sustaintheir brands and in making the best possible customers’ first choice for value-adding vegetable oil able growth. Through our unique co-development sustainability choices. Therefore, we have put a lot solutions. approach, we stay very close to our customers, of effort into ensuring that our Sales Managers and More than 2,000 con customers tacts were invited to which generally gives us a good understanding of Customer Innovation Managers can be good sparparticipate in the survey. The response rate was high, their sustainability needs. ring partners for our customers. This has been done and the input has provided us with key insights as to The demand for solutions with stronger sustainathrough training and providing the right materials what we should do to further improve our abilities to bility credentials increased significantly during 2019. and tools to help them identify or develop the best deliver upon our customers’ expectations. A concrete A large part of the dialogue with our customers was solutions. action plan has been put into place across business focused on understanding and developing solutions Our many Customer Innovation Centers globally areas, regions, segments, and customers. with the right sustainability credentials versus their have also played a key role in ensuring that the For AAK, the “act” aspect of the survey is crucial, to needs. Our customer requirements on sustainability solutions are right from a sustainability point of view show our customers that we are learning from the past varies significantly across industries, regions and and with regards to the right functionalities for our and from their feedback. customers. We see a higher demand for solutions customers’ applications. The survey also included questions regarding with stronger sustainability credentials from our customers’ perception of AAK’s sustainability perforglobal consumer goods customers, our European mance. The feedback was generally positive, and and North American customers as well as our Anne Mette Olesen customers wanted to see an even more proactive customers within the Plant based Food, Chocolate Chief Strategy & Sustainability Officer approach from AAK. and Cosmetic Industry. In 2019 we followed up with a stakeholder analysis The key sustainability credentials were often in line with the GRI requirements to assess more related to our responsible sourcing practices for our specifically the most important aspects of sustainability many raw materials sourced from around the world. to focus on from a customer and other stakeholder The most general requirement is the traceability perspectives. The in depth insight from this analysis of the raw material back to origin as this is the has helped us to design our new sustainability plan for foundation for building additional credentials such 2020+. as verified deforestation free palm oil or making real In early 2020, we will re-engage with our customers social impacts on the ground as for our Kolo Nafaso with a new survey to assess whether and to what activities in West Africa. extent we as a company have improved our customers’ experience with AAK in general and specifically on sustainability. 25 Our Suppliers Responsible sourcing for trust in our supply chains The solutions that we co-develop with our customers in our different industry segments are founded on a few critical criteria: The right quality The AAK sustainability baseline requirements The right cost levels The sustainability requirements that we have integrated in our sourcing processes, including environmental, social and ethical performance factors, are covered in our Code of Conduct for Suppliers of Raw Materials. Additionally, we perform our own risk assessments and listen to our customers in order to understand their priorities. Progressing on responsible sourcing Our goal is to achieve responsible sourcing by building shea-collecting women in West Africa to reach more Key achievements strong and resilient partnerships with suppliers and than 230.000 individuals, representing an increase of Palm oil traceability customers, in order to protect our customers and our 72 percent since 2018. reputation as well as to mitigate risks and issues linked We have performed a risk assessment for rapeseed Traceability 98% to mill to the raw material supply chains we manage. Working and progressed on supplier engagement on palm, towards continuous improvement on environmental, coconut, soy and shea. We have achieved Rainforest Traceability to mill social and ethical performance indicators is an important Alliance chain of custody certification for the supply of part of our work. We prioritize our efforts based on risks certified coconut oil into Sweden, and we have started Palm oil supplier engagement as well as the impact we can make. to focus on the impacts beyond the AAK supply chain by In 2019, we have made strong progress in our rejuvenating the trees in the landscapes we source from Signed or aligned 98% palm oil policy different supply chains. A key achievement is that we for our shea and coconut supply chains. have further increased our direct engagement with Palm oil policy Shea direct engagement on women’s groups level AAK Statement on Number of women enrolled in Burkina Faso and Ghana Guiding principles* for responsible Modern Slavery Act 250,000 sourcing within AAK 200,000 230,876 131,607 134,261 United Nations Global Compact Principles 119,527 AAK supports the United Kingdom Modern Slavery Act 150,000 94,473 International Labor Organization (ILO) 2015 and its objective to eradicate forced labor and 54,919 100,000 ­Declaration on Fundamental Principles and 36,579 human trafficking in companies and their supply chains. 50,000 14,304 2,250 4,300 7,613 Rights at Work The core of the act is a requirement for companies to 0 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) publish an annual statement in which they explain the 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 AAK Code of Conduct for Suppliers of Raw steps they have taken to prevent and combat human Materials rights abuse such as slavery and trafficking in their supply chain – and in their own entities. The Act is Supplier engagement in 2019 AAK Statement on Modern Slavery Act applicable to companies doing business in the UK and consequently includes AAK. *The guiding principles form the foundation for AAK’s Policy The AAK Statement on the Modern Slavery Act can for Responsible Sourcing of Vegetable Oils and the Code of be found at AAK’s website under Sustainability. Shea Palm Coconut Soybean Conduct for Suppliers of Raw Materials 27 Responsible sourcing for trust in our supply chains Responsible sourcing of vegetable oils and fats – our approach AAK drives sustainability across the supply chains we source from. Our understanding of the issues and risks related to our supply chains and how to effectively address them has improved over time. This is due to a closer collaboration with stakeholders such as suppliers, customers and partners like Proforest. Challenges that have been highlighted by stakeholders include: an increasing need for traceability and transparency, improving livelihoods of smallholders and women, demonstrating deforestation-free supply chains, and preventing development in sensitive or protected ecosystems. We continuously work to attain more sustainable supply chains in recognition of the impact that we have and in line with the identified and prioritized risks. AAK’s priorities for responsible sourcing – from plant to brand We have the same management approach for each of our key raw materials. It is our aim to fully integrate sustainability in our way of working across the global teams that are responsible for sourcing raw materials, for shipping, logistics, and with customers. In this way, we help connect our customers’ brands to the plants which supply the raw materials. 28 To maximize our impact on the raw material industries, Engaging with suppliers and farmers is the second Together with key partner suppliers, we co-develop and to work in a holistic way with the challenges we pillar of our approach. As a processor, AAK’s role in trainings and workshops covering a range of topics face, we engage with our supply chains on three levels: the value chain is in the middle. We usually work with including good agricultural practices, safety, labor and suppliers, but in selected regions, or when sourcing human rights. Our collaborations can also include 1) Understanding our supply base certain raw materials, we have a more direct connection on-the-ground engagements as well as audits or 2) Engaging with suppliers and smallholders to the farmers, producers or harvesters. assessments to identify areas for improvement and 3) Driving impact beyond our supply base We need to understand the suppliers we work with to support our suppliers in their drive for continuous and their commitment to sustainable development as improvement. We see this as an important way we Understanding our supply base is a critical first step well as their willingness to drive progress. We require can drive transformation and implement change in our in driving sustainability. At the core of our responsible our suppliers to adhere to the Code of Conduct for supply chain. sourcing activities stands a risk assessment which Suppliers of Raw Materials and to have their own helps us identify and prioritize the most important issues sustainability policies in place. Driving further impact beyond our supply base is we face in each individual supply chain. Priorities are relevant when issues have complex underlying causes. further identified by assessing the volumes we source, Impacts and priorities in key raw material supply chains In such cases, we believe it is most effective to work the general risk in the supply chains, and the potential directly with the stakeholders who are in the position positive impact AAK can have. High to build understanding and drive effective responses. priority* To stimulate wider change within the industry, AAK In order to understand who we are buying from (and Palm oil who they are buying from), we work closely with our approaches complex issues identified in our supply sourcing and trading team and suppliers to obtain the base at a regional, jurisdictional and business sector pertinent information related to specific risks and issues. level. Shea Depending on the complexity of the specific supply Soybean Examples of such efforts can be seen in our collabochain, achieving traceability can require collaboration ration with Forever Sabah to implement the jurisdictional across multiple stakeholders. In addition to underCoconut certification of independent oil palm smallholders in Rapeseed standing the supply base, we assess if the volumes we Sabah or the mobilization of local villages in Burkina buy meet the AAK Code of Conduct for Suppliers of Faso to rejuvenate the shea belt. Other examples Low Raw Materials as well as the specific policies such as priority include industry collaborations such as the Roundtable the AAK Group Policy: Sustainable Palm Oil. Indirect impact Direct impact on Sustainable Palm Oil, the Global Shea Alliance and the new industry meeting on the sustainable develop* Based on volumes and social/environmental risks in supply chain ment of the coconut industry. 29 Contributes to: Palm – progressing towards full sustainability Responsible sourcing of palm oil remains a crucial that palm oil production meets high environmental activity in our sustainability journey. The scale of the and social standards. The adoption of the new RSPO crop globally, as well as environmental and social chalprinciples and criteria in November 2018 has further lenges in each particular region, requires a consistent strengthened the value of this certification. We intend and structural approach and collaboration across the to increase our purchase of RSPO-certified volumes as supply chain. part of our shared responsibility policy and to stay in line 2020 marks the deadline for companies to demonwith end-user and customer demand. strate deforestation-free palm oil supply chains. Ten Additionally, we monitor progress in our supply base years after this target was set, the complexity of the in accordance with the framework laid out in the no challenge has become apparent: the palm oil supply deforestation, no development on peat, and no exploitachain often involves thousands of companies and tion (NDPE) implementation reporting framework. millions of growers. As such, we often have no direct One new and important KPI for AAK, which we are relationship with the actors who can best influence developing together with Proforest, is to understand the change. percentage of verified deforestation-free volumes. This approach combines our RSPO-segregated volumes Understanding our supply base with estimates based on an equal weight from each mill Understanding our supply base is a critical step in in our supply base. furthering sustainability, providing the baseline by which we prioritize the action we take both within and beyond Engaging with suppliers and farmers our supply chains. Thus, we work closely with our Because of our position in the value chain, our suppliers suppliers and stakeholders to obtain traceability data. play a critical role in driving the implementation of our Achieving traceability to plantation (TTP) requires policies. This year, we have developed supplier score sector-wide efforts by companies and other stakecards together with Proforest as part of our effort to holders, which AAK acknowledges and commends. strengthen our supplier engagement work. These score Palm oil supply chains involve millions of small cards enable our internal organization and our suppliers producers, many of whom are not responsible for to better understand the current status of where each clearance. For that reason, AAK supports a risk-based supplier stands in regard to meeting the AAK sustainapproach to TTP, which maps plantations where there is able palm criteria, as well as potential gaps that need to a risk of deforestation at village level. be closed. We believe that, while not perfect, the RSPO certification remains one of the most reliable ways to ensure 30 Traceability Europe 100% Europe 65% Traceability Traceability to mill Traceability to mill USA 100% to plantation USA 43% Global Global Driving further impact beyond our supply base Via our collaboration with Forever Sabah, AAK Latin Latin America 100% America 56% continues to support the jurisdictional certification approach in the Malaysian state of Sabah, where only 98% 55% 20 percent of the independent smallholders hold the title to their land, a key prerequisite for certification. Asia 89% Asia 45% 20 percent of the 53,000 independent smallholders hold the title to their land today. A key focus of Forever Sabah’s work in 2019 has been the development of the Facilitated Land Application Process (FLAP), which will provide the platform for village-wide certification, leading to districtand state-wide certification. Supplier engagement Why palm oil? We also support a unique project in Mexico together Palm oil is an important raw material and crop in order with Solidaridad, the objective of which is to develop to meet the growing demand for vegetable fats & oils. AAK continues to use palm oil because the crop has the the sustainability of three palm oil social enterprise 98% 98% highest yields compared to any other vegetable oil per cooperatives, with the ultimate ambition of achieving Code Supplier code of conduct Signed Palm oil aligned or policy ha, it contributes to global food security and it provides an RSPO certification. The three groups cover over 850 of Conduct palm oil policy income directly to local communities, since 40 percent of smallholder members who produce their own palm fruits the palm is being produced by smallholders. Next to that and own and operate their own mills. Early meetings Mill engagement among higher priority suppliers it has unique functional and nutritional characteristics. have scoped the challenges and identified gaps. Field 120 Palm oil can be produced in a sustainable way, without schools have been established with focus on imple100 the negative and social impacts. This requires a market 104 mentation of standard operating procedures and good transformation across all stakeholders of the palm oil 80 practices for palm oil processing as laid out by the value chain. AAK has been at the forefront of this change, 60 as co-founder of the Roundtable of Sustainable Palm Oil RSPO. In order to build and deepen common understanding 40 back in 2003, today the industry standard for certified sustainable palm oil. of issues, industry collaboration is necessary. AAK has 20 24 Next to RSPO certified palm oil, AAK’s sustainable had a seat on the board of governors since the founding 0 9 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 palm oil policy is based on the following elements: of the RSPO. This organization has played a foundaWe aim to have a palm oil supply chain that is free from tional role in the understanding of sustainable palm Cumulative number of on-site audits deforestation (high conservation value areas, as well production as well as in its contribution to sector-wide Cumulative number of mills that attended a Proforest/AAK workshop as high carbon stock), development on peatland and transformation. Number of follow-up visits exploitation of people and human rights. 31 Contributes to: Responsible sourcing of shea Shea as raw material Environmental aligned their way of working with our Code of Conduct The fruit produced by the shea tree is a very sustainable Shea trees are lost due to use as firewood, planned for Suppliers of Raw Materials. crop, the cultivation of which requires no fertilizers or burnings, grazing of cattle and the expansion of living In 2020, AAK will engage with suppliers more closely pesticides. Growing wild in an area known as the shea and farming areas due to population growth in order to train them in how to apply the Code in pracbelt, which stretches across western Africa, the shea Water used to boil shea kernels. tice, with focus on strong business ethics, traceability tree is an important source of income for the communiand labor rights. ties that live in this area. Health and safety The safety of our employees in West Africa has Traditionally, it is women who collect the shea fruit Snake and scorpion bites during harvest been an important focus area in 2019. We have greatly and process the kernels it contains. Income earned from Long walks to fields and parklands improved safety training for drivers and workers at the crop provides women with funds to alleviate poverty Exposure to the sun the yards. Though we have continued to experience a and hunger, to invest in children’s education and capital Exposure to open fires during boiling process rather large number of traffic accidents, each incident to support other income-generating activities. has been followed by safety training and repetition of Economic best practice behaviors. It should also be noted that Understanding our supply base Lack of transparency due to middlemen in traditional the traffic in West Africa is more dangerous than in fully AAK has more than 60 years of experience sourcing supply chain industrialized countries. The final Lost Time Injury Rate shea kernels from West Africa. Working in close coopfor West Africa in 2019 was 5. A safety group has also eration with shea traders and women’s groups, AAK Engaging with suppliers and farmers in the traditional been initiated in order to enforce corrective actions and has built a solid and durable sourcing set-up across the supply chain to increase focus on safe driving and traffic risks further. shea production areas as well as logistical hubs in the Our general shea dashboard helps guide our comp­ The first results look promising and awareness together coastal areas. liance and sustainability work in West Africa (please with leadership focus will help this even more. Together with our partner Proforest, we have also see our shea post-harvest progress report, conducted a risk assessment of the general shea available at our website). supply chain. AAK has identified, and is working on, the The 2019 shea crop was larger than average from following priorities for responsible sourcing throughout a volume perspective. This has caused multiple our traditional supply chain as well as throughout our changes in AAK’s supply chain, including the addition direct sourcing supply chain Kolo Nafaso: of 91 percent of suppliers who have signed up and 32 Shea dashboard for the traditional supply chain Code of Conduct for Supplier engagement in the traditional shea supply chain Suppliers of Raw Materials % of suppliers having signed the Code of Conduct – 2019 Supplier code of conduct 100% 91% 100% 100% 80% 79% 82% 97% Burkina Faso Ghana Benin Guinea Ivory coast Mali Togo Nigeria 62 Employee statistics % of employees having signed % of employees the AAK Code of Conduct trained in first aid West Africa % Training increase between Number of permanent AAK Supplier code of conduct 2017 and 2019 99% 44% employees in West Africa 77 95 132 245 285 396 400 350 300 % of target group trained Lost time injury rate in West Africa 2019 250 200 Training 150 100 100% 100% 100% 100% 5 50 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Anti-corruption Competition law Sustainability Shea Mauritania AAK shea supply base map Guinea Senegal Niger Mali Gambia Ivory Coast Guinea Burkina Faso Numbers oftrees Number of Shea trees Guinea Bissau planted, 2019 Ghana 4,700 Togo Sierra Leone Benin Nigeria Liberia Cameroon Contributes to: Driving impact beyond our supply base Shea is a fantastic crop that grows in agroforestry GIZ (German Corporation for International Corporation) systems or parklands of West Africa. Shea trees grow and the Program for the Protection and Rehabilitation of wild or in traditional farming systems where agriculture degraded lands and strengthening of local land in rural integrates growing trees for mutual benefits, such as areas of Burkina Faso (ProSol-Burkina Faso). 4,700 improved soil quality and increased water holding seedlings have been given to communities in Western capacity. However, the trees are being put under an Burkina Faso, who have also been trained on planting increasing pressure by population growth in the shea the trees correctly and to ensure their survival as best belt which results in an increased need for firewood, possible. We will be monitoring the success of this farmland and settlements. Climate change is also project going forward. having a negative impact on shea tree population in The second initiative was driven by our business West Africa. unit in Western Europe who, as previously mentioned, In order to mitigate these impacts and to ensure shea sponsored a partnership with TREE AID, and planted trees will still be there to provide an income for the 834 trees across the shea belt for all visitors at our next generation shea collectors, AAK has started two stand during the Food Life Matters exhibition in London initiatives in 2019 to support rejuvenation of trees in the and FiE (Food ingredients Europe) in Paris. region. The first initiative is a partnership between AAK, 34 Contributes to: Engaging with women in Kolo Nafaso Via our Kolo Nafaso direct sourcing program, we have Some women are being trained to build rocket stoves, taken the responsibility to engage directly with the which are 2.5 times more efficient that traditional stoves. women who collect and process shea kernels. Through this effort, we aim to reduce CO2e emissions Our Kolo Nafaso shea dashboard guides our compliwithin the shea supply chain as well as improve health ance and sustainability work in West Africa. The biggest and safety conditions during the processing of shea achievement in 2019 was the significant expansion of kernels and everyday the quality of life in our partner our program to include more than 230,000 women in communities. three countries – an increase of 72 percent since 2018. We are following up on our performance with an Direct engagement with the women who participate extensive survey with the women every two years. The in the Kolo Nafaso program provides fantastic opportunext survey will be conducted in 2020. In 2019, we nities to provide training on topics related to business, decided to conduct an external impact assessment of labor and agricultural best practices. For example, to Kolo Nafaso to get an expert view of our program and reduce water consumption, participants are encouraged its performance. The results can be seen in our latest to steam the shea kernels instead of boiling them. The post-harvest progress report available on our website. women are also encouraged not to cut shea trees for firewood. AAK’s Kolo Nafaso women’s groups supply chain Women AAK Extension officers AAK organized training and educating in groups the women 35 Shea dashboard for Kolo Nafaso (women´s groups) Direct engagement on women’s groups level 72 % increase between AAK engagement level Number of bank accounts AAK has opened for the women’s groups 2018 and 2019 2015 961 Number of women enrolled in Kolo Nafaso 2016 1,789 250,000 2017 2,147 2018 2,616 200,000 Bank accounts 2019 4,249 150,000 100,000 Number of village visits by AAK extension officers 2016/17 11,664 50,000 2017/18 13,365 0 2018/19 16,729 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 100 % traceable and segregated* Number of rocket stoves built 2016 306 *The shea kernels from Kolo Nafaso are fully traceable to the women’s groups 2017 1,320 program in Burkina Faso, Ghana and Ivory coast. 1,836 Please see map below for the specific regions our Kolo Nafaso kernels are origina2018 ting from. (please see below for instructions regarding this map) 2019 2,456 Number of rocket stoves built Mauritania Ivory Coast 1. Zanzan Senegal Niger Burkina Faso 1. Boucle du Gambia Mali 6 Mouhoun 1 2. Cascades Guinea 3 4 3. Centre-Ouest 5 Bissau Guinea 4. Centre-Sud 7 4 5 3 Benin 5. Hauts-Bassins 2 2 Nigeria 6. Nord 1 7. Sud-Ouest 1 Sierra Leone Ghana 1. Savannah Liberia 2. Northern Togo 3. North East Cameroon 4. Upper West 5. Upper East Contributes to: Coconut – further efforts in responsible sourcing AAK has been sourcing coconuts from India and Sri Engaging with suppliers and farmers Driving impact beyond our supply base Lanka since the 1930s. Nowadays, Indonesia, the Based on priorities one and two, we have progressed Because approximately 90 percent of all coconut Philippines, and India are the three biggest coconut on our supplier engagement in three different ways. trees globally are reaching the end of their productive producers, accounting for 70 percent of global produc1) We have developed a supplier engagement worklifecycle, AAK has identified the rejuvenation of coconut tion. We source our coconut oil from the Philippines, shop aimed at the mill, middlemen and farmer tree populations as a priority. As a first step, we have Indonesia and partly from India. levels. The workshops aim to empower supply chain engaged with a key supplier in the Philippines and have stakeholders to provide the relevant traceability data established a coconut nursery. Understanding our supply base as well as to inform them in detail how to adhere to AAK buys coconuts from local farmers to be placed in In 2018, AAK identified coconuts as a key raw material our Code of Conduct for suppliers of Raw Materials. the nursery. The coconuts are then nurtured until they for responsible sourcing together with shea, palm oil, Additionally, a section on good agricultural practices grow into strong young seedlings. Once mature enough, rapeseed and soy. For coconuts, the major risks in the has been included. We had aimed to conduct the the seedlings are handed over to the farmers to be supply chain still had to be identified and no indusfirst workshop in Q4 2019, but we had to postpone it planted out in the fields. AAK is also inquiring a partnertry-wide sustainability standard exists. Therefore, AAK due to an earthquake in the Philippines. We expect ship with the Philippine Coconut Authority to increase teamed up with Proforest to conduct a risk assessment the first workshop to be carried out in Q2 2020. the outreach of this initiative. for our coconut supply chains. 2) We have directly engaged with our tier 1 suppliers Additionally, AAK has been part of the initial industry to help them improve the traceability in their supply meetings on sustainable coconut production. We plan to The main priorities based on the risk assessment are chains. Key suppliers have been engaged and continue contributing to these discussions in the future. listed below: follow-up workstreams have been initiated. We will 1) Improve traceability continue to follow up on this work as well as expand 2) Improve farmer livelihoods and keep them our outreach during 2020. interested in growing coconuts 3) We have completed the Rainforest Alliance Chain 3) Rejuvenate the coconut industry of Custody certification for our factory in Sweden, meaning AAK is fully ready to test if certification is the right tool to improve traceability and farmer income in our direct supply chain originating in Indonesia. 37 Contributes to: Rapeseed – an important raw material for AAK Today, rapeseed oil is an important vegetable oils used globally, but also in comparison to other oil crops. With in food as well as biodiesel. full insight into the climate impact of our supply chains Rapeseed has become the oil plant of Northern we can work towards minimizing that impact and offer Europe. Outside Europe, the dominant producers are our customers the best solutions. Canada, China and Australia. These studies have shown that the environmental Rapeseed production continues to be impacted by impacts of rapeseed are strongly correlated with the multiple factors, drought and excessive rains, as well as amount and type of fertilizer used, relative to the yield regulatory related reduction in use of plant protection of crop. products. AAK will use these insights from Proforest to set Rapeseed is a very important raw material for AAK ambitions for the work around rapeseed sustainability in and is one of a few raw materials that AAK is crushing in 2020 and beyond. its own facilities. Engaging with suppliers and farmers Understanding our supply base Much of the rapeseed used in AAK’s products is grown In order to deepen our understanding of the global in Sweden, where farms have increased their output rapeseed (canola) industry, AAK has commissioned in recent years. Through close cooperation with the Proforest to conduct a risk analysis for this supply chain. farmers, AAK is able to maintain control of the entire The findings revealed that, relative to other vegetable value chain, from the production of raw material to oils processed by AAK, the production of oilseed rape finished products. The rapeseed meal that remains after does not have sustainability issues such as deforestaoil extraction is used as animal feed. tion, human rights abuses or significant farmer livelihood In 2019, we experienced a growing demand for challenges. At most points of origin, sustainability sustainable rapeseed. The demands include locally impacts related to rapeseed production are mitigated to grown and traceable rapeseed for the UK, or for certified some extent by good agricultural practices, supported sustainable rapeseed in general. The focus market for by legal frameworks and environmental incentive this development was Europe. We have engaged with schemes in AAK’s main sourcing origins. our UK suppliers to increase traceability and we have At AAK, we use Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs) achieved ISCC certification for our Karlshamn factory, to analyze the impact of our rapeseed supply chains allowing us to supply customers with certified material. 38 Contributes to: Soy – a versatile raw material Soy as raw material Understanding our supply base The key objectives of the project are: The boom of soybean utilization for industrial purposes The first step in ensuring suppliers’ compliance with Supporting value addition in the post-harvest started in the 1940s and has since then grown exponenour Code of Conduct is to fully map and understand segment of agricultural value chains tially. The main producing countries are the US, Brazil, our supply base. In 2019, AAK has built on the work Developing a mechanism for productive alliances Argentina, India, and China, and the biggest consumers done in the previous year and engaged our tier 1 soy involving various stakeholders in agricultural supply are China, the US, Argentina, and Brazil. suppliers in regard to the traceability of supply chains as chains Soybean oil is one of the most versatile commodities, well as human and labor rights. Environmental impact, Improving the current policy and regulatory framewith a large number of applications other than food. The especially in relation to no-deforestation verification, work in the agribusiness sector main one is as the source of SME (soy methyl esters) or has also been a top priority. We have gained important Developing marketing and credit linkages with biodiesel. Soy is also used as raw material in feedstuffs, knowledge and in 2020 we will continue to deepen our community-based organizations (CBOs) like farmer pharma, paint, personal care, lubricants, plastics, resins insights into our soy supply base and strengthen the producer companies, cluster-level federations and and more. way we engage our key suppliers. smallholder groups Rich in polyunsaturated fatty acids, soybean oil is Improving the efficiency in agricultural supply chains mainly relevant for AAK in regard to its use in baking Engaging with suppliers and farmers through private sector partnerships that can be scaled fats, mayonnaise, salad and cooking oils, as an AAK Kamani (our joint venture in India) has committed up through project interventions ingredient in margarine and within our Special Nutrition to include smallholders in our supply chains, which is segment. one of the cornerstones of the AAK Group Policy for This model creates a more direct supply chain, In terms of volume, soy is a rather small commodity Responsible Sourcing of Vegetable Oils. As part of that increases traceability and ensures improved control for AAK. However, because of the sustainability risks effort, AAK Kamani signed, at the end of 2018, a memoof quality and food safety requirements. Additionally, in the soy industry, especially deforestation, soy was randum of understanding to participate in the State of SMART empowers smallholder to directly engage included in the list of key raw materials for responsible Maharashtra Agribusiness and Rural Transformation with buyers and to become part of contract farming sourcing in 2018. In 2019, we have progressed with (SMART) project in the Indian state of Maharashtra. agreements. The program also strengthens the local complying to our ambitions set in our Code of Conduct Headed by the Government of Maharashtra with infrastructure to enable smallholders’ long-term capacity for Suppliers of Raw Materials. In 2018 AAK had support from the World Bank, the SMART project building. assessed the risk linked to our current supply chains supports climate-resilient agriculture. AAK Kamani’s During 2019, the foundation has been laid at AAK and identified more than 90 per cent of our supply base role in the project is to engage in the community-based level to incorporate such a supply chain. We will at low risk of deforestation due to origin or certified purchase of soy and groundnuts through the SMART continue to work on this project in 2020. volumes. AAK is currently working with Proforest to model. develop a methodology to verify these deforestation free volumes in our supply chain. Our ambition is to achieve minimum 90% verified deforestation free volumes across our soy supply chain by 2020. 39 Our Planet Reducing our environmental impact is our responsibility AAK takes the responsibility that comes with being a speciality and semi-speciality vegetable oils and fats processing company. We are constantly striving to improve our production and to reduce the impact we have on the environment to maintain the balance. On our journey towards becoming a sustainable company, we are sometimes experiencing challenges as extra production steps are added and therefore the impact becomes larger. But we are accepting this challenge and are working hard to become the best we can be. Contributes to: Environmental impact and efficiency AAK is a processing company with impact on the envigenerate more efficiency through technology and Key achievements ronment that has to be managed and minimized. There process changes going forward. Energy consumption are many geographical factors involved that influence As measurement of environmental efficiency requires Per unit processed material -7% GJ our improvement work. AAK has different plants that integration into management and environmental plans, 2.5 differ in size, capacity, types of processes used and it will take some time to get new sites on track with the 2.0 2.37 2.33 2.36 2.25 2.18 location. Different aspects are therefore significant on AAK standard. However, we can see good progress 1.5 each site but the focus on continuous progress in line already and with more best practice sharing, benchwith the AAK Environmental Policy ambitions and key marking, scalable solutions and engagement on the 1.0 indicators is the same at all our sites. sites we are confident to see strong development going 0.5 During 2019 we have continued to improve the forward. 0.0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 environmental efficiency on our sites and we aim to Water consumption Per unit processed material -2.3% More frequent extreme weather and external hazards m3 1.25 1.20 1.23 Continuous progress and efficient risk management are in order to avoid production stop. During 2019, projects 1.20 1.17 1,18 of highest importance. However, according to the 2019 were initiated to improve operational efficiency and 1.15 1.16 Global Risk Report published by the World Economic reduce sea water consumption by 50 percent. Extensive 1.10 Forum, extreme weather events will rank as the most research was completed and solutions which also aim likely and impactful global risk over the next ten years. to reduce the overall energy consumed by the water1.00 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Going forward, we will not only see system transforcooling station are planned to be implemented in 2020. mations aiming for more environmental efficiency but This is one example of an initiative based on external Waste to landfill also initiatives built on external hazards such as climate hazards. % -48% change. In order to mitigate the impact of extreme weather on 5 Our production site in Karlshamn, Sweden expe­ our production facilities, AAK has initiated a third-party 4 4.8 rienced a really hot summer in 2018 which increased climate change risk assessment to be completed at all 3 the sea water temperature and had a significant impact production sites by the end of 2020. This will include a 2 on the ability to use sea water for cooling purposes. full water-related risk assessment, which you can read 2.2 2.5 1.9 Instead of sea water, municipal water had to be used more about on page 47. 1 1.3 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 41 Contributes to: Primary energy consumption 2019 – per energy 4,938,906 GJ Energy AAK’s production sites had a total energy consumption within the organization of 6,061,982 GJ in 2019. The sites had a total primary energy consumption of 4,938,906 GJ and a total indirect energy consumption of 1,228,511 GJ, 1% Diesel oil representing a 1.5 percent decrease and a 6.2 percent 13% Coal increase, respectively. The total energy consumption per 14% Fuel oil processed unit decreased with 7.6 percent in 2019. 24% Biomass 48% Natural gas The fuel consumption consists mainly of natural gas, fuel and biomass. The use of natural gas decreased by 7 percent, the use of fuel by 9 percent while the use of Energy consumption biomass increased by 22 percent. Per unit processed material The indirect energy use consists mainly of purchased GJ 2.5 electricity and steam for production use. The renewable 2.0 2.37 2.33 2.36 electricity decreased by 57 percent and AAK ended up on 2.25 2.18 a renewable electricity share of 12 percent. 1.5 Overall, the total energy consumption from renewable 1.0 sources constitute of 22 percent of the total AAK energy 0.5 consumption which unfortunately is a step backwards 0.0 from 24 percent in 2018. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 AAK is working on improvements that eventually will lead to higher energy efficiency and we expect to keep Total indirect energy 2019, 1,228,511 GJ progressing in the coming years, especially on the newly acquired sites and in regards to share of renewable energy. 12% Renewable 88% Non-renewable 42 42 Contributes to: AAK Uruguay and AAK Brazil Keeping oil flowing with increased energy efficiency Energy efficiency continues to be a top priority at sites During the first half of 2019, a second phase of elecOne step closer to sustainability across the AAK Group. We learn a lot by exchanging trical heat tracing installation was carried out, achieving The successful electrical heat tracing project in South knowledge between the sites, where many inventive a reduction in energy consumption of more than 75 America brings us closer to meeting our ambitions to solutions are continuously introduced. One such percent for more than 1,200 lineal meters of electrical minimize our environmental footprint. At the same time, solution, aimed at reducing energy consumption through tracing. the project is aligned with our goals for operational electrical heat tracing, was first tried as a pilot program efficiency. With environmental protection remaining a at our site in Uruguay in 2014. Sharing best practices key issue for AAK throughout 2020 and beyond, we aim Vegetable fats must be kept in a liquid state in order The electrical heat tracing solution is now also being to further investigate the possibilities for electrical heat to pump and transport them throughout their multiple used for the new piping installed at the site in Jundiaí, tracing and advance even further towards being a truly production processes. In order to keep the fats in a Brazil. The electrical system can be considered a truly sustainable business. liquid state, piping and fittings that transport the oils smart solution, positively impacting energy usage as must maintain temperatures of approximately 10 to well as production contingency and cost of energy per 15°C above the melting point of the fat. This requires ton of product. By replacing the original water tracing energy. system, electrical heat tracing has also helped reduce clogs in piping, which previously accounted for around Why electrical heat tracing? 70 percent of lost production time at the Jundiaí site. Electrical heat tracing is one of many complex solutions “Optimization of energy consumption and reduction that can be employed to ensure the minimal amount of of generated effluents and waste are two fundamental energy is used in maintaining the liquid state of the fats. aspects of our work today. Traditional heating solutions Based on the promising results of the pilot project for vegetable fat production use an excessive amount of in Uruguay, it was decided in 2016 to expand the energy. Therefore, exploring smart energy consumption project at this site to include 631 lineal meters of piping alternatives is crucial in the frame of AAK’s sustainability and pumps related to the final product tank yard and and operational efficiency programs”, says Martin Gil, manifolds as well as those related to the boxing and Technical and Operations Director AAK South Latin bulk loading units. As a result of this project, energy America (Uruguay and Brazil). consumption was reduced by more than 75 percent compared to the previously used steam tracing methods. 43 Contributes to: Scope 1, GHG emissions Total 256,124 tons CO2e Tons CO2e kg CO2e/t raw material 300,000 140 250,000 120 100 200,000 80 Air 150,000 60 100,000 40 50,000 20 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 AAK has aligned data collection and disclosure with for now. However, we are investigating improvement New sites before acquisition the Greenhouse Gas Protocol during 2019 and initiated actions such as alternative energy sources and process New sites after acquisition Scope 1 and 2 reporting*. In total, AAK generated optimization. 2016 sites 363,738 tons of CO2e in 2019. The Scope 2 emissions (indirect emissions from CO2e (kg) per ton processed material (all owned sites) CO2e (kg) per ton processed material (2018 sites) The greenhouse gas intensity rate is calculated energy suppliers) come mainly from electricity, by GHG emissions per processed unit raw material. 89 percent, and the Scope 2 emissions represent The target based on this intensity rate was to reduce 30 percent of the total emissions. Our new sites in Scope 2, GHG emissions GHG emissions per processed unit raw material by 22 China and India represent 27 percent of the total Total 107,614 tons CO2e percent by 2030 (baseline 2012). The result 2019 was a Scope 2 emissions where electricity and steam also decrease by 4.4 percent. come from coal as energy source. Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions Other air emissions The Scope 1 intensity emissions (tons GHG per unit Due to the Group’s use of fuels, its production sites processed raw material) decreased by 3 percent in emitted 220 tons NOₓ (nitrogen oxide) and 28 tons SOₓ 2019 compared to 2018. Whilst Scope 2016 sites (sulphur oxide). There were 363 tons VOC primarily decreased intensity emissions by 7 percent. These emitted from sites that run extraction and solvent 1% Heating results demonstrates that new AAK sites still has work fractionation processes. VOC increased by 32 percent 10% Steam to do in order to attain the same resource efficiency as between 2018 and 2019 mostly due to an increasing 89% Electricity the more established ones. The four new sites added in amount of volumes processed. 2018 decreased their intensity emissions by 10 percent since the beginning of 2018. This indicates that we are With a maintained focus on GHG reduction, we will Direct emissions on the right way in terms of resource efficiency. The continue to reduce our emissions in the coming years. MT 400 Scope 2016 sites reduced their absolute emissions The new sites added in 2018 are showing progress in 350 by 4 percent, while the Scope 2018 sites increased their GHG intensity emissions and with sharing of best 300 their absolute emissions by 5 percent. The increase is practices, new cleaner technologies and renewable 250 200 mainly due to that the energy source in India is coal, energy sources, AAK has a real potential not only 150 to impact the GHG emissions positively but also the 100 business’ bottom line. 50 0 NOx SOx VOC * Scope 1 emissions are direct emissions from owned or controlled 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 sources. Scope 2 emissions are indirect emissions from the generation of purchased energy. 44 Contributes to: AAK Denmark Fueling sustainability with biomass boiler at site in Denmark In western Africa, the shea tree produces a fruit which These experiments indicated that shea meal could be contain oil-rich kernels. For many years, AAK has used as a single fuel source in an effective and efficient imported shea kernels from West Africa to Denmark manner. Based on these findings, we decided to apply where the high-quality oil is extracted. the technology at an industrial scale. In 2015, a 5 MW steam boiler was ordered and a joint development The AAK vision project was initiated with the supplier. A by-product of shea oil extraction is a solid fiber material called shea meal that has no nutritional value. The Results from 2019 AAK site in Aarhus, Denmark has long held aspirations After several trials and rebuilds, the 5 MW boiler has to burn shea meal as a single fuel source used to power been connected to our steam supply system, and the processing and refining of shea oil. However, certain production in Aarhus is now partially powered by energy properties of shea meal have made it difficult to achieve produced from shea meal. During 2019, this initiative this vision in the past. has led to a 7 percent reduction of GHG emissions compared to 2018 – a great achievement based on the Tests and trials efforts of our dedicated employees in Aarhus. Many European power plants have purchased our shea “As the largest processor of shea kernels globally, meal and attempted to burn it as a single fuel source, AAK Denmark has full focus on sustainable production. but none have succeeded, in part because the ash and By applying the best available technology to increase the flue gas emissions from the shea meal are very the efficiency, recycling and bio-conversion of our different from wood and other solid fuels. Therefore, energy, we can stay at the forefront of sustainable shea meal is generally mixed with wood pellets, straw production”, says Palle Jensen, Site Manager AAK and coal to be burned for fuel. Denmark In 2012, we became aware that a supplier had As we gain experience in burning shea meal as a progressed on the combustion of difficult fuel sources. single fuel source and seek to optimize the boiler’s Together with this supplier, we conducted extensive energy output, we will continue to evaluate if this tests using a small 500 kW combustion chamber in technology and the materials we have chosen are viable which shea meal was burned. in the long-term perspective. 45 Contributes to: Water Water consumption Per unit processed material m3 1.25 Even though most AAK products do not contain water 1.20 1.23 when leaving the sites, vegetable oil processing 1.20 1.17 1,18 requires large amounts of water, mainly for cooling and 1.15 1.16 heating purposes. Therefore, it is of outmost impor1.10 tance for AAK to maintain high focus and continuously optimize the water consumption at our sites. AAK has 1.00 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 several projects ongoing for consuming less water. Water consumption and water discharge Water discharge Water consumption per unit processed material was Per unit processed material reduced by 2.3 percent in 2019 compared to 2018. m3 0.90 Combined, the Group’s production sites use approximately 34,000,000 m3 of surface water. This water, 0.80 which is used for cooling, has no contact with products 0.80 or pollutants and is returned to the source without any 0.70 0.75 change in quality. The discharged water may, however, 0,72 0.64 be slightly warmer than when entering the Group’s 0,69 0.60 system. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Ground water and municipal water used in processing totalled 3,211,981 m3 which is a bit less than in 2018. Consumption of municipal water increased by 9.3 Discharged processing water from AAK sites is treated percent. This was partly due to increasing water at own or municipal water treatment sites and is subject temperatures in Karlshamn, Sweden but also related to strict control by local authorities. to maintenance pumps and new installations in the We are happy to see an improvement in our water AAK wells reducing the internal supply of surface consumption per processed unit. Going forward, we will water and consequently using more municipal water. also add the external risk assessment of water affecting Processing water discharge in 2019 increased by our business and prepare the production sites to miti0.1 percent. However, calculated per processed unit gate potential risks from climate change and extreme material it decreased by 7.3 percent compared to 2018. weather events. 46 46 Contributes to: Mitigating risks in a dynamic environment During 2018, AAK used the Aqueduct tool to create a global water risk map covering all production facilities. Medium to high risk was identified at a number of locations. In order to further investigate these risks, and to work in a more preventative manner, AAK initiated a program to conduct climate change risk assessments for all production facilities by 2020. This will be followed by the implementation of more detailed action plans in cooperation with a third party who has solid experience with our production facilities. The assessments target risks related to extreme weather phenomena such as high sea water levels, storms, tornadoes, water-stressed areas, and Low risk unforeseen temperature shifts. The purpose of the Low risk to medium risk assessments is to evaluate climate risks at each Medium to high risk production site and to review the mitigating actions High risk which have been implemented to reduce the risk for Extremely high risk property damage and business interruption. During 2019, 56 percent of our production sites were visited as part of the assessment. The results show that water (high water level/heavy rain) and storms/tornaidentified at the production sites in Zhangjiagang, China, emergency planning has been updated to handle more does are the main contributor to the overall risk score where water exposure presents the greatest risk, and in severe weather (tornadoes) and to limit personal and for the production sites. Based on recommendations Louisville, USA, where the greatest risk is exposure to property damage. While these improvements are a from the third party these nine sites have been engaged tornadoes. positive step forward, we are aware that climate change in an improvement program to follow up on identified In Zhangjiagang, the inherent risk has been taken into is a dynamic risk which we must continuously mitigate. risks. account in the design of the site, including raised ground Note that only nine production sites have been AAK has created a global risk map of all our produclevel, and mitigating actions have been implemented assessed during 2019. The remaining production sites tion facilities to visualize the combined climate risk to reduce the risk to a medium residual risk level. In are not included on the global risk map. exposure. None of our sites are exposed to extremely Louisville, the new wastewater treatment facilities have high risk. The highest combined inherent risk has been been constructed to withstand higher windspeeds, and 47 Contributes to: Waste Waste intensity Per unit processed material MT 70 60 In 2015, AAK set a waste ambition that less than ending up with 4.8 percent going to landfill. Due to this 50 57.8 1.5 percent of waste in AAK should be disposed at change, the sites made efforts to identify how to solve 52.6 51.7 53.8 40 49.8 landfill. This target was achieved last year by the Scope it. Several of them have made great efforts to become 30 2016 sites but was challenged due to the inclusion of zero landfill sites during 2019 and 41 percent of our 20 10 new sites in 2018. Additional changes in legislation has production sites managed to achieve zero waste to 0 increased the share of waste disposed at landfill even landfill. In total during 2019, 2,681 tons of waste was 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 further but extensive work is ongoing to both reduce disposed at landfill, equal to 2.5 percent of the total waste and increase recycling. amount of waste. An impressive reduction of 48 percent since 2018. Waste to landfill Waste generation and reduction % 5 During 2019, AAK’s production sites generated Waste, sidestreams or byproducts 4 4.8 149,453 tons of waste, an increase by 16 percent During the last couple of years, AAK has experienced compared to the previous year. 99.1 percent of this some changes that have had an impact on the compa3 waste was non-hazardous. The waste intensity per rability of the waste statistics from year to year. Due to 2 2.5 unit processed material also increased by 8 percent changes in legislation and global redefinitions of waste 2.2 1 1.9 compared to 2018, a development driven by the into sidestreams or byproducts we will see irregularities 1.3 0 inclusion of new sites, larger processed volumes and in the waste to landfill data going forward. Waste reduc2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 changes in legislation. In 2018, there was a change in tion and waste to landfill will always be key focus areas US legislation regarding the classification and handling but going forward we also need to identify sidesteams of used bleaching earth. This resulted in bigger volumes that carry high value as raw materials and obtain more 2019 waste disposal going to landfill, increasing the share by 3.3 percent. circular business models. Therefore, AAK saw a significant increase in 2018, 1.0% Reuse 2.5% Landfill 19.0% Recycle 77.5% Recover Including used bleaching earth 48 Contributes to: AAK Sweden Sidestreams become renewable energy The multi-oil site in Karlshamn, Sweden is the largest With a thermal heating value that rivals fossil fuel oils, and most complicated site in the AAK Group that bio-oil is a valuable option in our energy mix. The bio-oil ­generates a number of sidestreams of different that is not used in our own boilers is sold to industrial ­character. AAK continuously work not only to ­reduce plants which have their own boilers or to power plants in these sidestreams, but also to find the best outlets the region. for them both from a financial and ­a sustainability There are also boilers in Karlshamn that use wood perspective. pellets as fuel source. Ashes from combustion of The first option for sidestreams from our food oil wooden pellets are used as a fertilizer in forestry. production, which for different reasons can no longer be Thanks to this, micronutrients are returned to the forest. used as foods, is to turn them into products for animal In addition, acidification of soil and watercourses is feed or to raw materials for our oleochemical fatty acid counteracted. production. Indirectly, our sidestreams (byproducts) Other byproducts used for renewable energy gene­ are used to increase dairy cow milk yields, to produce ration is for example our rapeseed screenings and candles, fabric softeners and rubber for tyres. residues from our glycerol production. The rapeseed Unfortunately, not all of our byproducts are suitable screenings consist of dry, fibrous, organic matter to be used as feed materials or raw materials for (from the rapeseed plant) that are removed before the oleochemical production. The fat and oil fractions, which rapeseed enters our crushing plant. The residues from do not meet the feed safety or quality criteria for these our glycerol production is a mix of glycerol and fat which applications, are instead used to produce renewable is removed by distillation in the refining process. Both energy. For example, we collect fat from the wastewater the rapeseed screenings and the glycerol residues treatment plant, the distillation residues from the oleoare excellent substrates for biogas producing bacteria chemical production, and fatty acid condensates from and are therefore sold to biogas plants in Sweden and the deodorization and turn them into a valuable bio-fuel, Denmark. so called bio-oil. Finding the best possible uses for our sidestreams is The facility in Karlshamn has several boilers which not only important from a financial perspective, but also supply the site with steam and occasionally electricity. an important step to creating a circular economy. Two of these boilers have the capability to use fat as fuel. 49 Our People AAK – a company to be proud of AAK strives to be a high-performance organization and an employer of choice, built on strongly-aligned values and with a growing number of people who take pride in advocating and improving our customer service offering. Our employees are the heart and soul of our business. They are the reason we are recognized as market leaders who deliver outstanding results for customers with the highest quality standards. AAK is a diverse company with employees in many different locations and with many different responsibilities across the globe. However, every one of us shares AAK’s values and Code of Conduct, which guide and govern the way in which our business is conducted and how we interact with each other and our stakeholders. Contributes to: People are our most important resource The AAK Way People Program has been at the center 3. Engaged and skilled people – to measure people Key indicators of our ambitions towards people development. Since it engagement, we conducted an employee engageLost time injury rate (LTIR*) started in 2017, and through to its third and final year, it ment survey, that provided valuable input for our excl. West Africa -30% has given rise to a broad variety of initiatives that have preventative work. We have also improved our 1.0 been pivotal to its success. process for learning and development by imple0.8 The People Program was built on four pillars: menting a global world-class Learning Management 0.8 0.6 Revitalized company values, AAK leadership, Engaged system. 0.6 0.6 0.6 0.4 and skilled people, and Organization for future growth. 0.4 Not only has this delivered very positive results inter4. Organization for future growth – our Workforce 0.2 nally and helped to promote a high-performance culture Planning program ensures a strong talent pipeline 0.0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 across our offices, worldwide, but it has contributed by either retaining employees with the right skills or significantly towards the value we create for customers. by attracting new talent into our business. This is to secure management capacity and key competenLost day rate (LDR**), excl. West Africa -39% 1. Revitalize our company values – our culture cies for growth by looking at future organizational 30 guides discretionary behavior and makes sure demands, succession planning, and potential review. that we act towards customers, internally as well as externally, in the way we promise. We all make By focusing on what AAK stands for, full implementation 20 20.9 hundreds of decisions every day, and our company of our Code of Conduct, and through the attitude and 17.5 values are there to guide us and help us to evaluate development of our employees, we can elevate our 10 11.6 10.6 the results. business by strengthening engagement, fostering 9.3 innovation, and delivering a more passionate, tailored 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2. AAK Leadership – during 2019, we continued to service. deliver our four days of leadership training for more than 400 managers and key employees worldwide, focusing on our leadership competencies and company values. By introducing a Trainee Alumni Development program, we also make sure we continue to develop our young talents for further success. * LTIR: Number of injuries with more than one day of absence per 200.000 working hours ** LDR: Number of lost working days caused by LTIs per 200.000 working hours 51 Contributes to: The AAK workforce in numbers As of December 31, 2019, AAK had a total of 3,884 employees within the scope of this report. Employees* by age, % Employee* category by age, % Employees* by age, % The turnover rate increased and ended up at 15.5 % % percent in 2019. 100 100 The average age of employees in Europe is signif80 80 icantly higher than in the rest of the world and 23 60 60 percent of AAK’s permanent employees are female. At 40 40 managerial level, 24 percent of employees are female, which is an increase by 28 percent compared to last 20 20 14% <30 year. Considering our ambition going forward to become 0 0 34% 30–39 a more inclusive company, this is a development we 24% 40–49 Management Salaried Hourly paid Americas Europe Asia West Africa would like to see continue. 28% >49 <30 30–39 40–49 >49 <30 30–39 40–49 >49 75 percent of AAK’s employees are permanently employed, while 7 percent are on a temporary contract. The remaining 18 percent comprises trainees, agency Employment contract type, % Employee* category by gender, % Employees* by gender, % staff and at-will employees. The latter is a doctrine of % % American law that refers to an employment relationship 100 100 which can be broken by either party with no liability. 80 80 60 60 40 40 1% Apprentice 20 20 7% Temporary 0 0 7% Agency staff Management Salaried Hourly paid Americas Europe Asia West 10% At-will Africa 75% Permanent Females Males Females Males Including new sites * Permanent and at-will employees 52 Contributes to: Employee engagement and development Engaged and skilled people are crucial for AAK’s continued growth, which is why we endeavour to attract, develop and retain the best talents in the business. Performance management By implementing a continuous dialogue model for performance management, we are committed to creating an environment where everyone feels empowered to take accountability for their own performance and development. This includes regular dialogues between employees and their managers that focus on feedback and career development. In 2020, we will continue to develop our employees’ capability of engaging in productive performance dialogues. Inclusion and diversity AAK is committed to attracting, developing, and retaining an inclusive and diverse workforce. We believe that inclusion and diversity drive innovation and create a trusting environment within AAK and with our customers – all helping to contribute towards the success and sustainability of our business. Engagement survey In 2020, we will conduct a Great Place to Work survey. The survey will focus on our working environment, leadership, workload, sustainability, and other key areas in order to identify risks and improvement areas. The results will be shared broadly across AAK, and teams will be asked to create action plans to ensure continuous improvement for a sustainable workplace with high engagement. 53 53 Contributes to: AAK Global Safety Program Working towards zero lost-time injuries At AAK, health and safety are integral parts of our busiWorking seamlessly together at the monthly meetings, ness strategy and our daily lives. However, we always the team formulated the following agreements: strive to make AAK an even safer place to work. For this reason, we began a Global Safety Team initiative in 1) Introduction of new Personal Protective Equipment 2018, which has been enforced in 2019 by a new Global (PPE) standards and safety training for all operaOperations Team. tions to reach zero lost-time injuries The Global Safety Team comprises a group of profes2) An AAK global safety model, with clear ambitions sionals who represent more than 100 years of combined and objectives; with data monthly recorded safety experience. The team’s overall objective is to 3) A Key Performance Indicator structure with achieve zero lost-time injuries across the Group and additional KPIs and a follow-up scheme for implehas, to this end, developed a strategic program for mentation that will be widely communicated continuous improvement which aligns the Group’s global safety efforts. A safer place to work Any work-related injury is clearly unacceptable and Creating key safety parameters and goals AAK constantly strives to be a zero-injuries workplace. In May 2019, the Global Safety Team kick-off meeting The global LTIR in 2019 was 0.4, a decrease by 30 was held, giving everyone the opportunity to share their percent versus 2018. The majority of the incidents were local initiatives and discuss ways to develop a strong behavior based and the time of absence due to injury Global Safety Program. Part of the outcome involved an decreased with 39 percent. The Global Safety Team will improvement program based on risk assessment and follow up the incidents that took place during 2019 with GAP analysis from every site in the Group. The global more focus on behavior based safety going forward to outcome and analysis were shared with all Health, enforce the safety culture and a preventative mindset. Safety and Environment (HSE) Managers and the local sites and led to new safety actions that have been implemented directly into site operations. 54 54 Contributes to: Anti-corruption AAK has signed the UN Global Compact committing in regards to assessing our suppliers’ ability to fulfil people to understand other issues, such as conflict of the company to establish anti-corruption measures. these requirements. interest, nepotism, power misuse, returned favor, and Anti-corruption is addressed in our Code of Conduct, In 2018, West Africa was identified as an area with favoritism. the Supplier Code of Conduct, the Code of Conduct for high risk of corruption. We had planned to conduct During 2019, our ambition was that all relevant Suppliers of Raw Materials, and the Code of Conduct suitable anti-corruption training in French and English personnel should also complete an e-learning course for Agents and Distributors. This means that our for all employees in the area. Unfortunately, this was on competition law, with a test at the end. By the end anti-corruption policies are communicated to our Board postponed due to challenges and is now planned to of 2019, 96 percent of the identified employees (such and Executive Committee, employees, suppliers, and be conducted via face-to-face meetings on our various as people working in Sales, Product Management, an additional 1,300 partners in the business. sites in 2020. Purchasing, and Sourcing & Trading) had completed the As described under Our Suppliers, we now have To support this, it is also crucial that we build aware­anti-corruption training and 93 percent had completed strict controls in place related to bribes and corrupness and knowledge internally. All relevant personnel the competition law course. Next year, AAK will expand tion, including an assessment of suppliers based on was therefore to take an e-learning course that the scope of relevant employees that are required Transparency International, audits, and risk analysis/ explains key terminologies and how to address them, to take the courses to include relevant people with ratings. While all suppliers must sign our Code, we also for example, “acceptance of bribes”, “business with leadership positions. understand the importance of strengthening measures influence” or “careless financing”. The course also helps Labor rights Labor rights issues are governed by AAK’s Sustainconcerning wages and benefits, including compensation Blowing the whistle on misconduct ability Policy, which applies to all sites and confirms for overtime. We are collecting information on basic Additionally, AAK has a whistleblower system to our stand on human rights, freedom of association, salary and renumeration on a local level and, going encourage that violations of laws, human rights or the forced labor, child labor, discrimination, working hours, forward, AAK will further develop the global HR system AAK Code of Conduct are reported. Every employee workplace violence, environment, and anti-corruption. to facilitate pulling in data on Ratios Per Employee on within the AAK Group should without fear of reprisal from Giving staff equal and fair treatment is a basic human a global level. 44.3 percent of AAK employees were anyone use our whistleblower system. During 2019, we right and part of our sustainability policy. covered by a collective bargaining agreement in 2019 encountered one case of alleged misconduct through our AAK adheres to the ILO Conventions and complies, but this does not mean that not all employees are whistleblower function. An investigation was made and as a minumum, with local and international standards regulated with fair terms and conditions of employment. no evidence of misconduct could be identified. 55 Our Neighbours Making a difference to our community As a global business, AAK has an impact on a large number of people in a large number of ways. That’s why we take great responsibility towards local, regional, national and international communities that are affected by our actions. Each of our sites have developed different initiatives that help to support our neighbours and enable us to engage more proactively and positively with other organizations, such as local authorities and regulatory bodies. Our commitment to these causes is driven by our employees who take pride in working for a company that makes a noticeable difference. 56 Local community involvement Though we are a global company, AAK contributes to by engaging in activities that are closely linked to the the development of the local communities in which we UN Sustainable Development Goals or participating in operate by creating jobs, paying taxes and doing busipartnerships that can benefit from our industry know­ ness with local enterprises. However, it takes more than ledge and internal competencies. that to truly become part of the communities in which Examples of AAK’s community engagement initiatives we operate. We are very aware of the impact we have include giving employees time off to participate in local on a community when we enter, operate in or leave an activities and providing financial support for local aid area, which is why local community engagement is so organizations. Overall, AAK’s community engagement important. helps secure a social license to operate, which is In 2019, we enacted the new AAK Community essential to become an important player in local life and Engagement Guidelines which emphasize the ways to succeed at a global level. in which we can strive to create a win-win situation for both the local community and for AAK. For example, Our Neighbours achievements AAK: a catalyst for change in society Sustainability brings people together and has become In society, people are the greatest catalysts for the more and more relevant as a valuable focus area for changes that support a more sustainable future. employer branding. In 2019, AAK engaged in a variety At AAK, there are plenty of talented people focused on of local activities to raise the sustainability profile leading positive change and inspiring others. By having of the company but also contributed to sustainable engaged employees as drivers for change, we see a development in different ways. The public and potential great potential to contribute as a global company. employees show great interest in our sustainability work In the picture to the left are AAK colleagues working and we try our best to share information on what we do at a local harbor event in Aarhus, Denmark. At this and how we can contribute. event, they presented AAK as an employer, raised awareness about our shea production, our progress on the Kolo Nafaso program, and how we support the Sustainable Development Goals. 57 57 AAK Brazil Teaching children about reforestation Driven by the increasing focus on the deforestation in the Legal Amazon*, volunteers from AAK Brazil wanted to show their concern and help raise awareness in local schools about the importance of reforestation. As awareness of deforestation increases in Brazil, schools are making efforts to better educate children about the rich nature and biomes found in the Amazon. In order to contribute to this movement, AAK employees are sharing their knowledge and becoming agents of sustainable change in their local communities. In September 2019, AAK volunteers visited a primary school nearby the AAK factory to conduct a workshop with children of different ages. With the theme of “Hands on Nature”, the goal of the project was to demonstrate “Planting trees felt like the most natural thing to do. the fragility of nature and to emphasize that we must Starting with us, the students can now go home to take care of it. their families and talk about what they have learned, Showing is often better than telling when teaching and even more generations can be influenced by people about plants, conservation, how harvesting this movement”, says Alan Patrick Reinert, AAK works, and how it influences the land. Knowing that the Sustainability Team Member. children needed a practical experience to absorb all At this point, the staff at AAK Brazil is very conscious the information, the AAK volunteers helped the children about sustainability and how volunteering can make a plant flowers and trees that will eventually provide fruit difference. Work has also been ongoing with employees in the schoolyard. encouraging the planting of seedlings and trees with their own families, growing a sustainable culture that starts at home. *The Legal Amazon is an area where two of the most important biomes in Brazil meet (Amazon and Cerrado), offering great conditions to plant agricultural commodities like soy, corn and other grains. 58 58 AAK Uruguay Teaching children about waste prevention For over five years, we have worked with the local During the year, we received very positive feedback school next to our factory in Paso de la Arena in Montefrom the school staff, students and the entire community video, the capital of Uruguay. Situated in a low-income stating that they were pleasantly surprised how easy area, the school has more than 1,000 students. and rewarding it was to participate in the program. In 2019, we focused our efforts on environmental We are very pleased and proud to know that our work education, teaching the students the importance of showed excellent results. reducing, reusing and recycling. At the beginning of the year, we began running workshops with children Results from the 2019 program: ranging from 5 to 12 years old. We then helped prepare More than 1,000 students are now informed and the school for the project by making big explanatory committed to environmental and carbon footprint posters and delivering different color containers where initiatives. compostable, recyclable and general garbage could be Together with children and kitchen staff we were properly sorted. able to sort more than 10,000 kg of waste and recycle 70 percent of it. The main activities along the year were: We composted food waste from the school together Emphasizing the importance of our “carbon footprint”, with the children and kitchen staff. why it is important to reduce and recycle waste, and how to do it. In December 2019, AAK closed this project by giving Training teachers and staff on the zero-waste everyone pencil cases made from the inside of AAK challenge. flexibags which otherwise would go to waste, placing Conducting upcycling workshops on how to produce an emphasis on the messages that were conveyed new products using paper and plastic waste recycled throughout the year. The pencil cases were fabricated from the school. by an NGO which supports under-privileged women Running workshops on composting food waste for the through business training, facilitating their professional school vegetable garden. independence. Organizing activities at school festivals with recycling stations designed to get families involved in the zerowaste challenge. 59 Contributes to: AAK as a global citizen At a global level, AAK does its best to become involved in areas where the Group can make a difference – by utilizing our sphere of influence. AAK is a member of various national and international organi­zations that aim to improve the industry by, among other things, setting common standards and aligning analytical methods, and, in general, safeguarding the interests of the vegetable oils and fats industry. AAK was for example one of the five founders of the RSPO and has been a member of the Board of Governors ever since. The RSPO is the primary certification body for sustainable palm oil. As a multi-stakeholder organization, it provides a forum for shared initiatives and thought leadership with more than 4,000 corporate and civil society members globally. During 2019, the RSPO implemented the concept of “shared responsibility” under which downstream members are obliged to significantly increase the purchases of RSPO certified palm oil. In addition, and considering that around 40 percent of palm oil is grown by smallholders, the RSPO approved a new and radical smallholder standard, including a step-wise approach for smallholders. Both of these items represent considerable steps forward in the RSPO’s mission of sustainable palm oil becoming the norm, and AAK continues to strongly support the RSPO in its efforts to create a more sustainable world. 60 Examples of memberships that safeguard the interests of the industry National associations International associations The Netherlands Oils, Fats and Oilseeds The Institute of Shortening and Edible Oils/ISEO Founding member of the Roundtable on ­Sustainable Trade/NOFOTA The American Fats and Oils Association/AFOA Palm Oil (RSPO) The Association of Dutch Oil Processing The National Confectioners Association/NCA Founding member of the Global Shea Alliance (GSA) Industries/Vernof The EU Oil and Proteinmeal Industry/FEDIOL The Uruguayan Chamber of Industries/CIU The Product Board Margarine, Fats and Oils/MVO The Federation of Oils, Seeds and Fats The National Federation of Palm Oil The Confederation of Danish Industry/DI Growers/FEDEPALMA Association/FOSFA The Association of Danish Oil and Oilseed The Vanaspati Manufacturers Association/VMA FoodDrinkEurope Processors/ADOP The European Oleochemicals and Allied Products The Solvent Extractors Association/SEA Asociación Nacional de Industriales de Aceites Group/APAG The Protein Foods and Nutrition Development y Mantecas Comestibles/ANIAME The National Institute of Oilseed Products/NIOP Association of India/PFNDAI Confederación Patronal de la República The Association of Food Scientists and Mexicana/COPARMEX Technologists of India/AFSTI Asociación de Industriales del Estado de Michoacán/AIEMAC The Swedish Food Federation/LI The Swedish Plastics and Chemicals Federation/P&K The Seed Crushers’ and Oil Processors’ Association/SCOPA The National Edible Oil Distributors Association/ NEODA The Association of Bakery Ingredient Manufacturers/ABIM The Swedish-American Chambers of Commerce/SACC 61 Sustainability approach Sustainability governance order to motivate and retain executives and ensure that and progress is driven by our Responsible Sourcing For AAK, sustainability governance is about managing AAK is able to attract the best talents in the market in Managers. Expert forums such as Task forces per risks and opportunities throughout the value chain order to maximize shareholder value. raw materials have been established to make sure and ensuring that our ambitions and progress meet that progress is driven based on solid expertise and the needs of our stakeholders in an efficient way. The Executive Committee experience. illustration to the right demonstrates how we work The Executive Committee (ExCom) are responsible together to ensure sustainable practices from supplier to for overseeing the daily implementation of board Sustainable production customer. policies, making sure that AAK establish and maintain AAK has a global sustainability team, which is respongood governance practices. The Executive Committee sible for managing environmental and social risks and The AAK Board of Directors decides on the corporate strategy and ensure to opportunities related to our operations. Each facility The board of directors’ key purpose is to ensure communicate the direction to the organisation. Monthly has a Sustainability Team Leader responsible of estabprosperity by collectively directing the company’s meetings are held where progress and actions needed lishing a local team to drive the sustainability agenda affairs, whilst meeting the appropriate interests of its are reviewed including sustainability ambitions. and progress. These cross-functional team leaders are shareholders and other stakeholders. The long-term called in for regular meetings by the Global Sustainability view perspective of the company is also part of the Sustainability represented at ExCom level Manager in order to exchange best practices and drive responsibility of the Board of Directors. To practice duty The Chief Strategy & Sustainability Officer (CSSO) is the sustainability agenda, which is a joint effort between of loyalty and duty of care is of outmost importance and a member of Executive Committee and report to the Sustainability, Global Operations and Human Resources. 57 percent of AAK board members are independent. Board on sustainability matters. With responsibilities including Sustainability, Corporate strategy and People Sustainable Solutions Audit Committee the CSSO takes a holistic approach involving internal It order to understand our customers needs and to The Audit Committee deals with risk management, and external stakeholders to drive the sustainability transfer these into value propositions we have Go-Tointegration of AAK Group procedures, insurance issues, agenda. Market teams including skilled Customer Innovation accounting rules as well as monitoring and following managers, Product Managers and Sales representaup on policies, codes and their implementation in the Responsible sourcing tives. The Go-to-Market team work closely with internal organization. Responsible sourcing is deeply entrenched in the AAK stakeholders both in responsible sourcing and in strategy, requirements and standards. The supplier production to ensure sufficient product governance. Remuneration Committee interaction is strongly supported by AAK’s supplier Our ability to develop and offer sustainable value propoThe main role of the Remuneration Committee is to Codes and Policies that also guide our engagement sitions is depending on a shared understanding and an assist and advice the Board on matters relating to the with smallholders. Activities are continuously monialignment from plant to brand which is enabled through remuneration of the Board and senior management, in tored together with our sourcing and trading team our cross-functional ESG approach. 62 Sustainability from Plant to Brand Board of Directors Audit Committe Remuneration Committe Overseeing financial and sustainability reporting and disclosure. CEO/Executive Committee Decides on sustainability ambitions and review progress. Strategy & Sustainability Drives AAK’s strategic sustainability ambitions together with internal and external stakeholders. Responsible Sourcing Sustainable Production Sustainable Solutions Supplier ESG* All raw materials All production sites All value propositions Customer ESG* Cross-functional ESG* Cross-functional ESG* Cross-functional ESG* * ESG stands for our Environmental, Social and Governance efforts. It represent how we manage risk and minimize negative impact and drive sustainability from suppliers to customers, ensuring alignment from plant to brand. Contacts for the Sustainability Report: Anna Frey-Wulff, Global Sustainability Manager E-mail: anna.frey-wulff@aak.com Anne Mette Olesen, Chief Strategy & Sustainability Officer Or e-mail: sustainability@aak.com 63 Stakeholder engagement At AAK, we have a vision to be the first choice for valueThe Materiality Process* Key topics raised adding vegetable oil. Since driving customer value is Phase 1: Overall, AAK received very valuable feedback regarding Phase 2: highly dependent on our stakeholder engagement, we Define purpose Identify Phase 3: both what we do well and what we can improve. The top and scope Categorize maintain an active dialogue with stakeholders. potential three aspects raised by stakeholder groups (consisting topics of customers, investors and suppliers) were: prevention Phase 4: Materiality: our most significant impact Gather of deforestation, identifying environmental impact Every third year, AAK conducts a stakeholder analysis information throughout our operations and achieving resource about the in order to ensure relevance and to stay ahead of the impact and efficiency. evolving expectations of stakeholders. This process importance The feedback we received from the in-depth interof topics allows us to engage and mobilize important internal views (with both customers and investors) was that stakeholders and to identify our most significant we should be more transparent regarding our supply Phase 6: impacts, both positive and negative, ensuring a unified Phase 7: Engage chains. Specifically, respondents suggested that we Phase 5: approach at all levels of the organization. Seek stakeholder management Prioritize should further increase our efforts related to traceability. feedback A list of sustainability topics considered most relevant for AAK was drawn up three years ago and during the Management engagement and prioritization summer of 2019 relevant internal stakeholders have Transparent dialogue After identifying the topics which are most significant for been engaged to review and update this list of materiIn order to enable a transparent approach, the survey our stakeholders, AAK engaged the top 100 leaders in ality topics for AAK. and dialogues were conducted with support from an the organization in several workshops to discuss how to experienced third party. With the goal of capturing meet these expectations. The result was presented to Key stakeholders a broad perspective, the stakeholder survey was the Executive Committee, clustered in categories and The determination of which AAK key stakeholders composed of both quantitative questions and qualitative aligned with AAK’s sustainability ambitions. should be engaged in the stakeholder analysis was interviews. based on mutual dependency (such as trade organizaThe quantitative portion of the survey involved Materiality matrix tions), close relationships with the company (employees respondents rating the AAK sustainability topics as a The AAK Materiality matrix represents our list of and company decision makers), an ability to directly very specific exercise undertaken as part of our Global material topics and is connected to where in the report influence the company and important relations for AAK Reporting Initiative (GRI) process. The qualitative we describe the management approach. The quantita(customers and investors), an ability to make an impact portion of the survey gave AAK further insight into our tive section of the survey was based on 31 significant in our value chain (suppliers of raw materials and packstakeholders’ ambitions, including evaluations of AAK’s topics which were initially taken from AAK’s previous aging), and stakeholders important to AAK’s corporate ongoing sustainability work and suggestions for how we ­materiality assessment. citizenship (municipalities). can improve in order to meet expectations in the future. * KPMG Guide to the materiality process. 64 AAK Materiality matrix %, All external stakeholders (Customers, investors, municipalities, trade organizations, employees, millennials, and suppliers) 100 Number Material topics Description/Chapter 90 Responsible sourcing of raw material 6 16 10 3 Offer traceability of products Our Suppliers 80 11 6, 7 Working conditions and livelihoods of smallholders Our Suppliers 12 70 9 Reduce GHG emissions throughout supply chain Our Suppliers 17 19 3 10, 11, 12 Reduce environmental impact including deforestation and biodiversity Our Suppliers 26 28 60 Resource efficiency 7 9 14 24 30 14 Take active steps towards minimizing external risks caused by climate change Our Planet 50 16 Reduce greenhouse gases throughout operations Our Planet 40 17 Continuously work to achieve energy efficiency Our Planet 19 Assess environmental impact of products ­through­out e­ ntire product life cycle Our Planet and Our Suppliers 30 People/Governance 24 Promote employee competence and career ­development Our People 20 26 Prevent harassment throughout operations Our People 10 28 Active whistleblower system that concerns all parts of supply chain Our People Basis: Proportion who answered ”Very important” 30 Ensure compliance with the AAK Code of Conduct ­throughout operations and Our People and Our Suppliers 0 business relationships 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 %, Internal stakeholders (AAK’s sustainability team, important representatives from supply chain, operations, go-to-market and employee millennials) In order for the analysis to capture both internal and exercise made it possible for the analysis to capture the above, in order to ensure we cover the main concerns external perspectives, the matrix ranking is set in perspec­­tives of both AAK and external stakeholders, of our stakeholders. You can read about topic boundarelation to the corresponding ranking carried out by the with a special focus on the topics listed as very ries and actions to meet significant topics raised in this local sustainability teams and other internal key stakeimportant. exercise in each chapter as described above. holders. The internal perspective was then compared In the end, AAK chose to focus on all topics in the with the perspective of all stakeholder groups. This top square of the Materiality matrix as listed in the table 65 Investor Relations Shareholders Shareholder sustainability agenda AAK endeavors to generate an attractive return on There is an increasing interest on the part of shareinvestments for its shareholders. The largest shareholders in a multitude of topics such as reducing holder is Melker Schörling AB, which indirectly owns greenhouse gas emissions, increasing traceability, clean more than 31 percent of AAK. In total, approximately revenue, anti-corruption initiatives, and the work we do 70 percent of AAK’s shareholders are Swedish. More to ensure sustainable practices in our supply chains. information about AAK’s ownership structure is available These factors, together with an increased role for shareat www.aak.com. holders, require a high level of transparency and mutual understanding. AAK is continuously working to enhance Dialogue with shareholders the level of disclosure to meet different needs for inforAAK’s aim is for the shares to be valued on the basis mation and staying ahead of emerging Environmental, of relevant, accurate and up-to-date information. This Social and Governance (ESG) disclosure requirements. requires a clear strategy for financial communication, Our reporting aims to fulfill different regulations and reliable information and regular contact with financial frameworks, including ratings and listings. market stakeholders. Throughout the year, we engaged in dialogues with Contact with the financial markets takes place via a number of investment analysts and investors specialpresentations in conjunction with quarterly reports and izing in ESG requirements. We listen and learn how meetings with analysts, investors and journalists at to further adopt, and make it it easier to evaluate our capital market days, seminars and visits to AAK’s sites. progress on sustainability. The intention is that the AAK Group’s annual sustainShareholder activities ability report remains the most appropriate and efficient Capital market days channel to provide information about our sustainability Road shows practices. However, a constructive dialogue on risks, Meetings with institutional investors opportunities and strategies related to sustainability is Meetings with equity analysts always valued, in line with ethical stock exchange rules. Local meetings with the Swedish Shareholders’ Association Annual General Meeting 66 Maintaining momentum An important aspect of the AAK Group’s sustainability work is maintaining global momentum. To ensure this, the Global Sustainability Manager is in regular contact with the sites. Consultation meetings are held with the sustainability team leaders from each site where progress and challenges of the sustainability work is discussed. To make sustainability even more visible within the organization, an internal sustainability award is presented each year to the AAK site or business area that has demonstrated outstanding sustainability perfor­mances. In 2019, the production site in Mexico, Morelia, won Best AAK Sustainability Achievement. The site received an award for its overall very strong sustainability track record including improvements in energy, greenhouse gases, and water use efficiency per unit processed product. Besides internal ambitions and improvement plans, AAK receives questionnaires, supplier code of conducts and ratings from our customers and investors regularly with questions we need to respond to or requirements we need to adhere to. These expectations serve as an important guide to further priorities on our stakeholders’ agendas, and support our continuous and pro­active efforts to maintain up-to-date with what may be expected from us now and in the future. 67 Increasing sustainability awareness internally In order to keep sustainability at the heart of what AAK does, we believe it is our responsibility to enable our employees to become more aware of the impact our business has on individuals, communities and the environment, and to learn more about sound, sustainable practices. In addition to continuous dialogue, we provide all employees with an introduction to sustainability. Relevant employees have access to short e-learning modules relating to anti-corruption, competition law, Sustainable palm oil, responsible shea sourcing and vegetable oils and fats. Simply stating that sustainability is at the heart of our company culture is easy, but we realize that “walking the talk” requires continuous engagement. To keep our positive momentum going, our proactive approach is continuously being reviewed, developed and improved. It is the little things that we do in our everyday lives that has an impact on how we think and behave in general. It can differ from country to country. For instance, by using our own water bottles and by drinking tap water when possible we become more aware of unnecessary use of plastic and how fortunate we are to have fresh and clean tap water. 68 Sustainability inclusion of new sites All new sites are directly included in our improvement These data together with other sites’ data lay the work. To align with AAK sustainability standards is a part foundation for our annual Sustainability Report in which of the integration. the importance of the validity of the data is emphasized. When the Sustainability team leader has received a For some new sites this is not far from the way they first introduction to sustainability in AAK and the “House are already working. For others it is a completely new of Sustainability” they will be invited to regular global approach. Whatever the case, new sites receive all the virtual conferences. support required, from the headquarters as well as from The next step is the inclusion of the site into our other sites, to integrate into the global sustainability annual global data collection. To that end, the team is system in the best possible way. introduced to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), and in particular the definitions that have been established within the AAK Group. The spreadsheets that need to be completed immediately after the end of the year will be thoroughly reviewed with focus on the individual indicators. 69 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) AAK Sustainable Growth Global Sustainability Team Ambitions and GRI GRI is a network-based organization that pioneers the Core disclosures are mandatory and the topic-specific world’s most widely used sustainability reporting framedisclosures identified in the materiality analysis are highwork. The reporting framework sets out the principles lighted in the below GRI index as “Significant topics”. Our Customers Our Suppliers Our Planet Our People Our Neighbours Monitoring & Dialogue Sharing & Partnerships and performance indicators that organizations can use AAK has also chosen to disclose information related to to measure and report their economic, environmental, a few more topics important for the company. and social performance. The framework also addresses Policies & Codes the United Nations Global Compact principles and the See www.globalreporting.org for more information. UNGC principles & SDGs OECD’s Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. The Global Reporting Initiative Standards Index GRI Content Index – disclosures The GRI table is based on GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards 2016 Disclosure Disclosure description Page number and comments GRI 101: Foundation 2016 – This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 (Core) 102-1 Name of the organization Page 82 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Pages 4–7 102-3 Location of headquarters Page 82 102-4 Location of operations Page 5 102-5 Ownership and legal form Please see page 98–99 in our Annual Report for a list of all companies including holding, dormant and financial services. 102-6 Markets served Page 5 102-7 Scale of the organization Page 3 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Pages 3 and 50–55 102-9 Supply chain Pages 7, 26–39 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain Page 2. The direct sourcing program in Burkina Faso and Ghana expanded from 135,000 to 235,000 women. Organic sourcing has remained unchanged, apart from the approval of two new suppliers of organic coconut oil. AAK also increased supply of shea kernels in Nigeria. 70 Fully reported Partly reported Disclosure Disclosure description Page number and comments GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 (Core) cont. 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach AAK supports the Precautionary principle approach. Please see example on page 24 102-12 External initiatives Pages 12–13, 56–61 102-13 Membership of associations Page 61 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Page 8–9 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Risk chapter in Annual Report. See pages 36–39 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior See pages 51, 12–13 and 55 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics The AAK whistleblower system is part of AAK Code of Conduct. See page 55 102-18 Governance structure See pages 62–63 102-40 List of stakeholder groups See page 64 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Page 55 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Page 64 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Page 64 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Page 64 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Annual Report pages 98–99 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries Page 65 102-47 List of material topics Page 65 102-48 Restatements of information AAK started disclose GHG emissions according to Greehouse Gas Protocol. Page 74 102-49 Changes in reporting Page 74 102-50 Reporting period Page 74 102-51 Date of most recent report 01-01.2018–31-12-2018 102-52 Reporting cycle Annually 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Page 63 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Page 1 and 74 102-55 GRI Content Index Pages 70–73 102-56 External assurance The report has been verified by PricewaterhouseCoopers in terms of compliance with the Swedish Annual ­Accounts Act. 71 GRI Content Index – material topics Disclosure Disclosure description Page number and comments GRI 200 Standard: Economic Series 2016 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change Significant topic. See Annual Report page 39. Omission: Information not available related to result and financial implications of climate change risk assessments as they are still works in progress. When all risk assessments are completed in 2020 plans will be initiated to make further evaluation, including actions to manage the risks related to climate change and costs associated with it. 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Significant topic. AAK assesses operations related to corruption based on risk assessments each year which cover both fully owned and joint venture operational business units. During 2019, this covered 22 percent of the operational business. The audits cover different aspects such as investments, customer relations and contracts, travel invoices, gifts, salary remuneration and contracts with suppliers and customers. For more information regarding AAK Audit Committee and anticorruption compliance, please see pages 55 and 62. 205-2 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies Significant topic. See page 55. Omission: Information not available regarding categorization according to employee category or region. AAK has recently initiated a new global HR system and GRI requirements will be reviewed and integrated into this system, including training on anti-corruption policies. 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken No incidents of corruption were identified during 2019. GRI 300 Standard: Environmental Performance 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Significant topic. See page 42 302-3 Energy intensity Significant topic. See page 42 302-4 Reduction in energy consumption Significant topic. See page 42 303-3 Water withdrawal by source Important parameter for AAK. See page 46 303-5 Water consumption Important parameter for AAK. See page 46 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas Significant topic. Villavicencio (Colombia) is an operational site of 41,438 m2 located in the terrestrial ecosystem of high biodiversity value outside protected areas area, protected by national legislation. Zhangjiagang (China) is a production site of 66,666 m2 located in a freshwater ecosystem area protected by national legislation. Zaandijk (the Netherlands) is an operational site of smaller size located adjacent to a Natura 2000 area, protected by legislation. Karlshamn (Sweden) is a production site of 260,000 m2 located adjacent to a terrestrial ecosystem area protected by Natura 2000. 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Significant topic. IPCC**, using GHG Protocol Standards* with centralized approach where the sites report activity data. Calculations are made with financial control approach. Please see page 44 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Significant topic. IPCC**, using GHG Protocol Standards* with centralized approach where the sites report activity data. Calculations are made with financial control approach. Please see page 42 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Significant topic. IPCC**, using GHG Protocol Standards* with centralized approach where the sites report activity data. Please see page 44. AAK is reporting the development in its GHG emissions on a five-year scale (2015–2019). 2015 is not the base year. The rationale behind choosing to report in this manner is that AAK will review the present target during 2020 and would therefore like to maintain the previous outline of five years to be consistent. The target disclosed 2018 had a baseyear 2012. However, work is ongoing to set targets needed to reach sufficient reduction levels with a more recent baseyear and emission inventory. 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Significant topic. IPCC**, using GHG Protocol Standards* with centralized approach where the sites report activity data. Please see page 44 72 Fully reported Partly reported Disclosure Disclosure description Page number and comments GRI 300 Standard: Environmental Performance 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Important parameter for AAK. IPCC**, using GHG Protocol Standards* with centralized approach where the sites report activity data. 340 kg CFC11e (equipment, air condition, refrigerant systems). The amount is related to three sites and they all have plans to phase out the use of R22. 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulphur oxides (SOX), and other significant air emissions Important parameter for AAK. Source of emission factors and GWP rates are from ”IPCC Fifth Assessment Report, 2014 (AR5)”, using GHG Protocol Standards with centralized approach where the sites report activity data. See page 44 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Important parameter for AAK. The information reported has been collected from the operational sites and their disposal contractors. See page 48 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria Significant topic. Direct suppliers are screened using different regional systems and have signed our Code of Conduct including environmental criteria. See pages 16 and 15 Omission: Information unavailable. Information regarding share of assessed suppliers are currently in different systems. Plans to align and review most suitable management approach will be initiated during 2020. Disclosure Disclosure description Page number and comments GRI 400 Standard: Socio economic compliance 2016 403-9 Work-related injuries Important parameter for AAK. Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR) is the number of work injuries with more than one day of absence per 200,000 working hours including AAK’s production sites and our administrative staff. See page 54 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs Significant topic. See page 53. Additionally, 18 AAK employees in Mexico have raised their educational levels by completing a two-year program that helps participants to formally finish their senior high school studies through a self-taught method­ology. 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women and men AAK has a very thorough process for each local region using Mercer benchmark. We continuously measure and take actions to make sure we do not have any remuneration gaps due to diversity reasons. Omission: Information unavailable. Information regarding global salary ratio is not available as it is currently calculated and followed up on a local level. Work will be initiated during 2020 to review the possibilities to have a global ration of basic salary and remuneration. 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Three cases of discrimination has been reported in our GRI process. All cases have been investigated and corrective actions are being taken. We also encountered one case of alleged misconduct through our whistleblower function during 2019. See page 55 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development Important parameter for AAK. 83 percent of AAK production sites are engaged in community engagement programs programs. The outstanding 17 percent did not find relevant initiatives during 2019. See pages 56–59 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Significant topic. Direct suppliers are screened using different regional systems and have signed our Code of Conduct including social criteria. See pages 16 and 55. Omission: Information unavailable. Suppliers in AAK are currently screened using regional ­systems. Plans to align and review most suitable management approach will be initiated during 2020. * The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A standard designed to provide a framework for businesses, governments and other entities to measure and report their greenhouse gas emissions in ways that support their missions and goals. ** IPCC Fifth Assessment Report, 2014 (AR5): Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report AR5 provides an update of knowledge on the scientific, technical and socio-economic aspects of climate change. 73 Reporting Principles Scope and completeness Accuracy and changes in the reporting This is the eleventh AAK Sustainability Report. The The ability to rely on data based on source documents last report was published in April 2019. The report is is a keystone for AAK and it is expected that all data are prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core traceable to recorded evidence enabling verification. option. It aims to provide sufficient and clear material Work is continuously ongoing to improve the data to reflect our actions related to the significant topics quality. In terms of restatement of information, AAK identified in our materiality analysis during the reporting has improved the disclosure of greenhouse gases and period. aligned data collection and reporting with the GreenIn general, the data in this report covers our activities house Gas Protocol. This has lead to a change in how from January 1 to December 31, 2019. New sites are we disclose our GHG emissions, going from total direct not required to join our reporting until they have one full emissions to Scope 1 direct emissions. In order to year of production. The Environmental data in this report create a strong foundation and prepare to set a target in relate to the seventeen AAK production sites that were line with the science based target method AAK teamed fully operational during 2019. Other core data related to up with a third party specializing in climate disclosure. social disclosures such as employees, gender composiThe outcome was an aligned data collection and a tion, age includes AAK sourcing, sales and purchasing centralized framework for calculating emissions. This offices and is calculated per December 31, 2019 based has led to more uniform calculations of scope 1 and 2 on payroll information. emissions in line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. The scope 2 data used to compare the GHG intensity Data input and calculations rate during 2012-2018 is based on energy use reported The report is based on information received from all at the time and estimated emissions based on ecoinvent sites and contains results based on locally calculated version 3.5*. data that is compiled and calculated on a global level. During 2019, we have sharpened the process GHG emissions of collecting input with more instructions and stricter AAK reports according to GHG Protocol’s financial validation functions. Some data errors were identified control approach. during the validation process, mostly connected to calculations, which were adjusted together with the Scope 1 different sites. This led to minor adjustments in previous (Direct GHG emissions from energy use) years’ reporting. The scope 1 emissions are calculated from the consumption of fuels together with documented heating values and emission factors. Corrections have been 74 made in last year’s data in order to adjust the heating specific data for emissions from purchased goods and value and CO2e emission values in line with a centrally services going forward as well as data for emissions calculated framework. Combustion from own vehicles from inbound and outbound transport. All in order to and smaller working machines and fugitive emissions work with mitigation and reduction of our climate impact are not included in the calculations due to limited data in a structured manner, including the supply chain. quality. However, those emissions are considered to be very small in relation to the total Scope 1 emissions and GHG Scope AAK 2018 work is ongoing to cover this gap during 2020. Scope 2 (Indirect GHG emissions from energy purchase) This is the first year that AAK disclose scope 2 indirect emissions. For electricity, the emissions are calculated according to market-based method (GHG protocol) which is used to support the development of renewable energy by purchasing Guarantees of origins. For 7% Scope 1 markets without a system of Guarantees of origins 2% Scope 2 for electricity, AAK has used the average electricity 91% Scope 3 emission factor for the specific market to calculate the emissions from the electricity use. The large share of emissions in scope 3, and especially from Scope 3 purchased goods, are typical for companies that produce food or agricultural products, e.g. coffee or rice. However, they are not (GHG emissions beyond scope 1 and 2) comparable with the impact of animal-based foods such as meat During 2019 AAK has, with support from a third party, or dairy, that are much more resource-intensive than plant based conducted a scope 3 screening, i.e. a rough assessfoods**. ment of AAK’s emission in the whole supply chain. The * Ecoinvent is the world’s leading LCI database in terms of inventory scope 3 screening shows that about 90 percent of the data for complete supply chains. Version 3.5 features more than emissions in the supply chain are category 1: purchased 2,000 new, revised and updated datasets across five sectors as well as improved representations of supply chains and was released on goods and services. When inbound and outbound transAugust 23, 2018. port and upstream emissions for consumed energy and ** Creating a Sustainable Food Future, A Menu of Solutions to fuels are added more than 99 percent of the emissions Feed Nearly 10 Billion People by 2050, World Resources Report, are covered. It will therefore be prioritized to get more December 2018. 75 Contributions to the Sustainable Development Goals In September 2015, the United Nations adopted the 17 AAK plays an active role in supporting the delivery of vegetable oils and fats solutions, we have identified Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) relevant for all the SDGs. our global supply chains as an opportunity as well as countries. AAK has strong commitment to sustainability The goals and AAK contribution is reviewed on an a responsibility to do our part to achieve the SDGs. and we have welcomed the SDGs. We see the SDGs as annual basis and during 2019 AAK identified eleven Therefore, we are monitoring our contribution towards an integrated part of our sustainability work and they are SDGs that represent our contribution and ability to make achieving the SDGs and their specific sub-targets. incorporated in our model, AAK House of Sustainability. significant impact. As a global producer of value-adding UN SDG UN SDG sub-targets AAK’s contribution to the UN SDGs Progress Target 1.2: By 2030, reduce at least by half the Smallholder inclusion in our supply chains for shea, AAK has progressed regarding the number of smallholders actively included in our supply chains as proportion of men, women and children of all ages palm and coconut offers access to global markets. well as regarding the way they are included. We have successful smallholder engagement projects living in poverty in all its dimensions according to running for palm oil in Malaysia and Mexico; for coconut in Indonesia; and for shea in Burkina Faso, national definitions Ghana and Ivory Coast. Target 1.4: Equal right to economic resources, AAK continues to offer an increasing number AAK has opened a total number of 4,249 bank accounts within Kolo Nafaso. We have furthermore access to land, natural resources and banking of ­microcredits and bank accounts through our expanded the program into Ivory Coast. ­program Kolo Nafaso in West Africa. Target 2.3: By 2030, double the agricultural producAAK continues to educate smallholders in West AAK has grown the Kolo Nafaso program by 72 percent in 2019, offering training to an additional tivity and incomes of small-scale food producers, Africa, Indonesia and Mexico in good agricultural 96,615 women. in particular women, indigenous peoples, family practices which can have a positive impact on their All of the Indonesian coconut smallholders in our supply chain have been trained in good farmers, pastoralists and fishers, including through incomes. ­agricultural practices. secure and equal access to land, other productive AAK is furthermore supporting smallholders in For the Mexican smallholder project, field schools have been established and standard operating resources and inputs, knowledge, financial servicsecuring land titles through our Forever Sabah procedures developed. es, markets and opportunities for value addition partnership. The Forever Sabah program has in 2019 focused on securing land titles for smallholders in the and non-farm employment Sabah region. Target 3.2: End preventable deaths of new-borns AAK produces customer co-developed oils AAK is a pioneer in parenteral nutrition, which is nutrition delivered directly into the bloodstream. and children under 5 years of age and fats solutions for special nutrition products AAK is helping the global population with safe, proven, essential lipids. Beginning already in the and continuously contributes to the research of 1970s, we supplied lipid knowledge and solutions that were commercialized by our partners who optimizing these products. made them available to the medical sector. The knowledge about lipids’ role in medical nutrition has grown ever since. For example, the right fats are now also known contributors to limit inflammatory effects. 76 UN SDG UN SDG sub-targets AAK’s contribution to the UN SDGs Progress Target 5.5: Ensure women’s full and effective Women supervisors in Burkina Faso. AAK is striving to hire the best talents at all times. We are especially proud to register an increasing participation and equal opportunities for leadership number of female leaders in traditionally male dominated contexts, such as West Africa. Our at all levels of decisionmaking in political, Country Manager in Burkina Faso as well as our Kolo Nafaso women’s groups manager and economic and public life extension officers are strong female leaders. See page 35. Target 7.2: By 2030, increase substantially Increase the share of renewable energy in AAK’s 24% of the direct energy use in AAK stems from biomass. An increase with 22% since 2018. the share of renewable energy in the global direct and indirect energy consumption. energy mix Target 7.3: Improvement in energy efficiency Continuous improvement in our energy efficiency. Total energy consumption per processed unit decreased with 7,6 percent. Target 8.4: Decouple economic growth with AAK Group Policy Responsible Sourcing of AAK has added a new KPI to the palm oil dashboard in 2019: Verified deforestation-free palm oil. destroying the environment Vegetable Oils and AAK Group Policy Sustainable This is a new and important KPI for AAK that we are developing together with Proforest. We are in Palm Oil require no deforestation or development of the process of establishing the baseline value that will include RSPO segregated volumes and mills peatland and High Conservation Value areas. with concession monitoring. We will extend this KPI to our soy supply chains during 2020 as well. Target 8.5: By 2030, achieve full and productive AAK utilizes market pay data to evaluate the AAK will assess the possibility to set up a global gender pay ratio in a new global HR system. employment and decent work for all women and organizations’ pay levels in each country. men, including for young people and persons with disabilities, and equal pay for work of equal value Target 8.6: Reduce the share of youth (15–24) not AAK is investing in a global trainee program to give Besides trainee programs. AAK has also managed to provide high school degrees in Mexico in education, training or employment young people the best possible start to their careers. during 2019. Target 8.8: Protect labor rights AAK has been a participant of UNGC since 2003. At the end of 2019, 98 percent had signed the Code of Conduct. and ensure stable working Workers rights and working environment is targeted environments in AAK Code of Conduct and Code of Conduct for Suppliers of Raw Materials. 77 UN SDG UN SDG sub-targets AAK’s contribution to the UN SDGs Progress Target 12.2: By 2030, achieve the sustainable AAK has a continuous focus on resource efficiency Water consumption per unit processed material decreased by 2.3 percent compared to 2018. management and efficient use of natural with parameters on water, energy and waste The total energy consumption per processed unit decreased by 7.6 percent in 2019. resources utilization. Target 12.5: Reduce waste AAK has an ambition to achieve less than 1.5% of Waste going to landfill decreased by 48 percent compared to 2018. the waste disposed as landfill/deposit. The amount of recycled waste increased by 45 percent compared to 2018. Target 12.6: Integrate sustainability in reporting Published sustainability reports annually since 2009 During 2019, AAK has focused on attaining a GRI report according to GRI Core level and cycle and palm oil progress reports twice a year since integrating GRI requirements in global reporting systems and the AAK Annual Report. 2014. Target 13.3: Improve education, awareness-raising AAK has a significant impact on the climate and During 2019 AAK has improved the internal climate accounting and started mitigating emissions in and human and institutional capacity on climate it is important that we mitigate, reduce our GHG line with the Greenhouse gas protocol. Efforts have been made to raise awareness about climate change mitigation, adaptation, impact reduction emissions, adapt our operations and continuously impact on several sites and climate change risk assessments have been initiated and conducted and early warning raise the awareness about climate change. on our operational sites. Additional climate change risk assessments will be initiated in our supply chain during 2020. All in order to get a full picture of what can enable sufficient action and reduction levels overall. Additionally, driven by consumers demand for products with less impact on the climate, we are adapting and have developed the AkoPlanet range for plant based food. Please read more on page 24. Target 15.2: By 2020, promote the implementation AAK contribution: AAK Group Policy Responsible AAK has made significant progress regarding the compliance with its AAK Group Policy of sustainable management of all types of forests, Sourcing of Vegetable Oils and AAK Group Sustainable palm oil. In 2019, we achieved 98 percent traceability to mill, 55 percent traceability halt deforestation, restore degraded forests Policy Sustainable Palm Oil require, among other to plantation and we are in the process of introducing a new KPI to our dashboard: Verified and substantially increase afforestation and things, no destruction of forested areas and High deforestation-free palm oil. reforestation globally Conservation Value areas. Target 16.5: Substantially reduce corruption and AAK provides mandatory e-learning courses for 93 percent of relevant employees passed the anti-corruption training in AAK during 2019. 98 bribery in all their forms all employees at increased risk of encountering percent of our agents and distributors has signed the AAK Code of Conduct for Agents and corruption (page 55). Distributors and all suppliers have signed the Code of Conduct for Suppliers of Raw Materials with specific requirements on anti-corruption. Target 17.16: Global multi-stakeholder partnerships AAK is engaged in several global partnerships AAK continues to strongly support the RSPO in its efforts to create a more sustainable world. In including UNGC, RSPO and Global Shea Alliance. 2019, the RSPO introduced and approved the implementation of the concept of “joint responsibility” under which downstream members are obliged to significantly increased purchases of RSPO certified palm oil. 78 The auditor’s opinion on the statutory sustainability report To the annual general meeting of the shareholders in Opinion AAK AB (publ.), corporate identity number 556669-2850 A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. Assignment and responsibility It is the Board of Directors who is responsible for the statutory sustainability report for the year 2019 and that it has been Malmö, April 15, 2020 prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. PricewaterhouseCoopers AB The scope of the audit Sofia Götmar-Blomstedt Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s Authorized Public Accountant auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor's opinion regarding the Auditor-in-charge statutory sustainability report. This means that our examination of the statutory sustainability report is substantially different and less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinion. 80 Production sites Customization sites Sales offices Sourcing operations Customer Innovation Centers We are AAK AAK is a leading provider of value-adding vegetable oils & fats. Our expertise in lipid technology within foods and special nutrition applications, our wide range of raw materials and our broad process capabilities enable us to develop innovative and value-adding solutions across many industries – Chocolate & Confectionery, Bakery, Dairy, Plant-based Foods, Special Nutrition, Foodservice, Personal Explore more at Care, and more. www.aak.com AAK’s proven expertise is based on more than 140 years of experience within oils & fats. Our unique codevelopment approach brings our customers’ skills and know-how together with our own capabilities and mindset for lasting results. Listed on the NASDAQ OMX Stockholm and with our headquarters in Malmö, Sweden, AAK has more than 20 different production sites, sales offices in more than 25 countries and more than 3,800 employees. We are AAK – The Co-Development Company. Published by AAK AB (publ.). Produced by AAK Corporate Communications and AAK Corporate Social Respsonsibility. Graphics and original: www.johnjohns.se. Photography: Thomas Hergaard, www.benfoto.se, Charlotte Kropholler, Simon Siantidis, AAK, Shutterstock. Print: Exakta.
