CSR REPORT WESTPACK A/S 2019-2020 CEO Statement...................................................... 3 About Wespack..................................................... 5 UN Global Compact.. ............................................. 7 Partnerships.......................................................... 9 Environment.......................................................... 16 Sustainability of Product Materials . . .................... 19 WESTPACK’S ECO Brand.. ..................................... 21 WESTPACK: Working Environment. . ..................... 24 WESTPACK in Asia................................................ 27 Partnership: One Tree Planted.. ............................ 30 United Against Corruption.................................... 31 2 Morten Dalsgaard CEO Westpack CEO Statement W elcome to Westpack’s new CSR report, a report that sums up the CSR-related activities from our recently completed fiscal year 2019-20. It is also a report that will summarize the CSR efforts we have planned for the new fiscal year. In the wake of the COVID-19 crisis it is imperative that we do not compromise our CSR efforts. 3 Especially now, we need to put special emphasis on our CSR activities, both in Europe and in Asia. We need to uphold the principles of good CSR and let that criterion be a guiding light for our attitude and especially our actions. The COVID-19 pandemic has had terrible humanitarian consequences. Many have lost their lives due to the virus. Others have had to fight the illness while also struggling with social isolation to protect their loved ones. We have all been affected in one way or another. The pandemic has also had financial consequences. In order to minimize the spread of the disease and in the interest of saving lives, many countries have been shut down. First it was China, then Europe, then the US. This has affected our global trade and economy in an unprecedented way. It is particularly when the economy is in a critical state, that companies may be tempted to diminish their CSR efforts in order to get momentary financial gain. The temptation will arise in every step of the value chain, but it is important that decisionmakers do not give in to this temptation. Therefore, it is necessary to pay extra attention to CSR in the coming period. While the economy is also a concern at Westpack, it is important for us to stay true to the purpose of CSR and what the UN Global Compact and the Sustainable Development Goals are concerning the environment, social impact, human rights and anti-corruption. Each of these headlines are guided by well-defined CSR principles that we are committed to follow. It is Westpack’s mission to ensure that all our internal affairs are in sync with both the UN Global Compact and the Sustainable Development Goals. It is equally important that we ensure continued decent CSR conduct in our supply chains. We will not allow any link in the chain to be weakened. Rest assured that CSR will not be sacrificed to obtain a shorter lead time or to secure lower prices. When you, as a valued customer, do business with us, we want you to be certain that our entire organization upholds the principles stated in the UN Global Compact and in the 17 Sustainable Development Goals. This applies to the entire value chain for which Westpack is responsible and has the ability to influence. It is our hope that you will see this reflected in our CSR report. I hope you enjoy reading the report. As you will see, Westpack takes CSR seriously, also in the somewhat turbulent wake of the COVID-19 crisis. As always, feel free to contact me directly with questions or comments. 4 About Wespack W estpack is a B2B company that sells quality packaging and displays to more than 14,000 customers across the world. We focus on packaging for jewelry, watches and eyewear but we also sell displays, postal boxes, labels and other items related to selling and shipping the abovementioned products. Our customers range from small independent jewelry designers to some of the biggest companies in the jewelry industry. To illustrate how we operate, and how we constantly pay attention to CSR related matters, we have made a chart of our CSR Value Chain. The CSR Value Chain Extraction of Processing of Suppliers Westpack DK Clients Final Raw Materials Raw Materials Customers • Natural resources • Natural resources • Working conditions • Water, heat, • Handling of waste • Handling of waste • Working conditions • Working conditions • Environment electricity • Responsible • Responsible ISSUES • Social justice • Social justice • Social justice • Working conditions consumption consumption • Wildlife • Resources • SDG #8 • SDG #8 • SDG #8 • SDG #3 • SDG #12 • SDG #12 • SDG #12 • SDG #13 • SDG #13 • SDG #7 • SDG #15 • SDG #16 • SDG #16 • SDG #8 SDG • SDG #17 • SDG #12 • SDG #17 • One Tree • FSC®-certified • Member of amfori • Electric upgrades • Guidance about • Eco-friendly Planted materials • Access to BSCI + new machines eco-friendliness alternatives • FSC®-certified • EUTR & FLEGT platform + BEPI • New warehouse • Eco-friendly • ECO brand on materials • Code of conduct • Cooperation with • Internal value alternatives products • EUTR & FLEGT Bureau Veritas chain optimization • ECO brand ACTIONS • Fairtrade®-certified Code of conduct • Profit sharing+ on products materials • EUTR & FLEGT exercise • FSC®-certified materials • Our own ECO brand • Partnerships • Pages 20-25 • Page 4-5 • Page 4-5 • Page 4-5 • Page 4-5 • Pages 20-25 READ MORE • Pages 31-32 • Pages 20-25 • Pages 20-25 • Pages 10-28 • Pages 20-25 • Pages 23-25 • Pages 28-30 • Pages 31-32 • Pages 28 • Pages 28 5 How to read the CSR value chain Westpack is taking the following actions to get closer to these specific SDGs: The top row of the diagram is divided into Westpack’s six main value chain steps • We are keeping track of EUTR (EU from ‘Extraction of Raw Materials’ to the Timber Regulation) and FLEGT (Forest ‘Final customer’. The row below lists the Law Enforcement, Governance and Trade). relevant CSR issues that are connected to We must be able to document how any each of the six steps. given product is produced and trace it all the way back to where the raw materials Underneath this, there is a row that were extracted. displays the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) that are related to the • We use FSC®-certified materials in issues. The following row is called many of our products. The FSC mark ‘Actions’, as it lists some of the actions guarantees that all materials come from Westpack is taking to counteract the an FSC forest, where no more wood is cut issues and get closer to achieving the down than the forest can reproduce. This SDGs. means better protection of the animal and plant life, and that all foresters have Finally, as a service to the reader, the proper training, safety equipment and a last row shows which pages deal with decent wage. the abovementioned issues, SDGs and actions. • Some of our products are Fairtrade®. Fairtrade is an international labelling Let us take an example. system and is about decent working The first step of our CSR value chain conditions, local sustainability, and fair is Extraction of Raw Materials. Here, terms of trade for farmers and workers in the main activity is forestation. The the developing world. sustainability issues connected to • Via the NGO ‘One Tree Planted’, this activity have to do with Natural Westpack has committed to planting Resources, Working Conditions, Social a minimum of two trees in Borneo per Justice and Wildlife. container-foot shipped from Indonesia. The Sustainable Development Goals As the ‘Read More’ row will tell you, closely related to these issues are: pages 17-19 and 23-27 cover these exact • SDG #8 Decent Work and Economic initiatives and actions. In other words, Growth you can also use the CSR Value Chain • SDG #12 Responsible Consumption as a table of contents in case you want and Production to delve into specific topics. We hope • SDG #15 – Life on Land that this will give you a good overview of • SDG #17 – Partnerships for the Goals Westpack’s concern for CSR. 6 UN Global Compact T o ensure that we follow the fundamental principles of responsible business management, Westpack has made the strategic decision to support the UN Global Compact initiative. We have worked proactively with CSR for several years and we have always upheld our basic responsibilities to society and the planet. But by joining the global and well recognized initiative, we believe that we have the best possible framework for incorporating strategies, policies and procedures that will secure our long-term success at Westpack. In all aspects of our business, we incorporate the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. The circular diagram illustrates how we focus our efforts. 7 Strategy responsible consumption in order to engage in and production (SDG partnerships on various Westpack wants to be #12), Affordable and SDGs. a part of the movement clean energy (SDG #7) towards solutions Goal and Life on land (SDG to some of the main #15). As for the rest of By joining the UN Global problems that the world the 17 SDGs, we respect Compact and teaming up is facing today and to and include them all in with various partners, we contribute to creating a our business decisions. will make our contribution better world for everyone. to creating a better world We have an ambitious, We have joined together for all. yet realistic, approach to with various partners, as CSR. Therefore, we are we believe this to be the Results aware that our efforts best way for Westpack Westpack only recently cannot be distributed to contribute on a global joined the UN Global equally across all 17 scale. We have made it a Compact, but we can Sustainable Development strategy to team up with already see a large Goals. For example, we people and organizations increase in sales of are too small a player that are dedicated to environmentally friendly on a global scale to take solving some of the products. We have also meaningful actions that specific problems which been involved in various will contribute to ending are also highlighted in partnerships that have poverty (SDG #1), but the UN Global Compact been proven to be we can do our share charter. In this report beneficial to many people to create decent work you will find examples and that complement conditions and economic of our partnerships with the particular SDGs on growth (SDG #8) within organizations such as which we place special our corporation. To Fairtrade®, FSC®, One emphasis. illustrate how we focus Tree Planted® and 1M, to our efforts, we have used name a few. Evaluation the circular diagram on Westpack will continue to Risk the left side. develop environmentally The world is facing major As the diagram friendly products and to challenges in areas such illustrates, we put participate in relevant as poverty, inequalities, partnerships for the goals projects that have a environment and climate. (SDG #17) and decent positive impact on It is therefore essential work and economic communities and on the that we act on a global growth (SDG #8) at the lives of people. scale. center of our approach to the UN Global Compact Action initiative, while we Westpack has joined also focus heavily on the UN Global Compact 8 Partnerships 2 019-20 was another fiscal year where Westpack had a strong focus on SDG #17: Partnerships for the Goals. We want to highlight four fruitful collaborations: the collaboration with our strong customer Etnia Barcelona from Spain; the collaboration with our strong customer Triwa in Sweden; the collaboration with Holstebro Municipality on the project ‘Open school’; and our longstanding relationship with the NGO One Tree Planted. In the following section, we will outline the status of the first three of these collaborations. One Tree Planted (an American NGO whose purpose is reforestation) will be discussed later in the report under the section titled Westpack in Asia. Etnia Barcelona For years, we have worked closely with Etnia Barcelona and their charity: Etnia Barcelona Foundation. Specifically, we have supported a project that provides free eye examinations and subsequent offers of free glasses to vision-impaired children in Senegal. Westpack’s contribution in this regard has been and continues to be general support and the donation of packaging for the project. Last year, we expanded the collaboration to include the establishment of small eyewear stores offering free eye examinations in Senegal. All stores are run by local women. Profits from these new eyewear stores are donated to other social activities in the area. It is a classic example of how one great idea can inspire other great ideas. Westpack is extremely proud to be part of Etnia’s excellent work in the area and we look forward to continuing our collaboration with Etnia. We are proud of supporting the Etnia Barcelona Foundation’s projects in Senegal. 9 Strategy We are proud of Donation of prescription supporting the Etnia glasses: Through partnerships with Barcelona Foundation’s • 2019: 285 pcs. our valued and long-term projects in Senegal. • From 2016 to 2019 in total: customers, we want to 1.857 pcs. actively support initiatives Goal that enable communities Evaluation By supporting Etnia in developing countries Barcelona Foundation Westpack will continue to improve the living in the project, we shall to offer our support as a conditions and to grow ensure better quality of life partner in the project to healthy businesses which for individuals with visual help local communities will be the foundation for impair-ments in the local in Senegal provide eye their further development. communities and improve examinations and support Risk the living standard in local small business. Senegal by providing aid to Westpack will welcome Poverty and lack of small eyewear shops. further collaboration access to proper medical with Etnia Barcelona equipment and treatment Results Foundation. for individuals remains Donation of optical frames: one of the greatest • 2019: 20,635 pcs. challenges in the world • From 2016 to 2019 in total: today (SDG #3). 43.682 pcs. Action Donation of eye Westpack is working examinations: with Etnia Barcelona • 2019: 800 examinations. Foundation and supporting • From 2016 to 2019 in total: their projects to provide 9.952 examinations. eye examinations and eyewear to local communities in Senegal. 10 We are very grateful that Westpack unconditionally continues to support our social activities around the world. Westpack is not only a credible and valuable supplier for our everyday business at Etnia Barcelona, but also a very loyal partner in our CSR activities around the world. We see Westpack as a strong, serious and dedicated partner, who wishes to work towards achieving the Sustainable Development Goals – just like we do at the Etnia Barcelona Foundation. Aitana Modolell, Executive Director at Etnia Barcelona Foundation New project: Opticians with You The latest collaboration between Westpack and the Etnia Barcelona Foundation is a response to the COVID-19 crisis. The project aims at supporting particularly vulnerable individuals who, due to the COVID-19 crisis, are now facing additional problems. Apart from the recipient of the donation – vulnerable women, men and children – there are three parties involved in the initiative: Etnia Barcelona Foundation, their opticians and Westpack. Etnia Barcelona Foundation provides the eyeglasses, the opticians contribute the lenses and, finally, Westpack donates the packaging. The project is scheduled to be launched during the summer of 2020 and will run throughout the year. The project is named “Opticians with You”. Westpack is looking forward to following the project and, as always, it is with pride that we are involved in the cooperation with Etnia Barcelona Foundation. We support several of the Etnia Barcelona Foundation’s projects. One of the projects establishes small eyewear stores offering free eye examinations in Senegal – all stores are run by local women. 11 Triwa Since 2018, Westpack has supported the project ‘Humanium Metal’, which is run by the organization IM. The project is based on collecting illegal weapons around the world and melting them down into bars of metal that can be used for peaceful purposes. One such purpose could be the production of beautiful watches in Scandinavian design. This is precisely how Westpack was introduced to the project, as our long-standing customer, Triwa from Sweden, is involved in the project. Triwa makes a special series of watches that is made from melted down weapons. For each watch sold, Westpack donates the packaging and makes a cash donation to the organization IM. In this way, we support the initiative aimed towards achieving SDG #16: Peace and Justice. Strategy Action violence and armed conflict, which is Through partnerships Westpack has teamed especially prevalent in the with long-term customers, up with Triwa to support developing countries. we want to support the Humanium Metal humanitarian projects project where confiscated Results that create value for all weapons from developing Westpack has donated participants and make the countries are melted down 31,700 Swedish Crowns to world a more decent place and used in the production the project. to live. of, for example, watches. Part of the profit goes to Evaluation Risk IM´s work in the affected We hope that our donations Armed violence and countries. to the project will continue insecurity have a Goal to grow in the years to destructive impact on a come, as this would reflect country’s development, By participating in the its continued success.The affecting economic growth Humanium Metal project, project Humanium Metal and often resulting in we intend to create and the idea behind it, is a conflicts that last for awareness among our perfect fit for Westpack’s generations (SDG #16). customers, employees CSR philosophy and our and other stakeholders pursuit towards achieving of the problems and SDG #16 and #17. consequences of gun 12 It is very exciting to be able to make a difference, and I look forward to collaborating with Westpack and our other partners, working for a better world, free from poverty and exclusion. Jonas, IM 13 Open School Westpack continues to be a part of the ‘Open School’ project. Through the years, many schools and classes have come to visit our headquarters, and we have also frequently guested the schools of the municipality. The purpose of these visits is to inspire the bright young minds of our local community to pursue a career in business after they graduate – either in the form of a vocational education or by choosing a relevant program in higher education. The most important purpose, however, is to provide the students with a basic understanding of how their school subjects can be used in real life. We consider this to be an extremely important mission and that is why we invest many resources in this every year. The highlight of each year is when the junior high school classes from the local Rolf Krake School are invited to do a project at Westpack. For two weeks, the students collaborate on an assignment in smaller groups. The assignment is a genuine development/design task like the ones we come across every day at Westpack. For example, it could be the development of a sustainable packaging solution for a prospective customer in the jewelry industry. The assignment includes many professional and personal aspects within the subjects: mathematics, physics, language, design, trade, innovation, sustainability and the SDGs. More than 20 Westpack employees are involved in the two-week project, which evolves from one year to the next. The project culminates in a big fair where the students present their solutions to Westpack, their teachers and families. This year’s project with the Rolf Krake School is already scheduled for September 2020. Neither the school nor Westpack can do without this unique collaboration. Representatives from Westpack visiting the school. 14 Again, this school year, we were lucky to have an Open School Project with Westpack and our junior high classes. 75 students had the experience of seeing how a company like Westpack A/S works, from sales to production, import/export and the economic aspects. It is a unique experience for the students to get a glimpse of the real world outside of school. It also gives the students an experience of what it is like to work at such a company. These insights are taken into account when the students make decisions about their future educational choices, which is something we work with a lot in these older school grades. Lotte Due Brander, The Rolf Krake School, Holstebro Strategy Action Goal Westpack wants to be a Westpack is cooperating By participating in this visible and important part with Holstebro initiative, Westpack of the local community municipality and we have enables students within through participations in opened our doors for the the local community various relevant initiatives. students to come and to have a relevant and have a first-hand look at business-oriented real life Risk the factory and offices experience, which also A relevant theoretical as for a period of two weeks. focuses on innovation and well as practical education As part of the project, sustainable production. is highly important for Westpack has selected Results both individuals and a case, based on an communities in order to anonymous customer See quote from Lotte Due address the challenges inquiry, and has given Brander. we face on a national and the student full access to Evaluation global scale, challenges all details. Furthermore, such as the environment, Westpack has made 20 of Westpack will continue in global warming, our employees available to this way to support the sustainability and more the students for questions education of the young (SDG #12). and guidance in their generation in the local projects. community. 15 Environment A bout six years ago, Westpack made significant investments to upgrade our electrical installations. The most important of these upgrades was the addition of new heat pumps with lower energy consumption, which has helped us reduce our relative energy consumption. We also replaced all our light bulbs and fixtures from conventional lightbulbs to LED lighting. Two years ago, an important change was made to the machines in the production area. The machines use vacuum to lift items and move them around. Previously, each of the 19 machines had its own 3 kW vacuum pump. The individual vacuum pumps were replaced by a central vacuum system running on just three 5 kW engines. Now the total power consumption used for vacuum is at 15 kW instead of 57 kW. What is more, the new system automatically adjusts the frequency, so that each of the engines runs only when needed. On January 1, 2020, Westpack’s new warehouse was inaugurated. This 47,000 square-feet state-of-the-art warehouse replaced an old rented facility located 10 miles from the Westpack headquarters. This has meant that we no longer need to transport products to and from the old warehouse, saving an estimated 14,1 tons of CO2 annually. 0.06 (Tons CO2 for each trip) X 235 (Trips each year) = 14,1 tons CO2 each year The new warehouse uses district heating, which is much more efficient and environmentally friendly than the pellet stove that was used in the previously rented warehouse. 16 We have also added a new machine for making plastic jewelry boxes. When cooling down the molded boxes, this new machine uses less than 1/3 of the energy compared to older machines in the series. This year we have planned another round of energy consumption analysis in cooperation with consultants from our energy provider, Jysk Energi. Furthermore, we will examine the feasibility of changing our energy supply to sustainable energy, which means that the source of the energy will be wind and/or solar energy. ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION (RENEWABLE / NON-RENEWABLE) 2014/2015 2015/2016 2016/2017 2017/2018 2018/2019 2019/2020 Total 1,030,659 1,035,024 1,124,792 740,513 612,344.1 655,720 1200000 All electricity consumption has been procured through our local energy 1000000 provider Jysk Energi. It is estimated that 10,000 kWh of electricity was used in 800000 the process of building Westpack’s new warehouse. If that number is deducted 600000 from our electricity consumption in 2019/2020, we get a total of 645,720 400000 kWh. This number is still a little higher than last year (5.45%), but there is a 200000 good reason for that: This fiscal year, the output of our Danish factory has 0 increased with 14%. When this is 2014/2015 2015/2016 2016/2017 2017/2018 2018/2019 2019/2020 considered, our electricity consumption is more than reasonable. TOTAL VOLUME OF WATER WITHDRAWN 2014/2015 2015/2016 2016/2017 2017/2018 2018/2019 2019/2020 Municipal water supplies 139.92 445.35 546.37 556.62 538.03 671 or other water utilities 800 It is estimated that 90 M3 of water was used in the process of building 700 Westpack’s new warehouse. If 600 that number is deducted from our total volume of water withdrawn in 500 2019/2020, we get a total of 581 M3 400 (which is nearly the same as the year before). 300 200 Our goal is to stay at the same level and 100 not increase our consumption of water 0 in 2020/2021. 2014/2015 2015/2016 2016/2017 2017/2018 2018/2019 2019/2020 17 ENERGY CONSUMPTION HEATING 2015/2016 2016/2017 2017/2018 2018/2019 2019/2020 Energy consumption heating 662.03 195.42 315.14 292.60 408 700 As Westpack now has more warehouse space to heat (47,000 square-feet extra), 600 we have used more MWh compared to last year. 500 400 300 200 100 0 2015/2016 2016/2017 2017/2018 2018/2019 2019/2020 Strategy solutions in lighting and is a little higher in this production equipment and financial year compared We want to continuously will continue to pursue to the year before because reduce our electricity more solutions to reduce the output of our Danish consumption and to use electricity consumption production has gone more green energy from and to use more renewable up by 14%. The energy renewable sources. energy sources. consumption used for Risk heating has also gone up Goal as we have added 47,000 As the global population By minimizing our square-feet of warehouse continuous to rise, so does electricity demand and by space. The number of the demand for energy. using renewable energy employees has also Presently, this growth sources, Westpack aspires increased. relies mainly on fossil to take part in the global fuels which increases the Evaluation efforts to decrease the greenhouse gas emissions emission of greenhouse We can see that our significantly. Therefore, gasses. Our goal for efforts to minimize our it is imperative that we next year is to keep our electricity consumption start investing more in electricity consumption at are successful and we renewable energy sources the same level, despite the will continue to explore (SDG #7). expansion of production ways to further reduce it Action and warehousing facilities. in cooperation with our energy provider. Westpack has invested Results in energy efficient Our demand for electricity 18 Sustainability of Product Materials W estpack works continuously on providing as large a selection as possible of materials that are environmentally friendly. Apart from our FSC®-certified products, we also offer fabric of 100% organic material which is also Fairtradecertified. Certified organic means that no pesticides have been used in the production of the cotton crop. This material is ideal for making fabric pouches and similar products. Our supplier base in Asia has also seen an increase of FSC®-certified suppliers the past year, including four of our regular suppliers. This year has been yet another year with a lot of focus on the EU Timber Regulation and FLEGT (Forest Law Enforcement, Governance and Trade), not least with regard to our EUTR Due Diligence program. Westpack Asia has held an internal seminar again this year on the regulation, and Westpack will continue to hold EUTR related meetings with our partner factories as well as conduct random inspection of EUTR compliance. The understanding of the regulation is key to ensuring compliance amongst our cooperating suppliers. Our experience is that our suppliers are increasingly responsive to the task at hand, and the understanding of the importance of protecting our forests is also increasing. “ECO” is Westpack’s own label. A product can be labelled with the ECO brand for various reasons related to the protection of our environment. A product is typically qualified for our ECO brand if the raw materials used are FSC® or Fairtrade certified, organic, biodegradable or recycled. 19 Biodegradable Recycled plastic Torino Bio was Torino Eco is our first our very first ecoever plastic box made plastic box. This from recycled plastic. environmentally Other than being ecofriendly jewellery box friendlier, the boxes are is produced from a almost identical to the combination of PLA Torino boxes as you know and PBAT a maize-based plastic them: a matt plastic box with and a biodegradable copolyester. elegant tooling in gold or silver. Sustainable Bottles from the ocean materials The soft, woven ribbon is made from recycled plastic, Our Boston Eco jewellery making it an environmentally boxes use FSC ®-certified conscious alternative to the cardboard and waterclassic polyester ribbon. The based glue. Because plastic used to produce this the boxes are produced ribbon comes from PETin our own factory in bottles fished from the ocean. Denmark, they have a much lower carbon footprint, as it keeps the CO 2 emissions for the Recycled paper transport of the boxes to a minmum. When it comes to packaging, we aim to go eco-all-the-way. That’s why almost all of our gift wrapping papers are made from either FSC ®-certified paper or recycled paper. “Green” unboxing Eco-friendly packaging does not only include the jewellery box and the gift wrapping. Westpack carries and uses ecofriendly e-commerce items. 20 WESTPACK’S ECO Brand I n order to make our environmentally friendly products easier to spot on our website, we have created a separate label for these products: ECO. Any product that is made from FSC® or Fairtrade certified materials – or from organic, bio-degradable or recycled materials – can be found in this product category. Our ECO brand is usually placed so that it is clearly visible on our products, as this helps our customers promote the principle of a sustainability. New initiatives In the past year, Westpack has introduced many new products in the ECO category. For example, we have introduced a range of postal boxes for e-commerce. All of them are made from FSC-certified cardboard. Another interesting addition is our eco-friendly padded envelopes. The envelopes have the same functionality as conventional bubble mailers, but the plastic bubbles have been replaced by 100% recycled paper cut out in a pattern. On the more experimental front, we manufactured a box called Torino BIO from 2018 to 2019. This was a new version of the Torino jewelry box that has been a part of our product range since 1985. Instead of conventional plastic, the Torino BIO jewelry boxes were chiefly composed of bioplastics derived from corn flour, with added biodegradable components. Even the pigments used to dye the box were fully biodegradable. Since then, we have introduced the Torino ECO and Seville ECO boxes, both made from 100% recycled plastic. This gives our customers an eco-friendly alternative to traditional plastic boxes. Purchase of raw materials (WPDK) 2018/2019 2019/2020 Amount of polyester resin 18.43 tons 16.56 tons Amount of recycled plastic 0 tons 4.98 tons As the numbers show, our use of polyester resin has decreased, while our use of recycled plastic has increased. The resulting environmental impact is therefore significantly lower. Our popular cardboard jewelry boxes in the Boston, Frankfurt and Milano series have also been given an eco-friendly update. All of them are now available in ECO versions made from FSC-certified cardboard and paper. In the case of the Milano ECO box, the new version replaces the original. In the past year we have had an even stronger focus on the production of eco-friendly packaging in Asia. We have expanded our range of ECO bags, so even more colors are now available. The same goes for our range of eco-friendly tissue paper. All new introductions in our spring collection of wrapping papers had our ECO brand. 21 A paradigm shift Apart from these initiatives, we have made some big commitments to the sustainability agenda. We have decided to only sell carrier bags that have been made from 100% recycled plastic. On a strategic level, we have decided that we will not begin the development of any new product before we know that it can be made in an eco-friendly version. That is not just a commitment, but a paradigm shift in the way we approach product development. With regard to our Danish production, during the past two years, we have exclusively purchased cardboard and paper that is FSC-certified. We will continue to do so, although not all our customers are demanding it. That is an active choice Westpack has made. We are still working on lowering the environmental impact of our plastic production. By introducing more products made from recycled plastic, this will be possible. Case: Eco-friendly inserts The foam used in Westpack’s jewelry boxes is made in Europe. Therefore, the suppliers are subject to EU’s strict rules and regulations for emissions, production processes, and working conditions. But this does not change the fact that the product has an environmental impact; foam inserts are, after all, made from plastic. That is why we were determined to find a sustainable alternative for our Boston ECO and Frankfurt ECO boxes. “We knew from the beginning that finding an eco-friendly alternative to the well-known foam The Boston ECO jewelry box 100% recyclable and biodegradable. inserts, with the same degree of versatility, was going to be challenging. But we surely did come through with an excellent product! Partly because of solid product development, but mainly because of the feedback and ideas from our customers”, says sales manager Henrik Hansen. The new eco-friendly inserts are, just like the jewelry boxes, made of FSC®-certified cardboard. Each insert has a velvety topcoat, that one might recognize from its foam counterpart. This topcoat is made from viscose, which is a natural by-product from wood production. The result looks very similar to a traditional foam-filled jewelry box. 22 Strategy Action Result Westpack wants to Westpack is actively The sales of our ECO participate in promoting developing more products products last year were the use of sustainable under our ECO brand. higher than ever before. In materials. the past 2 years we have Goal launched 10 new products Risk By launching more under the ECO brand. Reducing our products and actively Evaluation environmental impact, promoting our ECO by changing the way we brand, Westpack wants Westpack will continue to produce and consume to increase the sales of expand the ECO range by goods and resources, is products which are made introducing new products essential to achieving from environmentally and by converting products economic growth and sustainable raw materials. made from conventional sustainable development. This year, we commit raw materials into ecoThis can range from to introducing multiple friendly products. Although efficient management new ECO products in the we have already introduced of our shared natural categories: jewelry boxes, many new ECO products, resources and the way we bags, wrapping paper and we still have plans to dispose of toxic waste and ecommerce. introduce many more as pollutants, to recycling and we can see that there is reducing waste. SDG #12 a high demand from our customers. Westpack headquarter in Holstebro, Denmark 23 WESTPACK: Working Environment A t Westpack we believe that a great working environment embraces differences and encourages innovation. The well-being of our employees is, at one and the same time, a moral responsibility and an imperative necessity for running a successful business. We could not do what we do, nor would we want to, if our employees were not thriving. Many of our employees have worked at Westpack for more than 10 years, some for more than 20 years. We are proud of that fact. Profit sharing Westpack has an annual profit sharing, where all employees share a fixed percentage of the profit. Everyone, from the machine operator to the key account manager, from the trainee to the accountant, gets the same amount. It has been this way since 1989. The strategic reason for the yearly profit sharing is to inspire a sense of community at the workplace. It is also done to show that every employee makes a difference. At Westpack we do not believe that white-collar jobs are more valuable than blue-collar jobs or vice versa. A chain is only as strong as its weakest link, and therefore all links are equally important. Without our production teams, our sales department would have nothing to sell; without our sales department, our production teams would have no orders to process. The collective profit sharing has become an integral part of the Westpack DNA. Internal value chain optimization Hierarchy and a clear chain of command is necessary when a business reaches a certain size. But the side-effect of this must never be a unidirectional information flow. Successful businesses understand that knowhow exists on all hierarchal levels. In fact, some of the best business decisions stem from a seasoned specialist asking: “what if?” or “why?”. That is why Westpack operates with something called internal value chain optimization. Once a year, the entire company is shut down and the optimization process begins. Everyone, from the printing line to marketing, go through Westpack’s processes and value chains to optimize and improve them. And although there is only one official optimization process each year, the philosophy of improving our day-to-day operations is embedded in our way of working. 24 No suggestion is too big or too small. It could be anything from setting up a light sensor to save power, to adjusting the online store. Everyone gets a say. Everyone gets heard. When employees get this chance to impact the decision-making process, they are inclined to see the business in a broader perspective, and as a result gain a greater understanding of how the entire organization works. Employee orientation We want our employees to be aware of everything that is going on in the organization. For this reason, we have a monthly employee orientation meeting, where each department shares the latest news. We also present the latest sales figures and profits, so everyone can see whether the targets are met. We do this to strengthen the sense of community at the workplace. If things are going well, we congratulate each other with a job well-done. If they are not, we must all collaborate to get back on track. Either way, we are in it together. Exercise arrangement Every employee can take a ½ hour company-paid break to exercise on Tuesdays or Thursdays. Some go for a walk, while others run or take a bike ride. The obvious reason for this arrangement is to encourage our employees to lead a healthy lifestyle. Westpack also facilitates activities outside of the workplace, for example, meeting at the local bowling lanes. 25 Safety board A committee consisting of Westpack employees has been formed to create safe and comfortable workspaces. This has resulted in the installation of height adjustable tables, ventilation, shock absorbing mats, etc. AKON A/S has overseen the process and made sure that all initiatives meet the legal requirements. Education Westpack offers great opportunities for further education, both in the form of individual courses, but also in the form of graduate diploma programs or vocational education and training programs, such as the one to become a Plastics Processing Operator. Westpack is a part of the job training scheme Praktikplads-AUB, designed to ensure more work placements under the Danish Employers’ Reimbursement System. Every year, employers who are covered by the scheme receive a target for how many trainees they must hire. This year, we have exceeded the required target for trainee points by 187%. We have also increased the number of full-year trainees by 5,4% compared to the average of the last three years. Other activities Westpack’s activity and party planning committee makes sure that the “water cooler conversations” never run dry. From the annual exercise day to the biennial weekend retreat for employees, Westpack does a lot to create a great working environment. Strategy encourage innovation, allow environment, we are setting a free flow of information our company up for success. We recognize that our and create a safe working In other words, we believe employees are our most environment for all. that decent work should be important business asset. a precondition for economic Working towards Decent work Action growth. SDG #8 is therefore and economic growth (SDG Westpack is constantly one of Westpack’s primary #8) is therefore a necessity looking for new ways goals. as well as an obligation. to improve the working Result Risk environment. Profit sharing, internal value chain Our employees’ sick leave The individualistic tendencies optimization, exercise percentage is very low, and of the modern-day society arrangements, employee people stay at the company have made our jobs a larger orientation and social for many years. part of our identities. This activities are just some of means that every workplace Evaluation the actions we are taking to now has an even greater ensure that our employees We will continue to focus responsibility for creating a are thriving. on the well-being of our decent environment for its employees and introduce new employees. It is imperative Goal initiatives that promote our to embrace differences, By creating a great working journey towards SDG #8. 26 WESTPACK in Asia CSR efforts in Asia D oing business in Asia comes with extended responsibilities. Doing ethically sound business in Asia requires a level of diligence and prudence that is not necessary in Europe where most of our customers are based. True to the core values of Westpack, we go to great lengths to ensure a sustainable impact on the countries in which we operate. As stated in our Code of Conduct, workers’ rights and respect for the individual are central to our CSR program. However, we have also placed an increased focus on sustainability in past years as will be described in the following. CSR audit program Our audit program has come a long way since we started the program a handful years ago. Now it is time to raise the bar yet again, and therefore Westpack will become a full member of amfori from July 1, 2020 which gives access to the BSCI platform. Access to this platform will mean increased efficiency and synergies as access to the data can be shared across the different links of the supply chain and allow for tracking and monitoring of targeted improvements. The integrity of the program has been key when choosing BSCI. The platform is renowned for its transparency in the monitoring process. Another key advantage is the amfori Academy which provides training and e-learning to members and will allow Westpack’s staff in Asia to expand their expertise and remain up to date on CSR. The employees of our suppliers also gain access to the amfori Academy, which will further strengthen Westpack’s value chain. Although we are changing the auditing platform, we will continue our close cooperation with Bureau Veritas who will be conducting the BSCI audits for us. Bureau Veritas has been assisting us in auditing factories since 2014. Apart from the two internal auditors in Westpack Asia, we will also be adding a CSR-specialist later this year. The CSR-specialist will be responsible for full implementation of the BSCI system and for ensuring a best-in-class CSR program. As it was stated in the CEO Statement of this report, there is cause for increased attention in the wake of the COVID-19 crisis. It is our intention with the addition of a CSR-specialist and access to the BSCI platform, that Westpack will get an even stronger foundation for choosing the right suppliers. 27 EUTR/FLEGT This year has been yet another year with a lot of focus on the EU Timber Regulation and FLEGT (Forest Law Enforcement, Governance and Trade), not least with regard to our EUTR Due Diligence program. Westpack Asia has held an internal seminar again this year on the regulation and we continue to hold EUTR related meetings with our partner factories as well as conduct random inspection of EUTR compliance. The understanding of the regulation is key to ensuring compliance amongst our cooperating suppliers. When it comes to EUTR Due Diligence, the amfori membership will be adding an additional and valuable tool to our CSR program. The BEPI Timber Due Diligence program helps ensure full compliance while offering a comprehensive overview of the supply chain, and the BEPI Online Platform grants stakeholders an on-demand visual illustration from forest to customer. FSC sub-suppliers For us to accomplish our goal of continuously expanding our array of products made of sustainably sourced materials, it is essential that our portfolio of suppliers offering sustainably sourced materials is also expanded. It has been with great eagerness that we have been promoting FSC membership amongst our partner factories in Asia. Although it was difficult at first, our determination is now paying off. This is clearly reflected in the number of FSC labelling agreements we now have with partner factories. We have gone from 1 in 2018 to 6 in 2019 and we are proud to note that the number has gone up to 11 this year. Staff welfare Apart from all legal requirements regarding unemployment, health and housing insurance, we also highly prioritize a good working environment for our staff in Asia. 28 We always keep an open environment with high flexibility for a reasonable work-life balance. As an example, our staff in China has 50% more annual leave than the legal requirement. We also prioritize the physical working environment highly which we have been investing heavily in the past couple of years. This year we continue phasing out the standard stationary desks with ergonomic height-adjustable tables. Strategy invested significant Result resources in procuring the Westpack aims to We have conducted services of Bureau Veritas, increase environmentally approximately 30 audits as we are conducting sustainable production and in the past 5 years and an increasing number of ensure that our suppliers as a result of these audits. conduct their business audits our suppliers in a safe, legal and Goal have implemented a environmentally friendly lot of improvements By investing in our manner. for their workers and suppliers, we shall the environment. The Risk improve the conditions number of FSC labeling of workers and ensure Environmental hazards agreements with partner that the environment is and workers’ rights factories has increased protected. Next year we and safety is a global with 83% from the previous will conduct 4 BSCI audits issue that needs to be fiscal year. with Bureau Veritas as well carefully monitored. In as any additional customer Evaluation this regard, it is essential commissioned audits. for Westpack that we can Westpack will continue We will recruit a strong trust the suppliers that to cooperate closely candidate for the new we work with in Asia and with our suppliers to position as CSR-specialist. ensure that they adhere further improve workers The main goal will be a to the same principles conditions and the successful start-up and as Westpack and our environmental impact of full implementation of the customers (SDG #8). industries in Asia. amfori platforms, BSCI and Action BEPI. Westpack has engaged in In terms of sustainable a close partnership with production, we aim to our suppliers to share increase our purchase of knowledge and experience. FSC certified products by Furthermore, we have 10% in the coming year. 29 Partnership: One Tree Planted F rom the beginning of our engagement with the Indonesian market, we have been committed to leaving a positive mark on the county’s environment. This means that apart from ensuring full compliance with the European Union’s Timber Regulation, we also partner up with One Tree Planted to plant trees in Borneo. This is the fourth consecutive year we are planting trees in Indonesia. Indonesia’s forests are a treasure chest of wildlife and home to countless species found nowhere else. Sadly, their habitat is shrinking at an alarming rate due to deforestation. Making matters worse, the deforestation also causes devastating CO2 emissions. According to Global Forest Watch, Indonesia has the world’s largest CO2 land-based emissions, mainly due to the conversion of carbon-rich forest to plantations. Therefore, reforestation is truly a cause that Westpack has close to its heart. Until now we have planted one tree for every foot of products we ship out of Indonesia, that is for every 20’ container shipped out, we have planted 20 trees. However, this year, we will be planting two trees per container foot of goods exported. Additionally, we will be launching a fundraiser for One Tree Planted on our web-shop in the week of the next coming International Forrest Day. We have partnered up with One Tree Planted to plant trees in Borneo. This year we will be planting two trees per each container foot of goods exported from Indonesia. 30 We are proud to work with business partners who are focused on sustainability. Westpack’s contributions to our reforestation project in Indonesia have helped make a positive impact for nature, biodiversity, and local communities. Such beneficial involvement is exactly the kind of support we need more of to create a more sustainable global marketplace. Diana Chaplin, Marketing Director at One Tree Planted Strategy desertification, halt and various endangered animal reverse land degradation species. By supporting the NGO and halt biodiversity loss. One Tree Planted, we Result SDG#15 want to promote the idea We have intensified our of creating a balance Action cooperation with One Tree in nature so that, for Westpack has committed Planted. In this fiscal year, example, if we remove to planting a minimum of we have now committed trees to make paper, then two trees per containerto planting two trees per we should ensure that new foot shipped from container feet of goods trees are planted. Indonesia. exported. Risk Goal Evaluation To combat the risks By joining the initiative Westpack will continue to the environment, of One Tree Planted, to support the One Tree we aim to protect, Westpack aims to support Planted organization restore and promote the development of forests in 2020/21 and we will the use of terrestrial in Borneo and to restore increase the number of ecosystems, sustainably the natural habitats of trees planted. manage forests, combat United Against Corruption A t Westpack, we take anti-corruption measures very seriously. We have a clearly defined policy statement which is made known to all our business partners in Asia. All of Westpack’s regular suppliers have signed the “Westpack Code of Conduct” in which it is clearly stated that Westpack has a zero tolerance on all offenses related to bribery and corruption. Our anti-corruption policies also include an open approach to communication channels. Westpack management, both in Denmark and Asia, can always be contacted, also anonymously if preferred, by all staff and business partners. 31 FSC® is the mark of responsible forestry. www.fsc.org. Our FSC licence number is FSC ®C112509.
