HELPING CITIES GROW SUSTAINABLY Sustainability Report 2019 HIGHLIGHTS MANAGING SUSTAINABILIT Y FOCUS ARE AS INNOVATION & RESOURCE EFFICIENCY SUSTAINABLE OFFERING BEST EMPLOYER PARTNERSHIPS & SOCIET Y REPORTING SCOPE AND INDICES CONTENTS KONE IN BRIEF HIGHLIGHTS 2019 SUSTAINABILITY FOCUS AREAS At KONE, our mission is to improve the flow of urban life. SUSTAINABILITY AT KONE 2019 sustainability highlights........................................ 4 Sustainability focus areas and material topics.............. 12 KONE’s equipment moves over 1 billion users each day. As At KONE, sustainability is embedded in our organizational a global leader in the elevator and escalator industry, KONE culture. It is how we treat each other and our stakeholders, Letter from our Chairman and Driving innovation and improving provides elevators, escalators and automatic building doors, how we take the environment into account in all of our our President and CEO.................................................. 6 resource efficiency....................................................... 14 as well as solutions for modernization and maintenance to actions, and how we foster economic performance now Strategy and megatrends.............................................. 7 Providing the most sustainable offering....................... 24 add value to buildings throughout their life cycle. Through and in the future. Our vision is to deliver the best People more effective People Flow®, we make people’s journeys Flow® experience. Sustainability is a source of innovation Value creation................................................................ 8 Being the best employer and attracting talent............ 32 safe, convenient and reliable in taller, smarter buildings. and a competitive advantage for us. KONE is committed to Enabling our partners and societies to prosper............ 38 We serve approximately 500,000 customers across the conducting its business in a responsible and sustainable way globe, and have over 1.3 million elevators and escalators and we expect the same commitment from our suppliers. SUSTAINABILITY AS PART OF OUR BUSINESS in our service base. Key customer groups include builders, Managing sustainability............................................... 10 REPORTING SCOPE AND INDICES building owners, facility managers and developers. The Stakeholder engagement............................................. 11 Reporting scope........................................................... 44 majority of these are maintenance customers. Architects, authorities and consultants are also key influencers in the Independent assurance statement............................... 45 decision-making process regarding elevators and escalators. GRI and SDG indices.................................................... 46 In 2019, KONE had annual sales of EUR 10 billion, and at the end of the year approximately 60,000 employees. Read more about our approach to sustainability on KONE class B shares are listed on the Nasdaq Helsinki Ltd. KONE.com/sustainability in Finland. HIGHLIGHTS MANAGING SUSTAINABILIT Y FOCUS ARE AS INNOVATION & RESOURCE EFFICIENCY SUSTAINABLE OFFERING BEST EMPLOYER PARTNERSHIPS & SOCIET Y REPORTING SCOPE AND INDICES 2019 SUSTAINABILITY HIGHLIGHTS KONE employs 59,825 people Men Americas Europe, Middle East and Africa Asia-Pacific Women 7,632 23,306 28,887 Recognized on Forbes' 2019 Achieved a place on CDP's Ranked as the 32nd most Global 2000: World's Best prestigious A List for Climate sustainable company in the Employers list Change as the only elevator world by Corporate Knights and escalator company 18% of director level 145 nationalities ISO 97% of our strategic suppliers positions held by women 68,258 survey interviews with our were ISO 9001 certified, customers and other stakeholders 91% ISO 14001 certified 1.7 Industrial Injury Frequency Rate The number of employees has grown A steadily over the past 10 years 90% 60,000 90% completion rate for the Code of Conduct e-learning, rolled 50,000 KONE’s current volume 15 elevator models with A class Launch of KONE DX Class out in 64 countries by the end of 2019 40,000 elevator is up to 90% ISO 25745 highest energy efficiency elevators, the world’s first more energy efficient ratings and 4 escalators and elevator series with built-in 30,000 ISO than in the 90s autowalks with the best A+++ rating connectivity as standard All major KONE supply units continue to hold ISO 9001 20,000 KONE operates worldwide and ISO 14001 certificates 10,000 Sales by region: Total sales MEUR 9,982 0 2010 2015 2019 Americas Europe, Middle East and Africa Asia-Pacific 21% 41% 39% 37% of all electricity How KONE added economic value in 2019 consumption at KONE facilities comes from renewable sources Value distributed Wages and salaries MEUR 2,301 (2,113) Sales to Purchases from Added Employment-3.1% = customers suppliers value related costs and taxes MEUR 1,026 (947) MEUR MEUR MEUR Creditors MEUR -25 (-47) R&D center 9,982 5,741 4,241 Shareholders MEUR 880 (851) Production site operational carbon (9,071) (5,210) (3,861) Economic value retained in MEUR 58 (-4) the company Head office footprint KONE is present 2018 figures in brackets. 4 2019 sustainability highlights KONE SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 KONE SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 2019 sustainability highlights 5 HIGHLIGHTS MANAGING SUSTAINABILIT Y FOCUS ARE AS INNOVATION & RESOURCE EFFICIENCY SUSTAINABLE OFFERING BEST EMPLOYER PARTNERSHIPS & SOCIET Y REPORTING SCOPE AND INDICES SOLUTIONS FOR AN URBANIZING AND WINNING WITH CUSTOMERS – CHANGING WORLD OUR STRATEGY AND MEGATRENDS In 2020, KONE will celebrate its 110th and reduce energy usage in all types of A great example of our achievements At KONE, our vision is to deliver the best meet their individual needs. To do this, we Customer-centric solutions and services anniversary. Continuous renewal and a buildings. At the same time, new benefits, in the field of innovations is the launch of People Flow® experience by providing are investing more than ever in new techCustomers choose partners who best underfocus on sustainable business and business such as materials for healthy indoor air qualthe world’s first digitally connected elevator ease, effectiveness and experiences to nologies, connectivity and new solutions. stand their changing needs and help them practices have been critical foundations to ity are being brought to the market. series which enable mass-customizable serequipment users and customers over the With new ways of working, partnering succeed. We understand these needs and our long-term success. Many industries face rising demands vices. The KONE DX Class elevators provide full life cycle of the buildings. Our mission and co-creation, we help our customers offer flexible solutions and services which At the time of writing, the coronavirus for solutions that are long-lasting, adaptopportunities to create an easily adaptable is to improve the flow of urban life. Our improve their businesses. benefit customers and users in the best way. pandemic continues to spread throughout able and which can contribute to a circular building experience. The new portfolio will job is to make the best of the world’s cities, the world, affecting every aspect of our economy. In our industry, these topics are meet the changing needs and expectations buildings and public spaces. It is by underBringing our strategy to life with Fast and smart execution daily lives. How businesses function and certainly at the forefront of our customers’ of our customers and the users of buildstanding urbanization and focusing on susfour Ways to Win Customers want their partners in conhow people live and work have changed agendas. For KONE, it continues to be an ings, complete with a range of sustainable tainable development that we can create Our Ways to Win have a number of pracstruction projects and building services in ways that we have not seen before, at area where we will spearhead development materials to meet green building criteria. In better buildings, better low-carbon cities tical development programs within them. to be professional, fast and reliable. They a speed that is unparalleled. Our thoughts in our industry. addition, we continue to build momentum and a better world for people to live in. KONE Way is our operating model and choose partners that continuously improve are with anyone personally affected by the In 2019, our work continued to be recwith our KONE 24/7 Connected Services defines how we implement the Ways to and focus on what is essential. We increase coronavirus outbreak. ognized by many external organizations around the world. EVERYTHING STARTS WITH Win and run our business with the right speed and work smarter to focus on what By focusing on our strong foundations; and indices. We continue to support the UN Global THE CUSTOMER roles, processes, IT tools and data. It enais valuable to the customer. our people, sustainability and the health of We received two outstanding recogCompact agenda and its ten principles, on KONE’s strategic phase for 2017–2020 bles us to deliver better service to our cusour finances, we will be able to weather nitions in climate and sustainability perenvironment, labor, anti-corruption and is called Winning with Customers. Our tomers through speed and consistency. True service mindset this storm and recover, as we have done formance. We were the only elevator and human rights. During 2019, we conducted Accelerate Winning with Customers proOur four Ways to Win are: Customers value partners who strive to during other periods of crisis throughout escalator company on CDP's prestigious a human rights risk assessment and have gram speeds up the execution of our stratunderstand and take action to exceed our long history. A List for Climate Change, for our actions taken actions to prioritize our work in the egy and supports profitable growth. The Collaborative innovation and new expectations. We can make a difference As a result of how KONE has been develin reducing greenhouse gas emissions, area of human rights in the supply chain. objective of the program is to create a fastcompetencies by serving our customers better than anyoped, we believe that we have a strong mitigating climate risks and contributing A pilot project for more detailed human er-moving, customer-centric organization In order to bring new solutions and serbody else. position to continue lead our industry in sustowards a low-carbon economy. In addirights supplier assessments is being prethat leverages scale efficiently in a rapvices to our customers more quickly, we tainability. We recognize the urgent need tion, we are proud to be recognized as one pared for 2020. idly changing environment. The program collaborate much more with them as well Measuring success to dramatically improve the climate impact of the most sustainable companies in the In 2019, we achieved our annual overincludes both organizational adjustments, as with our partners. Our people drive our We measure success with our strategic tarof our operations, products and services; as world by Corporate Knights again – rankall operational carbon footprint reduction as well as the development and further harsuccess in this change, which requires us to gets: the most loyal customers, great place well as the need to address the social and ing 32nd in their 2020 Global 100 Most target of 3%, reaching 3.1%. Neverthemonization of roles, processes and tools. develop new competencies and innovate in to work, faster than the market growth, governance impacts of our business. The Sustainable Corporations in the World. less, there are some challenges which we Every one of our customers is differnew ways. best financial development in our industry, unprecedented speed of change as well as a KONE was listed for the third time on the continue to address; for example, we have ent. We want to deliver better value and and leader in sustainability. significant shift towards climate-friendly busiForbes’ Global 2000 list of the World’s Best not been as successful as we would have ness is a substantial opportunity for KONE. Employers. liked in reducing the carbon footprint of In fact, our industry is both growing We are of course very honored by our vehicle fleet. We will continue to strive MEGATRENDS VISION and transforming. This is because of rapid these acknowledgements, which have for improvements. URBANIZATION KONE DELIVERS THE BEST urbanization and the changing needs and been achieved thanks to our dedicated Much remains uncertain with the TECHNOLOGICAL PEOPLE FLOW® EXPERIENCE DISRUPTION expectations of our customers and the employees around the world. It is clear impacts of the coronavirus pandemic. STRATEGIC TARGETS people who use our equipment and serthat diverse, motivated and knowledgeaWhat is clear is that our top priorities are Most loyal Great place Faster than Best ﬁnancial Leader in customers to work market growth development sustainability vices. At KONE, we have a role in making ble teams make the best partners for our always the health, safety and well-being of urbanization more sustainable, which in customers. We continued to invest in trainour people, and serving our customers in WINNING WITH CUSTOMERS OUR MISSION turn, makes cities better places to live. ing on all organizational levels around the the best ways. The measures being taken IS TO IMPROVE Collaborative innovation Customer-centric Changing demographics in many world. by a whole range of industries around the THE FLOW OF and new competencies solutions and services countries increases the need for improved Everything we do starts with safety. globe will permanently change the ways URBAN LIFE accessibility and proximity to services. Over a billion people use our equipment in which we live and work in future. We These changes are strong drivers for more each day and we have thousands of can already see how digital technologies convenient and seamless People Flow and employees and contractors serving customhave become even more prominent and WAYS TO WIN KONE WAY digital solutions which help meet the indiers and servicing equipment. By the end of it is areas such as these where KONE will True service Fast and smart mindset execution vidual needs of our customers. 2019, 52,000 employees had completed continue to find new opportunities. Requirements for new, more sustainable safety training. Our IIFR (Industrial Injury We would like to thank you for your conmaterials, green building certifications and Frequency Rate) improved to 1.7 from 2.1 tinued interest in our sustainability perforstricter emissions regulations are increasing. the previous year, a record low. We conmance. KONE’s progress is encouraging and These changes require significant flexibility tinue to target zero incidents. The number gives us optimism about future possibilities. CULTURE SAFETY QUALITY in how we serve our customers and, in the of safety observations, which help KONE VALUES Delighting the Energy for Passion for Winning services and solutions that we provide. Digtake actions proactively to improve safety, Antti Herlin Henrik Ehrnrooth customer renewal performance together italization can help create new efficiencies increased by 21.3%. Chairman President & CEO 6 Letter from our Chairman and our President and CEO KONE SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 KONE SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 STR ATEGY AND MEGATRENDS 7 HIGHLIGHTS MANAGING SUSTAINABILIT Y FOCUS ARE AS INNOVATION & RESOURCE EFFICIENCY SUSTAINABLE OFFERING BEST EMPLOYER PARTNERSHIPS & SOCIET Y REPORTING SCOPE AND INDICES CREATING VALUE FOR THE SOCIETY KONE provides value for the customers The key growth drivers of the new installed base and higher requirements for and modernization are more cyclical in In addition to these, KONE sees that the direct impact on society, a great deal of through the whole life cycle of the buildequipment business are urbanization and efficient people flow, safety and sustainanature and follow the construction cycles. life cycle business model and the existing our value is created through our large neting. In the new equipment business, we changing demographics. New equipment bility. Having a strong maintenance base KONE has identified strategic inputs maintenance base of over 1.3 million units work of suppliers and customers, as well offer innovative and sustainable elevadeliveries are the main growth driver of the is crucial for the growth in modernization. crucial in creating value for customers, have a crucial role in value creation. as through use of elevators, escalators, tors, escalators, automatic building doors maintenance business as the majority of KONE’s business model is capital light shareholders and the society. These are: We aim to be a leader in sustainabilautomatic building doors and integrated and integrated access control solutions to units delivered will end up in KONE’s mainas the working capital is negative in all • Competent and committed people ity. Increasing energy and resource effiaccess control solutions manufactured and deliver the best people flow experience. tenance base. However, KONE also mainbusinesses and we work extensively with and strong leadership ciency is among our top priorities and has maintained by us. Our ultimate goal is to In maintenance, we improve the safety tains equipment manufactured by others. component suppliers to complement our • Innovative, sustainable offering and an important role in making the most susimprove the flow of urban life. and availability of the equipment in operIn maintenance, KONE is also boosting own manufacturing capacity. global processes and systems tainable offering a reality. KONE is comation, and in modernization we offer solugrowth by introducing services that utiThe maintenance business is very stable • Best partners mitted to a proactive safety culture and tions for aging equipment ranging from lize new technologies to create value for due to high requirements for safety and reli• Efficient manufacturing and delivery actively promotes safe practices among our the replacement of components to full customers in new ways. The main growth ability. The customer relationships are also chain as well as own employees, our partners and the genreplacements. drivers for modernization are the aging typically long and stable. New equipment • Strong brand and solid reputation. eral public. Although we have a significant Creating value by improving the flow of urban life INPUTS BUSINESS MODEL OUTPUTS IMPACT PEOPLE AND LEADERSHIP PARTNERING WINNING WITH CUSTOMERS THE MOST SUSTAINABLE SHAREHOLDERS • ~60,000 employees in >60 countries, • Co-creation with customers OFFERING • Dividend EUR 1.70 per class B share ca. half of them in the field • ~173,000 new elevators and escalators • Partnering to develop new • Basic earnings per share EUR 1.80 • Personnel voluntary turnover technologies ordered in 2019 • Return on equity 30.1% rate 7.6% NEW EQUIPMENT 53 • Maintenance and modernization • Collaboration with >300 universities Share of sales % services, >1.3 million units in • Wide training opportunities on all and educational institutions organizational levels around the maintenance base • Distributors and agents important world • Best in class energy efficiency, SOCIETY part of go-to-market • 41 training centers ISO 25745 A-class energy rating as • Contribution to sustainable urban environment the first elevator company • 4,200 courses in >30 different Creating value for • Wages, salaries, other employment expenses and pensions languages MANUFACTURING AND • Up to 70% energy savings through EUR 3.0 billion DELIVERY CHAIN customers through MAINTENA M O D E R NI modernization of elevators • Management systems and • Industrial Injury Frequency Rate (IIFR) 1.7 certificates (e.g. ISO 14001, ISO 9001, • 13 manufacturing units the whole life cycle of • Focus on safety and accessibility • Promoting diversity and non-discrimination OHSAS 18001) in 9 countries • ~2,000 component suppliers the building • Increased amount of skilled workforce • Governance structures and Code of Conduct • Thousands of installation suppliers Z AT NC EMISSIONS AND WASTE • Direct purchases EUR 4.0 billion N IO E • Income taxes EUR 278.9 million with effective tax rate 22.9% • Logistics network 15 % % 32 • Carbon footprint from own operations 327,100 tCO2e INNOVATIONS, PROCESSES FINANCIAL • Waste 42,900 tonnes AND SYSTEMS • Waste water effluents 8 tonnes ENVIRONMENT • Equity EUR 3.2 billion • >3,000 patents • 3.1% y/y reduction in operational • Interest-bearing net debt carbon footprint relative to sales • R&D spend 1.7% of sales, 9 global EUR -1.6 billion R&D units • 5.4% y/y reduction of Scope 1&2 carbon footprint • Net working capital EUR -0.9 billion relative to sales • >1,200 technology professionals in R&D • Capital expenditure • 37% of green electricity 2.0% of sales • Global KONE Way processes and • 93.9% of waste recycled or incinerated systems MOVING OVER • 100% corporate units, major manufacturing units and • Safe and efficient maintenance NATURAL RESOURCES 1 BILLION PEOPLE R&D units are ISO 14001 and ISO 9001 certified and installation methods • Materials used 1,514,500 tonnes EVERY DAY • 91% of strategic suppliers with ISO 14001 certification • Heating and vehicle fleet fuels at the end of 2019 428,700 MWh BRAND AND REPUTATION • Electricity and district heat • One of the leading brands in the 85,300 MWh elevator and escalator industry • Water consumption 325,600 m3 8 Value creation KONE SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 KONE SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 Value creation 9 HIGHLIGHTS MANAGING SUSTAINABILIT Y FOCUS ARE AS INNOVATION & RESOURCE EFFICIENCY SUSTAINABLE OFFERING BEST EMPLOYER PARTNERSHIPS & SOCIET Y REPORTING SCOPE AND INDICES MANAGING SUSTAINABILITY LISTENING TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS KONE is committed to conducting its busiOur everyday work is guided by KONE’s The assessment and analysis of KONE’s We work closely with our stakeholders KONE is an active participant in Keeping an open and continuous dianess in a responsible and sustainable way, Code of Conduct and various other commost significant risks also covers mateon the various topics of sustainability and organizations developing codes, standlogue enables us to collaborate efficiently and we expect the same commitment pany policies and guidelines, outlined rial non-financial risks. In line with the maintain an active dialogue with them. ards and guidelines for improving safety, and ensures a predictable business envifrom all our suppliers. Our ambition is to in the table below. Sustainability and its requirements of the Finnish Accounting KONE’s main stakeholders are our cusaccessibility, energy efficiency, cybersecuronment for all parties. be a leader in sustainability, and in order management are ultimately the responAct, KONE has identified the most signifitomers, employees, shareholders, suprity, as well as other organizations advancFor a list of the organizations we parto reach this we have identified four focus sibilities of KONE’s Executive Board and cant non-financial risks. pliers, distributors, media, educational ing sustainable development. ticipate in, see page 13. areas: Driving innovation and improving our President and CEO. Our management institutions, and local communities. resource efficiency, Providing the most susand supervisors work to ensure that our tainable offering, Being the best employer employees are familiar with and comply Stakeholder group Channels of dialogue Assessments and key topics raised and attracting talent, and Enabling our partwith the legislation, regulations, and interKONE has approximately Customer meetings and events, constant dialogue Our net promoter score stayed at a good level. ners and societies to prosper. nal operating guidelines of their respective 500,000 customers through solution support, seminars and conferences, Customer surveys show continued positive Read more about KONE’s non-financial In order to reach these goals, we have areas of responsibility, and that our prodworldwide. Our main company reports, marketing materials, website and feedback on our personnel, customer service and risks and their mitigation in our Annual integrated their management into our ucts and services are in full compliance with customers are construction social media channels. Our annual customer loyalty the quality of our products and services. Review, pages 18–20. operations throughout the organization. all codes and standards applicable to them. companies, building survey consists over 20,000 phone interviews and each owners, facility managers year more than 40,000 customers take part in our and developers. transactional surveys after different interactions with us. Focus area Material topics Management systems Management bodies KONE pays wages and Performance discussions, continuous face-to-face Pulse employee survey, annual performance salaries to almost 60,000 dialogue between employees and managers, training discussions, idea management system, innovation Driving • Deep understanding of ISO 9001 Quality management system, ISO Board of Directors, employees in over events, global learning solutions, innovation creation tool. In 2019, instead of conducting a Pulse innovation customer needs 14001 Environmental management system, Executive Board, President 60 countries. through innovation tool, European annual Employee survey, we organized Pulse Talk follow-ups in all and • Sustainable innovations and KONE’s Supplier Excellence Certification, ISO and CEO, Quality Forum, internal social media channels, Compliance teams to ensure completion of actions from 2018. improving business models 50001 Energy management system, KONE quality and Environmental Line, company intranet and internal employee The next Pulse survey will be carried out in 2020. resource • Resource efficiency and environmental policy, KONE's Corporate Board, Supplier Quality publications. efficiency • Low-carbon operations Quality and Environmental Manual, Information Management team, Security Policy, Personal Data Protection Policy, Solution Board, KONE KONE pays dividends to An active and open dialogue: Financial disclosure is We receive direct feedback from financial market KONE Global Facilities Policy, KONE Global Vehicle Security Council over 62,000 shareholders, provided through stock exchange releases, as well as representatives in discussions and meetings, Fleet Policy, KONE Way operating model ranging from institutional financial and other company reports. In addition, more and we collect feedback from the financial investors and companies personal channels of dialogue include management community also through surveys. Some of the Providing • Customer satisfaction ISO 9001 Quality management system, KONE's Board of Directors, to individuals, public meetings with investors and analysts, annual general most discussed topics with KONE’s stakeholders the most • Product and service quality Supplier Quality Standard, KONE quality and Executive Board, President institutions, and nonmeetings, and capital markets days. Our dedicated included current and future business sustainable • End user safety and accessibility environmental policy, ISO 14001 Environmental and CEO, Quality and profit organizations. investor relations team coordinates all of KONE’s investor performance, and the potential consolidation of offering • Energy efficiency of solutions management system, ISO 25745 Energy Environmental Board, relations activities. This ensures a fair and equal access to the elevator and escalator industry. and life cycle thinking performance of lifts, escalators and moving Solution Board company information and to its spokespersons. walks, LEED, BREEAM or other green building certification systems, KONE safety management KONE conducts business Continuous one-to-one dialogue, annual supplier Annual supplier survey, supplier quality audit and system with approximately day for selected strategic suppliers, trade fairs, performance assessment with the Supplier Excel35,000 suppliers, out of steering group meetings, supplier workshops. lence Certification Program. No material concerns Being • Competence development KONE continuous learning approach, KONE policy Executive Board, President which approximately raised. Discussions about day-to-day operational the best • Fair employment practices for supporting long-term external studies, KONE and CEO, Global 2,000 are key suppliers. issues, for example on how to further improve the employer • Motivated and engaged Recruitment policy, KONE Total Reward policy, Compliance Committee, logistic processes and quality. and employees KONE Employee Performance policy, KONE Base Human Resources function attracting • Diversity and inclusion Pay policy, KONE Roles, Grades and Evaluation KONE has operations in over Continuous dialogue through daily contacts, regular Monitoring of sales-related activities and direct talent • Employee safety and well-being policy, KONE Code of Conduct, OHSAS 18001/ 60 countries and collaborates country visits, distributors’ meetings and various feedback from distributors. No material concerns ISO 45001, KONE safety management system with authorized distributors support tools. raised. and agents in almost 100 Enabling our • Generating long-term returns Finnish Corporate Governance Code, KONE's Board of Directors, countries around the world. partners and • Creating wealth via taxes and tax strategy and principles, Internal control, Executive Board, President societies to employment Internal auditing, KONE Code of Conduct, and CEO, Annual General KONE communicates Press releases, interviews, background briefings, visits, Surveys and media analysis. Rumors and prosper • Ethical business practices KONE’s Competition Compliance Policy, KONE Meeting, Internal proactively and openly press events, publications, company website and speculations in media about the potential • Long-term relationships with our Supplier Code of Conduct, KONE's Supplier Audit function, Global with representatives of social media channels. consolidation in elevator and escalator industry. suppliers Quality Standard, KONE’s Supplier Excellence Compliance Committee the media. • Supporting local communities Certification, ISO 14001 Environmental management system, ISO 9001 Quality KONE collaborates with KONE international trainee program, CEMS global Most attractive workplace surveys, online management system, KONE Distributor Code educational institutions alliance of academic and corporate institutions, tracking. Special attention paid to school of Conduct, KONE supply chain management locally and globally. thesis opportunities, local internships, participation collaboration and social media visibility in order approach, KONE safety management system in recruitment fairs, common projects, guest to enhance KONE's brand as an employer and to lectures, participation in research programs and attract talent. social media platforms. KONE pays direct taxes, Company website, stakeholder relations, reports, Sustainability surveys, reputation studies. No social security, and social media channels. special issues raised during the reporting period. employer expenses in more than 60 countries. 10 Managing sustainability KONE SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 KONE SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 LISTENING TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 11 HIGHLIGHTS MANAGING SUSTAINABILIT Y FOCUS ARE AS INNOVATION & RESOURCE EFFICIENCY SUSTAINABLE OFFERING BEST EMPLOYER PARTNERSHIPS & SOCIET Y REPORTING SCOPE AND INDICES SUSTAINABILITY FOCUS AREAS AND MATERIAL TOPICS KONE’s sustainability reporting follows Global governance and compliance, anti-corruption. The principles are embedMemberships and positions of trust the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) risk management, stakeholder engageded in our strategy, policies and proceguidelines. During 2016, we conducted a ment and proactive communications form dures, such as KONE’s Code of Conduct, KONE is an active participant in • United Nations Global Compact • Cleantech Finland materiality assessment to update our susthe basis of our sustainability framework. our Competition Compliance Policy, and organizations developing codes, • World Business Council for Sustainable • FIBS Finnish corporate responsibility network tainability focus areas and topics. Those These topics cut across all four focus areas, our Environmental Excellence Program, as standards and guidelines for Development (WBCSD) and FIBS’ Diversity Charter Finland improving safety, accessibility, have been aligned with KONE’s strategy, reflecting our continuous efforts towards well as processes related to these. • Climate Leadership Coalition • The International Organization for cybersecurity, energy efficiency, Winning with Customers. effective global enforcement and transpar• European Round Table for Industry's (ERT) Standardization (ISO) circular economy, as well as The identified topics are ranked with ency in our communications. UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS other organizations advancing Energy and Climate Change Working Group • The European Committee for Standardization regards to their impact on our value We are currently in the process of KONE supports the Sustainable Develsustainable development. In • Council on Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat (CEN) chain, business implications and stakeconducting a new materiality assessment opment agenda and its goals. We have 2019, KONE continued to be (CTBUH) • Standardization Administration of China (SAC) holder interest. This report is structured to among our key stakeholder groups exterselected the goals where KONE has the a member in the following • Green building councils in the United States, • Standardization committees at the American correspond with the focus areas, and the nally and internally. The results of the analbiggest impact through its own operations organizations: Finland, India, Italy, Romania, Singapore, the Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) results of the materiality analysis and priorysis will be reflected in our sustainability and mapped them to our own sustainabilNetherlands, Sweden, and Vietnam • International Trade Associations, such as the itization are presented in the chart below. work, and reporting 2020/21 onward. ity focus areas. • Smart & Clean Foundation: Smart & Clean European Lift Association (ELA), the Pacific Today, cybersecurity plays a critical role Helsinki Metropolitan Asia Lift and Escalator Association (PALEA), in our technologies, products, services, UN GLOBAL COMPACT and the National Elevator Industry, Inc. (NEII) in North America supply chain management and digital enviKONE is a committed participant of the Read more about how we identified the ronments. Therefore, we have added inforUN Global Compact and its ten principles material topics on KONE.com/sustainability mation on cybersecurity and data privacy. on human rights, labor, environment and STRATEGIC TARGET: TO BE A LEADER IN SUSTAINABILITY Driving innovation and improving resource efficiency Providing the most sustainable offering Being the best employer and attracting talent Enabling our partners and societies to prosper Today, more than half of the world’s population lives in urban Elevators, escalators and automatic building doors are everywhere In order to ensure having the best talent to serve our customers, KONE directly contributes to economic development in areas and by 2050, that number is expected to increase to 68%. in urban environments, and the safety of the millions of people one of our strategic targets is to make KONE a great place to work. the countries where we operate. In addition, we work with Urbanization means expanding cities and ever-higher buildings with who use them is our top priority. In addition, the quality and Our personnel strategy aims to ensure the availability, engagement, approximately 35,000 suppliers who provide us with, for example, a growing number of tenants. Today, the built environment accounts eco-efficiency of our solutions are essential. Quality is embedded motivation and continuous development of our employees. We raw materials, components and modules, as well as logistics, for 40% of the world’s energy-related greenhouse gas emissions. in everything we do, as we strive to deliver the best customer and strive to maintain a safe and healthy working environment and foster installation and other services. As a responsible corporate citizen and Material consumption is predicted to double by 2050. Innovations in equipment user experience. Eco-efficient solutions are a must in a collaborative and inclusive culture, where people are motivated business partner, we are committed to making a net positive impact urban development can play an important role in advancing climate combatting climate change and ensuring climate resilience. to develop their competencies and deliver the best results. We see for sustainable and smart urban developments. action, social inclusion, and economic prosperity. diversity as a strength and prohibit discrimination of any kind. • Customer satisfaction • Generating long-term returns • Deep understanding of customer needs • Product and service quality • Competence development • Creating wealth via taxes and employment • Sustainable innovations and business models • End user safety and accessibility • Fair employment practices • Ethical business practices • Resource efficiency • Energy efficiency of solutions and life cycle thinking • Motivated and engaged employees • Long-term relationships with our suppliers • Low-carbon operations • Diversity and inclusion • Supporting local communities • Employee safety and well-being Corporate governance & compliance Risk management Stakeholder engagement Proactive communications Sustainable social, environmental and economic performance 12 Material topics KONE SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 KONE SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 Material topics 13 HIGHLIGHTS MANAGING SUSTAINABILIT Y FOCUS ARE AS INNOVATION & RESOURCE EFFICIENCY SUSTAINABLE OFFERING BEST EMPLOYER PARTNERSHIPS & SOCIET Y REPORTING SCOPE AND INDICES DRIVING INNOVATION INNOVATION For us at KONE, innovation means putting a continuous search for new ideas and opportunities. Our starting point encoman important way for us to foster innovation and encourage finding new ways of AND IMPROVING the customer and end user at the center passes a wide variety of sources, the most serving our customers. KONE also particiand involving them in the creative work. important ones being our customers, pates in publicly funded research projects Innovation methods that allow co-creation equipment users, and the data we gather in order to learn more about new emergRESOURCE EFFICIENCY with our customers and partners are at the core of KONE’s research, concepting, as from the equipment we service. We also analyze market and customer trends in ing technologies relating to phenomena in urban environments and people’s behavior. well as new products and services creation. different parts of the world. Over half of This applies to mechanical concepts, new KONE’s almost 60,000 employees are in Creating more customer value with the Today, more than half of the world’s population user experiences, as well as digital soluthe field serving customers in more than world's first digital elevator series tions. We use new integrated technologies 60 countries. These daily interactions are In 2019, KONE introduced the world's first lives in urban areas and by 2050, that number is and connectivity to set new standards for important sources of inspiration for the digital elevator series. With built-in connecexpected to increase to 68%. Urbanization means customer service. creation of new solutions as well as for tivity as standard, KONE DX Class elevators expanding cities and ever-higher buildings with Innovations can have a significant role the continuous development of our operbring a new user experience to life through in addressing climate crisis. Increasing ations. We systematically collect customer a combination of design, technology, new a growing number of tenants. Today, the built resource efficiency is among our top prifeedback during the various phases of the materials, applications and services. For environment accounts for 40% of the world’s orities. Our solution design contributes to customer relationship, for example through KONE customers such as developers and the circular economy with a long lifetime our annual customer loyalty survey and building owners, a key advantage is the abilenergy-related greenhouse gas emissions. and modularity as key features of our prodtransactional surveys, totaling approximately ity to adapt and upgrade the elevator expeMaterial consumption is predicted to double by ucts, supported by our maintenance and 60,000 feedback records. rience throughout the buildings’ life cycle. 2050. Innovations in urban development can play modernization services. We develop soluDigitally connected elevators and the sertions and services for the whole life cycle Collaborative approach and customer vices that the digital platform (see p. 16) can an important role in advancing climate action, of buildings with eco-efficiency, safety and engagement make the elevator smarter and help our cussocial inclusion, and economic prosperity. quality as the foundations. Our eco-effiWe strive to expand our offering with value tomers to stand out from the competition. cient People Flow® solutions address the adding products and services in a smart Buildings can undergo significant needs of sustainable urban living. We parand sustainable way. In order to create changes during their lifetime and thereKONE'S KEY IMPACT AREAS RELATED TO THE UN ticipate in building the foundations of future customer value, we make use of service fore “future proof” was the key concept SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS urban communities. For example, we are design and design thinking methods and in developing the new DX offering. The involved in the SPARCS project, innovattake a collaborative approach to innovanew services offered through the KONE DX Infrastructure investments ing energy positive and zero-carbon urban tion. Our fundamental working principle is Class elevators are enabled by the KONE Environmental investments communities together with partner cities, to invite customers to join the innovation digital platform, application programming Eco-efficient operations citizens, research institutions and compaprocess right from the beginning, to work interfaces (APIs), and KONE’s partner ecoResearch and development nies. The aim is to demonstrate solutions for together in identifying relevant problems system. KONE’s and our partner ecosysfuture energy transformation, mobility and with a diverse team setup, and experimenttem’s common goal is to create the best improved air quality with a focus on digiing with solutions. possible experience for different types of Access to affordable housing tal solutions and community engagement. Visiting customer sites enables us people moving in and between buildings. Infrastructure investments We have made systematic, long-term to jointly develop tailored solutions for The services make everyday life more conAccess to public spaces investments into research and developour customers’ buildings with their own venient and easier for customers as well as Sustainable buildings ment (R&D) capabilities. Today, we have research and development teams, archithe users of our equipment. New partners over 1,200 dedicated technology profestects, and other partners. Engaging in and digital solutions are constantly added sionals working for R&D in Finland, China, dialogue and joint activities with a wide to the offering. Sustainable sourcing Italy, India, United States, Netherlands, variety of stakeholders, such as universiOur design philosophy is based on Procurement practices and Mexico. Our R&D process involves ties, startups, and large corporations, is human insight driven design approach that Resource efficiency of products and services Materials recycling Needs for sustainable and smart living Energy efficiency Providing innovative, Improving living standards Smart cities are evolving, buildings and affordable vertical housing and convenience, especially complexes are getting bigger and more Environmental investments to facilitate better living for as the global middle classes complicated; so for instance, heating, Greenhouse gas emissions aging populations as well as the increase their income and develop cooling and utilities all need to work together. Digital Risks and opportunities due to climate change changing needs of inhabitants. increased expectations. technologies and connectivity can also enable better public services for citizens, better use of resources and increased comfort and reliability. One of the world’s busiest convention centers, the Moscone Center in San Francisco, US, spans almost an entire city block and attracts Maintaining safe and reliable Putting more of a premium on Addressing the growing value placed on more than one million visitors annually. The predictive analytics and infrastructure. As populations eco-efficiency and sustainability, well-being and better living standards, transparency brought on by KONE 24/7 Connected Services enable grow, the design of infrastructo reduce energy consumption, enabling people to live in better harmony real-time monitoring and analysis of parameters that help identify ture needs to be modernized and manage waste and pollution and use with their surroundings. any issues before they escalate into disruption to the visitors’ made more efficient. materials smartly. seamless People Flow experience. 14 Driving innovation and improving resource efficiency KONE SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 KONE SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 Driving innovation and improving resource efficiency 15 HIGHLIGHTS MANAGING SUSTAINABILIT Y FOCUS ARE AS INNOVATION & RESOURCE EFFICIENCY SUSTAINABLE OFFERING BEST EMPLOYER PARTNERSHIPS & SOCIET Y REPORTING SCOPE AND INDICES KONE digital platform – how does it work? contribute to sustainable urbanization by environment. Transitioning to a low-carvalue to our customers in their need for enabling reliable public transportation infrabon economy and countering the negative building resilience. Read more about how TECHNOLOGY BUILDING MANAGEMENT structure and effective land use through impacts of climate change, together with we contribute to smart and sustainable PLATFORMS SYSTEMS high vertical construction. Simultaneously, our customers, is a significant opportunity building on page 28. API KONE API our pioneering eco-efficient solutions can for KONE. Also new technologies and conDIGITAL PLATFORM help reduce the emissions of the built nectivity provide us new means of adding REAL-TIME DATA COLLECTED FROM THE EQUIPMENT, API MAINTENANCE OPERATIONS AND PEOPLE FLOW API PARTNER SOLUTIONS KONE APPLICATIONS KONE's Environmental Excellence program 2017–2021 Solutions for tenants and Solutions for customers and users, e.g. KONE Mobile, KONE Flow Our Environmental Excellence program for 2017–2021 supports the green transformation of urban environments into smart eco-cities, equipment users low-carbon communities and net zero energy buildings. Our long-term environmental targets are to be a leader in low-carbon People Flow® solutions for smart, ecological cities and to have efficient low-carbon operations. ELEVATORS ESCALATORS DOORS & MAINTENANCE Key initiative Achievements in 2019 Target 2017–2021 & AUTOWALKS TURNSTILES OPERATIONS KONE’s digital platform connects people – customers, users and employees – to equipment and data, in a safe and secure manner. As our equipment Solutions Launch of KONE DX Class elevators with built-in connectivity and focus on sustainability. Further reduction is connected to the cloud, sensors and partner solutions through application programming interfaces (APIs), they are easy to update and upgrade. Our solutions are Best-in-class ISO 25745 energy efficiency classifications for KONE MonoSpace® 700 and KONE in energy highly eco-efficient consumption TranSys™ elevators, and for KONE TravelMaster™ 120 escalator. Altogether, 15 KONE elevator and contribute and 4 escalators and autowalks with best-in-class energy performance classifications. to green building takes the whole elevator journey into account. this launch we strengthen our offering, When developing new solutions, we Third-party verified Environmental Product Declarations published for KONE MonoSpace® 700 ratings. DX, KONE TranSys™ DX and KONE MiniSpace™ DX elevators. In order to improve user experience, we have helping our customers obtain green buildfollow secure software development prorefreshed our user interface offering, paying ing certifications such as LEED, BREEAM cesses, embedding cybersecurity and Health Product Declarations published for KONE MonoSpace® 500 and KONE TranSys™ DX elevators and KONE TravelMaster™ 110 escalator. special attention to intuitiveness. Self-healand Nordic Eco Label. Read more about privacy into our digital services and coning, anti-bacterial and anti-fingerprint mateour sustainable offering on pages 24–31. nections. KONE continuously endeavors New and renewed Singapore Green Building Product (SGBP) certifications with the highest Leader ratings. In total, eight KONE solutions have the SGBP certification. rials extend the lifetime of the solutions, and to ensure that our products and solutions make interior surfaces easy to clean and more CYBERSECURITY AS AN are developed with cybersecurity in mind Approved Byggvarubedömningen (BVB) assessments in Sweden for KONE TranSys™ elevator and TransitMaster™ 180 escalator. In total, we now have six approved BVB assessments. hygienic for the users. ESSENTIAL PART OF CONNECTED from the start, so that we are able to keep Solutions delivered to buildings certified with LEED, BREEAM and local green building standards. For other product and service launches TECHNOLOGIES our solutions updated throughout their during 2019, please refer to our Annual New, digital technologies present a great lifespan. Operations KONE's overall operational carbon footprint relative to sales decreased by 3.1%. Scope 1 and 2 3% annual Review 2019 as well as our quarterly opportunity for us to serve our customers We continuously educate our employWe do business carbon footprint relative to sales decreased by 5.4%. KONE's carbon footprint data is externally reduction of reports, available on KONE.com/investors. in smarter ways and create more value for ees to better recognize and combat cyberby developing assured. operational resource efficiency carbon footprint them. At the same time, increasing digitalsecurity threats. For this purpose, we have New, state-of-the-art KONE manufacturing unit opened in India. The facility is designed and minimizing the relative to sales Offering ease of planning for our ization and connectivity underscores the created a set of role-based learning paths. in accordance with Indian Green Building Council (IGBC) criteria with water recycling and carbon footprint of rainwater harvesting systems, as well as solutions to conserve energy and limit greenhouse gas customers importance of cybersecurity. In addition to reviewing any cybersecuour operations and emissions, plus maximize good indoor air quality. Our next generation planning tools help our We view cybersecurity as a holisrity incidents to train our employees and services. customers to save time and design the elevatic process encompassing topics such improve our processes we also practice Solar panel installations in Kunshan and Hyvinkää factory premises completed. tor down to very last detail. KONE elevator as awareness and education, security handling cybersecurity incidents through New KONE units purchasing green electricity: manufacturing unit in the Czech Republic selector helps our customers to select the and privacy by design, and detecting simulations and exercises. (100%), Spanish subsidiary (partially). elevator best suited for their need, and KONE and responding to security incidents. LEED Silver Commercial Interiors certification achieved for KONE Allen, Texas office spaces in the United States. elevator planner gives them the needed We partner with leading cybersecurity Protecting data privacy technical data, be it BIM models or detailed experts and we also expect our suppliWe protect our customers’, solution users’ Subsidiaries offsetting their operational carbon footprint: KONE Austria, KONE New Zealand. technical data. KONE car designer provides ers and partner companies to demonand our employees’ right to data privacy. Culture Recognized for climate and sustainability performance: a place on CDP’s A List, ranked as the CDP leadership easy visualization of the selected design strate a significant cybersecurity level. We comply with legislation requirements We build a more 32nd most sustainable company in the world by Corporate Knights (up from 43rd for the ISO 14001 theme and details, and with augmented or By monitoring our digital environment for cybersecurity and data protection such sustainable eco previous year), included in the Carbon Clean200 list by Corporate Knights, and As You Sow. certification virtual reality options the designs come to life around the clock, we can take any necas European Union’s General Data Protecculture together Included in the FTSE4Good index, awarded the Ecovadis gold medal for sustainability making it easier for our customers to envision essary actions as appropriate. tion Regulation (GDPR). Our solutions only with our customers performance. and suppliers. the outcome in their respective buildings. At KONE, we use some of the most collect the data necessary for the respecRecognized in Asia Corporate Excellence & Sustainability Awards as one of Asia’s best advanced technologies in order to meet tive solution’s purpose, and we delete the performing companies. KONE supports customers in green the high customer expectations for cyberdata as soon as it is no longer needed. We Our corporate and R&D units, all major manufacturing units and 26 major subsidiaries are ISO building certifications security. We benchmark our cybersecurity process personal data as anonymously as 14001 certified (2018: 25). KONE Spain achieved ISO 14001 certification. Two of our European With the launch of KONE DX Class elevamaturity and measure our improvement possible and limit access to the data on a manufacturing units are ISO 50001 certified. At the end of 2019, 91% of our strategic suppliers were ISO 14001 certified (2018: 90%). tors, we support our customers in green against the National Institute of Standards need to know basis. building even better than before through and Technology (NIST) cybersecurity frameContinued supplier trainings on sustainable materials. a new selection of low-emission, healthy work. We also participate in the cyberseACTION FOR CLIMATE AND The theme of KONE's annual safety week was safe work environment. Environmental interior materials, best-in-class energy efficurity standardization initiatives related to ENVIRONMENT topics, such as preparation for extreme weather conditions and the importance of reducing greenhouse gas emissions were featured in the safety week program. ciency and transparent disclosure about our industry. We are currently in the proKONE aims to be a leader in sustainability the sustainability of our solutions. Our cess of aligning our digital systems with the and contribute to the sustainable develobjective is to be the most trusted green information security management standard opment of the built environment. Our building partner for our customers. With series ISO 27000. smart and reliable People Flow® solutions 16 Driving innovation and improving resource efficiency KONE SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 KONE SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 Driving innovation and improving resource efficiency 17 HIGHLIGHTS MANAGING SUSTAINABILIT Y FOCUS ARE AS INNOVATION & RESOURCE EFFICIENCY SUSTAINABLE OFFERING BEST EMPLOYER PARTNERSHIPS & SOCIET Y REPORTING SCOPE AND INDICES Managing environmental risks We recognize climate risks as having a potential negative impact on our busiKONE’s environmental policy We provide innovative, safe, high-quality and environmentally efficient products and and succeeded in stabilizing the growth in our vehicle fleet emissions in 2019. We recognize that continued improvement and 100% ness, albeit in comparison to other strateservices. We strive for continuous improvement in our business operations through ISO absolute emissions reductions are required of the electricity consumed at KONE’s gic and financial risks, environmental risks 14001 Environmental management system, and regularly monitor and report on our in all categories, especially in logistics and corporate head offices (excluding temporary are not very significant. We identify, assess performance. In addition to complying with, or exceeding applicable laws, rules, and vehicle fleet. office spaces) and our manufacturing and R&D regulations, we work with our suppliers and customers to increase circular economy and manage environmental risks as an inteopportunities, environmental awareness and minimize our operational carbon footprint sites in Finland, the Czech Republic, Italy and gral part of our company-wide business as well as to improve energy, material, and water efficiency. Logistics the Netherlands, is green electricity. risk management process and ISO 14001 Logistics amounted to 51% of KONE's Environmental management system. Our KONE aims to maximize the positive environmental impacts and minimize the adverse operational greenhouse gas emissions in risk management activities include monitoring potential regulatory changes and developing business continuity manageones throughout the life cycle of our solutions. This extends from raw material extraction to end-of-life treatment such as recycling the materials. 2019 (2018: 51%). Our logistics operations cover the transportation of products from KONE’s manufacturing units to our custom37% ment capabilities in case of climate-related In our solution creation and operations, we focus on: ers and that of the components delivered of all electricity consumption at KONE facilities disruptions to our operations or delivery directly from our suppliers to our distribuworldwide is green electricity. • Developing smart and sustainable technologies for People Flow® chain. In our product development, we • Being the best green building partner tion centers and to customers henceforth. apply product design specifications and • Reducing energy consumption Our emissions from logistics grew by measurements that aim to ensure product • Reducing material use, including packaging 4.0% in absolute terms. This is largely due few years. However, we did not meet our Electricity resilience even in harsh and changing envi• Improving circularity; maximizing material durability, non-toxicity, recycled content to the 11% growth in the number of units annual target of 1.5% absolute reduction KONE is committed to reducing electricity and recyclability ronmental conditions. delivered. In total, over 3.9 million packfor vehicle fleet emissions. consumption in its operations and has set • Avoiding the use of hazardous substances As important elements in guiding our ages were delivered to new installation We are speeding up the long-term a long-term target to increase the share • Minimizing waste own operations, and those of our partners, • Minimizing water consumption. sites, and around 1.5 million packages of restructuring of our vehicle fleet composiof green electricity to more than 50% by we set out environmental requirements in spare parts to existing customer sites. Thus, tion and to this end, we work closely with 2021. We extended the reporting scope the KONE Code of Conduct, KONE Suprelative to units delivered, KONE’s logistics our partners. In 2019, we reviewed our to Russia, Poland, Hungary and Slovenia. plier and Distributor Codes of Conduct, emissions decreased by 5.9% compared to car selection in the EMEA area, choosing During the reporting year, green electricKONE Quality and Environmental Manual, the previous year. brands with low-emission models to help ity accounted for 37% of all our electricand KONE’s Global Facilities and Vehicle school students during the global Zero included again in the Corporate Knights' The biggest factors impacting our us incorporate more hybrid and electric ity consumption (2018: 33%). Our Czech Fleet policies. Emissions day. 2019 Global 100 Most Sustainable Corlogistics carbon footprint were: vehicles to our fleet. manufacturing unit transitioned to using porations in the World ranking, for the • Significant reduction in air freight and Our aim is to shift towards fleet decar100% renewable electricity, as did some Commitment to global goals and Recognition for outstanding climate and second consecutive year. courier emissions in Europe and the bonization as soon as the leasing confacilities in our Spanish subsidiary. Large initiatives sustainability performance Americas tract renewal periods allow, and once the solar panel installations were also comAs a signatory to the UN Global Compact, In 2019, KONE was recognized by CDP Low-carbon operations • Decrease in ocean freight emissions required infrastructure for an electrified pleted at KONE factory premises in China KONE supports the Sustainable Developfor its actions towards reducing emission, KONE’s operational environmental efforts due to volume shifting to shorter transfleet is at a reasonable level in each counand in Finland. ment agenda addressing the social, ecomitigating climate risks, and developing focus on resource efficiency and miniportation routes especially for shiptry. As an example, KONE Netherlands and The reported electricity/district heat nomic, and environmental dimensions a low-carbon economy. KONE achieved mizing our carbon footprint. We work ments from China KONE Italy continued to incorporate new emissions 32,400 tCO2e (31,500 tCO2e of sustainability. KONE also reports on a place on CDP's prestigious A List as the together with our customers and suppli• Increase of road freight emissions in electric vehicles to replace fuel cars. KONE with comparable scope) take into account its sustainability performance annually only elevator and escalator company. The ers to minimize greenhouse gas emissions China due to longer distances and Spain also started testing hybrid vehicles. our usage of green electricity produced in line with the Communication of Prolisting signifies that we are in the top 2% and other adverse environmental impacts higher number of shipments. The potential for biofuel usage has also using renewable sources (market-based gress process as defined by the UN Global of the 8,400 companies that disclosed throughout our entire delivery chain. To been recognized, and for instance KONE calculation method). Without the use of Compact. their environmental data through CDP this end, we focus on the sustainability of Vehicle fleet Finland started tracking its biofuel usage. green electricity (location-based method), KONE has signed the Paris Pledge for in 2019, representing more than 50% of our solutions during their life cycle. Read KONE vehicle fleet accounted for 30% of We already make use of and further our electricity/district heat carbon footprint Action climate initiative, showing climate global market capitalization. During the more about our green and smart solutions our operational greenhouse gas emissions in investigate alternative means of mobility. would have amounted to 38,500 tCO2e leadership and commitment to limiting 11 years of disclosing data through CDP, on pages 28–31. 2019 (2018: 31%). The total size of KONE’s For example, for the most part, our main(37,700 tCO2e with comparable scope). global warming to under 2°Celsius in KONE has received a leadership score of fleet was approximately 19,000 vehicles. tenance personnel in Asia-Pacific use public accordance with the Paris Climate AgreeA or Afor seven consecutive years. The Reducing our long-term carbon footprint After having included Hungary and Slovenia transportation and walk to customer sites. Optimizing material use and ment. In 2019, we continued revising our score ranges from A to D, and it is based In support of positive climate action, to the reporting scope during the reporting minimizing waste long-term climate target setting according on independent assessment against the KONE's objective is to reduce its carbon year, approximately 91% of our total fleet is Business travel KONE aims to maximize the opportunities to the Science Based Targets initiative to scoring criteria defined by CDP. CDP is footprint relative to sales by 3% annually. In included in KONE’s environmental reporting In order to reduce the need for travel and presented by resource efficiency and circulimit global warming with more stringent an international not-for-profit organiza2019, we exceeded our target as our overglobally (2018: 90%). Service vehicles made to facilitate global virtual collaboration, lar economy in our operations and delivery actions. tion that runs a global disclosure system all operational carbon footprint relative to up two-thirds of the fleet, while benefit cars KONE continues to invest in better online chain. In order to contribute positively to KONE works to increase awareness that enables companies, cities, states and sales decreased by 3.1%. We also exceeded accounted for the rest. meeting solutions and video conferencing responsible production, we prioritize the about environmental responsibility and regions to measure and manage their enviour Scope 1 and 2 targets, as our relative The carbon footprint of KONE’s vehiequipment. We carefully consider the need smart use of resources and the recycling climate action. As an example, KONE units ronmental impacts. carbon footprint decreased by 5.4%. cle fleet increased by 0.4% in absolute for travel and optimize the locations for of materials, for example by: from almost 30 countries participated in KONE was also ranked as the 32nd This positive development was enabled terms (0.1% with comparable reporting meetings and conferences. The vast major• Optimizing manufacturing material World Wildlife Fund’s Earth Hour during most sustainable company in the world by a 0.5% decrease in our absolute Scope scope) but decreased by 0.1% relative ity of meetings already take place virtually. use through robotics and automation the reporting year. As a member of the by Corporate Knights Inc., a leading sus1 and 2 absolute emissions (with compato our maintenance base. We have been The greenhouse gas emissions from • Recycling waste wherever possible Climate Leadership Coalition in Finland, tainable business magazine and ranking rable reporting scope) while our business able to reduce the fuel consumption per business travel increased by 6.3% due to • Reusing packaging materials. KONE was also involved in increasing organization. KONE was the only elevagrew strongly. We continued our systemvehicle, which has contributed to curbfor example the removal of general travel awareness for climate action with high tor and escalator industry company to be atic reductions in our electricity emissions ing the emissions growth seen in the past restrictions in 2019. 18 Driving innovation and improving resource efficiency KONE SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 KONE SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 Driving innovation and improving resource efficiency 19 HIGHLIGHTS MANAGING SUSTAINABILIT Y FOCUS ARE AS INNOVATION & RESOURCE EFFICIENCY SUSTAINABLE OFFERING BEST EMPLOYER PARTNERSHIPS & SOCIET Y REPORTING SCOPE AND INDICES Relative operational carbon footprint trend KONE’s operational THE MAJORITY OF THE PACKAGING Targets Green buildings should also be favored Data assured externally greenhouse gas emissions when relocating KONE facilities to existMATERIALS FOR OUR VOLUME Target: 3% annual reduction relative to sales* 2017 2018 2019 ing buildings. ELEVATOR ARE RECYCLABLE In 2019, KONE opened a new, state⬁ 3% annual reduction of Overall operations (Scope 1, 2, 3) -0.2% -4.0% -3.1% of-the-art manufacturing unit in Pillaipakoperational carbon footprint KONE MonoSpace® 500 elevator Scope 1, 2 -2.6% -5.5% -5.4% kam, close to Chennai, India. The facility is relative to sales designed in accordance with Indian Green * Calculated at comparable exchange rates and reporting scope. KONE has applied new IFRS 15 and IFRS 9 standards from January 1, 2018 onwards. Figures until then are not fully comparable. Building Council criteria with water recy⬁ 15% reduction in facilitycling and rainwater harvesting systems, related carbon footprint by Green electricity and on-site renewable energy production solutions to conserve energy, limit green2022 compared to 2017 house gas emissions and maximize good KONE countries that purchase green KONE has on-site renewable energy indoor air quality. For more of our facility ⬁ 50% share of green electricity: production in: related achievements in 2019, see page 17. electricity by 2021 • Austria • Australia • Belgium • China ⬁ 0% landfill waste at our Logistics 51% • Czech Republic • Finland Vehicle fleet 30% manufacturing units by • Denmark • Italy • Finland • Norway Electricity and district heat 10% 2030 Wood 77.3% • Germany • The United States • Italy Business air travel 5% ⬁ 100% of our strategic Cardboard 17.1% • The Netherlands Heating fuels and cooling gases 3% suppliers ISO 14001 certified Plastics 5.6% • Norway Waste 1% Metals 0.1% • Spain • Sweden How KONE reduces the environmental impacts of its operations • Switzerland Development action Impact on eco-efficiency Logistics As part of our day-to-day logistics process, countries to our waste data collection Continuously improving KONE facilities’ Optimized use of transportation networks. Optimal routing of material through distribution center network and selection a large share of our packages are reusable scope. The proportion of recycled and eco-efficiency of suppliers located close to distribution centers. and circulate between our manufacturincinerated waste increased slightly from Globally, KONE operates in over 1,000 Waterway and railway transportation prioritized over air Less CO2 emissions per tonne-kilometer. ing units and suppliers. The majority of an already high level, amounting to 93.9% facilities, including office spaces and freight. our packaging materials can be recycled, of the total waste generated by KONE units installation and service operation hubs. Improved space utilization ratio in loading. Better load planning of outbound trucks and containers resulting in improved and some parts of the packaging are also globally (2018: 93.5%). In the 13 manuOur facilities account for approximately container space utilization, optimization of transportation units used and more designed to be used as tools during the facturing units in our data collection scope, 13% of our operational carbon footprint products delivered per shipment. installation of our equipment. During the share of recycled or incinerated waste (2018: 13%). Centralized volumes to main suppliers, convenient Fewer transportation routes and improved transportation efficiency ratio. 2019, we also launched a fully reusable was 98.1% (2018: 97.8%). Only 0.9% KONE's Global Facilities Policy outlocation of suppliers close to distribution centers. spare part package for maintenance tech(2018: 0.6%) was put into landfill. lines our approach for the selection and Use of more eco-efficient transportation equipment. Truck equipment selection from eco-efficiency perspective. Requirement for nicians in the Netherlands. This eliminates Read more about resource effimanagement of our facilities. It aids in Euro 4 trucks for European logistics service providers (European emission the need for single-use cardboard boxes ciency and circular economy at KONE on developing fit-for-purpose facilities and standard for vehicles). and at the same time, enables a centralKONE.com/sustainability. eco-efficient operations, as well as in proImproved logistics reporting. Continuous development of reporting methods and tools in collaboration with ized waste disposal process. You can read viding a safe and secure work environlogistics service providers for optimal use of logistics data. more about crate innovations – the use of Optimizing already minimal water usage ment for KONE employees. According to Vehicle fleet reusable packages in the Netherlands on Water consumption in KONE’s producthe policy, our objective is to reduce our Compliance with KONE Global Vehicle Fleet Policy. Maximum CO2 emission limits defined, employees encouraged to select benefit KONE.com. tion and maintenance processes is minfacility-related carbon footprint by 15% cars with lower CO2 emissions. We encourage our suppliers to develop imal, and we aim to further optimize it. by 2022 (base year 2017). In 2019, we Selecting fuel-efficient vehicles. Vehicle renewals guided by the main criteria of fuel-efficiency and compactness, their resource efficiency and sustainability KONE uses municipal water; wastewater is reduced our facility-related carbon footcooperation with suppliers who comply with the Euro 6 emission standard for in their operations and supply chains. For released into municipal wastewater treatprint by 6.6% compared to 2017. We are light passenger and commercial vehicles. example, we request renewable energy ment systems that abide by local reguworking towards this target by, for examDriving performance and route optimization. Increased driver safety and fuel efficiency through the monitoring of driving use and recycled content in elevator and lations. Out of our major manufacturing ple, optimizing energy usage in heating, performance, including fuel efficiency and driving behavior. Increased use of escalator components. units, three have their own wastewater ventilation, air conditioning and lighting telematics systems, remote monitoring and mobile tools. Our objective is to reduce the waste treatment systems with regular monitoring systems, increasing the share of green elecPlanning for the long-term mobility solutions of our Reduced CO2 emissions and agile services through extended pilots of full elecgenerated by our manufacturing processes and permits in place. tricity to a minimum of 50%, and setting service fleet. tric and hybrid vehicles, as well as through vehicle sharing and electric bicycles. and offices. Our long-term target for waste As with material management, we up on-site renewable energy production. management is 0% landfill waste at our aim to improve our water data collection We also encourage investments into elecHow KONE reduces packaging-related emissions and waste manufacturing units. Waste is always hancapabilities, together with our suppliers, tric vehicle charging infrastructure at our Optimized packaging to better fit into logistics chain. More products delivered per transportation unit. dled according to applicable laws and by extending the data collection to our facilities and favor eco-efficient service regulations, and we aim to exceed legal supply chain. In KONE’s Supplier Code of suppliers. Optimized use of packaging materials. Less packaging material used, more effective waste management, increased recyclability of materials. requirements. Conduct, we specify that our suppliers are Our objective is to have any new KONE During 2019, our waste amount expected to monitor, control and approbuildings designed according to LEED, Management and development of suppliers’ packaging. Less packaging material used, more effective waste management, improved logistics efficiency. decreased by 7%, despite adding three priately treat wastewater. BREEAM or other green rating systems. 20 Driving innovation and improving resource efficiency KONE SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 KONE SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 Driving innovation and improving resource efficiency 21 HIGHLIGHTS MANAGING SUSTAINABILIT Y FOCUS ARE AS INNOVATION & RESOURCE EFFICIENCY SUSTAINABLE OFFERING BEST EMPLOYER PARTNERSHIPS & SOCIET Y REPORTING SCOPE AND INDICES Absolute operational carbon footprint trend per category, tCO2e Environmental impacts of KONE's operations Data assured externally KONE's operational Scope 1, 2 and 3 (logistics, business travel and waste) greenhouse gas emissions, energy consumption and water consumption assured by Mitopro Oy. 350,000 +2.3% +2.1% Carbon footprint of KONE’s operations, tCO2e 2017 2018 2019 300,000 Carbon footprint of KONE’s operations, tCO2e 250,000 Direct energy (Scope 1) Vehicle fleet 96,600 99,200 99,600 +4.0% +5.2% Heating fuels 9,700 9,700 9,500 200,000 Cooling gases 400 200 200 150,000 +2.7% +0.1% Indirect energy (Scope 2) Electricity consumption and district heat, market-based 34,000 32,100 32,400 100,000 (location-based 2019: 39,900 tCO2e) -5.6% -1.9% -8.8% +6.8% +7.7% Operational relevant Logistics 152,700 160,600 167,100 50,000 -3.6% -2.0% -2.0% indirect (Scope 3) 0 Business air travel 16,000 14,600* 15,600 Vehicle fleet Heating fuels and Electricity and Logistics Business air travel* Waste Total Waste 2,600 2,800 2,700 cooling gases district heat Total 312,000 319,200* 327,100 2017 2018 2019 % (change) * 2018 figures for business air travel restated. Figures calculated with comparable reporting scope. * 2018 figures for business air travel restated. Carbon footprint of KONE's products, tCO2e (calculated) Product-related indirect Production of materials for products and packaging 4,404,800* 4,630,300* 4,864,100 (Scope 3) Relative operational carbon footprint trend Annual use phase energy consumption of products 427,500* 429,200* 435,200 Data assured externally Total 4,832,300* 5,059,500* 5,299,300 Vehicle fleet (Scope 1) Electricity (Scope 2) Business air travel (Scope 3)* Logistics (Scope 3) Product-related calculations are based on latest life cycle assessment data and products ordered from KONE during the reporting year. * 2017 and 2018 figures restated due to improved calculation methodology. Energy consumption, MWh Direct Heating and vehicle fleet fuels (heating oil, natural gas, liquid 417,500 427,800 428,200 petroleum gas, petrol, diesel and diesel with biofuel blend) Biofuel (from 100% renewable sources) 500* 1,200 -1.1% Indirect Green electricity (purchased and on-site production) 20,200 22,300 25,600 -5.9% 1,050 Other than green electricity 48,500 44,900 43,900 1,030 1,019 900 959 District heat 12,500 12,900 15,800 750 -9.2% Total 498,700 507,900 514,000 -3.4% 600 * Data collection started in 2019. 617 560 541 450 2.7% -12.2% Waste, tonnes 300 Recycled waste 33,700 39,500 34,700 +1.4% -0.1% 290 255 262 150 Incinerated waste 4,000 3,900 5,600 0 73.3 74.3 74.2 Landfill waste 2,200 1,800 1,400 kgCO2e / unit in service kgCO2e / headcount kgCO2e / headcount kgCO2e / delivered unit Hazardous waste 1,000 1,200 1,200 2017 2018 2019 % (change) Total 40,900 46,400 42,900 * 2018 figures for business air travel restated. Water consumption, m 3 Municipal water 295,800 287,600 316,800 Ground water 11,400 11,200 8,800 Total 307,200 298,800 325,600 Waste water effluents from manufacturing units, tonnes 9 8 8 22 Driving innovation and improving resource efficiency KONE SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 KONE SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 Driving innovation and improving resource efficiency 23 HIGHLIGHTS MANAGING SUSTAINABILIT Y FOCUS ARE AS INNOVATION & RESOURCE EFFICIENCY SUSTAINABLE OFFERING BEST EMPLOYER PARTNERSHIPS & SOCIET Y REPORTING SCOPE AND INDICES PROVIDING THE MOST QUALITY Quality is an integral part of KONE’s culture During 2019, KONE’s quality starts with me mindset in factories was enforced during suppliers’ quality and production managers. This helps ensure that KONE’s requireSUSTAINABLE OFFERING and embedded into all our processes. We global quality days, several kaizen continual ments on product and process quality are work continuously to improve the quality improvement events, and gemba site visit met. When suppliers make changes to their of our products and services throughout routines. During these events, employees products or processes affecting products the equipment and building life cycle. We were invited to take part in activities and delivered to KONE, they need to inform want to deliver consistent high quality to training sessions specifically designed to KONE about these changes. On a case-byElevators, escalators and automatic building make people’s journeys safe, convenient improve quality in factory operations. case basis, KONE’s supplier quality engiand reliable. KONE’s Lean manufacturing model neers request and evaluate evidence to doors are everywhere in urban environments, Together with safety, quality is a top continues to form the foundation of the check that changes are made in a conand the safety of the millions of people who priority for us. We advocate a “quality starts daily management in our factories. We also trolled manner. use them is our top priority. In addition, the with me” attitude – everyone at KONE continued our Lean and Six Sigma proWe regularly audit all the main supplicontributes to the quality our customer gram to further enhance the quality of our ers that deliver direct materials to KONE quality and eco-efficiency of our solutions are experience. We encourage sharing lessons in-house production, and to support prodistribution centers or factories. essential. Quality is embedded in everything we learned among employees, as well as data cess control harmonization activities in our In 2019, we released a new Supplier and information transparency which supports production lines. Read more about KONE’s Quality Standard. We performed quality do, as we strive to deliver the best customer making right decisions and improvements. supply chain operations on pages 40–41. maturity assessments in order to underand equipment user experience. Eco-efficient To ensure that our employees have In 2019, we expanded our manufacturstand our suppliers’ compliance with these solutions are a must in combatting climate the skills to resolve quality challenges ing execution system (MES) to our elevator requirements and initiated a program effectively, we give them practical component factories in Finland, the United for strategic suppliers to close any gaps change and ensuring climate resilience. guidance and provide them with effective States, and Italy. between requirements and full compliance. and easy-to-use problem-solving tools. We also initiated a global project to Supplier quality maturity guides taking Our employees are also encouraged to improve delivery feedback process to fursourcing decisions and planning business take part in improving the quality of our ther improve speed, accuracy and root allocations between different suppliers. We products and processes through Lean Six cause elimination of any errors in delivery continued our journey towards zero defects Sigma projects. Supported by our global process. Quality-focused competence develby implementing mistake proofing methods KONE'S KEY IMPACT AREAS RELATED TO THE UN and local quality teams, we strive together opment in factory operations continued. into our supply chain. Visits to our installaSUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS to identify improvement opportunities, tion sites with our suppliers so as to help investigate root causes, and take any Testing Center of Expertise launched them better understand KONE’s customers’ Environmental investments necessary action. As KONE’s product portfolio has expanded requirements continued. Research and development to connected elevators and escalators as KONE’s diagnostic audit program conTechnological legacies Positive feedback well as digital services, our new offering is tinued as well, and 96 third party audits At KONE, we systematically collect customer increasingly dependent on software. There(2018: 60) following the German automofeedback through an annual customer loyfore, we launched a Testing Center of Expertive industry quality standard VDA6.3 were alty survey and transactional surveys. In tise (TCoE) in 2019, strengthening our teams carried out on our suppliers. Infrastructure investments our transactional surveys, we closely follow and projects with professionals specializing in Access to public spaces feedback on installation, modernization and testing. KONE’s TCoE supports faster time to Developing maintenance operations and Sustainable buildings maintenance quality. Our customer survey market with higher quality, resulting in both improving quality ratings show that quality is among the top improved customer satisfaction and In maintenance, KONE strives to develop reasons why our customers choose KONE equipment user experience. Our goal is to its operations by delivering the highest as a partner. During the reporting year, the accelerate the delivery of innovation across possible value to our customers while conEnergy efficiency net promoter score in our customer loyalty the enterprise, while driving down the risk tinuously improving quality performance. Environmental investments survey stayed at a good level. and cost of change. This resulted in less downtime and conseGreenhouse gas emissions We also closely follow other quality quently better equipment user experience. Risks and opportunities due to climate change metrics, for example the accuracy and Developing quality together with our We constantly explore possibilities for timeliness of our deliveries. suppliers improving our maintenance operations by KONE’s supplier development and supplier taking into account the individual needs of Continual improvement of quality management function coaches our our customers, enhancing the quality of manufacturing and delivery quality suppliers in implementing best practice our maintenance, improving the sustainaKONE continuously improves its delivery quality management methods in their bility of our maintenance operations, and chain in terms of quality, responsiveness, respective factories. This includes the driving our operational excellence. and efficiency. implementation of process quality conOur quality focus areas in factory trol points in manufacturing lines to check EQUIPMENT USER SAFETY AND operations are consistency and reliability specific product and process characterACCESSIBILITY of every delivery to our customers. KONE istics that are considered critical to the Millions of people use elevators, escalators benchmarks and applies world-class qualend-product quality. and automatic building doors every day – Safety is a top priority for KONE. We support our customers ity and Lean manufacturing practices from When new KONE products or changes every week, KONE moves the equivalent and building owners in promoting the safe use of elevators, other industries into its daily operations to our products are implemented, KONE of the entire population of the world. Our escalators and automatic building doors. and management practices. follows up the implementation with the top priority is the safety of our equipment 24 Providing the most sustainable offering KONE SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 KONE SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 Providing the most sustainable offering 25 HIGHLIGHTS MANAGING SUSTAINABILIT Y FOCUS ARE AS INNOVATION & RESOURCE EFFICIENCY SUSTAINABLE OFFERING BEST EMPLOYER PARTNERSHIPS & SOCIET Y REPORTING SCOPE AND INDICES users, employees and everyone we work behavior. For example, elevator doors must Elevator modernization enhances SAFETY THROUGHOUT All of KONE’s major production sites with our customers and equipment users. with. Every day, in every part of our not be prevented from opening or closing. safety by for example improving leveling THE VALUE CHAIN are certified to ISO 9001, 14001 and We organize activities in different parts of organization, we work toward our goal Adults need to hold on to​the escalator accuracy to prevent tripping and falling. It We enhance the safety of our products and OHSAS 18001 standards. the world and provide training along with of zero incidents: we want everyone to handrail, as well as the hand of any young​ also includes adding electronic sensors to services through rigorous attention to our We make sure that all our production educational materials to our customers and return home safely at the end of each day. child, during the ride. doors to prevent collision and providing design, manufacturing, installation, and sites are safe places to work, for example, the general public to help equipment users Read more about the safe use of our a voice link to the service center to assist maintenance processes. Our policies, proby using the 5S* methodology and by constay safe. Our safety mascots, Max and Consistent approach on safety equipment and the elevator etiquette for passengers in case of any emergencies. cesses, and tools enable all our business ducting regular safety training. Bob, help teach children about the safe use management staying healthy on KONE.com. As a technology provider, KONE manactivities to be organized and conducted in of equipment through events, leaflets, and Safety is an integral part of our strategy ufactures equipment and services that a structured and globally harmonized way. 4 Offices an animated video and games. and we work systematically to develop a Active contributor to standard meet applicable codes and standards, KONE promotes safety awareness among culture where people look after each other development and often includes additional safety fea1 R&D its employees through health and safety 7 Modernization and actively promote safety. The safety requirements of elevators, escatures that exceed the applicable regulatory Safety is embedded in the product develtraining as well as safety-related internal KONE develops modernization solutions In 2019, we completed the implementalators, and automatic building doors are requirements. opment process. Potential safety hazards communication. for upgrading or replacing existing equiption of our new safety management system, largely determined by national and interaffecting the products’ full life cycle are sysBuilding managers promote and mainment with new solutions that meet or KONE Way for Safety, which harmonizes the national safety codes and standards. KONE Enabling accessibility tematically identified and eliminated before tain safe and healthy working environexceed the latest safety standards, improvsafety management practices across KONE. is an active contributor to the development As populations age, the demand for accessiproducts are introduced to the market. ments in KONE premises. ing equipment reliability and user safety. of codes and standards that aim to further ble, safe and convenient People Flow® soluExisting products are continuously Products are installed by professional Safety is a collaborative effort improve equipment safety, accessibility tions increases. Buildings and transportation developed to further improve their safety 5 Installation technicians following strict processes. Safety is a joint effort that involves everyand energy efficiency. Our experts particihubs need to be designed and built in a way and functionality. KONE’s processes and certified installaone, from technology and maintenance pate in all relevant committees and forums that enables people with impaired mobility tion methods are designed to enhance the 8 Maintenance service providers to building owners and on the national and international standardto move around easily. With our elevator 2 Suppliers safety of installers and third parties whilst KONE maintains the safety of elevators, equipment users. ization organizations, as well as industry solutions, we also help improve accessibility. KONE has defined clear quality requireenabling product quality and reliability. escalators, and automatic doors using We collaborate with our customers to trade associations around the world. We For example, increased elevator cabin size ments which are continuously measured KONE constantly improves the safety, preventive maintenance methods. Our prevent situations that could lead to safety strongly support worldwide harmonization improves building access for people with and followed. quality and efficiency of its installation promaintenance technicians have a vital role risks. Building owners and maintenance serof the technical and safety requirements baby strollers or using wheelchairs. KONE In addition, our quality professionals cesses, for example, by using the kaizen in making sure our customers can keep vice providers are responsible for ensuring resulting in safety improvements. is also collaborating with BlindSquare to regularly audit key suppliers to monitor the continuous improvement methodology. people moving safely also in critical enviequipment is professionally maintained and The aging of urban infrastructure sysboost building accessibility for people who safety and quality of delivered components We use continuous training, installation ronments, such as hospitals. kept in good condition. For example, buildtems in cities around the world is a major are blind or visually impaired. A self-voicing and products. safety and method passport, site audits, and We train our maintenance technicians ing owners need to inform service providers concern. Many countries have adopted mobile application helps navigation in and KONE’s Supplier Code of Conduct risk-assessed methods to control site safety. regularly to ensure they have the required if they identify any hazards, such as abnorstrict standards for improving safety between buildings, including riding elevadefines the requirements for all our supcompetence to perform their work safely, mal noises or debris on the equipment. through modernization of the existing tors safely by allowing the user to call an pliers, including subcontractors, to protect 6 Equipment use and provide them with mobile tools to Everyone who uses an elevator or escaequipment and upgrading them to the elevator and go directly to their floor via the health and safety of their employees. KONE supports customers and building have access to up-to-date information. Our lator needs to be conscious of their own latest state-of-the-art solutions. guidance prompts. owners in promoting the safe use of elevasupervisors continually coach and audit 3 Production sites tors, escalators and automatic building doors. technicians to assure that processes are KONE enhances the quality and safety We actively communicate about safety followed and needed competences exist. 5 ways to improve elevator safety 5 ways to improve escalator safety 5 ways to improve accessibility of all components used in production by carefully controlling raw materials and pro* 5S methodology: sort, stabilize, shine, duction processes. standardize, and sustain. 5 4 • Adequate lighting prevents accidents • Anti-fall and anti-ride barriers provide • By modernizing an elevator, the space and makes people feel safer additional balustrade height and inside the car can be increased by 50% • A two-way voice communication system prevent passengers from climbing on • Wide-opening doors make entry and improves safety and passengers’ peace the handrail and falling from height exit easier for passengers using a 7 of mind • Directional lighting and signage provide wheelchair or pushing a stroller • Interior doors and automatic landing visual guidance to improve building • Accessories such as handrails and navigation mirrors provide support and help to 6 doors prevent accidents and improve accessibility • Colored or lit areas provide passengers improve visibility 1 • Accurate stopping prevents people from with a clear understanding of interface • Braille signalization and audio stumbling on the door sill areas increasing safety levels announcements help people with 8 2 3 • An emergency system includes an alarm • Multiple horizontal steps reduce tripping hearing and vision impairments with two-way phone and an emergency and falling hazard prior to entry or exit • An elevator can be installed in a power supply • Easy-to-use, accessibly labelled emergenbuilding previously without one, in the cy stop buttons bring the unit to a constairwell or attached to an outside wall trolled stop in the event of an incident 26 Providing the most sustainable offering KONE SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 KONE SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 Providing the most sustainable offering 27 HIGHLIGHTS MANAGING SUSTAINABILIT Y FOCUS ARE AS INNOVATION & RESOURCE EFFICIENCY SUSTAINABLE OFFERING BEST EMPLOYER PARTNERSHIPS & SOCIET Y REPORTING SCOPE AND INDICES THE FUTURE IS IN GREEN, Connected Services, we can predict issues LIFETIME VALUE THROUGH ENERGY various building types, several market areas its elevator and escalator product offerKONE MonoSpace® 500 elevator can SMART BUILDINGS and take action before disruption occurs. EFFICIENCY and product specifications. In total, KONE ing and the corresponding component save 400 kgCO2e annually When striving for carbon neutrality, urban Combined with our tailored modernization The most significant environmental impact currently has 15 best A-class ratings for eleselection. communities need to be developed with services, we can help keep our equipment by KONE relates to the amount of electricvators. Four KONE escalator and autowalk A key element when designing our 1,200 sustainability and well-being at the center. in service for decades. ity used by KONE’s solutions during their models currently have the best A+++ clasproducts is working together with our 1,000 We want to support our customers in Our durable and long-lasting prodlifetime. This underlines the importance sification in the escalator and autowalk suppliers in selecting sustainable and building these sustainable and climate ucts are designed and tested in our reliof energy efficient solutions. For examcategory. healthy materials, as well as avoiding the 800 resilient communities. In transforming the ability laboratories for climate-resilience ple, KONE MonoSpace®500, our current We have pioneered eco-efficient soluuse of hazardous substances. In 2019, we 600 built environment, circular material flows even in demanding environmental conmachine-room-less volume elevator, is up tions, such as the regenerative drive, updated our global guideline for all KONE and net zero energy consumption play a ditions. Energy-efficient features, such as to 90% more energy efficient than KONE’s standby solutions and the revolutionsuppliers and partners, as well as internal 400 key role. the regenerative drive and standby mode, elevators from the 1990s. Compared to ary KONE UltraRope® high-rise hoisting stakeholders, to outline which substances 200 The demands for more sustainable build the fundament for low-carbon builda baseline elevator, the KONE Monotechnology. KONE UltraRope® can cut are not allowed or are to be removed communities can be addressed, in part, ings. Our new KONE DX Class elevators Space®500 has the potential to reduce the energy consumption of, for example from all KONE products. This guideline 0 through green and smart buildings. Susfeature built-in connectivity, as well as susthe amount of greenhouse gas emissions a 500-meter elevator ride, by up to 15%. is based on some of the tightest legislaBaseline European KONE tainable, healthy building design and tainable materials. The new and innovafrom the use phase energy consumption For higher buildings, the energy saving is tion and certification requirements today. elevator MonoSpace®500 construction, minimized and renewable tive interior materials contribute to good significantly, reducing the carbon footprint even more notable. During the reporting year, we also hosted Carbon footprint (kgCO2e/year) energy consumption, as well as better indoor air quality and meet green building of our customers. There is a growing number of aging elea number of training sessions for our supCarbon handprint, emissions saved indoor air quality are all contributing faccertification requirements, supported by KONE was the first elevator and escavators and escalators currently in operation, pliers in China on sustainable materials. (kgCO2e/year) tors. We endeavor to be the most trusted relevant documentation. With the KONE lator company to achieve the best A the energy performance of which can be We continuously improve our data partner for our customers for their climate DX Class offering, we are geared to fully class energy efficiency classification for a significantly improved through partial or full collection capabilities together with our The carbon handprint indicates the beneficial resilient and sustainable buildings throughsupport our customers in achieving the number of our installations. The classificamodernization. The European Union’s study suppliers, in order to provide transparent environmental impacts of a solution compared out their life cycle. Our relevant offering desired certification for their building, such tion is granted according to the internacalled Energy-Efficient Elevators and Escaand reliable information about the material to a baseline product. The calculation is based includes KONE People Flow® planning seras LEED, BREEAM, Nordic Swan Ecolabel tional ISO 25745 standard for the energy lators (E4) concluded that by utilizing the content and environmental impacts of our on ISO 25745 methodology, using 630 kg load, 1.0 m/s speed and 12m height. European vices and solutions, best-in-class energy and other local green building labels. Read performance of lifts, escalators and moving best available technology of today, energy products to our customers. baseline elevator calculated with energy class B. efficient solutions, and sustainable matemore about the KONE DX Class elevator walks. We have a wide range of best-insavings of up to 63% can be achieved by rials. With our customizable maintenance launch on pages 15–16. class energy performance references for modernizing elevators installed in 1985 or Communicating the environmental and services, including intelligent KONE 24/7 our products. The references include prior. On a European level, this translates to health impacts of KONE solutions 11.6 TWh of saved energy. KONE’s environmental responsibility covers the carbon footprint of the building. For the full life cycle of its products from design the launch of KONE DX Class elevators, Collaborating with suppliers on and manufacturing to installation, mainwe published new, externally verified Envisustainable material use tenance, modernization, and end-of-life ronmental Product Declarations for KONE In 2019, KONE used 1,514,500 tonnes treatment. In order to illustrate the enviMonoSpace®700 DX, KONE TranSys™ DX KONE as trusted partner throughout the building life cycle (2018: 1,440,400) of materials for proronmental impact during the entire lifetime and KONE MiniSpace™ DX. ducing and packaging its products (figures of our solutions, we publish Environmental The biggest environmental impact of calculated based on life cycle assessment Product Declarations. The declarations can KONE consists of the product use phase Recyclable resources Smart and green building design data). In order to increase resource effibe used by our customers in obtaining green energy consumption and the related mate• 90% of the metals used in KONE • Digital solutions and embedded solutions can be recycled. connectivity. ciency, KONE is systematically harmonizing building certifications and when calculating rials manufacturing. These correspond to • Up to 90% of our elevator • Early involvement in green building materials can be recycled. planning. Best-in-class energy efficiency Best-in-class energy efficiency according to ISO 25745 according to VDI 4707 Tailored product life extension Externally assured product information • Up to 70% energy savings by • 15 externally verified Environmental ELEVATORS ESCALATORS AND AUTOWALKS A modernizing an elevator with the Product Declarations for our products. (scale A-G) (scale A+++-E) best available technology. • Product certifications for local green KONE EcoSpace® building systems. A A +++ KONE MonoSpace® 500 KONE EcoSpace® KONE TravelMaster™ 110 KONE MonoSpace® 700 KONE MonoSpace® 500 KONE TravelMaster™ 115 KONE N MonoSpace® Predictive maintenance KONE MonoSpace® 700 KONE TravelMaster™ 120 KONE S MonoSpace® • KONE 24/7 Connected KONE TranSys™ KONE TransitMaster™ 140 KONE E MiniSpace™ Services for more reliable Durability and sustainability of KONE MiniSpace™ (Europe and Asia) KONE N MiniSpace™ equipment and faster repairs. materials and solutions KONE E MonoSpace® KONE S MiniSpace™ • Expertise in the selection of KONE N MonoSpace® KONE MiniSpace™ Best-in-class energy efficiency sustainable and green building KONE S MonoSpace® KONE Double Deck according to ISO 25745 compliant materials. KONE Z MiniSpace™ • 15 elevators with the best • Product resilience and reliability KONE E MiniSpace™ VDI 4707 guideline published by the A-class rating. including climatic testing in changing Association of German Engineers (Verein KONE N MiniSpace™ • 4 escalators and autowalks environmental conditions. Deutscher Ingenieure) classifies elevators KONE S MiniSpace™ with the best A +++ rating. KONE 3000 MiniSpace™ based on their energy consumption. KONE 300 TranSys™ 28 Providing the most sustainable offering KONE SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 KONE SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 Providing the most sustainable offering 29 HIGHLIGHTS MANAGING SUSTAINABILIT Y FOCUS ARE AS INNOVATION & RESOURCE EFFICIENCY SUSTAINABLE OFFERING BEST EMPLOYER PARTNERSHIPS & SOCIET Y REPORTING SCOPE AND INDICES Material content of KONE Environmental impacts of products ordered from KONE Life cycle carbon footprint of KONE MonoSpace 700 DX elevator ® MonoSpace® 700 DX elevator Carbon footprint of KONE's products, tCO2e (calculated) 2017* 2018* 2019 80 Production of materials for products and packaging 4,404,800 4,630,300 4,864,100 70 Lifetime energy consumption of products 9,139,800 9,272,400 9,459,500 60 Total 13,544,600 13,902,700 14,323,600 50 40 30 Materials used, tonnes Materials 2017* 2018* 2019 20 Manufacturing (calculated) Metals (steel, aluminum, copper) 961,900 1,013,900 1,066,000 10 Concrete 196,500 207,300 217,300 0 -10 Electronics 20,600 21,700 22,900 -20 Ferrous metals (steel, cast iron) 72% Plastics 10,600 11,200 11,700 Inorganic materials (concrete, Rubber 8,900 9,400 10,000 Materials and component Replacement of components glass) 25% Glass 4,500 4,300 4,300 manufacturing 66% during life cycle 4% Non-ferrous metals (aluminum, Overall transportation during life Operational energy use 28% copper) 1% Other 59,500 63,500 67,700 cycle 7% Waste processing and disposal 3% Plastics and rubbers 1% Packaging (calculated) Wood 77,600 82,400 87,000 Packaging and waste treatment 7% End-of-life recycling benefits -16% Electrical and electronic equipment Plywood 11,900 12,200 12,500 Installation to the building <1% (cables, drives, etc.) <1% Paper/cardboard 7,200 7,400 7,700 Organic materials (plywood) <1% The total life cycle carbon footprint of KONE MonoSpace 700 DX elevator is ® Plastics 4,200 4,400 4,600 Other (lubricants, glues) <1% approximately 24 tCO2e. Metals 2,000 2,200 2,300 Office consumables (actual data) Paper 900 500 500 Total 1,366,300 1,440,400 1,514,500 approximately 2/3 (energy use) and 1/3 Product certifications Calculations are based on latest life cycle assessment data and products ordered from KONE. * 2017 and 2018 figures restated due to improved calculation methodology. (materials manufacturing) of the lifetime KONE’s solutions have been recognized by carbon footprint globally. The more energy a number of external parties and recomefficient the product is, the more we can mended for green building certified buildreduce its lifetime carbon footprint and ings. In 2019, we achieved and renewed consequently, that of our customers' buildSingapore Green Building Product (SGBP) ings. Many of our volume elevators, such certifications for several products with the as the KONE MonoSpace 700® DX, are highest Leader rating. KONE is the first elegood examples of how we have succeeded vator and escalator company to achieve in reducing the energy-related carbon footsuch top ratings in the vertical transportaprint. Consequently, our focus in product tion category. In total, eight KONE solutions development is on manufacturing excelhave been granted the SGBP certificates. lence through robotics and automation Through the certification, these solutions and supplier collaboration for sustainable are recommended for Green Mark certimaterials, as well as further developing fied green buildings. Green Mark is a green best-in-class energy efficient solutions. building certification scheme of Singapore’s During the reporting year, we also Building and Construction Authority, propublished two additional Health Product moting sustainability in the construction Declarations (HPD) for our volume elevaand real estate sectors. tors KONE MonoSpace®500 and KONE In Sweden, we received approved BygTranSys™ DX, as well as for our volume gvarubedömningen (BVB) assessments for escalator KONE TravelMaster™ 110. By KONE TranSys™ elevator and TransitMasproviding HPDs to our customers, we ter™ 180 escalator, in addition to four elesupport them in fulfilling additional green vator and escalator assessments completed building requirements related to building earlier. To date, KONE is the only elevator materials. Through the HPDs, we commuand escalator company to hold such a wide nicate about the material content and the range of BVB assessments. BVB is a nonassociated health effects of our products, profit organization that evaluates solutions responding to a growing need for healthier for buildings and drives the use of sustainliving environments. able building materials. 30 Providing the most sustainable offering KONE SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 KONE SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 Providing the most sustainable offering 31 HIGHLIGHTS MANAGING SUSTAINABILIT Y FOCUS ARE AS INNOVATION & RESOURCE EFFICIENCY SUSTAINABLE OFFERING BEST EMPLOYER PARTNERSHIPS & SOCIET Y REPORTING SCOPE AND INDICES BEING THE BEST CONTINUOUS LEARNING KONE’s Winning with Customers strattake place at least twice a year. In addition, we actively encourage all employees KONE’s apprentice programs in key countries are an opportune way for us EMPLOYER AND egy focuses on putting the needs of our to prepare individual development plans. to recruit new professionals. We also colcustomers and users at the center of all We provide our employees a tool with laborate actively with educational institudevelopment at KONE. People are key to mobile access for documenting their goals tions. In 2019, we continued to further ATTRACTING TALENT the strategy’s success, which requires us to develop and obtain new competencies and actions, performance discussions, and personal as well as career development strengthen our collaboration with schools as well as our promoters’ program to profor example in the fields of digitalization, plans. The tool also enables asking for vide information about KONE in schools, understanding customers’ businesses, soluand giving feedback throughout the year. universities, and other relevant institutions. tion selling and leading transformations. Mobile access allows also employees in KONE offers various summer traineeIn order to ensure having the best talent to KONE supports its employees in develthe field to view their goals, development ships and thesis opportunities in several oping their competencies with over 4,200 actions, feedback and career development countries. serve our customers, one of our strategic training programs and online modules. information at any time. The KONE International Trainee Protargets is to make KONE a great place to During the reporting year, over 25,000 In addition to using these discussions gram offers students and graduates opporwork. Our personnel strategy aims to ensure employees had the chance to try out new to set goals and review job content, KONE tunities to work on projects at different learning methods such as virtual reality, managers are advised to discuss employee KONE units around the world. the availability, engagement, motivation and gamification and mobile learning. Over well-being, as well as career development continuous development of our employees. We 35% of our learning centers are using new and growth opportunities. FAIR EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES methods and we are increasing the covKONE has mentorship programs on At KONE, creating a great place to work strive to maintain a safe and healthy working erage significantly in the coming years. global, area and local levels. On a global means treating every employee fairly and environment and foster a collaborative and KONE’s global learning management level, KONE facilitates mentoring as part of providing a safe working environment. A inclusive culture, where people are motivated system, konelearning.com makes training global talent programs. During the reportlocal HR professional manages the local options more visible and simplifies the maning year, 143 top managers from 42 counpersonnel-related policies and ensures that to develop their competencies and deliver the agement of certifications, training requiretries mentored a total of 171 mentees. we comply with local legislation and labor best results. We see diversity as a strength and ments, and personnel development. Mobile During 2019, there were 6,600 internal union practices in each country we operlearning is in active use in several countries. rotations including approximately 5,300 ate in. Through our HR operating model prohibit discrimination of any kind. In 2019, we continued to deliver global promotions and 1,300 lateral moves. and people processes we can ensure the talent programs for example for global top consistent guidance and alignment of performers, general managers, operations Attracting top talent our practices in the HR organization. All KONE'S KEY IMPACT AREAS RELATED TO THE UN managers and senior leaders. During the KONE recognizes that people are fundaemployees and managers can now get harSUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS reporting year, there were participants from mental to its success. To attract the best monized support from our centralized HR 35 countries in these programs and 20% talent, we continued to promote KONE as services teams and get better visibility to Occupational health and safety of participants were women (2018: 23%). a great place to work and received recognitheir own data as well as take direct action Additionally, our pool of global emerging tion as an employer in many of our markets. with the help of our self-service tools. leaders was assigned a global curriculum In China, KONE was included in the listing based on 70/20/10 actions (70% of learnfor 100 Employer Excellence of China by Equal pay and rewarding performance ing through practice, 20% through social 51job, the leading recruitment website in Our total reward framework consists of learning, and 10% through formal developChina. In Finland, KONE retained the 1st easy-to-understand policies, guidelines, Education for sustainable development ment and training) to be completed within place in the Engineering category on the list and practices that are aligned with our Capacity building the next 2 years. of 100 Most Attractive Employers in Finland. business strategy. We invest significantly Indirect impact on job creation Our 360 assessment measures our KONE India was included on the AVTAR in a range of monetary and non-moneYouth employment leadership competencies such as colGroup and Working Mother Media’s list of tary rewards offered to employees. This laboration, inclusion, and developing 100 Best Companies for Women in India for framework focuses on pay for perfortalent. The assessment is part of all our the fourth consecutive year. The recognition mance. By communicating our reward Equal remuneration for women and men key leadership development programs on was received for building sustainable careers approach clearly, we can make the fairDiversity and equal opportunity all manager and leadership levels, and it for women and introducing many initiatives ness and equality of the approach visible to Workplace violence and harassment should be completed at a minimum every for mentorship, well-being, growth opporall KONE personnel. While reward policies Women in leadership three years. In 2019, approximately 800 tunities, and work-life balance. are consistent across KONE, the practices employees completed the 360 assessment We actively encourage all employees to are flexible to meet local needs. with more than 10,000 employees giving prepare individual development plans. In Employee agreements are managed on Employment them feedback. 2019, 75% (2018: 80%) of eligible employa national level, and there are differences Non-discrimination ees had documented their development in national legislations. A total of 65% of Capacity building Facilitating professional growth plans. The expectation is that all employees KONE’s employees are covered by collecOccupational health and safety At KONE, we strive to have the best possihave at least annual career development tive bargaining agreements. ble professionals with the right competendiscussions with their managers. The compensation and other benefits cies in each position. We facilitate this and Globally KONE was recognized as of the Board of Directors, President and In 2019 KONE was for the third year running recognized as one of the increase the motivation, engagement and one of the best employers in the world CEO, and the Executive Board are disclosed best employers in the world by Forbes business magazine in their continuous development of our employees by Forbes business magazine for the third in KONE’s Annual Review 2019 (p. 92–93). Forbes' 2019 Global 2000: World's Best Employers list. through performance discussions which year running. 32 Being the best employer and attracting talent KONE SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 KONE SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 Being the best employer and attracting talent 33 HIGHLIGHTS MANAGING SUSTAINABILIT Y FOCUS ARE AS INNOVATION & RESOURCE EFFICIENCY SUSTAINABLE OFFERING BEST EMPLOYER PARTNERSHIPS & SOCIET Y REPORTING SCOPE AND INDICES We have employees in over 60 countries, with a majority in Asia-Pacific Employees Personnel by country Dec 31, 2019 Employees by market, 2019 Targets Total number of employees, year end 59,825 10 largest countries (2018 figures in brackets) ⬁ 20% of director level Share of women 11% China 18,746 (17,676) positions held by women by Share of women in director level positions 18% United States 5,410 (5,264) 2020 Share of women in the Executive Board 7% India 5,091 (4,702) Americas: 13% (13%) Share of women in the Board of Directors 38% Asia-Pacific: 48% (48%) ⬁ More balanced gender split France 2,983 (2,990) Voluntary turnover rate, compared to 12-month average headcount 7.6% EMEA: 39% (39%) ⬁ Maintain voluntary turnover Finland 2,444 (2,427) (2018 figures in brackets) below market level Age distribution –30 31–50 51– Germany 2,360 (2,250) Italy 2,031 (1,980) ⬁ Maintain employee All KONE employees 30% 54% 15% engagement on a strong level Executive Board 0% 36% 64% United Kingdom 1,768 (1,772) Board of Directors 13% 13% 75% Australia 1,434 (1,438) Canada 1,111 (1,103) Gender distribution per market Men Women EMEA 86% 14% Subcontracting share of total labor Use of subcontracted workforce includes gender, but also industry backAsia Pacific 91% 9% Average workforce tenure in years costs in installation Due to the cyclical nature of the construcground and selected competencies to Americas 89% 11% 10 largest countries (2018 figures in brackets) tion business, a significant proportion of ensure that we are diversifying our workour new equipment installation and modforce systematically. We have also set interChina 5.1 (4.4) 50 ernization projects is subcontracted. Subnal talent management goals to increase Employees with permanent contract Men Women United States 7.6 (7.1) contracted workforce is also used to carry our diversity and inclusion. Our goal is to EMEA 97% 95% 40 43% India 6.2 (5.7) 41% out some highly specialized tasks that fall have 20% of director level positions held Asia Pacific 97% 98% outside the remit of KONE's core business, by women by 2020. We are currently at France 12.4 (11.6) 36% Americas 99% 99% 30 for example in R&D and IT. 18% (2018: 17%). To strengthen our Finland 11.8 (11.4) global approach and deepen our insights Germany 9.4 (9.2) 20 Fostering diversity and inclusion on customers and markets, we have set Voluntary turnover rate* High ethical principles guide all our activgoals to increase cultural diversity in our Italy 15.6 (16.2) Region 10 ities. As an employer, KONE is commitglobal teams. United Kingdom 9.9 (9.5) EMEA 6% ted to an equal opportunity approach that KONE has conducted several studies Asia Pacific 9% Australia 8.7 (7.9) 0 places people in the positions that best suit on gender diversity and equality in the New Modernization Total their abilities. We respect and value difpast, and results have shown no signifiAmericas 8% Mexico 5.7 (5.4) equipment ferences and believe in an inclusive workcant barriers or discrimination of gender Gender place that empowers individuals. We value or age in terms of compensation or career Female 8% diversity in all forms and welcome new opportunities. Over half of our employees are in Male 8% perspectives to our business. We seek out During the reporting year, KONE’s the field every day 4,200 innovative ideas and new approaches to customer solutions and believe that our future success depends on our collective workforce included 145 nationalities. In 2019, 86% of external hires into leadership positions globally were filled by local Age group 30 and under 12% Employees by job category, 2019 training programs and online ability to build diverse and inclusive teams, candidates (2018: 80%). 31–50 8% modules available communities and networks. 51 and above 4% * Calculated from 12-month average headcount To foster diversity and inclusion (D&I), Dialogue between top management and we defined a global D&I roadmap. As the employee representatives first step, we defined a KONE diversity and KONE hosts a European Employee Forum New hires gender distribution per market Men Women 6,600 inclusion statement and guiding principles for our employees, as well as started to review our existing D&I policies and every year to bring together employee representatives and top management to discuss issues ranging from safety to EMEA Asia Pacific 82% 92% 18% 8% internal job rotations practices. This review will continue in business development. A smaller working Americas 92% 8% 2020 and the input will be used for creatgroup meets two to four times a year New hires age distribution per market –30 31–50 51– Maintenance and modernization 59% ing KONE’s global diversity and inclusion to ensure continuous consultation and (58%) strategy. This strategy will be published discussion on important developments EMEA 48% 46% 5% externally together with the diversity and affecting KONE employees. Asia Pacific 74% 25% 1% New equipment, sales and installation 25% inclusion statement and guiding princiOrganized since 1995, the theme of (25%) Americas 37% 51% 12% ples in 2020. the 2019 KONE Employee Forum was Manufacturing 7% (8%) To increase diversity through recruitthe new KONE DX Class offering (read Administration, IT and R&D 9% (9%) ment, we started to track the diversity of more about the new offering on pages our hires on a monthly basis. This tracking 15–16). In addition to business reviews, (2018 figures in brackets) 34 Being the best employer and attracting talent KONE SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 KONE SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 Being the best employer and attracting talent 35 HIGHLIGHTS MANAGING SUSTAINABILIT Y FOCUS ARE AS INNOVATION & RESOURCE EFFICIENCY SUSTAINABLE OFFERING BEST EMPLOYER PARTNERSHIPS & SOCIET Y REPORTING SCOPE AND INDICES Industrial injury frequency rate Target safety, quality and environment were also of working on a country, area and global We carry out audits among employees discussed. Twenty-one representatives level, across the entire KONE organization as well as subcontractors to measure comdevelopment among KONE employees from 15 European countries attended the leveraging our scale. pliance with policies, rules, and defined Forum. During 2019 we concentrated on conworking methods. Corrective actions are 4 ⬁ 0 incidents tinuing the transformations for business taken on any identified deviations. Open two-way communication to engage lines and in already established functions, Each year, KONE organizes a global 3 The number of near miss employees such as a Human Resources. In addition, safety week. The week presents KONE At KONE, we believe employee engageCustomer Solutions Engineering and Logisemployees with training, events and activreports increased by 21.3% 2 ment is built on open and timely commutics organizations were launched and ities. Many countries also organize events nication about the company’s goals and together with re-established Sourcing and trainings together with customers ways of doing business. organization they are now actively using and subcontractors during the week. The 1 We use multiple channels to internew ways of working. Transformation contheme of the 2019 safety week was safe act with employees, motivate them, and tinued in KONE Technology & Innovation, work environment. It focused on being 0 encourage collaboration. KONE’s global as well as in Finance, Customer Service, prepared for sudden changes in the work 2017 2018 2019 intranet, for example, acts as both a news and Quality functions. environment, such as extreme weather channel for all the latest news and events conditions. During the week, for instance As key safety performance indicators, KONE tracks the number of lost time injuries of one as well as a virtual teamwork site. EMPLOYEE SAFETY AND WELL-BEING emergency preparedness and response day or more per million hours worked, as The latest KONE news is also shared At KONE safety is our top priority. This activities were organized globally to train well as the average number of lost days per through internal video news broadcasts means making sure each of our employemployees to stay safe while continuing incident. and newsletters ees, subcontractors, and partners have the to help our customers and the users of In 2019, our industrial injury frequency necessary competence, tools and instrucour equipment. rate (IIFR) improved to 1.7 (2018: 2.1). The average lost days per incident is 33.7 days Measuring engagement tions to perform their work professionally (2018: 27.4). The most important metric for employee and safely. Safety performance engagement at KONE is the Pulse At KONE, safety is an integral part of As KONE operates in a high-risk industry, employee survey. The survey offers our our company culture. We foster an undera safe working environment is the founpeople an opportunity to give feedback standing and caring safety culture by prodation of all our operations. In measuring Improving safety performance reporting and managing employee, subimportance of sleep, nutrition, increasand provides insights into employee moting open communication and active safety performance, KONE monitors and KONE employees receive health and safety contractor, third-party and equipment ing physical activity and strengthening engagement. participation at all levels. We regularly recevaluates a wide range of performance training relevant to their role. KONE also user related near misses and incidents. your mental well-being. The Pulse survey covers topics such as ognize and reward safe behavior and share indicators. As an example, KONE tracks sets requirements for subcontractor trainWith the roll-out of the mobile reportThe program is structured around employee engagement and enablement, the best practices. the number of lost time injuries of one ing. Depending on local practices, subconing tool the number of near miss reports a global calendar with regular intranet leadership, learning and growth, corpoday or more per million hours worked, as tractors participate in safety training and increased by 21.3% (2018: 4%). In 2019, news articles and suggested activities for rate responsibility, customer centricity, Managing workplace safety well as the average number of lost days toolbox talk sessions arranged by KONE. we focused on improving the quality, countries to deploy. The aim is to increase innovation and drive, and diversity and KONE Way for Safety, our safety manageper incident. During the reporting year, the focus analysis and investigation of incident and awareness of actions which maintain and inclusion. In addition, the survey examment system, guides us in continuously In 2019, our Industrial injury frewas on strengthening safety compenear miss reports. We continue to encourimprove well-being. ines how respondents view their team improving safety in all KONE workplaces quency rate (IIFR) improved to 1.7 (2018: tencies using interactive learnings and age near miss and incident reporting as it We have introduced a learning packeffectiveness, managers and performance and tasks. It defines our safety policy and 2.1). The average lost days per incident mobile tools. The global roll-out of our provides valuable information for improvage for leaders to increase their comreviews. objectives, and how we manage and prowas 33.7 days (2018: 27.4). interactive safety learning application, ing workplace safety. Local safety personpetence in managing the well-being of In 2019, we decided not to conmote safety. It is applicable to the manageThe improvement of IIFR is overSafety in Mind, was completed in 2019. nel analyze the reported data and use their teams. This includes an e-learning, duct a Pulse survey as there was a clear ment of KONE employee, subcontractor, shadowed by the fact that one KONE Safety in Mind reminds the field personthe results to improve safety. Incidents, a toolkit and short guides. need to allow more time for executing partner safety as well and promoting employee died as a result of a work-renel about the main risks in their roles and lost days per injury, and near misses are During 2019, we set up a network volthe action plans made in teams based equipment user safety. KONE Way for lated injury. Furthermore, 11 employees the ways to mitigate them. In addition, part of each unit’s monthly reporting to unteer well-being champions in selected on the 2018 survey results. Between Safety is based on the ISO 45001 Occuwere injured in separate high-consewe produced and shared globally two global functions. pilot counties. The purpose of the chamAugust and November, we organized pational health and safety management quence work-related incidents. new toolbox talks on entrance protection Lessons learned from incidents and pions is to raise awareness on well-being Pulse Talks across all teams at KONE to systems standard. The main types of work-related injury on construction sites and elevator brake near misses are shared in quarterly organtopics and ensure all employees know ensure sustainable follow-up on the Pulse Safety is a key criterium in the risk at KONE are cuts, strains and fractures. maintenance. ized safety network meetings. In addition, what support is available for them. action plans and continuous dialogue on assessments across the KONE core proFor each incident, we identified the During 2019, all employees were safety managers discuss concerns and We monitor medical insurance data engagement. cesses, from new projects to day-to-day causes and the lessons learned, and took invited to enroll in a new safety trainshare best practices on a monthly basis. and carry out in-depth reviews on specKONE’s 13th global Pulse employee operations. KONE’s Health and Safety actions to prevent any re-occurrence. ing regarding our safety management ified locations. The objective of these survey will be carried out during 2020. Policy empowers all workers, whether The relevant details were shared across framework, and KONE’s Health and Safety Global program for employee well-being reviews is to benchmark existing well-beemployees, subcontractors, or partners, our global safety network and business Policy. Together they present our safety KONE has a global framework and proing programs and provide recommendaOrganizational changes to foster to stop work and ask for support should units. We will continue to do our utmost objectives, commitment and responsibilgram for employee well-being. For us, tions that will improve the well-being of customer centricity they identify a suspected safety risk. We to ensure that all our employees and subities applicable to all KONE employees. employee well-being is being physically, employees. KONE is developing and further harmotake into account employees’ suggestions contractor workers return home safely at The completion rate among the 59,000 mentally and socially healthy. In the connizing roles, processes and tools. The regarding safety. the end of each day. For example, focus KONE employees that were assigned the text of work and career, it is about living Accelerate program, focusing on develEvery leader is responsible for leading on promoting safe behavior as well as the training was 87%. The e-learning is availaa balanced life. oping our operating model, continued by example and providing their team with development of safer procedures, to reach ble in 36 languages, and we also organize KONE’s Elevate your health program with a focus on change management. a safe working environment. They also our goal of zero incidents. classroom trainings. is in place in all our units. It covers topics The aim of the program is to create a responsible for ensuring that the team is Our global mobile safety reporting ranging from taking care of joints and more efficient and customer-focused way adequately trained for their respective roles. tool, KONE Safety Solution, is used for muscles to weight loss initiatives, the 36 Being the best employer and attracting talent KONE SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 KONE SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 Being the best employer and attracting talent 37 HIGHLIGHTS MANAGING SUSTAINABILIT Y FOCUS ARE AS INNOVATION & RESOURCE EFFICIENCY SUSTAINABLE OFFERING BEST EMPLOYER PARTNERSHIPS & SOCIET Y REPORTING SCOPE AND INDICES ENABLING OUR LONG-TERM FOCUS KONE continuously develops its business Our largest direct economic impacts come from the employment opportunities that all KONE employees must follow to ensure that we comply fully with compePARTNERS AND with a long-term focus. We have a challenger we provide. KONE is a global company tition laws. The Competition Compliance mindset and we are constantly developing with global processes and guidelines, but policy is available for our employees in 33 our competitiveness in order to strengthen our operations are at the same time very languages. SOCIETIES TO PROSPER our position as one of the global leaders in the elevator and escalator industry. local. In our subsidiaries, management and field personnel are predominantly local. KONE Supplier and Distributor Codes of In 2019, the largest KONE countries by Conduct Progress on long-term financial targets the number of employees were China, the KONE’s Supplier Code of Conduct sets KONE has three long-term financial tarUnited States and India. Read more about out the ethical business practice requireKONE directly contributes to economic gets: growing faster than the market, our people on pages 32–37. ments that we expect from our suppliers. It achieving an EBIT margin of 16%, and covers areas such as legal compliance, ethdevelopment in the over 60 countries improving working capital rotation. ETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICES ical conduct, our zero tolerance for bribwhere we operate. In addition, we work with KONE has consistently grown faster KONE has operations in over 60 countries ery and corruption, and the standards we approximately 35,000 suppliers who provide us than the market. For the 16% EBIT margin, and collaborates with authorized distribrequire from our suppliers in terms of labor no target date has been set. With our life utors and agents in almost 100 countries and human rights, health and safety, and with for example raw materials, components cycle business model, the short-term focus around the world. As a global corporate the environment. We expect our suppliers and modules, as well as logistics, installation is on growing absolute EBIT while achievcitizen, we are fully committed to the laws to comply with the requirements of the ing improved relative profitability over time and regulations of the countries where we KONE Supplier Code of Conduct in all their and other services. As a responsible corporate with growth, further differentiation and operate. KONE’s global presence makes it dealings with us, as well as with their own citizen and business partner, we are committed productivity gains. Working capital rotacrucial for us to ensure that we have clear employees and suppliers, and third parto making a positive impact throughout the tion improved clearly over the last decade compliance rules and guidance in place, ties including government officials. KONE and has remained on a good level during which enable us to conduct business in an may terminate its contracts with suppliwhole value chain. the past years. ethically and socially responsible manner ers if they fail to adhere to the code. The KONE's strong financial performance throughout our entire value chain. KONE Supplier Code of Conduct is availhas enabled steadily developing dividends A dedicated compliance team, includable in 24 languages and can be read on KONE'S KEY IMPACT AREAS RELATED TO THE UN to our shareholders. Also with a longer-term ing regional teams in China and North KONE.com/suppliers. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS perspective, our track record on dividend America, develops and implements KONE’s As KONE’s business partners, our disdistribution has been sustainable. KONE global compliance program. Our global tributors are also expected to comply with Employment had over 62,000 shareholders at the end of and regional compliance committees advise the requirements of the KONE Distributor Non-discrimination 2019 (2018: over 62,000). and take decisions on compliance matters Code of Conduct in all their dealings with Procurement practices such as investigations into allegations of KONE, as well as in respect of their own Tax strategy and principles Creating wealth through taxes and employee misconduct, KONE’s human employees, customers and suppliers, and Supporting local communities employment rights initiatives, and our anti-bribery and third parties including government offiWe are committed to paying all taxes that corruption activities. During the reporting cials. The KONE Distributor Code of ConInfrastructure investments are legally due, and to meeting all discloyear, we reviewed and clarified our global duct is currently available in five languages Sustainable buildings sure requirements in the countries where policies, and published them on our new, and can be read on KONE.com. we operate. Our objective is to ensure one-stop-shop global policies intranet site. predictability in all tax matters. In addiKONE's new Global Trade Compliance tion, every transaction must have a solid KONE's Code of Conduct Policy business rationale without compromising KONE’s Code of Conduct (the Code) is an We introduced our Global Trade CompliEffective, accountable and transparent governance tax compliance principles. The location of integral part of our culture and defines our ance Policy in the beginning of 2019. It Compliance with laws and regulations KONE’s group entities is driven by business standards of ethical conduct. The Code sets highlights our commitment to full comAnti-corruption reasons, such as the location of customers, out our company’s commitment to integrity, pliance with all applicable national and suppliers, raw materials and know-how. honesty, and fair play and addresses what is international trade compliance laws, rules We insist on transparency in all our expected of KONE employees and KONE and regulations, including trade sanctions, activities, including our relationships with companies. It also explains how we conexport controls, and customs regulations. tax authorities. KONE has been collaboratduct our business in a responsible and ethical The policy sets out the trade compliance ing with the Finnish Tax Administration In manner in order to earn and retain customer principles and expectations applicable to promoting tax transparency since 2015. trust. Our Code of Conduct is available on all KONE employees. We also reorganized KONE’s tax strategy can be read on KONE.com in 33 languages. our trade compliance team in order to KONE.com. respond to the fast-changing trade comKONE’s income taxes globally amounted KONE’s Competition Compliance Policy pliance environment globally. to EUR 278.9 million in 2019 (2018: 241.9 KONE’s Competition Compliance Policy million), with the ten largest countries by promotes the principles of fair competiReporting and follow-up of concerns KONE has operations in over 60 countries and collaborates with sales accounting for 78% (2018: 70%) of tion that are presented in KONE’s Code of All KONE employees are expected to authorized distributors and agents in almost 100 countries around the world. We have clear compliance rules and guidance in place, the corporate taxes. Income taxes of the Conduct. The policy details our unambiguunderstand and abide by KONE’s Code of which enable us to conduct business in an ethically and socially Finnish KONE companies totaled EUR 49.5 ous position against anti-competitive pracConduct and to report any violations using responsible manner throughout our entire value chain. million in 2019 (2018: 40.0 million). tices. It sets out the rules and principles the channels available for this purpose. 38 Enabling our partners and societies to prosper KONE SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 KONE SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 Enabling our partners and societies to prosper 39 HIGHLIGHTS MANAGING SUSTAINABILIT Y FOCUS ARE AS INNOVATION & RESOURCE EFFICIENCY SUSTAINABLE OFFERING BEST EMPLOYER PARTNERSHIPS & SOCIET Y REPORTING SCOPE AND INDICES KONE’s externally hosted reporting chanharassment and discrimination. The purproduction unit with land area of 75,000 How KONE added economic value in 2019 Value distributed nel, the Compliance Line, allows employpose of this video, intended for use in m2 and construction area of 48,000 m2 Value distributed Wages and salaries MEUR 2,301 (2,113) ees to report concerns confidentially 24/7 management-led meetings, is to train – more than double compared to the old Sales to Purchases from Added Employment= either by phone or web. Reports can be employees and address key anti-harassfactory. The new factory offers employcustomers suppliers value MEUR 1,026 (947) related costs and taxes made in the employee’s native language ment topics, as well as give advice on how ment for approximately 400 people. The and anonymously where permitted by to speak up about to it. This effort continproduction volume of the new factory MEUR MEUR MEUR Creditors MEUR -25 (-47) local law. The Compliance Line is easily ues during 2020. already surpassed that of the old factory. 9,982 5,741 4,241 Shareholders MEUR 880 (851) accessible through the Ethics and ComThe facility is being certified according to (9,071) (5,210) (3,861) Economic value retained in MEUR 58 (-4) pliance’s Global intranet page. We also Human rights risk assessment Indian Green Building Council environthe company encourage employees to report compliIn 2019, we engaged a third party to conmental norms. 2018 figures in brackets. ance concerns through internal channels duct a high-level human rights risk assessKONE also opened a new distribution (e.g. manager, HR, legal or compliance). ment at KONE. The assessment included a center for spare parts in Dubai, UAE. The KONE does not tolerate any form of retalreview of relevant policies and processes, center will serve service business customers Top 10 supplier locations* Global logistics iation against employees who report conas well as in-depth management interin the Middle-East area and shorten deliv• China cerns in good faith. views. On the basis of the risk assessment ery times by improving material availability. • Italy KONE investigates reported concerns in outcome, we have taken actions to priorKONE also continued the product har• Finland a timely and professional manner and takes itize our work in the area of human rights monization in order to further increase • Austria In total, over 3.9 million packages were delivcorrective action when necessary, including in the supply chain. We have nominated, flexibility and productivity. • United States ered to new installation sites, and around 1.5 disciplinary action, process improvements, and provided initial training to, a network In logistics, KONE continued with • Germany million packages of spare parts to existing cusand further training. Furthermore, KONE’s of employee human rights champions to program to deploy its centralized logistics • India tomer sites. 3.9 million packages amount to a case management system integrates the raise awareness of human rights issues paroperating model. By better processes and • Czech Republic weight of 1,450 million kilograms, or 3.7 million • Estonia web, phone and other reporting channels ticularly amongst the sourcing community coordination of different activities, we aim cubic meters in volume. • Mexico to allow for a secure and confidential system in KONE. We are currently preparing a pilot to achieve savings in logistics costs as well for managing cases. project for more detailed human rights as improvements in eco-efficiency of its * Suppliers that provide products for new supplier assessments in 2020. delivery chain. equipment to KONE distribution centers and Training and awareness building factories. All KONE employees are required to comINDUSTRY-LEADING SUPPLY CHAIN Responding to customers’ needs plete the Code of Conduct online training. In 2019, KONE had thirteen production We adapt our supply chain to take cusAdjusted EBIT (MEUR) and adjusted KONE class B share dividend per We rolled out our new and engaging Code sites for elevators, escalators and building tomers’ different requirements into EBIT margin (%) share, 2017–2019 (EUR) Sales (MEUR) of Conduct e-learning course in 2018-19 doors, ten global distribution centers for account. During the reporting year, our in 37 languages. The training covers topics elevators, and six distribution centers for newly established Logistics organization 1,500 24 1.80 10,000 such as conflicts of interest, fair compespare parts. continued to develop a more seamless 9,982 tition, anti-bribery, privacy, work safety, KONE’s supply chain operations cover flow of ready products as well as compo1.60 1.70 1,250 20 1.65 1.65 9,071 anti-harassment and discrimination, and new equipment production, moderninents to our customers. The work contin1.40 8,000 8,797 1,206 1,237 gifts and hospitality. The training has a zation, and spares supply. We also work ues during 2020. 16 1.20 1,000 1,112 strong focus on scenarios that reflect dayclosely with selected key material suppliers We also continued to develop packag6,000 1.00 to-day situations employees might face. and logistics service providers. Approxiing solutions to allow us to better accom750 12 13.7% We reached a completion rate of 90% mately 4,600 people keep KONE’s supply modate various customer needs and make 12.3% 12.4% 0.80 4,000 among the approximately 58,000 employoperations running. installation as smooth as possible. 500 8 0.60 ees in 64 countries that were assigned the KONE continued the implementation We systematically collect customer 0.40 2,000 training. Furthermore, regular face-to-face of a new manufacturing execution system feedback on the quality performance of 250 4 0.20 compliance training is also provided to (MES) with factories in Finland, the United our supply chain operations and analyze 0 0 0 0 managers and other target groups. During States and Italy. MES is a computerized it using Six Sigma tools before taking any 2017 2018 2019* 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2019, over 3,000 employees received facesystem that is used to track and document necessary corrective actions. to-face compliance training. the transformation of raw materials to finAdjusted EBIT In 2019 we re-launched our Compeished goods, and it provides information Better quality and productivity through Adjusted EBIT margin tition Compliance e-learning course to a that helps understand how current conlearning selected group of employees, based on ditions on the factory floor can be optiAt KONE, we employ various optimization In September 2017, KONE introduced a new KONE’s largest individual shareholder is alternative performance measure, adjusted Antti Herlin, Chairman of KONE’s Board of their role and position in the company. mized to improve production output and techniques and tools to improve the proEBIT, to enhance comparability of the business Directors, who controls over 20% of the share The group included members of KONE’s implement production quality improveductivity and quality of our operations and performance between reporting periods during capital and over 60% of votes. For KONE’s Executive Board and employees in manments. The MES implementation continues delivery chain. By applying Lean Six Sigma the Accelerate program. Restructuring costs domestically registered major shareholders, agement, sales, sourcing, and trade assoin 2020 as do our supply chain improvephilosophies, we are able to reduce waste related to the Accelerate program are excluded see monthly updated list on KONE.com. ciation related roles. Additionally, business ment activities. and control process variation throughout from the calculation of the adjusted EBIT. units could nominate additional particiInvestments in production automation the entire supply chain as well as in prod* The adoption of IFRS 16 had a positive impact pants. The global completion rate among continued as well, for example in the new uct and process transitions. of EUR 6 million to the operating income. the nominated group was 80%. production facility in India. In the supply line the trainings continDuring the reporting year, we also The building phase of KONE’s newest ued to focus on overall capability developRead more about KONE's financial created and started to roll out a video factory in Pillaipakkam, India, was comment with more employees gaining kaizen performance in our Annual Review 2019 designed to raise awareness of workplace pleted. The facility is a state-of-the-art continual development event skills. 40 Enabling our partners and societies to prosper KONE SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 KONE SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 Enabling our partners and societies to prosper 41 HIGHLIGHTS MANAGING SUSTAINABILIT Y FOCUS ARE AS INNOVATION & RESOURCE EFFICIENCY SUSTAINABLE OFFERING BEST EMPLOYER PARTNERSHIPS & SOCIET Y REPORTING SCOPE AND INDICES Each production unit completed a supply chain situation, and KONE’s investcriteria from a number of angles, such as SUPPORTING CHILDREN AND YOUTH number of corrective actions as part of a ment or integration level with the supplier. quality, cost and logistics. The KONE Centennial Foundation (KCF), continuous improvement cycles with an Based on the supplier’s status, our We regularly discuss performance evalan independent, non-profit organizaincreasing focus on full-chain activities. management and measurement techuations with our suppliers. When their pertion founded by KONE in celebration of We continued our Lean capability process niques include audits, assessment and formance does not meet our expectations, its 100th anniversary in 2010, focuses on control and zero-defect programs during mitigation of supplier-related risk, the use we initiate corrective actions or developinnovative programs that advance and the reporting year. All major KONE supply of standardized contractual agreements ment projects and conduct follow-ups. support developmental, educational, and units continue to hold ISO 9001 and 14001 that include the KONE Supplier Code of We also work closely with our strategic cultural activities for children and youth certificates. Conduct, the assessment of supplier persuppliers to find competitive raw material around the world. KCF cooperates closely We continued implementing and mainformance, and supplier certification. price levels. with local partners and a designated protaining the 5S* system in our offices, facRead more about KONE’s Supplier Read more on how we develop quality ject coordinator in each country to plan tories, installation sites and distribution Code of Conduct on page 39. together with our suppliers on page 25. and monitor projects, aiming to ensure centers. efficient resource allocation and respect Over one hundred Lean Six Sigma proThe majority of strategic suppliers KONE's Supplier Excellence Certification for local culture and priorities. Wherever jects were successfully completed in 2019, audited Program possible, KCF chooses projects where local and we continued to increase our expert All of the main material suppliers to KONE We aim to maintain a supply base that KONE units can contribute practical supcompetence improvement with regular distribution centers and factories undergo complies with international quality and port and KONE volunteers can participate Lean Six Sigma trainings. regular audits. In 2019, 86% (2018: 92%) environmental standards as well as the in their spare time. The foundation also of our strategic suppliers were audited. We standards of KONE. We expect all of our provides matching funds for appropriate SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN review our audit plan every year to priorkey suppliers’ factories to attain Supplier fund-raising initiatives by KONE employees MANAGEMENT itize and schedule audits according to our Excellence Certifications. around the world. We seek to build long-term relationships business needs. The audits are scheduled to KONE’s Supplier Excellence CertificaDuring 2019, KCF supported programs with our suppliers. Our supplier relationcheck on changes in products or production Program assesses key suppliers’ sites, in China, India, Mexico, South Africa and ships provide business opportunities and tion processes, to validate follow-through examining aspects that include environThailand. In addition, KCF supported employment for thousands of suppliers on improvement initiatives, to assess qualmental and quality management systems, teacher exchanges between Finland and globally. ity and environmental management sysperformance scorecards, and supplier audit the Dandelion School in Beijing, China, KONE only produces selected compotems – especially when suppliers are not results. In 2019 97% of our strategic suppliand the Huana School in Thailand. nents in-house, and our own production ISO certified, or to pre-audit the suitability ers were ISO 9001 certified (2018: 97%), The KCF Joy of Reading mobile library consists largely of the assembly of sourced of potential suppliers. and 91% of them had ISO 14001 certificahas been serving children of migrant workcomponents. Our suppliers and their subtions (2018: 90%). ers in China’s cities since 2011 bringing Children in Valle de Chalco, Mexico tier suppliers are a critical part of KONE’s Assessing supplier risks them age-appropriate and inspiring readsupply chain. Out of our 35,000 suppliers, KONE’s sourcing risk monitoring system is Breakdown of material and service ing material. Recent cooperation with the approximately 19,000 provide KONE with based on a thorough assessment of supplipurchases from our suppliers Hangzhou Children’s Library and the Beiraw materials, components, modules, as ers, including analyses of their financial and jing Normal University in China has helped African society include classes in computer in the rural Na Yom region of Thailand well as logistics and installation services. In business viability and their dependence on the mobile library to expand and develop skills, media, culinary skills, urban gardennorth of Bangkok. Z2H has made great addition, there are approximately 16,000 business from KONE, location-based risks its services. Since its inception, the Joy of ing and theatrical production. In addition, strides in introducing best educational suppliers who deliver other indirect mateand continuous cybersecurity assessment. Reading mobile library has reached over WYC’s parent organization, Mashup NPO, practices from Finland and active learnrials and services to KONE. Our risk engineering audit concept 100,000 children. In 2020, KCF will replace is active in community affairs and advocacy ing concepts in general in the Phetchabun All our strategic suppliers are required covers for example: the existing mobile library vehicle with for youth development, gender equality Province of central Thailand. to comply with ISO 14001 certification. • Facility risks such as fire risks and risks a new, environmentally friendlier model. and an end to drug trafficking and gang KCF has begun worldwide cooperarelated to the main machinery Since 2017, KCF and KONE India have violence in Westbury and the surroundtion with KONE Corporation to recycle Long-term relationships with suppliers • Production risks such as production cooperated to support Single Teacher ing area. KCF has supported this project the company’s used computers to schools We purchase approximately 80% of our transfer possibilities, buffer stocks and Schools in 20 rural communities near since 2012. and youth development programs in need. raw materials, components, and systems business continuity management Chennai, India, where KONE recently On the outskirts of Mexico City, KCF appreciates the enthusiastic cooperasupply for new equipment production from • IT risks such as cyber risks opened a new elevator factory. These Mexico, KCF has been supporting Xico tion it receives from KONE companies in approximately 170 suppliers, the majority • Natural hazards Total MEUR 5,518.6 Single Teacher Schools provide instruction Arte, a local archaeology and art-against-vithe countries where it supports ongoing of whom are located in the same countries • Second tier supplier risks Direct materials and supplies, for children who are either poorly served olence collective, since 2015. The organizaprojects. Although KCF is an independent as KONE factories or distribution centers. • Financial risks. subcontracting 72.9% by local schools or do not attend them tion visits schools in troubled communities entity, cooperation with KONE companies Our aim is to build long-term relaregularly. In 2020, support for schools in the surrounding Valle de Chalco to teach is central to its ability to meet its objectives. Other production costs* 13.5% tionships with our suppliers. We manage Continuous development of supplier and development of these communities is local history and traditions and hold art them according to a tailored approach that performance Selling, administrative and other expected to expand significantly through workshops. It organizes events for the surreflects their importance to KONE. This is We monitor the performance of our main expenses** 13.6% the increased involvement of KONE India. rounding community and offers summer done through the regular, critical assesssuppliers of our direct production materials One important focal point in 2019 for classes for the children. With help from ment of multiple factors such as the busithrough a monthly KPI measurement and activities at the Westbury Youth Centre KCF, Arte y Cultura Xico A.C. is in the pro* Mainly freight and packaging costs as well ness scope and spend with the supplier, follow-up process. We also run a supplier (WYC) in Johannesburg, South Africa has cess of formalizing its status as a not-foras other variable costs such as utilities, tools their innovation potential, the criticality of scorecard system that evaluates key supand operatives related costs. been entrepreneurship incubation as part profit association. the materials or services they provide, the pliers of direct materials. The results of the of the SAIS II program funded by Finland’s In 2019, KCF continued for the third Read more on the latest developments ** Related to for example administration in projects KCF supports. Visit the site on * 5S methodology: sort, stabilize, shine, scorecards represent a balanced view of expenses, covering IT, marketing, trainings, Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Other WYC year its support for the Zero-to-Hero (Z2H) konecentennialfoundation.org standardize, and sustain. quantitative and qualitative performance and insurances. offerings for youth at the margins of South Foundation’s child development program 42 Enabling our partners and societies to prosper KONE SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 KONE SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 Enabling our partners and societies to prosper 43 HIGHLIGHTS MANAGING SUSTAINABILIT Y FOCUS ARE AS INNOVATION & RESOURCE EFFICIENCY SUSTAINABLE OFFERING BEST EMPLOYER PARTNERSHIPS & SOCIET Y REPORTING SCOPE AND INDICES REPORTING SCOPE KONE has chosen to report using the on ­p. 12). KONE’s approach to sustainaof employees working at our manufacturfacility-related environmental data has assessments of KONE’s products. The sales Energy Certificate System) have been Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidebility has also been described in the letter ing units. Business air travel data, coverbeen collected from branch offices using figures used to calculate KONE’s relative acquired for the purchased green eleclines in order to facilitate easier comparison from the chairman and the president and ing 34 countries and approximately 90% a customized data collection spreadsheet carbon footprint are calculated at compatricity, as well as some supplier specific of our performance with other compaCEO on p. 6, and in the strategy descripof our employees, has been collected consolidated on the country level. The rable exchange rates. instruments. KONE’s operational greennies and to streamline our own corporate tion on p. 7. from KONE’s six biggest travel agencies country-level data as well as the data from The environmental performance has house gas emissions and water consumpresponsibility reporting efforts. KONE has All major local and regional organizaand several local travel agencies. Vehimanufacturing units and global functions been reported in accordance with ISO tion at KONE's manufacturing units have published a Sustainability Report annually tions and all production units are included cle fleet fuel consumption data has been has been entered into the environmental 14064 and the Greenhouse Gas Protobeen externally assured by Mitopro Oy. since 2008. The previous report was pubin the reporting Scope. All financial data collected from 28 countries, representperformance system. The data has been col Corporate Accounting and ReportThe emission factors are based on the lished in April 2019. and a significant proportion of the employing 91% of the total fleet. The logistics further consolidated globally. Product and ing Standard and Corporate Value Chain data sources of DEFRA (UK Department This report has been prepared in ee-related data has been collected through data covers the transportation of prodspare parts logistics data has been calcu(Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting for Environment, Food & Rural Affairs), accordance with the GRI Standards: Core KONE’s enterprise resource management ucts from KONE’s manufacturing units lated using an in-house logistics emisStandard. The Scope 2 emissions have World Resources Institute GHG Emission option. A table detailing how this report and financial reporting systems. All finanto customers and the transportation of sion calculation system developed by been calculated according to the dual Factors Compilation, AIB (Association of complies with the GRI guidelines is shown cial figures presented in this report are based modules that are delivered straight from KONE’s global logistics team. The prodreporting principles of the GHG ProtoIssuing Bodies) European Residual Mix on pages 46–47. We have self-declared on KONE Corporation’s consolidated and our suppliers to our delivery centers and uct-related environmental data about col Scope 2 Guidance (marketand locaReport and supplier specific factors for our reporting to be in accordance with audited Financial Statements. onward to customers. Spare part deliverthe greenhouse gas emissions and used tion-based method). RES-GO guarantees Finland. the Core level. The personnel data is provided by our ies are also within the reporting scope. materials is based on the latest life cycle of origin subject to EECS (European The reporting period corresponds with HR organization. Inbound logistics of materials to KONE’s the calendar year and with KONE’s finanThe facility-related environmental data manufacturing sites is excluded from the cial year of January 1–December 31, 2019. When developing the report content and has been collected from KONE’s 13 manufacturing units worldwide and from 35 reporting Scope because of its insignificant impact. The quality and coverage INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT choosing indicators, the driver has been country organizations with sales, installaof data provided by our logistics suppliers To the Management and Stakeholders of KONE Oyj the materiality to KONE’s operations. tion, and service operations in Asia-Pacific, has over the years continuously improved. During 2016, we conducted a materialEMEA, and North America. The collected KONE uses the environmental perScope and Objectives • Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate • Review of Group-level systems and ity analysis and defined the focus areas environmental data covers 85% (2018: formance software system by one of the The Management of KONE Oyj commisValue Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and procedures to generate, collect for KONE’s sustainability work (read more 84%) of all KONE’s employees and 100% world’s leading EHS system vendors. The sioned us to perform a limited third-party Reporting, and and report quantitative data on the assurance engagement regarding green• Global Reporting Initiative’s GRI-standSelected information. house gas emissions inventory KONE's ards (2016) • Assessment of Group-level calculations KONE'S FOCUS AREAS, MATERIAL TOPICS AND TOPIC BOUNDARIES operational Scope 1, 2 and 3 (logistics, business travel and waste) and water conAssurance Provider’s Independence and and data consolidation procedures and internal controls to ensure the For information on identifying our sustainability focus areas, focus areas and management approach, please refer to page 12. sumption data (“Selected information”) Competence accuracy of data. disclosed in KONE’s Sustainability Report We have conducted our assessment • Testing the accuracy and KONE focus areas GRI topics Boundary (“Report”) for the period of 1st January as independent and impartial from the completeness of the information from to 31st December 2019. The assurance reporting organisation. We were not comoriginal documents and systems on a DRIVING INNOVATION AND Energy Within the organization Outside the organization IMPROVING RESOURCE EFFICIENCY (GRI 103–1) (GRI 103–1) engagement was conducted in accordance mitted to any assignments for KONE that sample basis. Water and effluents • Deep understanding of customer needs Emissions with the International Standard on Assurwould conflict with our independence, nor • Sustainable innovations and business models Waste KONE operations Indirect (Scope 3) energy use ance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 revised were we involved in the preparation of the Conclusion • Resource efficiency (13 manufacturing units + and GHG emission sources Environmental compliance –‘Assurance Engagements other than Report. Our team consists of competent Based on the work described in this report, 31 country organizations) • Low-carbon operations Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial and experienced sustainability reporting nothing has come to our attention that PROVIDING THE MOST SUSTAINABLE OFFERING Materials KONE operations Customers Information’. experts, who have the necessary skills to causes us to believe that the Selected infor• Customer satisfaction Energy perform an assurance process. mation disclosed in KONE Sustainability • Product and service quality Customer health & safety Responsibilities Report 2019 is not reliable, in all material • End user safety and accessibility Environmental compliance KONE is responsible for the collection, calBasis of Our Opinion respects, based on the reporting criteria. • Energy efficiency of solutions and life cycle thinking culation, and presentation of the Selected Assurance providers are obliged to plan BEING THE BEST EMPLOYER AND Employment KONE operations Subcontractors information according to the reporting and perform the assurance process so as Helsinki, Finland, 19th March 2020 ATTRACTING TALENT Occupational health & safety criteria. The Management of KONE has to ensure that they collect adequate eviMitopro Oy • Competence development Training and education approved the Selected information disdence for the necessary conclusions to be • Fair employment practices Diversity & equal opportunity closed in the Report. Our responsibility as drawn. The procedures selected depend • Motivated and engaged employees • Diversity and non-discrimination assurance providers is to express an indeon the assurance provider’s judgement, • Employee safety and well-being pendent conclusion on the Selected inforincluding their assessment of the risk of mation subject to the limited assurance material misstatement adhering to the Mikael Niskala ENABLING OUR PARTNERS AND Economic performance KONE operations Community suppliers / engagement. The reporting criteria used reporting criteria. Independent Sustainability Expert SOCIETIES TO PROSPER Market presence strategic suppliers • Generating long-term returns for our assessment include the following Our opinion is based on the following Anti-corruption • Creating wealth via taxes and employment Anti-competitive behavior guidelines and standards: procedures performed: • Ethical business practices Environmental compliance • Greenhouse Gas Protocol. A Corporate • Interviews with KONE specialists • Long-term relationships with our suppliers Supplier environmental assessment Accounting and Reporting Standard, responsible for data collection and Tomi Pajunen • Supporting local communities Supplier social assessment • Greenhouse Gas Protocol Scope 2 reporting of the Selected information Independent Sustainability Expert Socio-economic compliance Guidance, at Group level and in selected sites. 44 REPORTING SCOPE AND INDICES KONE SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 KONE SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 REPORTING SCOPE AND INDICES 45 HIGHLIGHTS MANAGING SUSTAINABILIT Y FOCUS ARE AS INNOVATION & RESOURCE EFFICIENCY SUSTAINABLE OFFERING BEST EMPLOYER PARTNERSHIPS & SOCIET Y REPORTING SCOPE AND INDICES GRI AND SDG INDICES MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Related SDGs Page 10, 12–13, 44 103-2 The management approach and its components Generic Management Approach Disclosures, p. 10 Economic Standards, p. 39 GENERAL DISCLOSURES Related SDGs Page Further information Environmental Standards, p. 17–18, 28–30 Social Standards, p. 26–27, 33–37, 40–43 Organizational profile 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Generic Management Approach Disclosures, p. 10 102-1 Name of the organization Back cover Economic Standards, p. 39 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 3, 8–9 https://www.kone.com/en/company/ Environmental Standards, p. 17–18, 28–30 https://www.kone.com/en/products-and-services/ Social Standards, p. 26–27, 33–37, 40–43 102-3 Location of headquarters Back cover 102-4 Location of operations 4, 35 https://www.kone.com/en/company/ TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES Related SDGs Page Further information and omissions 102-5 Ownership and legal form 3, 11, 41 https://www.kone.com/en/company/ Economic standards organization-and-management/ Economic performance 102-6 Markets served 4 https://www.kone.com/en/company/ 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 8 5, 8–9, 38–43 102-7 Scale of the organization 3, 4, 8, 35, 41 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate 6, 16–18 Annual Review 2019, p. 19–20. Monetary value not 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 5, 8, 10 5, 34–35, 44 change reported for any types of risks or opportunities. 102-9 Supply chain 40–42 Market presence 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain GRI and SDG No significant changes 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community 8 34, 39 Leadership position: KONE grades 1–3 (out of 6). indices Local: Employee is native to the country where the 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Annual Review 2019, Board of Directors’ report, position is based. p. 18–20. KONE is committed to the UN Global ComAnti-corruption pact's ten principles. We address the precautionary principle, especially in areas involving environmental risks. 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 16 39–40 Part of Code of Conduct training. Addressed also in Annual Review 2019, p. 16. 102-12 External initiatives 10, 12–13, 18 Anti-competitive behavior 102-13 Memberships of associations 6, 13, 18 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly 16 Annual Review 2019, Review of Board of Directors, p. 17 Strategy and analysis practices 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 3, 8, 9, 11, 13, 16 6 Environmental standards 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 3, 7, 8, 11, 13 6–9, 12–13, 18 Annual Review 2019, Board of Directors’ report, p. 18–20. Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 9, 12 31 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of 5, 8, 10, 16 7, 10, 39–40 www.kone.com/en/company/vision-and-strategy/ Energy conduct and codes of ethics KONE.com (search for: Code of Conduct) 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 9, 13 23 102-17 Mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior 16 39–40 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 9, 12, 13 18–23 Governance 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 9, 11, 12, 13 28–31 102-18 Governance structure Annual Review 2019, Corporate Governance Statement, Water p. 90–93 303-1 Water withdrawal 9 23 102-19 Delegating authority 10 (2016) 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics 10 Emissions 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics 10–11 Annual Review 2019, Corporate Governance Statement, 305-1 Direct (scope 1) GHG emissions 9, 13 18–23 p. 90–93 305-2 Energy indirect (scope 2) GHG emissions 9, 13 22–23 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees Annual Review 2019, Corporate Governance Statement, 305-3 Other indirect (scope 3) GHG emissions 9, 12, 13 22–23 p. 90–95 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 9, 13 22 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy Annual Review 2019, Corporate Governance Statement, p. 90–93 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 9, 13 18–23 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts 11 https://www.kone.com/en/sustainability/ Effluents and waste managing-sustainability/materiality-assessment.aspx 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 9, 12 23 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting 10 KONE Sustainability Report is reviewed by KONE's management and approved by the President and CEO. Environmental compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations No fines or sanctions regarding non-compliance with 102-35 Remuneration policies 16 Annual Review 2019, Corporate Governance Statement, environmental laws and regulations. p. 92–93 Stakeholder engagement Supplier environmental assessment 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 12 42 Percentage of strategic suppliers audited. 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 11 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 33 SOCIAL STANDARDS 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 11 Employment 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 11 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 5, 8 35 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 11 Occupational health and safety Reporting practice 403-2 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and 3, 8 36–37 Industry injury frequency rate (IIFR), average lost days (2016) absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by per injury, and total number of work-related fatalities 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Annual Review 2019, subsidiaries, p. 81–83 gender and high-consequence injuries reported for employees. 102-46 Defining the report content and the topic Boundaries 12, 44–45 https://www.kone.com/en/sustainability/ All injuries, including fatalities, are reported to the local managing-sustainability/materiality-assessment.aspx authorities according to local regulations. 102-47 List of material topics 12–13 Training and education 102-48 Restatements of information Reported in connection with the indicators in question. 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 4, 8 33 Global guidelines exist for supporting employees in 102-49 Changes in reporting transition. 102-50 Reporting period 44 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career devel8 33 opment reviews 102-51 Date of the previous report 44 Diversity and equal opportunity 102-52 Reporting cycle 44 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 5, 8 34–35 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Back cover Supplier social assessment 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 44 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 8 42 Percentage of strategic suppliers audited. 102-55 GRI content index 46–47 102-56 External assurance 45 KONE's operational Scope 1, 2 and 3 (logistics, business Customer health and safety travel and waste) and water consumption data assured 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service 9, 11 27, 29–30 externally. categories Socioeconomic compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area 16 No significant fines during the reporting period. 46 REPORTING SCOPE AND INDICES KONE SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 KONE SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 REPORTING SCOPE AND INDICES 47 KONE CORPORATION Corporate Offices Keilasatama 3 P.O. Box 7 Espoo, 02150 Finland Tel.: +358 (0)204 75 1 Fax: +358 (0)204 75 4496 Business Identity Code: 1927400-1 KONE Corporation www.kone.com contact@kone.com Publication Anu Sirkiä Director, Internal and Sustainability Communications Economic performance Sanna Kaje Vice President, Investor Relations Environmental performance Hanna Uusitalo Environmental Director Personnel and social performance Susanne Skippari Executive Vice President, Human Resources This publication is for general informational purposes only and we reserve the right at any time to alter the product design and specifications. No statement this publication contains shall be construed as a warranty or condition, express or implied, as to any product, its fitness for any particular purpose, merchantability, quality or representation N SWA ECO of the terms of any purchase agreement. Minor differences C NOR LA between printed and actual colors may exist. KONE DI BEL MonoSpace®, KONE EcoDisc®, KONE Care®, KONE People Flow®, KONE UltraRope® and KONE NanoSpaceTM are PEFC/02-31-175 Printed Matter registered trademarks of KONE Corporation. Subtext 4041 5678 1234 0089 Copyright © 2020 KONE Corporation. 9101
