2019 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT Chedid Capital Reporting period, April 10, 2019 to April 10, 2020 Contents The 2019 Communication On Progress highlights our Note from our Chairman and Group CEO Human Rights 05 07 commitment to the UN Global Human Development 11 Compact’s ten principles and Community Development & Environment Protection Corporate Governance 17 21 describes the actions our company and its affiliates have taken to put this commitment into practice. Communication on Progress for the UN Gobal Compact | April 10, 2019 to April 10, 2020 05 Dear Secretary General, A year ago, I shared the first engagement letter and communication on the progress of our group, Chedid Capital Holding, as a proud and dedicated member of the United Nations (UN) Global Compact. Today, at a most testing time for not only the markets and communities we serve, but also, for the entire world, I would like to reiterate the commitment of Chedid Capital and its affiliated companies to the UN Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-corruption. It is not by chance that these four pillars form the backbone to the growth of our communities, our business and, most importantly, our people. In 2019, we delivered on our promise to drive a culture of respect, equality, accountability, sustainability and transparency from the top down as much as from the ground up, across all levels and levers of our organization. The past year saw the debut of our “Compliance Dashboard” initiative, the digital extension of our Ethics & Compliance Program, powered by analytics and crosscompliance collaboration, along many other transparency controls. It also marked a slew of environmental partnerships and initiatives for our group in tackling paper, energy and fabric waste in partnership with local and international organizations. Moreover, we continued to invest our resources into training programs and educational tracks in ensuring equal, borderless and indiscriminate access and opportunity for our employees’ personal and professional development. At a time when our unsustainable present is riddled with uncertainty, actions speak volumes on the sustainable future we want to build alongside our UN Global Compact peers. Farid Chedid Chairman & Group CEO Human Rights 09 Chedid Capital is committed Our Code of Ethics upholds the workforce. We believe that having a to internationally recognised principles of non-discrimination and a harassment-free workplace. broad range of perspectives is what fosters our innovation, inspires our principles under the Universal This commitment is not mere ink on success and enlarges our horizons. Declaration of Human Rights, which paper. It is an everyday effort that our organization and people drive. Gender equality lies at the heart of promotes global respect for human We maintain a zero-tolerance policy our business, where men and women to any form of discrimination, and are granted equal opportunity for rights and fundamental freedoms continuously reward equal access to growth, development, equal pay, for all without distinction of race, growth and opportunity. Collectively, our people represent more than and career advancement. Away from tokenism, we continue to exert colour, gender, language, religion, 25 nationalities across our entities. considerable effort toward a genderopinion, descent, national Not only has this diversity created an organic environment of cultural agnostic workplace, built on a meritbased system that thrives on cultural or ethnic origin. reciprocity, knowledge exchange diversity. and creative thinking, but it has also In 2019, Chedid Re, Executive organically instilled values of respect, Employee Composition by Gender Director, Rana Hafda, has been humility and curiosity among our nominated by the Jury of the 2019 58% male 42% female employees. At Chedid Capital, we always strive to maintain a diverse and inclusive Middle East Insurance Award as a candidate for the “Woman Leader of the Year”. “It is with great honor I announce that I have been Communication on Progress for the UN Gobal nominated by the Jury of the 2019 Middle East Insurance Award as a candidate for the “Woman Leader of the Year”. I wish to dedicate this achievement to all women working in the insurance industry in an effort to motivate Rana Hafda, them to endure all the difficulties that may come their Compact | April 10, 2019 to April 10, 2020 Executive Director, way. With persistence, hard work and competence, all Chedid Re of our new hires in 2019 Female in Management challenges will be overridden.” were Female Human Development 13 Our employees’ well-being, stability and happiness come first, and the business follows. Similarly, our career Employee Engagement progression tracks ensure that our Survey people are always ready, willing and able to take on their next role, assignment and duties. And we invest 87% expressed they are proud to work for Chedid Capital a great deal in making sure that our 82% acknowledged that they had employees feel involved and engaged confidence in the future of Chedid Capital in our vision, but more so, fulfilled 76% perceived Chedid Capital has the right products and services for the marketplace and empowered to pursue their aspirations, develop their capabilities, and constantly learn with the active support of their managers. In 2019, we launched our Employee with leading external partners. These Engagement Survey to evaluate programs and tracks, delivered to our the satisfaction and wellbeing of staff across departments, roles and Communication on Progress for the UN Gobal our employees and gauge their functions, have evolved to combine connection with our mission, vision technical, professional and leadership “Passion combined with superior and organization. In the past year, skillset development, as well as high-level technicity leads to success.” we invested more than $ 500,000 certifications and accreditations from Compact | April 10, 2019 to April 10, 2020 Charles El Hage, Vice-Chairman of into our employee learning and the world’s most established academic the Board of Directors, Chedid Capital development programs, which we institutions. built and designed in collaboration 15 By the numbers | Employee Training Our people also invested their time and energy into advanced academic qualifications; & Development Training Our role in upskilling and empowering the future talents of our industry also extended beyond our organization in 2019. In our commitment to support the insurance and finance sector in Lebanon, we joined forces and resources with Notre-Dame University (NDU), to launch a master’s degree program in the field of actuarial sciences, under which we offered three scholarships to students to pursue their higher education ambitions. 90% 58% In 2019, more than 150 employees step back from the daily responsibilities were registered in the Charted and reset their directions. It provided Insurance Institute exams, and them with a solid overview of general benefitted from the unique opportunity management principles and the to further their education, participating hands-on tools needed to succeed in a completed trainings in in social networking activities and cross-functional role and to drive and collaboration with Thomson raising professionalism standards manage change in the organization. Reuters in focal themes for of our Senior Managers in their respective communities. As AMP was a successful opportunity our business and industry: completed the Advanced Chedid Capital has become in 2012 for participants to consolidate their Anti-Bribery & Anticorruption Management Program at an approved centre for the Charted on-the-job experience with the latest in Insurance Firms, Code of the ESA (École Supérieure des Insurance Institute to deliver trainings management thinking. Conduct, Ethics & Compliance Affaires)​. and become an examination center for 45% Essentials, and Financial its employees and stakeholders. We have also teamed up with Thomson Crime. Reuters, PwC, EMCO a leading legal In 2019, Chedid Capital in collaboration firm offering general marine, insurance, 35% with L’École Supérieure des Affaires reinsurance, commercial and corporate Communication on Progress for the UN Gobal (ESA) designed a Leadership program legal advice for legal workshop and dedicated for our senior management. ASL, International Loss Adjustors and completed technical insurance Forensic Accountants to cater for our trainings at the Chartered The Advanced Management Program employees ‘ training and development Insurance Institute. (AMP) is a Learning Journey with blend needs in addition to the programs of our executives graduated Compact | April 10, 2019 to April 10, 2020 of soft and technical skills that offered we have developed and delivered from the Executive Leadership our Senior Managers the opportunity to internally. program at INSEAD. Community Development & Environment Protection 19 We believe that a use of water, energy and paper resources. sorting and storage bins, as well as linkups Throughout 2019, we also organized We not only encourage, but also enforce sustainable environment recycling activity across our operations. between institutions and recycling players several internal fundraising rounds through local collectors. to support CHANCE (Children Against is key to unlocking Cancer), a Lebanese non-profit association sustainable growth for In 2019, CAQ and SEIB, two affiliates Mr. Farid Chedid, our group Chairman that helps Lebanese children with cancer businesses, people and of our group, started their migration to and CEO, and UNDP Goodwill or blood disorders access better chances paperless operations. communities. Our ecoAmbassador, was one of the project’s for treatment and recovery. funders, and a key contributor to another conscious culture is one This past year also marked a spate of reforestation initiative organized by “Smile in a box” initiative we bring to life through environmental partnerships for our the College Notre Dame De Jamhour www.smileinabox.org policy and action, from our group in Lebanon. We joined hands with management with UNDP. Under this Pack a small box with gifts and make a big Warak Beirut, a project by the Beirut office operations to the initiative, 300 of the school’s students difference in the life of a child in need. municipality in collaboration with UNDP, planted 1000 cedar trees in the Lebanese In December 2019, we filled 50 boxes for partnerships and initiatives aimed at increasing the rate of paper and town of Hammana. 50 children in need to spread the joy of we spearhead and support. cardboard sorting at source, promoting Christmas. recycling activity, and reducing waste In July 2019, we collected 117 kg of We enforce a strict no-smoking policy burning and dumping practices. clothes through a bin we installed on our across all our offices and markets of premises, under our collaboration with operation, but our environmental efforts Communication on Progress for the UN Gobal The project’s first stage, launched in 2019, Fabric Aid, a social enterprise that collects go beyond the necessary controls to more implemented a plan for sorting at source, and distributes good-quality secondproactive areas for sustainable operations. covering all public institution buildings hand clothing at affordable prices to the Our infrastructure and systems are in Beirut. This first step entailed an underprivileged. automated and optimized for the efficient awareness campaign, the installation of Compact | April 10, 2019 to April 10, 2020 Corporate Governance 23 Chedid Capital has strongly Our anti-corruption policies, under and introduce anti-corruption courses and practices – including mandatory the umbrella of our Group Ethics & through multimedia cross-platform training on anti-bribery and corruption. upheld a business and Compliance Program, were designed content, as well as through real-life It is also core to our auditing efforts in around our efforts to ensure that scenarios that engage and resonate with tracking and investigating instances of work ethic centered on our people thrive in a fair, equitable our people. fraud, misuse, corruption and other environment that protects their rights forms of noncompliance. transparency, ownership and as much as their obligations. Their We believe that local actions create The year 2019 saw the launch of our accountability; all values that implementation – and we are proud global impact. We are proud to have large-scale tech investment into our to say, success – have required of our seen the successful rollout of our Ethics anti-corruption efforts; our innovative were central to our resilience people, clients and business partners & Compliance Program across our “Compliance Dashboard” initiative to strictly comply with anti-corruption operational geographies in the past centralises Chedid Capital’s complianceand leadership in a volatile laws everywhere we do business. And year. Our local leaders lead by example related applications onto one platform, industry and region. we continue to enforce these laws as central principles to all terms of business in promoting a strong work ethic and transparent culture. At that, they set the to provide efficiency gains, improve cross-compliance collaboration, enhance agreements we sign with clients, partners tone from the top and visibly model good analytics and deliver additional reporting and suppliers. behaviour among our people, encouraging capabilities. These policies apply to everyone and open lines of communication and anyone in our group network, across experience sharing. As a result, our people This platform includes an ‘anti-corruption Chedid Capital entities, hierarchies and have taken ownership in addressing critical portal’, whereby employees are required markets. They equally apply to the issues and wrongdoings, actively engaging to obtain approval before providing many ways we develop, implement and in problem-solving for the betterment of gifts, meals or entertainment to public maintain our broad-based Anti-corruption our organization. officials. It also features a whistleblowing Program. mechanism, allowing our people to Our commitment to tackling corruption is speak up and report on incidents or In tandem, we continually assess and not only engrained in consistent policies suspicions of corruption, fraud or refine our Ethics & Compliance Program, unethical behavior. focally so on training our people to take ownership of this program in both their Communication on Progress for the UN Gobal business and personal relationships. Our innovative approach on this front provides baseline training to all Chedid Capital “Corporate Governance is part of our institutional DNA family members, as well as additional and vision. It is about instilling a culture, rooted in a strong ethical training for individuals in higher-risk and framework, that places values above profits.” Compact | April 10, 2019 to April 10, 2020 higher-responsibility roles. Under these Mohamed Khalifeh, training tracks, we regularly update, hone Head of Governance, Risk & Compliance, Chedid Capital 2019 chedid-capital.com
