FY20 Sustainability Report Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places Message from the CEO Landcom’s international recognition as third in Australia in the 2020 GRESB Real Estate Assessment demonstrates our ongoing success and commitment to sustainability. Through the adoption of our Sustainable Places Strategy into the business, we have effectively repositioned Landcom as a leader in delivering more affordable and sustainable communities for the people of NSW. Our FY20 results show we are well on the way to achieving our goals. This year Landcom was again recognised as a global sustainability leader achieving third place in Australia amongst residential developers in the GRESB. Landcom has also adopted reporting against the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures this year, and we view this as an opportunity to further understand and address the impacts of climate change – while driving an orderly transition We continue to uphold our commitments to to a low carbon economy. To complement this, we advancing the Sustainable Development Goals, have commenced certifying our organisation under and as a Participant to the United Nations Global the Climate Active Carbon Neutral Standard and Compact. As early adopters in acting on Modern are proudly committed to operating as a carbon Slavery, we have also welcomed the Commonwealth neutral business. Modern Slavery Act 2018 coming into effect this year. We share our response to the Act, and both international frameworks within this report. I am proud of our ongoing commitment to deliver affordable and sustainable communities. It is through these points of difference that we underpin our future financial success and enduring benefits for the people of NSW. John Brogden AM CEO, Landcom Image on Cover: Tallawong Plant Library 2 FY20 Sustainability Report Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places Our Sustainable Places Strategy Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places Landcom’s FY20 reporting period has included many significant milestones, including our first Modern Slavery Statement and disclosures against the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures, and registering to become a Climate Active Carbon Neutral organisation. We continued to make sound progress against our Sustainable Places Strategy targets this year. Our strongest performance is across urban heat island reduction, managing physical and social risks to climate change, water sensitive urban design and enabling onsite renewable energy. All projects in scope achieved full attainment of the respective targets. Landcom continues to focus on opportunities to improve our performance in greenhouse gas emissions and potable water reduction on a site by site basis, despite our longer term forecasts being on track to achieve our targets. We will also remain committed to driving greater market up take of beyond compliance BASIX performance, in order to achieve more sustainable and affordable communities. FY20 Highlights 3rd Registered for Climate Active Ranked as third most United Nations Global Compact Carbon Neutral Standard sustainable developer in Participant certification to become a Australia, and within top 12% carbon neutral organisation globally in the GRESB Adopted the Task Force First claims on $15,000 Engaged our suppliers on on Climate-related Sustainability Rebate at modern slavery risks via the Financial Disclosures Macarthur Heighz enable Property Council Supplier sustainable and affordable living Platform we helped create FY20 Sustainability Report 3 Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places About This Report Our Sustainability Report is an account of our Material Matters sustainability performance during the 2020 reporting This report identifies and discloses the material aspects period (FY20), with limited assurance provided by of our operations in accordance with the Global Point Advisory. Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. We have also This report includes discussion of our material mapped our material issues and Strategy targets to the sustainability matters and details our performance Sustainable Development Goals. against our Sustainable Places Strategy. Where Materiality is an important process that informs how performance against a target has not been achieved (or we do business. It provides insight into what our is not in scope for the reporting period) an explanation stakeholders value from our developments, and their is provided. expectations of the way we operate our organisation. Our reporting boundaries are explained in the We use the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) GSSB following section. standard, as well as the AA1000 AccountAbility Throughout this report, we disclose our management Principles Standard (2018) in our approach to approach to each of our Sustainable Places Strategy materiality. We apply GRI’s four-stage approach pillars of Climate Resilient Places, Healthy & Inclusive to materiality and boundary guidance, and we Places, Productive Places and Accountable & execute this approach with reference to the quality Collaborative Places. assessment adherence criteria for the AA1000 This report is prepared in accordance with the Global Principle of Materiality. Reporting Index Standards: Comprehensive option. In FY19 we renewed our material matters which are identified below, and remain current. Reporting Requirements The Landcom Corporation Act 2001 (NSW) requires us to report annually against our sustainability performance. The Act states we must adopt sustainability performance indicators that are benchmarked against international best practice. After extensive community and industry consultation our Sustainable Places Strategy was finalised and endorsed by the Landcom Board in November 2017, and took full effect for Landcom during FY18. 4 FY20 Sustainability Report Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places Material matters What this means for Landcom Addressed within Report Climate change & Manage our physical and transition risks to climate Climate Resilient Places resilience change across our communities and for our Accountable & organisation. Collaborative Places Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Low carbon & To future proof our communities and business by Climate Resilient Places renewable energy adopting energy efficient and low carbon economy principles, focused on reduced energy demand and increased renewable energy production. Human rights To drive positive outcomes for our organisation, Healthy & Inclusive Places communities and stakeholders aligned to universal Accountable & principles of human rights, emerging issues, diversity Collaborative Places and inclusion. United Nations Global Compact – Report on Progress Modern Slavery Statement Community To create positive, cohesive and resilient Climate Resilient Places wellbeing & communities that enable connection, mental and Healthy & Inclusive Places cohesion physical health, inclusion and safety. Diverse and To enable diverse and affordable housing outcomes Healthy & Inclusive Places accessible housing that support the needs of our customers and reduce Climate Resilient Places and communities the cost of living for members of our communities. Natural capital To conserve and enhance our green and blue Climate Resilient Places protection & infrastructure, preserve natural resources wherever Accountable & management possible, and actively seek to reduce our impact on Collaborative Places the natural environment. Stakeholder To collaborate, listen and involve stakeholders in Healthy & Inclusive Places and community creating a shared vision that is valued by those who engagement & interact in our communities. satisfaction Accessibility, To design and deliver our communities so they are Accountable & transport and connected by active and public transport options, Collaborative Places movement and innovate to reduce private vehicle use. Respecting To respect and acknowledge First Nations by Accountable & indigenous culture considering the heritage and history of the land in Collaborative Places and heritage and around our developments, and collaborate with indigenous communities for meaningful outcomes. Supply chain To engage, partner and innovate with our supply Accountable & engagement chain for shared value outcomes. Collaborative Places Local economic To ensure local communities prosper and enable jobs, Productive Places prosperity training, education and employment opportunities through our operations. FY20 Sustainability Report 5 Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places About This Report continued Reporting Boundaries Our Sustainable Places Strategy applies to all new masterplan activity and projects during the FY20 reporting period. As a masterplan developer we use a variety of structures to deliver projects. The key types of project structures that we use are: • Owner/Master Developer • Project Delivery Agreement (PDA) • Reverse Project Delivery Agreement (RPDA) • Joint Ventures (JV) Type of project Land ownership Delivery method Asset disposal structure Owner/Master We own the land. We are responsible for We sell the land as vacant lots Developer masterplanning and – residential, commercial or approvals and undertaking industrial. all development works. Project Delivery We own the land. We tender for a partner to The successful tenderer acts as Agreement project manage and undertake a ‘super contractor’ in return (PDA) development works (there is a for payment from us on sale of clear delineation of risks and individual lots to third parties. responsibilities between us and our partners). Reverse Project We do not own the We generally undertake the All revenue on sale is paid Delivery land (we develop planning, construction and/or to the land owner and we Agreement the land on behalf of sales activities. invoice the land owner for the (RPDA) another government reimbursement of costs and fees. agency or the private sector land owner). Joint Venture We sell the land to We create a separate legal entity We, and the JV partner, (JV) the JV for a cash that can pay invoices, pay and contribute equity into the JV payment. receive GST and receive sales equally and receive a profit share revenue. equally (not revenue). Because we use these different approaches Landcom has varying levels of influence over project outcomes. For example, with our Climate Resilient Places targets there is variability between what we can influence when acting as the Owner/Master Developer, compared to a Reverse Project Delivery Agreement where we are not the land owner and we may need to negotiate with other project partners before adopting environmental commitments for the project. 6 FY20 Sustainability Report Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places The below table summarises which projects are in scope to be reported on for FY20 and are mapped against each pillar of our Sustainable Places Strategy. All projects are within the state of NSW, Australia. In some cases a project is in scope for Climate Resilient Places targets, but not for Healthy & Inclusive Places. This is because our environmental work tends to occur earlier in a project’s lifecycle, linked largely to construction phases, whereas social sustainability can occur through to completion. Table key Refers to projects that are in scope to be reported against for one or more of the targets under the Sustainable Places Strategy. Refers to where projects are out of scope for all of the targets under a Strategy pillar. Refers to ‘legacy projects’. Legacy projects are those in our portfolio that were substantially delivered prior to the Sustainable Places Strategy being adopted, and are out of scope for reporting, with the exception of waste diversion where we continue to disclose performance, and select Healthy & Inclusive Places or Productive Places targets. Climate Resilient Places Healthy & Inclusive Places Productive Places Accountable & Collaborative Places Geography Asset Project overview Corporate Operations Landcom maintains its head office tenancy at Parramatta. Construction Dwellings and Construction of community centres, facilities Unit public buildings and social housing on behalf of Land and Housing Corporation at various sites. Western Edmondson Park Owner/Master Developer. Approximately 4,000 Sydney (Stages 3, 5 and new homes, with train station, town centre with 9) retail, business and commercial space, 150ha regional park with cycleways, and two new schools. Thornton Originally a Department of Defence site. Landcom works are complete with only two lots remaining to sell, and enabled approximately 2,000 homes adjacent to Penrith train station. Mix of detached and attached dwellings, Affordable Housing and apartments. Origin of the 21st Century Terrace. Riverstone Project is a RPDA consisting of approximately 1,600 residential lots that were subdivided in 1881, and are currently owned by over 320 landowner groups. Landcom is coordinating the delivery of the project on behalf of the land owners as the authority under the Environmental Planning and Assessment Act (Paper Subdivision) Regulation 2013. The project was in the planning stage through the reporting year with infrastructure works commencing in FY20. Land is now available for sale at the project. Glenfield New project announced in FY20, Business Plan yet to be developed. The initial land use planning allows for approximately 3,500 homes adjacent to the Hurlstone Agricultural High School. FY20 Sustainability Report 7 Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places Geography Asset Project overview Western Macarthur RPDA with Western Sydney University, adjacent to Sydney Heights the Western Sydney University campus. Located within walking distance from Macarthur Train Station and Macarthur Square shopping centre, with over 950 residential lots. Includes 42ha of parklands plus sporting fields. Macarthur Owner/Master Developer. Adjacent to the Gardens North Macarthur Heights community, the project has a direct connection to Macarthur Train Station through Bow Bowing Creek. This site is in the planning phase and is registered for a Green Star Communities rating. Oran Park RPDA with Greenfields Development Company. Once complete the precinct will provide 6,500 homes, a town centre, new schools, a smart work hub, retirement village and integrated primary care centre. Airds (Newbrook) RPDA with NSW Land and Housing Corporation. Long term rejuvenation of the Airds Bradbury public housing area, transforming the existing 1,500 lot public housing estate into a masterplanned community of approximately 2,100 homes. Bonnyrigg RPDA with NSW Land and Housing Corporation. (Newleaf) Long term rejuvenation of the Airds Bradbury public housing area, transforming the existing 1,500 lot public housing estate into a masterplanned community of approximately 2,100 homes. Claymore RPDA with NSW Land and Housing Corporation to (Hillcroft) revitalize approximately 1,150 homes at Claymore public housing estate. When complete, Hillcroft will include new housing, parks, playgrounds and community facilities. North West Sydney Metro RPDA with Sydney Metro covering Tallawong, North West Kellyville, Bella Vista, Norwest, Showground, Castle Places Hill, Cherrybrook and Epping stations. Each site is located along the metro line. While Sydney Metro delivers the infrastructure and new stations, Landcom will deliver the communities surrounding each station. During the reporting period, the Tallawong and Showground Precincts exchanged sales contracts. Schofields New project announced in FY20. Business Plan yet to be developed. The 4ha site will yield approximately 143 dwellings and is a demonstration project showcasing new dwelling typologies, increased green canopy compared to more traditional developments and demonstrates a new form road reserve which has enhanced verges and landscaping. 8 FY20 Sustainability Report Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places Geography Asset Project overview Other Green Square PDA with Mirvac to provide high density, inner Town Centre urban living within the City of Sydney Local (Sydney CBD) Government Area. Lachlan’s Line1 Owner/Master Developer of an inner urban (Macquarie) high-density community adjacent to the North Ryde train station. During the reporting period, two superlots were tendered for sale but have not been finalised. Renwick RPDA with Family and Community Services. (Southern Renwick is a 117ha masterplanned community, Highlands) located about 2.5km north of Mittagong in the Southern Highlands. It has potential to yield around 600 residential lots, ranging in size from 300m2 ‘cottage lots’ to 4,000m2 ‘acre lots’. Fennell Bay New project for FY20, Business Plan yet to be (Lake Macquarie) developed. The site is a strategic development in the Lake Macquarie City Council Local Government Area. Previously a mine site, it is undergoing rezoning to residential use yielding approximately 520 lots over a development area of 40ha with a biodiversity conservation zone of approximately 200ha. Queenscliff New project announced in FY20, Business Plan (Northern yet to be developed. The 4,000m2 site used to be Beaches) a NSW Department of Health Community Health Centre located in North Manly. Through adaptive re-use, the project aims to deliver over 32 units with 10% Affordable Housing to be managed by a Community Housing Provider. Completed Wentworth Point RPDA with Roads and Maritime Services to deliver Projects public open space. We closed out the RPDA during FY20 with Landcom’s role completed. 1 While Lachlan’s Line is a legacy project and has not undergone any masterplanning during the reporting year we are considering it in‑scope as we will be able to influence the sustainability outcomes in line with the new Sustainable Place Strategy through the development of the remaining stages. FY20 Sustainability Report 9 Climate Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices ResilientPlaces Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places Skip to: Climate Resilient Places Pillar Overview Climate Climate & Resilience Performance Results Energy & Emissions Performance Results Resilient Environmental Management Performance Results Places Waste & Materials Performance Results Water Performance Results Leadership Goal Objective Target Relevant Sustainable To deliver low carbon, To lead environmental performance Development Goals resource efficient across Landcom developments by and environmentally committing to being carbon neutral sensitive places. and water positive, with zero waste and net positive ecological outcomes by 2028. 10 FY20 Sustainability Report Climate Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices ResilientPlaces Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places Climate Resilient Places Pillar Overview Landcom’s Climate Resilient Places pillar is focused on a leadership goal to ‘enable carbon neutral, water positive, zero waste and net positive ecological outcomes by 2028’. This leadership goal was developed to Management Approach reflect Landcom’s contribution towards the Paris Agreements2 long-term goal of keeping Energy & Emissions and Water the increase in global average temperature Every Landcom project is unique and requires a well below 2°C, the United Nations Sustainable bespoke approach to environmental sustainability. Development Goals3, and reducing the impact of We use the sustainability modelling tool PRECINX5 to shocks and stresses to communities and infrastructure identify opportunities for performance improvement as identified by Resilient Sydney4 (part of the across our Energy & Emissions and Water targets. Rockefeller Foundation 100 Resilient Cities Program), Our approach to Energy & Emissions includes such as extreme weather and water crises. influencing the reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) Within this pillar Landcom focusses on environmental emissions (stationary and transport) at a precinct sustainability and resilience. It encompasses scale across our communities and influencing the environmental management and the adoption of onsite production of renewable energy. We approach independent third-party rating tools and certifications, Water in a similar way, by looking at the reduction of engaging with our supply chain, supporting potable water use across a precinct and identifying communities to reduce their operational costs of opportunities for recycling and reuse. living, and developing our projects in a way that We also set ourselves targets to limit stormwater reduce impacts on the environment. discharge pollutant loads from our sites. Environmentally sustainable communities are This minimises downstream water quality impacts balanced in meeting the needs of the natural, in the communities we develop. Urban stormwater and urban environment. They take into account modelling software such as MUSIC6 is used to measure the needs of people today, and the needs of our pollutant loads across our projects. future generations. Landcom believes that the built To see our FY20 performance for Energy & Emissions, environment should incorporate green spaces and see Energy & Emissions Performance Results (p. 17), retain a connection to our natural habitats, for the or for Water see Water Performance Results (p. 23). benefit of the environment, and our communities. Landcom addresses environmental sustainability through the following focus areas: • Energy & Emissions • Water • Environmental Management • Climate & Resilience • Waste & Materials Each of these focus areas includes a suite of targets to measure our success. 2 What is the Paris Agreement? (2018) https://unfccc.int/process-and-meetings/the-paris-agreement/what-is-the-paris-agreement 3 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (2018) https://www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/sustainable-development-goals/ for our full alignment to the Sustainable Development Goals see APPENDIX D: Sustainable Development Goals Alignment 4 Resilient Sydney, Preliminary Resilience Assessment (2016) https://www.100resilientcities.org/cities/sydney/ 5 Landcom commissioned the development of PRECINX in 2009 as an accurate predictive modelling tool of greenhouse gas emissions, water consumption, transport outcomes and cost of living impacts of development in the built environment. Landcom now licenses the tool, as do many other developers, utilities, and local and state government organisations. 6 MUSIC Overview (2018) https://ewater.org.au/products/music/music-overview/ FY20 Sustainability Report 11 Climate Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices ResilientPlaces Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places Environmental Management Climate & Resilience Landcom is committed to adopting independent Landcom’s approach to Climate & Resilience third-party rating tools and certifications or exceeding includes understanding our physical and transition regulatory requirements. We believe it is important risks to climate change and its impacts, ensuring to have independent verification of our sustainability our communities are adaptable to change, performance. This is aligned to our targets for addressing known risks such as urban heat island,8 Environmental Management. Our preferred rating and maintaining our commitment to enhancing local tools are outlined below.7 biodiversity and ecology. During FY18 Landcom built its internal capacity for Asset Type Rating tool Rating Tool assessing asset exposure to physical climate change Provider risks. This included adopting a risk assessment Communities Green Star Green Building framework, Resilience-In-Design checklist, at the precinct Communities Council of Australia prompting project teams to consider common climate scale risks during the early phases of a project’s design, and completing community resilience plans9 designed Communities Green Star Green Building to enhance the resilience of our communities in the at the precinct Design & Council of Australia way they live day to day. scale As‑Built In FY19 we expanded our remit and sought to NABERS NSW Department better understand our physical and transition risks of Planning and to climate change. A gap analysis aligned with the Environment Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Recommendations and 2019 Global Real Estate Residential BASIX NSW Department dwellings of Planning and Sustainable Development Resilience Module was Environment undertaken to determine Landcom’s current level of preparedness for the transition risks of climate For our FY20 activities related to Environmental change, and how Landcom currently addresses Management, see Environmental Management physical risks at its assets. This included business wide Performance Results (p. 20). stakeholder engagement and a review of Landcom’s systems and processes. The results found that Landcom is comprehensively addressing the physical risks to assets, and there is opportunity to enhance our preparedness to transition risks. In FY20 Landcom has commenced reporting against the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Recommendations. This is a key component of our approach to addressing climate change physical, transition and social risks. We are already taking steps to address known physical risks immediately, which includes reducing the effects of urban heat island across our new communities. As one of Sydney’s most significant climate-related risks, early design interventions that address urban heat reduction are essential in the creation of new communities. We also continue to invest in research to address urban heat, including through Landcom funded Roundtable projects (see Research Investment, p. 44). 7 In some instances Landcom may also agree to use other rating tools in lieu of, or in addition to, those outlined. This is at Landcom’s discretion. 8 Urban Heat Island Effect (2018) http://www.cityofsydney.nsw.gov.au/vision/towards-2030/sustainability/carbon-reduction/urban-heat-island 9 Eligible assets include those that have been assessed for climate change risks 12 FY20 Sustainability Report Climate Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices ResilientPlaces Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places Finally, Landcom seeks to address resilience in the Our Future Priorities natural environment. This is achieved when we Our Sustainable Places Strategy identifies a number maintain strong diversity of our ecological systems. of initiatives as future opportunities to enhance our We abide by legislative requirements including Environmental Management, Climate & Resilience, the Commonwealth Environmental Protection and Waste & Materials focus areas. This includes: and Biodiversity Conservation Act, and the NSW Biodiversity Conservation Act when addressing areas • understanding Landcom’s role for improving air of biodiversity. When we purchase biodiversity offsets quality within our communities for our development approvals, we use the NSW State • determining the value of adopting a Landcom Government BioBanking Scheme which commits land materials Red List owners to enhancing and protecting the biodiversity • establishing how life cycle assessments may improve values of their land. We use our Biodiversity Calculator our supply chain and reduce embodied carbon at to measure the quality and quantity of ecological our projects. communities beyond any legislative requirements, In FY20 we progressed investigations into how preand post-development. We aim for a net positive Landcom can positively influence air quality within outcome at the completion of our projects. the areas we operate, and a strategy for this, including For our FY20 performance against our Climate actions and targets, is currently in development. & Resilience targets, see Climate & Resilience As part of our FY19 materiality review, air quality Performance Results, p. 14). became a material for Landcom as part of Natural Capital Protection & Management. As we finalise our Waste & Materials approach to addressing air quality, we will update our Landcom’s environmental leadership goal for 2028 management approach. includes enabling zero waste communities. To do this We continued to support research at the Centre for we are advocating for responsible use of resources, Smart Modern Construction to develop methodologies and diversion from landfill. Landcom has long held for estimating embodied carbon in construction a waste diversion from landfill target, which is supply chains. We see a future for tools such as this maintained in our Sustainable Places Strategy. which will help us to track actual embodied carbon While we are focused on reducing waste within our through the delivery of our community infrastructure own offices it is construction waste that is material and civil works. to Landcom’s operations. As part of our ongoing commitment to reduce waste and increase responsible materials use, Landcom continues to engage with our site superintendents and principal contractors to reduce, reuse or divert waste from landfill. We also include the responsible sourcing of timber for all construction works within our approach. This increases engagement with our supply chain, and supports our work underway within our Accountable & Collaborative Places pillar. For our FY20 performance results against our Waste & Materials targets, see Waste & Materials Performance Results (p. 22). FY20 Sustainability Report 13 Climate Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices ResilientPlaces Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places Climate & Resilience Performance Results Landcom’s Sustainable Places Strategy addresses Climate & Resilience. This focus area forms part of our Climate Resilient Places pillar and is a representation of our commitment to delivering resilient communities that balance ecological outcomes, reduce climate-related stresses and build community resilience. FY20 Targets and Performance The below table outlines our FY20 performance against our Climate & Resilience Targets. Indicator Objective Target FY19 Performance FY20 Performance Climate & To respect, All new projects to undertake a 7 out of 9 9 out of 9 Resilience conserve and Climate Resilience Assessment complete complete10 regenerate our natural All new projects prepare and 7 out of 9 9 out of 9 environment implement an effective Climate complete complete and embed Adaptation and Community adaptation Resilience Plan and resilience into all All new projects enhance the local 67% 71% precincts, habitat, biodiversity or ecological make a positive make a positive and expand communities, compared to the site contribution contribution community conditions pre-acquisition or preawareness. masterplan (Landcom Biodiversity Calculator) Total project site area in plan view 100% 100% comprised of building or landscape of projects in scope of projects in scope elements that reduce the impact of achieved achieved urban heat island effect Greenfield Projects: 50% project site area Renewal or High Density Projects: 20-50% project site area (calculation in accordance with Green Star Communities) Climate Change Risk and All our new projects at the launch of the Sustainable Places Strategy, and all relevant legacy projects, Community Resilience now have climate risk assessments in alignment with In FY20 Landcom continued to collaborate with the IPCC AR5 Representative Concentration Pathways consulting firm AECOM to enhance our current 4.5 and 8.5 climate projections, and adaptation plans project portfolio’s resilience to climate-related risks, developed to reduce the physical and social risks of and increase our internal capacity to ensure all future climate change to the project and community. projects are resilient. We complete climate change resilience assessments for all new projects. We use a consistent pro forma to assess Landcom projects, which was developed in 2018 in line with Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Fifth Assessment Report (IPCC AR5) climate projections for 2030 and 2090.11 We also use our Resilience-in-Design checklist to guide informed decision making for projects during the concept design of a development. 10 Climate Resilience Assessments and Climate Adaptation and Community Resilience Plans for the initial New Projects are now complete. We will be reviewing our approach to resilience targets in FY21. 11 What is the IPPCC AR5 Assessment Report? https://www.ipcc.ch/report/ar5/ 14 FY20 Sustainability Report Climate Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices ResilientPlaces Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places All new projects identified as in scope at the Biodiversity commencement of the Sustainable Places FY20 is the third year Landcom will report the Strategy now have completed Climate Resilience contribution we make to biodiversity and ecological Assessments and Climate Adaptation & Community systems. To support the business in measuring this, Resilience Plans, bringing us into full attainment of in 2018 we developed our Biodiversity Calculator these targets.12 based on the Green Building Council of Australia’s In FY20 several new projects were announced, change in ecological value calculator provided in which also have completed or scheduled assessments, Green Star tools. including Fennell Bay, Glenfield and Queenscliff. As Landcom’s Biodiversity Calculator is designed our Schofields project is in proximity to the SMNW to measure the change in quality and quantity Places Tallawong precinct it will leverage that site’s of biodiversity at a given project site, from preclimate risk assessment. development to post development. The calculator “Extreme risk” of extreme heat is common to almost goes beyond just assessing high-value and significant all Landcom sites, which is consistent with the top biodiversity (which legislation requires to be risks to Sydney identified by Resilient Sydney.13 conserved) and factors a broader spectrum of This finding confirms the importance of Landcom’s biodiversity value into the assessment. Depending on priority to reduce or mitigate the effects of urban heat the level of quality and quantity change, the calculator island and build community resilience to heat at all determines whether a net positive or net negative new projects. Bushfire is also a consistent risk across impact has been achieved. It is possible to have a net Landcom’s project portfolio. positive outcome in biodiversity, despite a reduction in physical area — if the quality of that area has been Urban Heat Island Reduction significantly improved. Heat continues to be a major stress for many cities across Australia, as confirmed by our climate change risk assessments. Landcom’s commitment to reduce urban heat island effect (UHI) will contribute to reduced risk of extreme heat at our projects. This will enhance the resilience of our communities and the residents that live there. Three new projects are in scope for our Urban Heat Island Reduction target in FY20, including Tallawong, Hills Showground and Macarthur Gardens North. Macarthur Gardens North is achieving the target through the retention of bushland on the site. Tallawong and Hills Showground were sold14 to the private sector with conditions of sale to deliver on these targets. All other new projects announced during the year remain out of scope as they progress through the masterplan phase, and we are aiming to achieve our UHI target. 12 Draft assessment for SMNW Places Cherrybrook precinct completed in FY20. To be finalised in conjunction with any requirements of the State Significant Precinct Study Requirements in FY21. For the purposes of reporting this precinct is deemed to have achieved the targets. 13 City of Sydney Resilient Sydney (2018) http://www.cityofsydney.nsw.gov.au/vision/towards-2030/resilient-sydney 14 Contract of Sale has been exchanged, the sites have not settled. FY20 Sustainability Report 15 Climate Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices ResilientPlaces Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places The scale provided by the calculator is as follows: The remaining sites assessed form part of the SMNW Places program. Each site is co-located with a Definition % change in biodiversity index of metro station being delivered by Transport for NSW site from preto post development (TFNSW). TFNSW is also the land owner of these Poor <0 % projects, and Landcom has been appointed as the Moderate 0-10% master developer for the surrounding communities. Of these, Kellyville and Bella Vista will reduce the Good 10-50% overall onsite area of biodiversity, however return a Excellent >50% net positive outcome. Conversely, Epping is forecast to contribute a very good (net positive) change We acknowledge that land development and retention in biodiversity value, as the site design doubles of biodiversity are sometimes at odds. Despite our the available biodiversity area compared to prebest efforts to retain existing flora and fauna at all development. Tallawong and Hills Showground have a our sites, sometimes this is not possible. However, poor (net negative) change in biodiversity. we do aim to always have a net positive outcome As Landcom is not the landowner of the SMNW Places at our projects. Some methods we may use include sites, management of biodiversity offsets and other biodiversity offsets,15 and restoration works such as approvals is beyond our operational control, and is improving eroded riparian corridors to full health. undertaken by TFNSW. Landcom will continue to Projects in scope for FY20 include precincts within review opportunities to elevate the performance of the SMNW Places program,16 Macarthur Gardens North SMNW Places sites through project divestment and and Edmondson Park, of which 71% are currently delivery strategies. making a net positive biodiversity contribution. At each of these projects native habitat offsets will be Overall 23.86ha of biodiversity will be protected and employed to manage any reduction in habitat area. restored by National Parks, local councils or other entities aligned with legislative guidelines. Edmondson Park and Macarthur Gardens North will reduce the overall area of onsite biodiversity from pre-development to post-development, but return net positive outcomes due to the preservation of significant good quality habitat. At each of these projects native habitat offsets will beemployed to manage the reduction in habitat area. 15 Through schemes such as the NSW Office of Environment and Heritage Biodiversity Offset Scheme and BioBanking Trust. 16 Tallawong, Kellyville, Bella Vista, Hills Showground and Epping 16 FY20 Sustainability Report Climate Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices ResilientPlaces Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places Energy & Emissions Performance Results Landcom’s Sustainable Places Strategy addresses Energy & Emissions. This focus area forms part of our Climate Resilient Places pillar and is a representation of our commitment to delivering energy efficient communities that reduce greenhouse gas emissions, advance uptake in renewable energy technologies, and reduce the cost of living to residents. FY20 Targets and Performance Indicator Objective Target FY19 Performance FY20 Performance Energy & To conserve All new projects modelled to Committed: Emissions energy and reduce Green House Gas (GHG) 13% drive energy emissions at a precinct scale portfolio efficient, low (transport & stationary) by 50% weighted carbon, low against 2016 reference case (CCAP reduction emissions PRECINX). precincts for the future. Forecast: Forecast: 40% 49% portfolio portfolio weighted weighted reduction reduction 5% of predicted precinct energy Committed: demand supplied from onsite 100% renewable energy, where site constraints permit. Forecast: Forecast: 100% 100% Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction Our Emissions Reduction target seeks to minimise Across these two sites, the aggregated emissions stationary and transport emissions through the reduction agreed via contracts of sale is 13%, adoption of energy efficient design, renewable energy compared to the metro average. Both sites are infrastructure, transport mode split and parking relatively constrained, and dominated by high strategies, and uses incentives to encourage efficient density residential land uses. In isolation this makes building systems and appliances. The emissions it challenging to attain a 50% emissions reduction, reported are the predicted operational emissions of however it should be noted the sites are part of the a masterplan at completion and are calculated using broader SMNW Places program and as more sites the sustainability modelling tool PRECINX and a NSW are delivered the aggregated average performance is metro average baseline of 2016. The global warming forecast to significantly improve. potential account factors align to the National Throughout the reporting period Landcom has also Greenhouse and Energy Reporting (NGER) Act. continued to engage with the successful proponent In FY20 Tallawong and Hills Showground were sold to of these sites. Through this engagement process, the the private sector with conditions of sale to deliver on developer has been able to elevate the BASIX Energy these targets. As contracts have exchanged, however scores from a building code minimum compliance of not settled, we have articulated performance results 25, to a certified 33 for most apartments at Tallawong. for these as ‘commitments’. When future development The average NatHERS rating for those apartments is planning approvals are provided by relevant consent also over 7 Stars. authorities for these precincts, and Landcom settles Landcom anticipates that industry demonstration on the projects we will report any shift between the of beyond BASIX compliance will provide market commitments made by the proponents, and the confidence that Landcom’s targets are achievable, actuals achieved. and contribute value to developers of high density residential projects. FY20 Sustainability Report 17 Climate Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices ResilientPlaces Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places GHG Emssions Reductions against 2016 Sydney Metro Average 2018 2019 2020 0% -13% -10% -20% -40% -46% -40% -49% -30% -40% -50% -60% -70% -80% -90% -100% New Projects Forecast New Projects Committed Target 2028 Leadership Goal Figure 1 Predicted GHG emissions reductions from Landcom project portfolio, against FY16 baseline, modelled using PRECINX. Results show our ‘New’ projects which are in scope for reporting during FY20, and for completeness our ‘Legacy’ projects, which are out of scope for reporting. New projects, or individual precincts within ongoing Our Emission Sources Comparison projects currently in the planning and design stages are also in scope for FY20 reporting.17 Forecast 35,000 results include SMNW Places precincts of Kellyville, Bella Vista and Epping precincts, and Edmondson 30,000 Park with a weighted average GHG emissions tCO2-e nominal/year reduction of 49%18 (see Figure 1). 25,000 New higher-density projects continue to present the 20,000 greatest challenge in attaining material emissions reductions, due to the reduced site area and roof15,000 space available to incorporate renewable energy technologies in a cost-effective way. 10,000 Over the past year we have dedicated significant effort to improving how high-density projects can 5,000 respond to emissions reductions. Overall, accounting for commitments made in exchanged projects, and 0 those which remain in our forecast, the comparison Residential Non-Residential Transport represents a 13% improvement. In FY20 residential dwellings continued to be New Projects New Projects Forecast Committed our most material emissions source, following by transport and non-residential land uses. Figure 2 Emissions sources breakdown across Non‑residential emissions emerged in FY20 as a current projects material emission source due to the inclusion of the Bella Vista precinct which has a considerable portion of non-residential land uses (see Figure 2). In FY21 we will continue to focus on opportunities to further reduce residential and transport emissions. 17 Performance is based on projected performance for all new Landcom projects, until such time as the delivery or divestment strategy for each project is confirmed. At this time, results will become ‘actuals’. 18 Reduction from the reference case. Landcom chooses to use its PRECINX tool for modelling potable water and Greenhouse Gas emission reductions. 2016 reference case is defined as the normalised relevant metropolitan average applied to a masterplan. 18 FY20 Sustainability Report Climate Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices ResilientPlaces Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places While our emissions target is designed to address new Onsite Renewable Energy projects, in FY20 we sought to make a meaningful Landcom’s onsite renewable energy target is for impact at projects that have already moved through 5% of total site demand at the precinct scale to be the planning and design phase. In FY19 we launched delivered by onsite renewable energy. This extends Landcom’s first Sustainability Rebate at Macarthur beyond the inclusion of solar panels on residential Heights, incentivising residents to build sustainable homes, and requires a strategic precinct scale response. new homes. The intent of this target is to drive innovation and large The rebate is designed to be a market-based lever scale integration of renewable energy sources at the to lower emissions and improve the cost of living project site. in established communities, while driving sales In FY20 Landcom had two projects in scope (see Case Study: Sustainability Rebate below). for reporting the inclusion of onsite renewable In FY20 we saw the first claim against this rebate and energy, including Tallawong and Hills Showground. look forward to seeing ongoing uptake as new homes Both projects were sold to the private sector with become eligible during their construction process. conditions of sale to deliver on this target. CASE STUDY Sustainability Rebate Toward the end of FY19 Landcom launched its first Inclusions that will contribute to a residential home Sustainability Rebate to home buyers at Macarthur meeting Landcom’s BASIX targets include: Heights, and in FY20 we saw the first claims for • LED lighting upgrades this Rebate. This is a new incentive to encourage • ceiling fans greater sustainability and resilience of new homes in Landcom communities. • solar panels With the first sustainability rebate paid during FY20, • upgraded insulation and low-E glazing. we have a further eight rebate submissions being A key consideration was to ensure the Sustainability reviewed at the time of reporting and another 41 Rebate was beneficial to new owner occupiers buyers in Stage 4 of the project. All prospective and renters that may choose to live in a new home buyers at Macarthur Heights Stage 5 are eligible for within a Landcom community. Enhancing the quality the rebate, which is currently selling with settlements and efficiency of a home improves its overall value and completions expected in FY21. — benefiting owner occupiers and investors. As the The Sustainability Rebate supplements Landcom’s rebate also enables operational cost savings for existing Landscaping and Fencing Rebate and offers a the life of the home, it ensures renters derive value $15,000 incentive to buyers who build their homes to too. To claim the Rebate buyers must present their meet or exceed Landcom’s standards, for example our BASIX Certificate to Landcom showing they have BASIX targets. met or exceeded the minimum score set by Landcom. BASIX Certificates are required by the Department of Our Sustainability Rebate was developed in Planning and Environment and form part of existing collaboration with the Landcom Sales and Marketing development consent and occupancy certification Team. Sales and Marketing undertook a review requirements at the completion of a home build, so of the residential market to determine the best there is minimal cost impost for our customers to financial rebate value sufficient to attract interest claim the Rebate. Through this process, we are one and drive sales leads. We then worked within step closer to our net-zero carbon leadership Goal, the prescribed rebate value to reverse-engineer encouraging low carbon homes. The first BASIX what type of home interventions would yield the certificate claimed for the rebate achieved an energy greatest return on investment — both for the home score of 92 and a water score of 40. owner, and to accelerate Landcom’s performance against our Energy & Emissions and Environmental The Sustainability Rebate can be downloaded here. Management targets. FY20 Sustainability Report 19 Climate Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices ResilientPlaces Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places Environmental Management Performance Results Landcom’s Sustainable Places Strategy addresses Environmental Management. This focus area forms part of our Climate Resilient Places pillar and is a representation of our commitment to deliver communities that achieve or exceed independent third party rating systems or standards. FY20 Targets and Performance Our FY20 performance results are presented below. All Environmental Management targets were in scope for reporting. Indicator Objective Target FY19 performance FY20 Performance Environmental To maintain All projects will adopt the Out of scope 100% Management and enhance a use of industry recognised of in scope projects (Legacy project Green culture of high rating tools at a masterplan achieved Square awarded environmental and built form scale, 6 Star Green Star performance. achieving not less than Communities rating). ‘Australian Best Practice’ equivalent (Green Star preferred) NABERS: Office, Hotel Out of scope 100% & Retail – Commitment of in scope projects Agreement or designed to achieved 5 Star Energy and Water BASIX energy: Detached & Out of scope — 0% Semi 60; Low-Rise 55; no certificates approved of in scope projects Mid-Rise 45; High-Rise – with dwellings completed achieved 40 in the reporting period. BASIX water: all dwellings 60 Green Star Certification NABERS Certification Green Star, administered by the Green Building Landcom adopts the National Australian Built Council of Australia, is Landcom’s preferred Environment Rating System (NABERS)20 as its independent and voluntary rating tool for precincts preferred independent and voluntary rating system to and built form. Landcom is committed to achieving validate the operational sustainability of eligible non‘Australian Best Practice, 5 Star Green Star’ project residential built form. NABERS measures a building’s certifications for all new projects.19 operational energy efficiency, carbon emissions, In FY20 Landcom registered Macarthur Gardens North water consumption and waste production on an annual to pursue a Green Star Communities rating, targeting basis, and awards a star rating out of six. not less than a 5 Star rating. We anticipate sharing Landcom is committed to requiring a NABERS rating our certified results in the coming reporting year. In at new projects that include office, retail or hotel addition, SMNW Places precincts Tallawong and Hills built form. A NABERS rating can only be ensured at Showground were sold to the private sector, and Landcom projects through collaboration with future included conditions of sale to achieve this target. building owners and operators through conditional requirements within contracts of sale to future site owners. 19 In some instances, Landcom may seek to use, or require the use of, the Green Star Design & As-Built rating tool. 20 What is NABERS? (2018) https://www.nabers.gov.au/about/what-nabers 20 FY20 Sustainability Report Climate Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices ResilientPlaces Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places Landcom had two projects in scope within the BASIX certificates are generated in accordance with reporting period. This included two SMNW Places the design of a new residential development, based on precincts Tallawong and Hills Showground which were the specifications of that building. A BASIX certificate sold to the private sector, and included conditions of must accompany any development application or sale to achieve this target. complying development application before approval for that building is provided. Once construction is BASIX Certification complete a BASIX completion receipt is issued, if an We measure the energy and water efficiency of homes independent certifier confirms the home has been built built by Landcom in accordance with the Environment in accordance with the BASIX specifications. Landcom and Planning Assessment Act Building Sustainability uses the BASIX completion receipt to validate the Index (BASIX).21 BASIX is administered by the percentage of homes within our portfolio designed and Department of Planning, Industry and Environment delivered in accordance with our targets. (DPIE), applies to residential developments, and aims In FY20 we had two SMNW Places precincts in scope, to deliver equitable, effective water and greenhouse including Tallawong and Hills Showground. Both sites gas emission reductions across NSW. were tendered to market with Landcom’s BASIX BASIX targets are calculated as a percentage of targets requested for achievement. Unfortunately savings against the NSW average benchmarks (being we were unsuccessful in negotiating agreement to the average per-person water consumption and deliver on Landcom’s targets. However, since the greenhouse gas emissions levels across the state). exchange of contracts the successful proponent has These percentage savings are then expressed as a demonstrated a willingness to collaborate and achieve target, i.e. BASIX 50 represents a 50% saving against higher than compliance BASIX performance. When the benchmark. BASIX assesses a proposed dwelling future development planning approvals are provided based on these benchmarks, and takes into account by relevant consent authorities for these precincts, regional variations such as soil type, climate, rainfall and Landcom settles on the projects, we will report and evaporation rates.22 any shift between the commitments made by the proponents, and the actuals achieved. Average BASIX Energy scores Average BASIX Water scores for committed new projects for committed new projects 70 70 60 60 50 50 40 40 30 30 20 20 40 40 35 25 10 10 0 0 FY20 FY20 Mid-rise Committed High-rise Committed Mid-rise Committed High-rise Committed Mid-rise Target High-rise Target Mid-rise Target High-rise Target Figure 3 Average BASIX Energy scores committed for Figure 4 Average BASIX Water scores committed for Tallawong and Hills Showground, currently under exchanged Tallawong and Hills Showground, currently under exchanged contracts. Only mid-rise and high-rise developments were in contracts. Only mid-rise and high-rise developments were in scope in the reporting year. scope in the reporting year. 21 What is BASIX? https://www.planningportal.nsw.gov.au/planning-tools/basix 22 https://www.basix.nsw.gov.au/iframe/basix-help-notes/190-target-review/481-what-are-basix-points.html FY20 Sustainability Report 21 Climate Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices ResilientPlaces Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places Waste & Materials Performance Results Landcom’s Sustainable Places Strategy addresses Waste & Materials. This focus area forms part of our Climate Resilient Places pillar, and is a representation of our commitment to delivering communities that reduce waste, and source materials responsibly. These focus areas contribute to our leadership goal to enable zero waste communities by 2028. FY20 Targets and Performance The below table outlines our FY20 performance against our Waste & Materials Targets. Indicator Objective Target FY19 Performance FY20 Performance Waste & To drive All new projects divert No new projects in scope 100% Materials innovation minimum 95% construction new projects in waste waste from landfill (excluding achieved target reduction, contamination or hazardous and further materials) enable the use of 100% timber sourced for No new projects in scope 100% responsible construction (by cost) is new projects resources. Forest Stewardship Council achieved target Certified or agreed equivalent (ie Australian Forestry Standards) Breakdown of Legacy project waste Waste streams diverted from landfill Landcom continues to place a high value on transparently reporting our impact on local 1% 1% 2% environments. We are advancing our approach to focus on how we can achieve net positive environmental outcomes, including zero waste communities. 28% In calculating our waste diversion from landfill target we exclude hazardous waste and contamination volumes from the figures to align more closely with the 68% standards set out in the Green Star rating tools. In FY20 Landcom we had two projects in scope for reporting against our Waste diversion target. This included Tallawong and Hills Showground, which were all sold to the private sector with conditions of Fill VENM Other sale to deliver on this target. Asphalt Concrete Existing Landcom projects that generated waste in FY20 reported a 97% diversion from landfill. The Figure 5 Breakdown of Legacy project waste streams majority of waste was generated at Airds, Lachlan’s diverted from landfill in FY20. Line and Oran Park, with fill (soil) and virgin excavated natural material (VENM) being the most significant recycled materials. As these projects are operating Materials under contracts that pre-date the adoption of our In FY20 there were two projects in scope for reporting Sustainable Places Strategy, they are technically out of against our target for 100% Chain-of-Custody Certified scope, however we are disclosing their waste diversion timber. This included the SMNW Places precincts attainment in FY20 for completeness. Tallawong and Hills Showground, which were all sold to Consistent and accurate waste reporting remains a the private sector with conditions of sale to deliver on challenge across the development industry. In FY19 this target. we commenced the development of an online data Through negotiations at both sites Landcom accepted collection process for waste to mitigate the need for a contractual target of 95% Chain-of-Custody certified manual ‘paper’ based workflows. The process being timber is deemed equivalent, as it aligns with the Green developed is part of the Work Health and Safety Star rating credits the developer is also required to reporting portal and is in the testing phase. We target. As such we are reporting attainment of this anticipate moving to user acceptance testing and roll target for both sites. out in FY21. 22 FY20 Sustainability Report Climate Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices ResilientPlaces Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places Water Performance Results Landcom’s Sustainable Places Strategy addresses Water. This focus area forms part of our Climate Resilient Places pillar and is a representation of our commitment to delivering communities designed for best practice water sensitive urban design which actively conserve potable water. These focus areas contribute to our leadership goal to enable water positive communities by 2028. FY20 Targets and Performance The below table outlines our FY20 performance against our Water Targets. Indicator Objective Target FY19 Performance FY20 Performance Water To design our Water Sensitive Urban Design 100% 100% precincts based strategy for all projects, pollutant in scope projects in scope projects on best practice discharge loads not to exceed achieved achieved Water Sensitive Nitrogen 45, Phosphorus 65, Urban Design Suspended Solids 85, Gross principles, and Pollutants 90 actively conserve potable water. All new projects modelled to Committed: reduce mains potable water 39% demand by 50% at the precinct scale, against a 2016 reference weighted portfolio case (CCAP Precinx) reduction Forecast: Forecast: 50% 52% weighted portfolio weighted portfolio reduction reduction Water Sensitive Urban Design Potable Water Reduction Landcom views Water Sensitive Urban Design (WSUD) Our potable water reduction target seeks to reduce as integral to the sustainable water cycle management the use of unnecessary potable water and improve the of our projects. WSUD can include the rehabilitation efficiency of potable water that is used. The potable and protection of natural waterways, design elements water consumption reported is the predicted such as wetlands, rain gardens, water harvesting and operational consumption of a community at completion storage and efficient fittings, and alterative water and is calculated using the sustainability modelling tool sources such as recycled or blackwater. PRECINX. In FY20 Macarthur Gardens North, Edmondson Park and During the reporting period the SMNW Precincts SMNW Places precincts of Tallawong, Hills Showground, of Tallawong and Hills Showground achieved a 39% Kellyville, Bella Vista and Epping were in scope for reduction based on commitments in the sale contract. reporting against our WSUD target. All projects either As contracts have exchanged, however not settled, achieved or exceeded Landcom’s WSUD targets. we will be articulating performance results for The Macarthur Gardens North site includes a riparian these as ‘commitments’. When future development and biodiversity corridor that will undergo enhancement planning approvals are provided by relevant consent works, with a focused WSUD approach. authorities for these precincts, and Landcom settles on the projects we will report any shift between the commitments made by the proponents, and the actuals achieved. The typical strategies used to achieve the target is to maximize the water harvesting, and adopt higher efficiency appliances and fittings in built form. FY20 Sustainability Report 23 Climate Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices ResilientPlaces Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places We also report our forecast for new projects, and The weighted average potable water reduction forecast individual precincts within ongoing projects currently for new projects is 52%24 (see Figure 7) which is in in the planning and design stages.23 Across Landcom line with FY19. The residential component of our new projects residential land uses continue to dominate project portfolio is forecast to achieve 51% potable potable water consumption, which is consistent water reduction (consistent with FY19 forecasts), with our operations predominantly as a residential and non-residential water reductions have improved to developer (see Figure 6). 54% reduction from 23% in FY19. This improvement in forecast performance is due to the SMNW Places Bella Water consumption source Vista precinct coming into scope. The site is forecast to achieve full attainment of Landcom’s NABERS water targets across the 150,000m2 commercial gross floor 10% area. This assumption is based on successful uptake of Landcom’s NABERS targets at Tallawong and Hills Showground. New projects without access to recycled water present Landcom with the greatest challenge to meet our targets. Without access to recycled water 90% infrastructure, potable water reductions greater than 50% at the precinct scale become technically challenging, and infrastructure such as private grey and blackwater treatment systems can ultimately have a negative impact on cost of living for our residents. Residential Non-Residential Despite the challenges this presents there are also opportunities for innovative design, partnership Figure 6 Potable water consumption by source and technology solutions. Potable water consumption reductions against 2016 Sydney Metro average 2018 2019 2020 0% -10% -20% -39% -49% -40% -50% -52% -30% -40% -50% -60% -70% -80% -90% -100% New Projects Forecast New Projects Committed Target 2028 Leadership Goal Figure 7 Potable water consumption reduction of Landcom’s project portfolio, modelled using PRECINX. Results show our New projects which are in scope for reporting during FY20, and contractual commitments made for Tallawong and Hills Showground 23 SMNW Places precincts Kellyville, Bella Vista and Epping, Edmondson Park and Macarthur Gardens North. 24 Reduction from the reference case. Landcom chooses to use its PRECINX tool for modelling potable water and Greenhouse Gas emission reductions. The reference case is defined as the normalised relevant 2016 metropolitan average applied to a masterplan. 24 FY20 Sustainability Report Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places Skip to: Healthy Healthy & Inclusive Places Pillar Overview Health, Equity & Inclusion, Community Connection  & Inclusive & Safety Performance Results  Places Affordability & Diversity Performance Results Design through Engagement Performance Results  Leadership Goal Objective Target Relevant Sustainable To deliver healthy and inclusive To enhance Landcom’s international Development Goals places founded on equity for status for delivering world class people of all ages and abilities. liveable places founded on equity, affordability and inclusion. Residents report overall 90% satisfaction with quality of life. Julia Reserve at Oran Park FY20 Sustainability Report 25 Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places Healthy & Inclusive Places Pillar Overview Landcom’s Healthy & Inclusive Places pillar is focused on a leadership goal to ‘enhance Landcom’s international status for delivering world class liveable places, founded on equity, affordability and inclusion by 2036’. This leadership goal was developed to reflect our Management Approach commitment to meaningfully contribute to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals,25 Health, Equity & Inclusion, and reduce the impact of shocks and stresses to Community Connection & Safety communities and infrastructure, such as social cohesion and affordable housing as identified by Landcom adopts a holistic approach to the delivery Resilient Sydney26 (part of the Rockefeller Foundation of healthy and inclusive places founded on equity for 100 Resilient Cities Program). people of all ages and abilities. Within this pillar Landcom focuses on how well a For new projects we undertake social needs place delivers quality of life to its communities and assessments to understand what amenities, services the resilience of those communities. It encompasses or programs are currently available to the immediate economic prosperity and affordability, social stability and surrounding community, and what gaps may and equity, accessibility, education, health and need to be filled. We use this information to inform wellbeing, and integration of culture and heritage. our future planning for infrastructure and community development programming. Liveable communities are healthy and inclusive. A well-designed community takes into account the As residents begin to live onsite we commence a needs of people today, and the needs of our future continuous feedback loop via our Healthy & Inclusive generations. We consider where people will work, Places survey (HIPs). This is an engagement tool learn, spend their leisure time and how they move used to gather data from residents of Landcom from place to place. Landcom also believes that the communities measuring satisfaction across built environment should incorporate green spaces dimensions such as design, community connection, and retain a connection to our natural habitats for the safety, wellbeing, housing affordability and diversity benefit of the environment and our communities. based on the residents’ lived experience. We have adopted performance targets across these Landcom addresses liveability through the following dimensions, striving for continuous improvement to focus areas: meet the quality of life expectations of current and • Health, Equity & Inclusion future residents. • Community Connection To benchmark Landcom’s results against industry • Affordability & Diversity standards the survey also incorporates the Personal • Safety Wellbeing Index (PWI).27 The PWI is designed to measure satisfaction with quality of life across seven • Design through Engagement domains: standard of living, health, life achievement, Each of these focus areas includes a suite of targets relationships, safety, community-connectedness and to measure our success. future security. Landcom uses resident satisfaction across the core elements of the PWI to measure success against our leadership goal to ‘enhance Landcom’s international status for delivering world class liveable places, founded on equity, affordability and inclusion by 2036’. We use the results and resident feedback from the HIPs survey each year to drive performance improvements in the way we deliver our projects. This can include adjusting our approach to the design and delivery of future stages of a project or influencing the way we deliver community development programs and services. 25 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (2018) https://www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/sustainable-development-goals/ to see our full alignment to the Sustainable Development Goals see APPENDIX D: Sustainable Development Goals Alignment 26 Resilient Sydney (2018) https://www.100resilientcities.org/cities/sydney/ 27 International Wellbeing Group (2013). Personal Wellbeing Index: 5th Edition. Melbourne: Australian Centre on Quality of Life, Deakin University http://www.acqol.com.au/instruments#measures 26 FY20 Sustainability Report Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places Based on low FY18 performance results against Design through Engagement our Community Connection targets we committed We maintain a commitment to excellence in design to undertake an evaluation of our Community and meaningful stakeholder participation from all Development and Welcome Program to determine those who have a stake in the evolution of our cities, past successes and areas of opportunity. The including the communities which know them best. assessment found Landcom would benefit from an overarching framework to guide the way we approach Landcom has an established Design Advisory Panel and deliver community development. A shift to impact (DAP). The DAP provides advice to Landcom on reporting would also support consistent evaluation strategies to achieve design excellence and quality of success and ability to communicate value creation. of urban design outcomes across our project These recommendations were adopted during the portfolio. The DAP is comprised of industry experts reporting period, however due to the impacts of with experience across design and environmental COVID-19 Landcom made the difficult decision to consultancies, government entities and the cancel our Healthy & Inclusive Places survey this year, development sector. The objectives of the DAP are to which is the tool we use to measure success. We look support Landcom project teams with a critical design forward to validating the effectiveness of our actions review process and provide access to industry experts in the coming year. for guidance and support. As part of our management approach all projects Housing Diversity & Affordability are required to present to the DAP at least once Landcom’s Housing Affordability & Diversity Policy per year as they progress through the masterplan (FY17-FY20) was adopted to drive the delivery of and design stages. In addition, active projects that diverse, affordable and accessible homes. The Policy is make significant reviews to future stages must also a clear reflection of Landcom’s commitment to create present to the DAP. Landcom’s aim is that this robust more affordable and sustainable communities. process will ensure enhanced design outcomes for the communities we deliver. Landcom defines Affordable Housing as dwellings managed or owned by a Community Housing Provider Landcom’s Join In Framework guides our approach (CHP). CHPs are not-for-profit organisations that build to stakeholder engagement. The Framework has and/or manage housing for eligible people on very been developed in accordance with the International low, low and moderate incomes or who are unable to Association for Public Participation (IAP2) guidelines, access appropriate housing in the private market. ‘which seeks to promote and improve the practice of public participation or community and stakeholder Landcom’s Housing Affordability & Diversity Policy engagement, incorporating individuals, governments, requires 5-10% of housing in our projects to be institutions and other entities that affect the public provided as Affordable Rental Housing, owned or interest throughout the world’.28 management by a CHP. The CHP may build the homes, and will manage eligibility and waiting lists, tenant services and property maintenance. We also address housing diversity and accessibility in response to Sydney’s current market conditions. We aim to deliver a range of tenure options for owners and renters, improve the range of home options available in the market especially for first home buyers, and ensure people have the ability to access fit for purpose housing throughout their lifetime. We complement this by advocating for and requiring accessible homes that embody Universal Design principles and are Liveable Housing Australia (LHA) certified. For our FY20 performance against our Affordability & Diversity targets, see Affordability & Diversity Performance Results (p. 33). 28 International Association for Public Participation Australasia (2018) https://www.iap2.org.au/Home FY20 Sustainability Report 27 Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places Our approach to engaging stakeholders is underpinned by the following principles: Collaborative Purposeful Proactive Accountable Inclusive Working with Planning and resourcing Engaging stakeholders Being clear about Engaging stakeholders stakeholders with an engagement to support early and throughout the purpose of with different needs interest in delivering project delivery project planning and engagement, level of and interests positive project delivery and making influence and how the outcomes it easy for them to influence has shaped participate recommendations and decisions For our FY20 performance against our Design through Engagement targets, see Design through Engagement Performance Results (p. 35). Our Future Priorities Our Sustainable Places Strategy identifies a number of initiatives as future opportunities to enhance our Health, Equity & Inclusion and Community Connection focus areas. There are also previously identified priorities that we are retiring, as they have been materially integrated into our organisational approach. Our future priorities in this area are: • exploring opportunities to advance innovation in education, health and wellbeing infrastructure • piloting diverse housing projects to demonstrate innovation (retired this has become BAU for Landcom and is governed by our housing and diversity policy targets) • identifying mode-shift opportunities to reduce car dependency in appropriate locations. Landcom has launched several demonstration projects in FY20 focused on diverse, affordable and innovative housing models. As such, we are retiring this from our future priorities, as it becomes integrated into business as usual. 28 FY20 Sustainability Report Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places Health, Equity & Inclusion, Community Connection, & Safety Performance Results Landcom’s Sustainable Places Strategy addresses Health, Equity & Inclusion, Community Connection and Safety. These focus areas form part of our Healthy & Inclusive Places pillar and represent our social sustainability commitments. FY20 Targets and Performance The below table carries forward Landcom’s FY19 performance results into FY20, due to the cancellation of the Healthy & Inclusive Places Survey for this reporting period. Landcom made the decision to carry forward results, rather than report nil performance in FY20, in order to best facilitate ongoing engagement on these important social matters with our staff, communities and industry. In FY20 we adopted a new framework for community development directly targeting increased participation, connection and engagement with our residents. We also continued to focus on establishing partnerships with organisations specialising in health, wellbeing and education. We worked closely with these partners to shift several activities to online offerings, in response to COVID-19. Indicator Objective Target FY19 performance FY20 performance Health, To deliver healthy 2036 Goal: Residents report 86% 86%* Equity & and inclusive overall 90% satisfaction with Inclusion places founded quality of life. on equity for people of all ages and abilities 90% residents report high 83% 83%* quality public, active and sustainable transport options to key amenities, services, public transport and employment. 90% residents report high 91% 91%* physical and mental health, reflecting project design, programs or events that encourage active, social and healthy eating lifestyles. Community To nurture 90% resident overall 61% 61%* Connection wellbeing and satisfaction with the connection for all integration of culture and that live, work and heritage into all new projects. recreate in our communities. 90% resident reported 66% 66%* community cohesion across all new projects, by fostering the integration of community networks and facilities into our projects. Safety To drive a culture Achieve a culture of safety 93% 93%* and priority throughout our organisation of safety. and on all Landcom projects, striving to achieve 90% overall community safety score at our projects. *FY19 Healthy & Inclusive Places survey results carried forward to FY20 FY20 Sustainability Report 29 Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places Health, Equity & Inclusion Safety During the reporting year we continued to focus In FY20 Landcom has carried forward its results from on rolling out new partnership programs to our the previous reporting period for Safety. In FY19 communities. We placed a strong emphasis on Residents report high levels of perceived safety projects where Landcom partners with Land and (93%) either at home or within their community. Housing Corporation to deliver social and market We ask residents to rate their sense of safety from housing, in order to drive greater equity and access ‘very unsafe’ to ‘very safe’ in the following situations: to programs and services. Activities undertaken • at home alone during the day – 99% of residents in FY20 that supported community Health, Equity report feeling safe or very safe and Inclusion included: • walking alone within their community during the day • Live Life Get Active free fitness classes – 98% of residents reporting feeling safe or very safe • heart foundation walking groups • at home alone during the evening – 93% of residents • yoga (online). report feeling safe or very safe In FY21 Landcom will continue to expand these • walking alone within their community during the programs across our portfolio. evening – 93% of residents report feeling safe or very safe. Community Connection Throughout the design process we continue to adopt Activities undertaken in FY20 that supported best practice Crime Prevention through Environmental Community Connection and the integration of culture Design (CPTED) principles. and heritage include: • star gazing nights in collaboration with Macarthur Astronomy Society • Tea & Tots, and Playgroup programs • craft and cooking classes (online) • gardening workshops (online) • small scale community events, including seniors afternoon tea, and RUOK event, cinema night and school holiday activities • art, photography and poetry workshops and events across various communities. Landcom also supported a local social club at Macarthur Heights to become an incorporated residents’ association (see Case Study: Macarthur Heights Community Group Incorporation on p. 32). Our historical performance results against Community Connection , which are carried forward in FY20, show lower satisfaction by residents for community cohesion (66%) and the integration of culture and heritage (61%). This is consistent with our independent review of previous community development activities showing low participation and engagement rates in general. In FY20 we adopted a new approach to community development, and look forward to validating its impact over the coming year. 30 FY20 Sustainability Report Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places CASE STUDY Live Life Get Active at Tallawong Aligned to our Healthy & Inclusive Places Pillar Live Life Get Active participants also have access and targets, the health and wellbeing of residents to a member dashboard, which helps track living in and around the communities we shape, personal data such lifestyle and activity changes, is key for Landcom. weight, mood and fitness shifts, and increasing or In FY20 we kicked off our partnership with Live Life declining health risk factors. Complementary to this, Get Active and launched this initiative at our new Landcom evaluates the camp using The Australian Tallawong pocket park, which is part of the SMNW Social Values Bank29 tool to assess the social return Places program. on investment of this initiative. After one term initial results show the camp has produced a benefit cost Live Life Get Active is a not for profit charity that aims ratio of 2.44 for every dollar invested – or $69,051 of to enhance people’s health, fitness and happiness by total value compared to the total cost of $28,350. providing free fitness classes to adults, five days a week during school term. Their aim is to address key The camp has also made a big impact personally to issues such as obesity, diabetes, and mental health. participants noted by one of the regular attendees: The Tallawong camp has grown steadily in “My local camp has provided me with an opportunity membership throughout the year, and now has over to improve my physical fitness, and in turn my mental 100 members. Each week locals participate in boxing, health after having my third child. I wasn’t in a financial cross-training and yoga. position to attend a regular gym, having my LLGA camp has been amazing. I love to train outside, and our trainer is fantastic. So good to be able to do this on my way home.” – Talia Merrin Live Life Get Active Camp in the Tallawong Pocket Park. 29 The values used in these calculations, provided by the Australian Social Value Bank, are owned by Alliance Social Enterprises (www.asvb.com.au). They have been produced by Simetrica, using best practice methodology for policy evaluation. These values are used under Licence #w57Q2Y with expiry date 03/04/2021. FY20 Sustainability Report 31 Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places CASE STUDY Macarthur Heights Community Group Incorporation In FY20 the Macarthur Heights Social Club reached an All of the elected members are positive for the future important milestone in their history by becoming an and are proud of their achievement. incorporated group. Landcom supported the group “We are privileged to be a part of the Macarthur in their application process and after six months of Heights Community Group (MHCG). All of us feel planning the structure, defining their purpose and connected with an invisible bonding. All of us working through matching positions to skill sets within are volunteers and continuously trying our best the group, they achieved official incorporated status. to serve the community to make it our HOME.” – The Macarthur Heights Community group (MHCG) Mohammad Alauddin, Secretary, Macarthur Heights has made great progress in setting themselves up for Community Group success through creating a new website, a community Landcom is proud to continue to support the group WhatsApp group and have a defined stakeholder list, in their future plans for connecting the community. communication and action plan. Achieving incorporated status is a great first step for Registered membership has reached 92 residents, the MHCG in setting up a sustainable entity that will and the group are currently defining how they will continue to evolve as the community grows. continue to add community value while responding to COVID-19 social gathering restrictions. Members of the MHCG from left: Hasan Pradhan (Treasurer), Neil Bhattarai (Assistant Treasurer), Mustaq Pradhan (VicePresident), Bikram J Thapa (Vice-President), Hugo Pacheco (President), Mohammad Alauddin (Secretary), Md Huq (Joint Secretary) 32 FY20 Sustainability Report Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places Affordability & Diversity Performance Results Landcom’s Sustainable Places Strategy addresses Affordability & Diversity. This focus area forms part of our Healthy & Inclusive Places pillar and is a representation of our commitment to delivering affordable and sustainable communities. In FY18 we released our Housing Affordability & Diversity Policy to drive the delivery of diverse, affordable and accessible homes. It’s important that housing types and tenures meet local demographic diversity and affordability needs. We must also ensure the housing we deliver to market remains current and reflects the changing needs of communities and household compositions. Landcom will be completing a review of the current Policy, and revisions will be published in FY21. FY20 Targets and Performance In FY20 two precincts within the Sydney Metro Northwest Places (SMNW) program were in scope for reporting against Landcom’s Affordability & Diversity targets. Indicator Objective Target FY19 Performance FY20 Performance Affordability Deliver on Deliver 5-10% Affordable No projects in 100% & Diversity Landcom’s Housing across the Landcom scope for reporting in scope projects commitments portfolio achieved for affordable, diverse and 20% of medium to high No projects in sustainable density dwellings within scope for reporting 100% homes. all new projects achieve in scope projects Liveable Housing Australia achieved Silver Certification (or equivalent) New projects to deliver No projects in 100% 10‑15% diverse housing scope for reporting in scope projects achieved Affordability and Diversity The SMNW Places precincts of Tallawong and Hills Showground were in scope for reporting. These precincts were sold to private sector developers with conditions of sale within their contracts to deliver on these targets. 80,000 60,000 40,000 20,000 0 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 FY21 FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY27 FY28 FY29 FY30 FY31 FY32 FY33 FY34 Cumulative Other Dwellings Cumulative Affordable Housing Cumulative Diverse Housing Figure 8 Current and forecast Housing Affordability & Diversity targets based on current and new projects FY20 Sustainability Report 33 Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places This year Landcom has actively sought to partner with At the event Landcom presented a suite of innovative industry to create opportunities to innovate in housing Affordable Housing approaches including financial affordability, and to increase diversity in our projects. modelling and tenure structures and announced a Landcom hosted an Affordable Housing industry pipeline of affordable and diverse housing projects event in November 2019, attended by 15 Community Landcom is seeking to partner with industry in Housing Providers, National Housing Finance and delivering over the coming years. Investment Corporation, local councils, and peak industry organisations including the Community In FY20 Landcom is not disclosing any relevant Housing Industry Association of NSW, Urban Design insights from residents regarding affordability or Institute of Australia to and planning and design firms. diversity of housing, as our HIPs survey (data source) was deferred to FY21 due to the impacts of COVID-19. CASE STUDY Schofields diverse housing Landcom has developed an innovative and Schofields is focused on providing ‘missing middle’ targeted approach to housing affordability. The typologies including a range of low rise and approach provides a comprehensive and workable medium density dwellings, such as terraces and solution to the problem of housing affordability manor-homes that are nestled between detached for people on low-moderate incomes. It features a homes and residential apartments. Together this range of housing options for people with differing housing diversity creates a ‘patchwork’ of housing equity and income levels. options across a community, reflecting the Landcom’s mission is to create more affordable different needs of households through all stages and sustainable communities. Our Schofields of life. demonstration project in Western Sydney is a great Schofields will also create liveable and green example of how we are embracing the challenges streets, with the aim of re-inventing the traditional that limit housing diversity and affordability, road reserve to mitigate urban heat and create and finding innovative solutions to overcome places for informal social interaction and incidental these problems. play. This creative design response encourages The purpose of our Schofields project is to activity and social interaction, fostering great sense demonstrate that greater housing diversity, with of belonging and community cohesion. more liveable and green streetscapes, is possible within existing planning controls. An artists impression of a streetscape in the Schofield’s project 34 FY20 Sustainability Report Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places Design through Engagement Performance Results Landcom’s Sustainable Places Strategy addresses Community Engagement and Design. These focus areas form part of our Healthy & Inclusive Places pillar and is a representation of our social sustainability commitments to excellence in design and meaningful engagement with our stakeholders. FY20 Targets and Performance Landcom released the Join In Framework in 2018 as part of our commitment to engagement and established its Design Advisory Panel in 2019 to address design excellence. Indicator Objective Target FY19 Performance FY20 Performance Design To optimise the All new projects to undergo 100% 100% through quality of design peer review through the engagement and place and Landcom Design Advisory drive strong Panel (or equivalent) engagement All new projects to align with 100% 100% with our the community engagement communities and Join In Framework, aligned stakeholders. to industry best practice for stakeholder engagement practice Community Engagement In FY21 we will continue to embed Join In with ongoing evaluation and staff training, with a specific Our approach to working with the people, groups focus on building our capacity for collaborative action and organisations that have an interest, that will be with key stakeholders. directly impacted, or have an ability to influence our projects is guided by our Join In stakeholder engagement framework. The framework outlines Design our commitment to stakeholder engagement and During FY20 all projects within our business to continued learning and improvement in our development portfolio, or active projects undertaking engagement practice to help create more affordable masterplanning or reviewing design and delivery and sustainable communities. options, presented to the DAP. Within our active project portfolio this included Macarthur Gardens Throughout FY20 we continued to embed the Join In North and precincts within SMNW Places such as Bella framework across the organisation and at our projects, Vista, Kellyville and Cherrybrook. this included preparing up to date communications and engagement strategies for projects, and The DAP provides expert review of projects in concept evaluating our engagement activities. During the or masterplanning design, with the aim of achieving reporting period Landcom had ten in scope projects design excellence. Feedback is often provided for a with up to date and fit for purpose communications project team to consider and respond to. The DAP is and engagement strategies in place to reflect Join In. also kept abreast of design related policy and strategy such as progress against our Sustainable Places This included our SMNW Places precincts of Strategy, Housing Affordability & Diversity targets, Epping, Showground, Kellyville and Bella Vista. and key findings from our HIPs survey. At these precincts we are working with local councils and other agencies to plan for growth. We publish regular program updates for interested stakeholders and have provided opportunities for communities to learn about, and provide feedback on, development proposals before seeking approval from consent authorities. FY20 Sustainability Report 35 Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places w CASE STUDY Lachlan’s Line Engagement Our engagement process for the Lachlan’s Line We used a wide range of communication channels Bridge, during the construction phase, was a great to share information about the extensive road example of how Landcom drives best practice closures and construction works to a broad audience. engagement and collaboration with stakeholders Engagement with various transport agencies, to achieve the best possible outcome for the ensured that there was a consistent message community. In this case the objective was to about road closures across each of the various minimise the inconvenience of major road closures communications channels. Some examples included on the community. media releases, social media campaigns, establishing Purposeful and planned engagement with an 1800 project phone number, letter drops, stakeholders helped to: radio adverts and news stories, and live updates on Live Traffic NSW (coordinated by Transport for NSW). • de-risk and pre-empt likely issues that could arise as a result of road closures As a result of this engagement, stakeholders received clear and consistent information about Landcom’s • minimise the impact to road users (which included works and construction impacts, and were able to users of the M2 Motorway) by ensuring that the account for road closures when making travel plans. community were informed about traffic changes and diversions • ensure the community could find information about these changes to help plan their travel • establish good working relationships with teams from various transport agencies. The Lachlan’s Line Bridge at dusk. 36 FY20 Sustainability Report Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places Productive Skip to: Productive Places Overview  Places Training & Employment Performance Results  Innovation Performance Results  Leadership Goal Objective Target Relevant Sustainable Drive the delivery of To contribute to a global Development Goals productive places, and enable innovation economy by enabling jobs for the future. 30,000 enduring jobs for the future by 2036. Western Sydney University’s Campbelltown Campus FY20 Sustainability Report 37 located within our Macarthur Heights community. Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places Productive Places Overview Landcom’s Productive Places pillar is focused on a leadership goal to ‘contribute to the global innovation economy by enabling over 30,000 new jobs by 2036’. This is our economic pillar committed to delivering places that will be productive and engaging for those that live there. This leadership goal was developed to reflect In FY18 our Economic Development Working Group30 Landcom’s commitment to economic development, released an approach for overcoming the challenge of strengthening technology infrastructure and consistently and effectively calculating our efforts to advancing equitable opportunities for skills enable enduring local jobs. We use proxy employment development and education. ratios, developed through detailed research and Landcom addresses the enablement of jobs benchmarking, attributed to various land uses based and innovation through the following focus areas: on m2 gross floor area. Examples of land uses included are commercial, retail, industrial, community, cultural, • Training & Employment tourism, health services, education, storage, hotel, • Innovation serviced apartment, student housing and residential. Each of these focus areas includes a suite of targets As jobs creation is a long-term goal for Landcom, to measure our success. we report our performance based on the FY actuals, and forecast jobs created for the life of a project. Management Approach This gives us a clear indication of whether we are on track to meet our 2036 target. Training & Employment In FY19 Landcom’s methodology was also adopted Our leadership goal to enable 30,000 jobs across across the NSW Government’s Common Planning our communities by 2036 is in direct response to the Assumptions Group (CPAG), influencing a consistent broader NSW government objectives. As at 2036, government wide approach. the Greater Sydney Commission (GSC) forecasts the Sydney region alone will need 817,000 new jobs. We also contribute to advancing education and skills As part of Landcom’s mandate we support these development across our communities. We work targets by developing great places and mixed-use with industry and registered training organisations communities where people can work, live and play. to develop programs that address specific skills requirements of locals, and provide training opportunities and employment pathways for those experiencing low or long-term unemployment. We also collaborate with schools and other educational institutions to deliver learning and youth engagement programs that are aligned with the NSW primary and secondary curriculum topics. For Landcom’s FY20 performance for enabling jobs and providing local Training & Employment outcomes see Training & Employment Performance Results (p. 41). 30 The Economic Development Working Group was established during our operations as Landcom trading as ‘UrbanGrowth NSW’. 38 FY20 Sustainability Report Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places Innovation Landcom addresses Innovation by investing in research that advances the property and development industry, and future proofing our communities. We invest in collaborative research such as Cooperative Research Centre programs, or via our own Roundtable. Landcom’s Roundtable is a collaboration with other government organisations31 and eight leading Australian universities. Comprised of senior representatives from each institution, the Roundtable meets several times a year to review research proposals that advance urban development innovation. Governance: Landcom’s Roundtable Landcom’s Roundtable: • Universities • Landcom • Greater Sydney Commission • Government Architect NSW Landcom Sustainability & Learning Team Proof of Concept End-User Community Driven Community of Practice of Practice Pipeline of initiative proposals in development that support the research priorites. 31 During FY20 government participants included NSW Government Architect, Greater Sydney Commission. FY20 Sustainability Report 39 Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places Landcom’s research priorities are aligned to our Strategic Directions: Landcom Strategic Direction Research Priority Housing Landcom is interested in research that: Increase the affordability, • clarifies how Landcom can deliver innovative housing governance or supply and diversity of housing tenure models for low to moderate household incomes • identifies relevant new housing design typologies that are scaleable, affordable and resilient to future market changes. Partnerships Landcom is interested in research that: Partner with others to unlock • e  mpowers future project resilience to the changing nature of cities, development opportunities infrastructure, employment, people and communities. and improve delivery Leadership Landcom is interested in research that: Demonstrate excellence in • e  mpowers urban developers to advance the delivery of sustainable, sustainable development and socially equitable, environmentally friendly and commercially viable planning practices communities • e  nables the delivery of new home designs that meet the needs of the diverse communities in which we operate • e  mpowers the commercialisation of knowledge creation to benefit Landcom and industry. Landcom addresses emerging technologies in our Our Future Priorities Innovation focus area. Currently we are seeking to Our Sustainable Places Strategy identifies a number roll out smart technology to our new communities of initiatives as future opportunities to enhance our in the form of electric vehicle (EV) rapid charge Productive Places commitments. We are also retiring stations and increasing the provision of free Wi-Fi several priorities, as they have become part of our in public places. We see these initiatives as futurebusiness as usual approach which are noted below. proofing communities, reducing inequalities in access This includes: to information and ensuring early adoption of future transport technologies. • adopting a reconciliation action plan Ultimately, the provision of EV chargers throughout • c onsidering our business approach to Landcom communities improves resilience, reduce staff volunteering greenhouse gas emissions, and reduces transport • a dvancing our approach to driving smart cities related cost of living expenses for residents. These and innovation (retired – integrated into BAU) targets also contribute to Landcom’s low-carbon • c ollaborating to deliver employment hubs and transport approach, including accessibility to opportunities across our portfolio (retired – public transport, walkable and cycling-friendly integrated into BAU). neighbourhoods (see Health, Equity & Inclusion, In FY21 we will update our management approach to Community Connection & Safety p. 29). include the adoption and delivery of a Reconciliation Action Plan. This responds to our new material matter of respecting indigenous culture and heritage. This was forecast for delivery in FY20, however has been delayed due to the impacts of COVID-19. We have also retired our priority regarding smart cities innovation, as Landcom is now an ongoing collaborator with the Centre for Smart Modern Construction, a member of the Department of Planning, Industry and Environment Circular Economy Working Group, and focuses on innovation via our Roundtable and Green Star certifications. Landcom is also retiring its priority related to employment hub collaborations, as our partnership with Transport for NSW to deliver the SMNW Places program, and our ongoing focus on enabling enduring jobs across our project portfolio fulfils this remit. 40 FY20 Sustainability Report Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places Training & Employment Performance Results Landcom’s Sustainable Places Strategy addresses Training & Employment. This focus area forms part of our Productive Cities pillar and is a representation of our commitment to advancing needs-based education, skills and training to our communities. FY20 Targets and Performance In FY20 all targets for reporting against our Training and Employment were in scope. Our results are presented below. Indicator Objective Target FY19 performance FY20 performance Training & To provide To contribute to a 363 1,999 Employment opportunities global innovation cumulative jobs cumulative jobs enabled for skills economy by enabled (20,071 projected by 2036) development, enabling 30,000 (26,734 projected by education and enduring jobs for 2036) employment the future by 2036 that will support Projects to Engaged over Engaged over our communities engage and foster 1,500 800 to thrive. education, learning students across our students across our Skills or employment Skills Exchange, Exchange, research and outcomes via research and excursion excursion programs actives or initiatives, programs based on identified needs of the local and regional community Enabling enduring jobs Landcom is making steady progress to meet our commitment to enable 30,000 enduring jobs by 2036. FY20 in scope projects include remaining stages at Edmondson Park, Lachlan’s Line and Green Square, and new precincts across SMNW Places program, Macarthur Gardens North and Fennell Bay.32 35,000 30,000 25,000 20,000 15,000 10,000 5,000 0 FY19 FY20 Forecast 2036 Target Contracted/sold/ 363 1,999 20,071 30,000 built (cumulative) Figure 9 Progress towards achieving our commitment to enable 30,000 enduring jobs is seen to advance more quickly from FY20 onwards. This is due to new projects coming online such as those in the SMNW Places program and also our future pipeline for development. 32 Edmondson Park Stages 3, 5, 6 and 9; all Lachlan’s Line stages excluding North Station and Green Square stages 2, 3 and 4. FY20 Sustainability Report 41 Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places The total forecast for jobs enabled by 2023 has The students came from areas surrounding our decreased between our FY19 and FY20 reporting Newleaf community in Bonnyrigg. They participated period, and is attributed to adjusted total commercial in a three day training course each week over a six gross floor area across the SMNW Places program. week period to gain certified skills including basic These forecasts will continue to be subject to change, construction, construction health and safety, first aid while future projects remain in the planning phase and and traffic management. Following the course, we respond to market demand. TRN offered positions to five of the graduates to work on the final stage of earthworks for our Bonnyrigg Training & Employment community. The remaining graduates were connected In FY20 we delivered our Skills Exchange program with labour hire companies to help their job search. at our Newleaf community in Bonnyrigg. This is We also engaged over 800 secondary and an extension of our Skills Exchange investment tertiary students throughout the reporting period, that commenced at Airds and Claymore in FY18, as part of our Roundtable research programs, and Macarthur Heights in FY19. These communities school excursion programs, events and project and surrounding areas have an identified need for engagements (see Innovation Performance employment pathways for young people and the Results p. 43). This ranged from guest lectures to long‑term unemployed.33 bachelor or master’s degree candidates by our In FY20 we had eleven unemployed or disadvantaged senior leaders, through to providing students with students graduate from the Skills Exchange Program, access to our assets to learn about real world which was a partnership between Landcom, development practices. Land and Housing Corporation, TRN (our Principal Civil Contractors for the community), Master Builders Association and the Daystar Foundation. CASE STUDY Collaborative Urban Teaching Platform Universities and governments are increasingly The best student groups pitched their ideas encouraged to work collaboratively on largeand development proposals to judges from scale urban development projects. Landcom Landcom at the end of the semester, at a final fosters this engagement through research and event on 23 October 2019, with awards for the student engagement activities under the Landcom most innovative proposals that met Landcom’s Roundtable Agreement. One such initiative is the objectives. Representatives from the NSW Public Collaborative Urban Teaching Platform (CUTP) Service Commission also attended the event to which is a multi-university, cross-disciplinary urban promote the NSW Government Graduate Program, teaching partnership developed by Landcom and reinforcing the opportunities for the students several NSW-based universities. to appreciate the Landcom business firsthand The FY20 CUTP was offered to 180 students from and impress their achievements on Landcom a variety of undergraduate and postgraduate Executives, Directors and Senior Managers. courses from the University of Technology Sydney In addition to the CUTP, Landcom provided and Western Sydney University. opportunities for over 600 other students from Each course adopted either the Cherrybrook primary schools through to universities to engage Station Precinct (part of our SMNW Places with Landcom projects through guest lectures program) or an adjacent site within the provided by Landcom senior managers, visits to Cherrybrook Precinct Structure Plan as their project sites, and student research and case study semester-long case study. Landcom provided projects. information about the projects and Landcom’s objectives to all participating students at a joint briefing at the beginning of the semester. 33 Airds: 26% unemployment rate: https://profile.id.com.au/campbelltown/employment-status?WebID=100; Claymore: 27% unemployment rate: https://profile.id.com.au/campbelltown/employment-status?WebID=100 42 FY20 Sustainability Report Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places Innovation Performance Results Landcom’s Sustainable Places Strategy addresses Innovation. This focus area forms part of our Productive Places pillar and is a representation of our commitment to advancing innovation through our business, and to our communities. FY20 Targets and Performance In FY20 all targets were in scope for reporting. Indicator Objective Target FY19 Performance FY20 Performance Innovation Research Measure and report annual $491,840 cash $150,000 cash Investment investment in research and development $402,708 in‑kind $373,499 in kind All project teams engaged 2 project teams No Community of in the Landcom Roundtable engaged Practice meetings ‘Community of Practice’ held34 programs To pioneer Greenfield/regional: all No projects in scope 100% new ideas new communities provide in scope projects and foster electric vehicle chargers achieved opportunities to service a minimum 10% within our total dwellings (as either innovation publicly accessible or economy. private use) Urban Renewal/High Density: provide a minimum 10% parking yield, per parking lot, as EV Charge Station ‘turn-key’ ready at development completion Key open spaces to provide No projects in scope 100% free Wi-Fi access in scope projects achieved 34 Our first Community of Practice meetings under the renewed Landcom Roundtable Agreement were due to be held in April 2020 however the impacts of COVID-19 on the university sector meant that we delayed the first meetings until July 2020 which fell outside of the reporting boundary. FY20 Sustainability Report 43 Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places Research Investment In FY20 Landcom contributed $523,499 total investment value into collaborative research led by participants of the Roundtable; in FY20 this includes $373,499 worth of estimated in-kind value contribution from Landcom employees,35 based on research investment made at or before 30 June 2020. Many projects undertaken by the Roundtable include long-term research outcomes, and as such may be included across multiple reporting years. This also influences the presentation of our cash contributions year on year, which may fluctuate due to certain projects receiving upfront funding upon their commencement. In FY20 there were 14 ongoing research projects related to our operations. A summary is provided below. Research Projects Research Projects Completed Sustainable Urban Explores the relationship between local food ecologies and urban redevelopment. Food Production Creating the City We Want Investigates barriers to housing diversity in NSW with consideration to diverse family structures, cultural groups and ageing. Healthier Higher Density Generates new knowledge and tools to address gaps in understanding the way Living health evidence can be applied to the planning of higher density urban precincts. From Suburban to Urban Reviews open space definitions, typologies and uses by public to better inform local and state policies and practices in the provisioning and delivery of open spaces. Phytoremediation Demonstrates how phytoremediation can be used to rehabilitate and restore for Contamination of balance to contaminated soil. Contaminated Land Designing Bio-Shelters Applies cutting-edge modelling techniques more usually applied to architectural problems to design artificial habitats for native biodiversity in heavily urbanised estuaries. New Generation Workspace Assesses how workspaces can be integrated into new developments and within and Precinct Activation planning regulations. It also includes architecture and design studio projects which will experiment with different spatial configurations, typologies and concepts for the zone. Strategies for Planning Safe Examines how counter-terrorism protective security can be integrated into and Secure Public Domain design and development processes for crowded public places in Australia. Valuing Creating Evaluates creative place making activities and links to social and economic value. Placemaking Assesses the direct or associated financial value for developers. Community Engagement 4.0 Demonstrates public sector innovation through the use of Urban Pinboard as a community engagement tool. Uses 3D modelling to assist in explaining planning concepts to the public. Predictive Housing Price Develops a framework and tool to more accurately forecast long-term Model (8 to 10 years) real estate prices in the Sydney residential property market. Collaborative Robotics Investigates how collaborative robotics can help address the shortage of skilled labour to meet NSW housing goals. Cooling the Commons Evaluates how heat impacts people’s movement between indoor spaces and use of the public realm, such as footpaths, shops, schools, parks, workplaces. Affordable Built-to-Rent Critically evaluates built-to-rent potential to deliver affordable housing in the Australian market, based on international case studies in the UK and USA. 35 Due to the organisational separation from UrbanGrowth NSW Development Corporation during FY18 we only estimate the in-kind contribution of Landcom employees and acknowledge that Infrastructure NSW and Hunter and Central Coast Development Corporation staff have also provided in-kind support to a number of research projects. 44 FY20 Sustainability Report Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places Emerging Technologies postponed due to the impacts of COVID-19 and the reduced use of our fleet vehicles. We will reevaluate In FY20 Landcom had two projects in scope for our our approach over the coming year. targets related to the provision of electric vehicle (EV) rapid charge stations or shared charging points. This target applies to new Landcom communities, Equitable Access to Information and includes Tallawong and Hills Showground which There were two new projects in scope for this target were sold to the private sector with conditions of sale during the reporting period, including Tallawong to deliver against these targets. and Hills Showground. Both were sold to the private sector and included conditions of sale, or a Green We had planned to implement the recommendations Star certification pathway, to deliver on this target. from the FY19 Electric Vehicle study conducted Other new projects that became active during the with Sustainability Advantage (NSW Department of reporting period fall outside the scope of this target, Planning Infrastructure and Environment) and begin as they do not have sufficiently large community open the transition of our fleet vehicles to electric during spaces to warrant or draw demand for public WiFi, the year, however the implementation has been such as Macarthur Gardens North. CASE STUDY Common Purpose City Challenge Landcom was proud to partner with Common As part of the challenge, Landcom hosted Purpose in the Common Purpose City Challenge, 17 students in an immersion visit to our office where over 500 students from Western Sydney in Parramatta. We shared Landcom’s approach University were challenged to answer the question: to enabling net-zero emissions at our Western ‘How can Western Sydney embrace renewable Sydney projects, and shared examples of how and resilient energy to achieve net-zero emissions we collaborate across industry to help shape by 2050?” our strategy and achieve our targets. During the two day event, students participated in a The challenge produced many outstanding series of presentations, workshops and immersions ideas from this bright cohort of students and is visits with industry organisations to discuss the a great example of how embracing innovation, issues and opportunities for achieving this target. collaboration and determination will be key in They were then asked to present their solutions to a achieving net-zero emissions in the ever growing panel of experts on the final day, highlighting their environment of Western Sydney. ideas on how Western Sydney could embrace this renewable and resilient energy target. Students and guest presenters at the City Challenge briefing held at the University of Western Sydney. FY20 Sustainability Report 45 Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places Collaborative Places Accountable Skip to: Accountable & Collaborative Places Overview  & Collaborative Accountability Performance Results  Places Human Rights Performance Results  Leadership Goal Objective Relevant Sustainable Drive accountability and Development Goals performance along our value chain 46 FY20 Sustainability Report Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places Collaborative Places Accountable & Collaborative Places Overview Landcom’s Accountable & Collaborative Places pillar is focused on a leadership goal to ‘drive accountability and performance along our value chain’. This leadership goal was developed to reflect Landcom’s commitment to robust governance collaboration within our organisation and supply chain. Accountability means creating a system with a Management Approach level playing field in which decisions are made for the betterment and benefit of all stakeholders. Accountability Performance means seeking ever greater Landcom is committed to supporting international improvements in efficiency and outcomes. Our value agreements, protocols and targets to ensure our chain refers to all organisations that we deal with in planet and communities thrive into the future. operations. By championing better ways to approach Urban development and the property sector make a business we seek to lead the industry in trust, material contribution to global emissions, the quality transparency, governance and efficient outcomes. of life experienced by citizens and the resilience of our Landcom addresses accountability and collaboration built and natural environments. through the following focus areas: Therefore, Landcom believes it is critical to align • Accountability with, and report our contribution towards the United • Human Rights Nations Global Compact, Sustainable Development Each of these focus areas includes a suite of priorities Goals, Resilient Sydney Strategic Directions and or actions to measure our success. While this pillar COP21 Paris Agreement. We also voluntarily report includes individual priorities for achievement, it also against the Task Force on Climate-related Financial has a broad governance reach across Landcom’s Disclosures, and we are a reporting entity under the entire Sustainable Places Strategy. Commonwealth Modern Slavery Act 2018. Framework Our Response United Nations Global Compact In February 2019 Landcom became a Participant of the United Nations (UNGC) Global Compact. We report our Communication on Progress annually as part of this report within the GRI table. See APPENDIX F: GRI Content Index (p. 72). Sustainable Development Goals Our Sustainable Places Strategy was directly informed by the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We report our contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals annually. See APPENDIX D: Sustainable Development Goals Alignment (p. 63). Paris Agreement COP21 Our environmental leadership goal is to ‘enable carbon neutral outcomes at communities by 2028’. See Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction (p. 17) and Urban Heat Island Reduction (p. 15). GRESB Landcom voluntarily participates in the GRESB Real Estate Assessment, which evaluates the environmental, social and governance (ESG) performance of real assets. See GRESB (p. 50). Climate Active Carbon Neutral In FY20 Landcom registered to become a carbon neutral certified Certification organisation. The registration is currently being formalised. Task Force on Climate-related Landcom discloses its approach to managing climate change risks in Financial Disclosures accordance with the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures. FY20 is the first year these disclosures have been provided. See TCFD Disclosures. FY20 Sustainability Report 47 Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places Collaborative Places Framework Our Response NSW Government Resource We report our overall sustainability performance against the NSW Efficiency Policy Government Resource Efficiency Policy (GREP), which guides our approach to energy, water and waste efficiency in our corporate operations; and helps demonstrates Landcom’s alignment with the NSW State Government’s sustainability goals.36 See Accountability Performance Results (p. 49). Human Rights Landcom operates entirely within NSW, and as such benefits from high standards of governance and legislation Australia adopts regarding human rights. We are a Participant to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and we support the ten principles of the Global Compact on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We focus on human rights areas we have the potential to influence, mitigate or remediate. This includes our identified focus areas of modern slavery, workplace diversity and inclusion, and workplace wellbeing. To see more on our management approach for Human Rights refer below. Commonwealth Modern Slavery Landcom is a reporting entity under the Act, and provides our Board Act 2018 approved public statement within this report. See APPENDIX C: Modern Slavery Statement (p. 59). Human Rights In FY20 Landcom has elevated Human Rights to a As a broader part of Landcom’s commitment, in 2019 focus area within the Sustainable Places Strategy, we became the first Government Land Organisation to in response to Human Rights being identified as a be accepted as a signatory to the Ten Principles of the material issue for the organisation in FY19.37 United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). Landcom’s Landcom’s identified priority areas for Human Rights first Communications on Progress was published by include modern slavery, workplace diversity and the UNGC in January 2020.38 Landcom continues to inclusion, and workplace health and wellbeing. These remain a committed signatory, focused on advancing priorities were identified as part of an FY18 Human our contribution to fundamental responsibilities Rights Salience Assessment. in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti‑corruption. Landcom also leverages its internal policies and frameworks to guide our approach, including our Diversity & Inclusion Policy and Action Plan, Employee Wellness Program, and Modern Slavery Management Plan. 36 As outlined in NSW 2021: A Plan to Make NSW Number One which aims to drive resource efficiency by NSW Government agencies in three main areas — energy, water and waste — and to reduce harmful air emissions from government operations. 37 Landcom has enveloped its former Supply Chain focus area into Human Rights. 38 Landcom’s Communication on Progress can be viewed here. 48 FY20 Sustainability Report Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places Collaborative Places Accountability Performance Results Landcom’s Sustainable Places Strategy addresses Accountability. This focus area forms part of our Accountable & Collaborative Places pillar and is a representation of our commitment to robust governance and performance, both within our own organisation and in our supply chain. Our Annual and Sustainability reporting continues to be an important part of how we transparently share our organisational performance with our stakeholders. Sustainable Development Goals Landcom reports our alignment and contribution to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (Sustainable Development Goals). Landcom’s Sustainable Places Strategy is aligned to all of the Sustainable Development Goals. Each year we will continue to track our progress against meeting the Sustainable Development Goals and their respective targets relevant to Landcom and our operations. Sustainable Places Sustainable Development Goals Strategy Pillar Climate Resilient Places Healthy & Inclusive Places Productive Places Accountable & Collaborative Places To see our full alignment against the Sustainable Development Goals, and our targets and actions in FY20 to address them, refer to APPENDIX D: Sustainable Development Goals Alignment (p. 63). FY20 Sustainability Report 49 Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places Collaborative Places GRESB In FY20 Landcom participated in the GRESB Real Estate Assessment. This was our fourth year participating in GRESB. Landcom achieved a score of 90/100, and maintained our Green Star rating and 5 Star entity status. This year extensive updates to the GRESB assessment structure were adopted. As publicly communicated by GRESB, results from FY20 are not comparable to performance in past years. Overall, Landcom continues to rank within the top 12% of global participants, and exceeds the GRESB and Peer Group average performance. The following table summarises our results and benchmarking. Ranked 3rdmost Ranked within top sustainable developer in Australia 12% globally 74 90 GRESB average Overall score 80 Peer average Landcom GRESB Results Trend 2017-2020 100 Overall Score 50 Landcom Peer Group Range GRESB Range Peer Group Average 0 2017 2018 2019 2020 GRESB Average 50 FY20 Sustainability Report Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places Collaborative Places NSW Government Resource Efficiency Policy (GREP) Throughout the reporting period Landcom continued to voluntarily adopt the NSW Government Resource Efficiency Policy (GREP). The GREP helps the NSW Government to set an example in addressing the challenge of rising resource costs, and reducing impacts on our economy, environment and community. The GREP guides Landcom’s approach to energy, water and waste efficiency in our corporate operations, and helps us align with the State Government’s sustainability goals.39 Key activities in the reporting year related to the GREP include: •a  total of 7.9 tons of Scope 1 CO2 emissions were recorded for the reporting year. Sources were sales offices (gas) and Landcom’s fleet vehicles (fuel combustion). Landcom had no biogenic emissions •L  andcom had no Scope 2 emissions, as the 142,237kWh of electricity used to power our office was 100% Green Power • based on the total of 151 full time equivalent staff members (FTE), Landcom’s energy intensity is 942kWh/FTE • we maintained our 6 Star NABERS Energy Rating for our Parramatta Office. During the reporting period Landcom registered to become a carbon neutral organisation under the Climate Active Carbon Neutral Standard. The Climate Active Carbon Neutral Standard (the Standard) is Australia’s government managed offset scheme for certifying organisations, products and services, and events. Historically, Landcom has not set a baseline year for our Scope 1 or Scope 2 emissions as we have consistently purchased green power or offset all our emissions within operational control. We will be setting a baseline year as part of our Climate Active carbon neutral certification. We do adopt the National Greenhous and Energy Reporting (NGER) Scheme global warming potential account factors. We use the tool CCAP Integrated to capture and synthesise our data, which also follows the NGER Scheme protocols. 39 As outlined in NSW 2021: A plan to Make NSW Number One, which aims to drive resource efficiency by NSW Government agencies in three main areas — energy, water and waste — and also reduce harmful air emissions from government operations. FY20 Sustainability Report 51 Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places Collaborative Places Human Rights Performance Results Modern Slavery Landcom also continued its membership of the Property Council Modern Slavery Working Group The Federal Modern Slavery Act commenced on throughout the reporting period. The group is 1 January 2019. The Act requires entities with an represented by risk, sustainability and procurement annual revenue of $100 million or more based or experts. In 2019 the cohort formed a consortium40 operating in Australia to prepare annual statements to design and deliver the ‘Supplier Platform’. on potential modern slavery risks in their operations The Platform provides a consistent approach to and supply chains and disclose the steps they have engagement on modern slavery across the industry’s taken in addressing those risks. As of FY20, Landcom shared supply chain, and leverages the consortium’s is a reporting entity under this Act. Landcom’s Modern collective influence to mitigate or remediate instances Slavery Statement is presented at Appendix C. of modern slavery. Suppliers complete a single In FY20 Landcom adopted a Modern Slavery questionnaire that is accessible through an online Management Plan to guide the way our organisation dashboard to the consortium members for whom identifies, mitigates and remediates the risks of modern they work, or wish to work. The Platform also provides slavery within our operations and supply chain. capacity building links and resources to suppliers, During the reporting the period Landcom Board, and is intended to encourage and track continuous Executives and key Senior Leaders completed modern improvement, enabling consortium members to collect slavery training, delivered by Better Sydney. Staff wide and evaluate data, or monitor skills gaps and supply training is planned for FY21. chain advances. CASE STUDY Sustainable Supply Chain for Merchandise We are committed to sustainable procurement when fulfilling our merchandise needs, which includes ethically produced products that don’t harm the environment or people. That’s why we have adopted ‘Sustainable and Ethically Sourced’ evaluation criteria for our prequalified merchandise suppliers. We look to partner with organisations that share our values. This includes demonstrating an understanding of key environmental and social issues that may affect products – such as modern slavery or environmentally destructive practices – and taking proactive steps to mitigate these risks. 40 Founding members: Abacus Property, AMP Capital, Brookfield Properties, Charter Hall, Cromwell Property Group, Dexus, Frasers Property Australia, Goodman Group, The GPT Group, Investa, ISPT, Landcom, Mirvac, Stockland and Vicinity Centres. 52 FY20 Sustainability Report Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places Collaborative Places A pilot of the Platform commenced in late 2019, The property and construction industry is also with over 700 suppliers across consortium members characterised by long and complex supply chains, invited to participate. The pilot objective was to stretching across many countries. Building materials onboard as many suppliers as possible, gain insights and products are often sourced from countries known on industry wide supply chain risk, and obtain user to have higher risks of modern slavery. feedback to refine and improve the tool. The Platform We’re committed to driving accountability and supports consortium members to undertake supply performance along our supply chain. This means chain due diligence, and removes some barriers proactively engaging with our suppliers, particularly that prevent suppliers from proactively engaging on those we partner with to deliver our projects. As part modern slavery, such as administrative burden and of our management approach Landcom is a member of effort duplication. the Australian Supply Chain Sustainability School. In FY20 Landcom invited current suppliers across civil, Launched in Australia in 2015, the School works to landscaping or demolition contractors, home builders, develop the sustainability skills and knowledge of IT services and products, and some professional those working in complex property and construction services to participate in the Platform pilot, and supply chains. Through self-assessment tools and free received an approximate 54% engagement rate. resources, it helps organisations of all sizes address The questionnaire confirmed the majority of issues such as modern slavery, sustainable procurement participating suppliers included the following risk and materials innovation. profile attributes, making their operations or supply In FY21 Landcom will continue to deliver against chain susceptible to modern slavery: its Modern Slavery Management Plan, including • high proportion of sub-contractors the development of a remediation approach and • little or no oversight of suppliers’ sub-contractors seeking to partner with expert industry and nonor third-parties government organisations. • products and materials sourced from overseas, with little or no oversight of their production. These findings are consistent with where the property and construction industry is likely to encounter modern slavery. Low skilled, manual, low-waged work is an area where workers are more likely to be subjected to forced labour, and where the risk of harm to people may increase. These workers may be poorly educated, lack decent work options and be more likely to be migrants from high-risk countries; this is relevant to both operations in Australia, and the overseas supply chain. FY20 Sustainability Report 53 Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places Collaborative Places Diversity & Inclusion Workplace Health & Wellbeing Landcom has continued to promote diversity Landcom recognises that managing work, and inclusions (D&I) across our business relationships, caring responsibilities, finances throughout FY20. and other life needs can be challenging at times for us Our D&I Policy outlines our commitment to providing all. To support our staff, in FY19 Landcom introduced a workplace culture that embraces equity, diversity LifeStreet – a new Employee Assistance Program and inclusion at all levels of our organisation enabling focused on wellbeing and an individuals’ life as staff to thrive and do their best work. a whole. Throughout FY20 Landcom’s staff led D&I Working Accessible to all staff, LifeStreet offers usual Group continued to meet regularly, and monitor assistance services to employees and immediate the progress of Landcom’s D&I Action Plan, family members, and has resources and tools for staff which focusses on the following key goals: to use in their lives more broadly. • create an environment that values Digitally based, users can access their own LifeStreet diversity & inclusion profile via a secure login, and use self-assessment tools to help direct them to the appropriate • increase attraction, retention, and development resources on their platform. Topics span health and of staff from diverse backgrounds, wellness, family and relationships, work and career, initially prioritising women, Aboriginal and psychological and emotional wellbeing, carers needs, Torres Strait Islanders, culturally and linguistically financial management and planning and purpose and diverse people, people with disability, contribution. Users can also be connected to coaches generational diversity and LGBTQIA+ or medical professionals – such as sleep psychologists • reduce bias and embed diverse and inclusive if that is an area of personal wellbeing improvement a practices into how we work. user may need support with. As part of the Action Plan, and to help enable the In FY20 Landcom responded to the impacts of above goals, Landcom has adopted a suite of D&I COVID-19 by encouraging higher engagement with measures and metrics, benchmarked against several LifeStreet, and making health and wellbeing classes Australian datasets. Our FY20 results are presented in available to staff online. Landcom’s Annual Report. In helping to develop a culture that truly values diversity and inclusion through building awareness and understanding, we held an Indigenous Cultural Awareness session for our Senior Leaders. This included an overview of Indigenous history, culture, identity, capacity building and engagement by the Mirri Mirri Cultural Awareness company. In FY20 Landcom participated in the Diversity Council of Australia’s Inclusion@YourWork survey to further our diversity efforts. The Diversity Council Australia (DCA) is the not-for-profit peak body leading diversity and inclusion in the workplace. The survey was distributed to all staff and assessed a number of factors that make up an inclusive workplace such as leadership, culture, and teams. Based on our results Landcom was named as an Inclusive Employer. 54 FY20 Sustainability Report Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places APPENDIX A: Assurance Statement Independent Assurance Statement to the Board and Management of Landcom We, Point Advisory Pty Ltd (‘Point Advisory’), performed independent assurance over selected performance data and statements presented in Landcom’s FY20 Annual Report1 and Sustainability Report (‘the Report’) reflecting the performance period 1 July 2019 – 30 June 2020. Respective responsibilities • Landcom management is responsible for the preparation and presentation of the information within the Report. Landcom management is also responsible for the design, implementation and maintenance of internal controls relevant to the preparation of the Report, so that it is free from material misstatement. Landcom management is also responsible for setting targets and for the development of appropriate internal controls to monitor performance. • Point Advisory’s responsibility, in accordance with Landcom management’s instructions, is to carry out a ‘limited level’ ASAE30002 assurance engagement on selected data and performance claims in the Report and a Type 2 ‘moderate level’ of assurance over the Report in accordance with AccountAbility’s AA1000AS3. We do not accept or assume any responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person or organisation. Other stakeholders should do their own due diligence before taking any action from this statement. Criteria We have used the following criteria against which to evaluate the content of the Report: • The AA1000 AccountAbility Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality, Responsiveness and Impact • The Global Reporting Initiative’s Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) • The Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Recommendations • The Australian Modern Slavery Act 2018 (Modern Slavery Act) Reporting Requirement • Landcom’s own reporting criteria4 as set out in the Report, and relevant policies and procedures to evaluate the selected data. Our methodology Our assurance engagement was planned and performed in accordance with ASAE3000 and AA1000AS. The procedures we performed were based on our professional judgement and included the steps outlined below: • Interviewed a selection of Landcom’s executives and managers to understand its material sustainability topics (‘material topics’) and the effectiveness of its responses, including how its strategic objectives and sustainability strategy is integrated across the organisation. • Reviewed a selection of corporate documents including the Strategic Directions, Sustainable Places Strategy, and other key internal documents to understand Landcom’s material topics, how they are managed and what progress was made during the reporting period. • Reviewed the coverage of material topics within the Report against the key topics raised in media reports, peer reports, management interviews, key internal documents and the outputs from Landcom’s materiality process. • Interviewed data owners of selected data sets to understand how they collected, calculated and aggregated data from projects as well as what assumptions or estimations were made. • Sought and reviewed supporting information or explanations for selected data, statements and claims within the Report regarding Landcom’s operational and sustainability performance. • Checked whether operational and sustainability data in the Report had been calculated and aggregated accurately, was consistent with Landcom’s internal records, and according to managements explanations and disclosures. • Reviewed and assessed how Landcom has responded to sustainability-specific reporting regimes including its: reported alignment with the requirements of the GRI Standards; provision of climate-related information in line with the TCFD; and adherence to the reporting requirement of the Modern Slavery Act. The limitations of our review Our evidence gathering procedures were designed to obtain a ‘limited level’ of assurance (as set out in ASAE3000) on which to base our conclusions. The extent of evidence gathering procedures performed is less than that of a reasonable assurance engagement (such as a financial audit) and therefore a lower level of assurance is provided. Further to this, we did not visit project sites or interview project teams. Our conclusions and observations Our detailed observations and areas for improvement will be raised in a report to Landcom management. In line with the scope of our independent assurance engagement, including the criteria and methodology described above, we conclude that: • based on our ‘limited’ assurance procedures under ASAE3000, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that selected sustainability disclosures have not been reported fairly and accurately. • based on our ‘moderate level’ of assurance procedures under AA1000AS, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that Landcom has not adhered to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality, Responsiveness and Impact when reporting its sustainability performance. 1 Excluding all content related to the Financial statements and notes. 2 Standard on Assurance Engagements ASAE 3000 Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information Issued by the Auditing and Assurance Standards Board 3 AA1000 Assurance Standard (AA1000AS v3) for assurance of sustainability information based on the effective application of the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles (AA1000AP, 2018) 4 Including Landcom’s principal objectives and function under the Landcom Corporation Act 2001 and with reference to operations disclosure requirements under section 24A of the State Owned Corporations Act 1989 and the Annual Reports (Statutory Bodies) Act 1984. FY20 Sustainability Report 55 Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places APPENDIX A: Assurance Statement Completeness and accuracy of performance information We have reviewed information or explanations for selected data and statements on Landcom’s operational and sustainability activities presented in the Report and we are not aware of any misstatements in the assertions made. Evaluating adherence to AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Our detailed conclusions regarding Landcom’s adherence to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles and selected observations are provided below, and do not affect our conclusions on the Report set out earlier in this statement. AA1000 AccountAbility Conclusions Observations Principles Inclusivity We are not aware of any key stakeholder Landcom understands the benefits of engaging with its stakeholders, with Has Landcom included groups which have been excluded from both its Strategic Directions and Sustainable Places Strategy reflecting stakeholders, allowing engagement nor any matters that would stakeholder engagement-related performance objectives. During the people to have a say in the lead us to conclude that Landcom has not reporting period Landcom maintained its stakeholder feedback channels decision that impact them? applied the inclusivity principle in managing and made demonstrable progress towards embedding its stakeholder its approach to sustainability. engagement approach (Join In) across the organisation and within projects. Materiality We are not aware of any material topics in Each of the identified topics are relevant to one or more of the four Has Landcom identified our review which have been excluded from categories of its Sustainable Places Strategy and aspects of its Strategic and been clear about the the Report, and nothing has come to our Directions. The topics have shaped its disclosures against the GRI Standards sustainability topics that attention that causes us to believe that the topic disclosure requirements across the Report. Landcom has developed or matter? principle of materiality has not been applied formalised respective management approaches to those matters where when identifying topics. required, and this is also evident in the disclosures made in the Report. Responsiveness We are not aware of any key actions or Landcom’s Strategic Directions and Sustainable Places Strategy remain in Has Landcom acted initiatives responding to material topics place and continue to demonstrate a comprehensive response to transparently on material which have been excluded from the Report stakeholder perspectives and material topics. Their collective goals in sustainability topics and nor any matters that would lead us to relation to accountability, collaboration, partnership, and leadership reflect their related impacts? conclude that Landcom has not applied the Landcom’s principal objectives and their role in the property industry and responsiveness principle in it approaches. among government agency peers. Impact We are not aware of any key impacts that Landcom actively monitors and measures across a range of its positive and Has Landcom held itself to Landcom has not sought to monitor, negative impacts. This impact focus is evident at the policy level, such as account for how its actions measure, and nothing has come to our the Housing Affordability and Diversity Policy and its commitment to enable affect broader ecosystems attention that causes us to conclude that enduring jobs. It is also evident in how Landcom directs its efforts to and society? Landcom management has not sought to be continually learn new ways to drive impact, such as its Research Priorities accountable for its impacts in the Report. aligned to the Landcom Strategic Directions. Review of sustainability-specific reporting regimes We have reviewed Landcom’s: • reported alignment with the GRI Standards, and we are not aware of any misstatements in the assertions made. • disclosures in line with the TCFD, and we are not aware of any misapplication of its Recommendations. • statement in line with the Modern Slavery Act, and we are not aware of any non-adherence to the Reporting Requirement. Our independence We are not aware of any issues that could impair our independence or objectivity for this assurance engagement. Point Advisory’s independence policy and supporting measures apply to management and professional staff. This policy also prohibits any financial interests in our clients that would or might be seen to impair independence. Our team Led by a Lead Certified Sustainability Assurance Practitioner (CSAP), our assurance team has qualifications and experience in applying the ASAE3000, AA1000AS, GRI Standards, TCFD and Modern Slavery Act relevant for this assurance engagement. On behalf of the assurance team. Alan Dayeh Managing Principal, NSW Lead CSAP (AccountAbility UK) Point Advisory, Sydney 25 November 2020 56 FY20 Sustainability Report Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places APPENDIX B: Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Landcom recognises the systemic threat posed by climate change and the need for urgent mitigating action. In 2018 Landcom launched its Sustainable Places Strategy, directly aligned to the Sustainable Development Goals, Paris Agreement and 100 Resilient Cities Strategy for Sydney. Our Strategy includes a commitment to enabling carbon neutral, water positive, zero waste and net positive ecological outcomes at our new communities by 2028. While we continue to deliver on these commitments at our assets, Landcom is also taking steps to bolster our overall approach to mitigating the risks of climate change to our organisation. From FY20 Landcom is adopting the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and will be progressively working towards full alignment. We are aligning with the TCFDs as it is leading practice, and our disclosures are presented with consideration to the interests of our stakeholders. We recognise that there will always be space for continuous improvement and maturity when responding to climate change risks and opportunities. Where we are today Future priorities Governance Board oversight Continue to deliver on our Climate Risk Executive General Manager Communications & Management Plan Policy provides quarterly updates on climateDevelop climate-related Key related issues to the Board Performance Indicators for senior Climate-risks accompany all new project business leaders acquisition or development approval proposals Establish a forum within the business requiring Board approval to drive leadership and raise the Board considers climate-related issues and internal profile of climate-related issues performance as part of risk and corporate management strategy and operational planning Board approves annual Sustainability and Annual Reports with relevant climate-related disclosure Management’s role Director Sustainability & Learning oversees assessment and management of climaterelatedissues, and reports to Executive General Manager Communications & Policy Executive General Manager Communications & Policy provides monthly updates on climaterelated issues to the Executive Committee Executive Committee oversees implementation of Climate Risk Management Plan Executive Committee, Director Audit & Risk and Director Sustainability & Learning monitor climate-related risks via Landcom’s Strategic and Operational Risk registers Management endorses for Board approval Landcom’s Sustainability and Annual Reports, with climate-related management approach and performance disclosures. Audit & Risk Management Committee Annual review of transition risks, or portfolio wide physical and social risk trends FY20 Sustainability Report 57 Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places Where we are today Future priorities Strategy Sustainable Places Strategy addresses projectDevelop climate scenarios in line with based climate issues, including adaptation and TCFD recommendations to inform resilience management, and transitioning our future business priorities approach towards carbon neutral communities Certify Landcom under the Climate by 2028 Active Carbon Neutral Standard Landcom’s Climate Risk Management Plan guides business approach to FY22 Integration of climate-related issues in Landcom’s Communications & Policy FY21 Divisional Plan All new projects (and prospective acquisitions) assessed for climate-related physical, social and interdependent risks against several timescales and scenarios, typically being 2030 (RCP4.5), 2070 (RCP 8.5) and 2090 (RCP 8.5) Roundtable Research Priorities includes a focus on funding proposals that advance resilience Registration as Climate Active Carbon Neutral Standard addresses organisational carbon neutral approach Risk Management Climate-related risks identified and integrated Integrate identified climate-related into Landcom’s Strategic and Operational Risk risks into project business plans registers Advance understanding and Climate-related risks incorporated into future disclosures of response to climatecorporate strategic planning related transition risks Climate-related risks integrated into Risk Advance understanding and Appetite Statement disclosures of climate-related financial Roundtable Research Priorities includes a focus impacts to the organisation on funding proposals that advance resilience All new projects (and prospective acquisitions) assessed for climate-related physical, social and interdependent risks are accompanied by recommended adaptation, mitigation or management actions Consistent risks being identified across our project portfolio disclosed in Sustainability Report (refer to Climate Change Risk and Community Resilience) Community resilience plans developed for all new projects Where we are today Metrics & Targets Sustainable Places Strategy incorporates a suite of targets to address resilience and carbon reduction across Landcom’s project portfolio, and performance is reported annually in the Sustainability Report (see Climate & Resilience Performance Results p. 14). All new projects to All new projects to prepare All new projects modelled undertake a Climate and implement an effective to reduce Green House Resilience Assessment Climate Adaptation and Gas emissions by 50% Community Reslience Plan 58 FY20 Sustainability Report Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places APPENDIX C: Modern Slavery Statement The following disclosures are made in accordance with the Commonwealth Modern Slavery Act 2018. Landcom meets the threshold for a reporting entity, as outlined in the Act. This Statement has been approved by the Landcom Board, and signed by John Brodgen Chief Executive Officer. Landcom chooses to include its required Statement as a component of our annual Sustainability Report, which also provides comprehensive details on our approach to Human Rights. This Modern Slavery Statement is third party assured against the requirements and criteria set out in the Act. Content in this Statement is set out to provide an overview of Landcom’s approach and response to the Mandatory Criteria outlined in the Act. For further detail on Landcom’s approach Modern Slavery, including our comitment to continuous improvement, refer to Accountable & Collaborative Places Overview p. 47). Links to Global Reporting Index, United Nations Global Compact or other related content within the body of the FY20 Sustainability Report are also provided, in order to give the reader access to relevant or complementary detailed content in respect to Landcom’s management of Human Rights and Modern Slavery. John Brogden AM CEO, Landcom Mandatory Criteria Landcom Response Criteria 1: Identify the This Statement covers Landcom as the reporting entity. reporting entity. Criteria 2: Describe the Structure structure, operations Landcom is a NSW Government State Owned Corporation, created by the Landcom and supply chains of the Corporation Act 2001. reporting entity. Landcom sits within the NSW Department of Planning & Environment cluster, however is not part of a larger corporate group of entities, and does not control or own any other entities. Landcom annual disclosures regarding Ownership and Legal Form is presented in GRI 102-05. Landcom’s annual disclosures regarding Information on Employees and Other Workers is presented in GRI 102-08. Operations Landcom is the NSW government’s property development organisation. Landcom’s leadership intent is to create more affordable and sustainable communities. We act as a master developer, developer and builder where appropriate to achieve outcomes for our stakeholders. This includes partnerships with the NSW Government departments and external commercial entities to maximise our impact for the benefit of NSW communities. As a masterplan developer we use a variety of structures to deliver projects. The key types of project structures that we use are: • Owner/Master Developer • Project Delivery Agreement (PDA) • Reverse Project Delivery Agreement (RPDA) • Joint Ventures (JV) For further information on these types of structures, and a map of our current projects refer to Reporting Boundaries p. 4. Other operations that complement, however may not be specific to a particular development project, includes research and development investment via Landcom’s Roundtable (refer to Research Investment p. 44). Landcom does not have any formal charitable interactions. FY20 Sustainability Report 59 Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places Mandatory Criteria Landcom Response Criteria 2: Describe the Supply Chains structure, operations Products provided by suppliers and supply chains of the Products provided to Landcom are predominantly corporate in nature, such as reporting entity. office furniture and supplies, and basic kitchen amenities such as tea and coffee for continued staff. Services provided by suppliers Landcom’s main supply chain consists of services provided by suppliers that enable master development and building projects. This can be split into two generalised categories of: Corporate services: includes but is not limited to legal and specialist consultant services related to the planning and development of land. Project development services: includes but is not limited to services at project development sites such as principal contracting, civil and landscape services. Products and services used by indirect suppliers in supply chains Indirect products and services related to Landcom’s operations include but are not limited to related corporate services (e.g. specialist consultants and their labour force), project development sub-consultant services provided to principal contractors, and raw or manufactured materials and machinery that enable development works to occur. Landcom’s annual disclosures regarding Supply Chain, including our Management Approach and Performance Targets is presented at p. 72, or refer to GRI 102-08 Criteria 3: Describe The property and construction industry has extensive supply chains that can the risks of modern extend to multiple, international tiers. By undertaking a Human Rights Salience slavery practices in the Assessment, Landcom has initially identified supply chain forced labour and operations and supply materials sourcing as the dominant areas of risk to modern slavery. chains of the reporting Landcom staff are employed under an award or senior management contract. entity. Our day to-day work is predominantly office based. Services such as planning and design, or construction, is undertaken as identified above in our supply chain disclosures. Landcom’s two offices tenancies are leased in reputable commercial property developers that are also reporting entities under the Act. As such, Landcom’s immediate operations have are considered low risk to modern slavery. 60 FY20 Sustainability Report Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places Mandatory Criteria Landcom Response Criteria 4: Describe A range of actions have already been undertaken, or are planned, as part of our the actions taken by commitment to continuous improvement. the reporting entity to assess and address those risks, including due Where we are today Assessing effectiveness diligence and remediation processes; and • C ompletion of Human Rights Salience • E  ngaged independent expert to review Assessment by independent experts Modern Slavery Management Plan, Criteria 5: Describe how to understand Landcom’s key areas of and provide guidance to continuous the reporting entity modern slavery risk exposure. improvement. assesses the effectiveness • E stablishment of internal working • M  odern Slavery Management Plan of such actions. group to inform and recommend scheduled for review on internal audit business approach. plan. • A doption of Modern Slavery • R  eviewed disclosures made by Management Plan to guide action, Landcom suppliers engaged including identification, management via the Supplier Platform and and remediation approach. validated inherent risk to modern • Founding consortium member for slavery compared to Human Rights the Property Council of Australia Salience Assessment. Supplier Platform, designed to engage • M  onitored the rate of response to multitiered supply chain and assess for supply chain engagement via the risks of modern slavery. Supplier Platform (refer to Human • E ngaged suppliers via the Supplier Rights Performance Results p. 52). Platform to determine and verify salient modern slavery risks. Future priorities • continue to deliver on our Modern Slavery Management Plan • c ontinue engagement with tier one high risk suppliers to understand their level of modern slavery risk and management maturity • c ollaborate with tier one suppliers to increase transparency of their own supply chains (Landcom’s tier 2 and beyond supply chain) • p rogressively expand our engagement and collaboration to medium and low risk suppliers • adopt supplier pre-qualification requirements for modern slavery disclosures • c ontinue to educate our staff and stakeholders about modern slavery and how to identify potential risks • p artner with industry experts, non-profits and organisations to adopt appropriate notification and remediation processes • improve existing modern slavery disclosures and requirements from entities that purchase Landcom projects to support a comprehensive risk and reputation management approach (noted this is beyond the scope of the Act). Landcom’s annual disclosures regarding modern slavery, including further detail on our Management Approach and Performance is presented at p. 57. GRI 408 – 412 and UN Global Compact Principles 1-5 also provide related content. FY20 Sustainability Report 61 Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places Mandatory Criteria Landcom Response Criteria 6: Describe the This criterion does not apply to Landcom, as the organisation has no additional process of consultation owned or controlled entities. We continue to engage within our organisation, with any entities the industry and our supply chain as disclosed. reporting entity owns or controls. Criteria 7: Include any Landcom continues to proactively manage the risks of modern slavery within our other information that operations and supply chain. We are committed members of the United Nations the reporting entity Global Compact, report our contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals, considers relevant. and have been addressing Human Rights and Modern Slavery has been part of our Sustainable Places Strategy since 2017. Landcom’s annual disclosures regarding Modern Slavery, including further detail on our Management Approach, supply chain engagement, and continuous improvement is presented at p. 59. Landcom’s contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals, including those related to Human Rights, is presented at APPENDIX D: Sustainable Development Goals Alignment (p. 63). Landcom’s United Nations Global Compact ‘Communication on Progress’ disclosures are presented within APPENDIX F: GRI Content Index (p. 72). 62 FY20 Sustainability Report Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places APPENDIX D: Sustainable Development Goals Alignment Landcom is committed to supporting international agreements, protocols and targets to help ensure our planet and communities thrive into the future. As part of this commitment we report our contribution to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (Sustainable Development Goals).41 In summary, our Climate Resilience Places pillar supports Sustainable Development Goals 1, 2, 6, 7, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15. Our Healthy & Inclusive Places pillar supports Sustainable Development Goals 1, 2, 3, 5, 10, 11, 16 and 17. Our Productive Places pillar supports Sustainable Development Goals 4, 8, 9 and 10. Our Accountable & Collaborative pillar supports Sustainable Development Goals 8, 15, 16 and 17. Sustainable Development Goals & Targets Landcom Response Goal 1: End poverty in all its Landcom supports the ending of poverty through our mandate forms everywhere to provide Affordable Housing.42 We expand on this to ensure housing diversity and accessibility are addressed, for equity. Target: By 2030, build the Healthy & Inclusive Places Targets resilience of the poor and those in vulnerable situations Deliver 5-10% Affordable Housing across the Landcom and reduce their exposure portfolio and vulnerability to climateDeliver 10-15% diverse housing across our portfolio related extreme events and other economic, social and 20% of medium to high density dwellings within all new environmental shocks and projects are achieve Liveable Housing Australia Silver disasters Certification (or equivalent) Landcom further supports all community members, including the vulnerable, to increase their resilience to climate‑related extremes and other shocks or stresses through our commitments to building resilience. Climate Resilient Places Targets All projects to prepare and implement an effective Climate Change Adaptation Plan; and Community Resilience Plan. Goal 2: End hunger, achieve Landcom is seeking ensure access to nutritious food by food security and improved mandating the adoption of independent rating tools – such nutrition and promote as Green Star Communities. Within these tools, we will aim to sustainable agriculture achieve all credits related to ‘access to fresh food’. Target: By 2030, end hunger Climate Resilient Places Targets and ensure access by all All projects will adopt the use industry recognised rating tools people, in particular the poor at a masterplan and built form scale, achieving not less than and people in vulnerable ‘Australian Best Practice’ equivalent. situations, including infants, to safe, nutritious and sufficient food all year round 41 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (2018) https://www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/sustainable-development-goals/ 42 Managed or owned by a Community Housing Provider for not less than 10 years, and accessible to people who meet the government means testing (or other criteria) for access to Affordable Housing. FY20 Sustainability Report 63 Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places Sustainable Development Goals & Targets Landcom Response Goal 3: Ensure healthy lives Landcom is committed to ensuring our communities are and promote well-being for all mentally and physically well. We address this through the at all ages design of our communities, and activities or programs we offer throughout the year. We then measure our ongoing success Target: By 2030, reduce by through direct engagement with the people living in our one third premature mortality communities. from non-communicable Healthy & Inclusive Places Targets diseases through prevention and treatment and promote All projects provide design, programs or events that encourage mental health and well-being active, social and healthy eating lifestyles, achieve 90% resident reported health and wellbeing All new projects are designed and delivered to achieve 90% resident satisfaction with public, active and sustainable transport options to key amenities, services, public transport and employment Activities FY20 Landcom Community Development programs related to health, offered at various projects. These included free fitness classes for adults through our partnership with Live Life Get Active. In response to COVID we also ran on-line health and wellbeing activities such as yoga, kids fitness, cooking classes and gardening workshops. Goal 4: Ensure inclusive and Landcom believes that equitable access to education quality education for all and and opportunities is an important part of delivering our promote lifelong learning communities. We address this through our targets and programs/activities offered at our projects. Target: By 2030, substantially Productive Places Targets increase the number of youth and adults who have Projects to engage and foster education, learning or relevant skills, including employment outcomes via activities or initiatives, based on technical and vocational skills, identified needs of the local and regional community for employment, decent jobs Activities and entrepreneurship FY20 Landcom Skills Exchange was offered at the Bonnyrigg community to support at risk secondary school students, and long-term unemployed people, to engage in meaningful learning, skills development and/or employment. Goal 5: Achieve gender Landcom is committed to diversity and inclusion, including the equality and empower all engagement of women and girls. women and girls Healthy & Inclusive Places Priority Target: Ensure women’s full Identify opportunities to positively impact diversity, inclusion and effective participation and accessibility and equal opportunities for Activities leadership at all levels of FY20 Landcom continued to deliver against its Diversity & decision making in political, Inclusion Policy and Action Plan, and maintained its staff led economic and public life Diversity & Inclusion working group. 64 FY20 Sustainability Report Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places Sustainable Development Goals & Targets Landcom Response Goal 6: Ensure access to water Landcom recognises that water scarcity and drought is an and sanitation for all increasing issue for Australia. We’re committed to enhancing the efficiency, reducing the unnecessary use of potable water, Target: By 2030, substantially and ensuring water quality is not negatively impacted by our increase water-use efficiency activities or the communities we build. across all sectors and ensure Climate Resilient Places Targets sustainable withdrawals and supply of freshwater Achieve water positive communities by 2028 to address water scarcity All projects modelled to reduce mains potable water demand and substantially reduce the by 50% at the precinct scale against a 2016 reference case number of people suffering from water scarcity BASIX 60 water target for all new dwellings within our development control Water Sensitive Urban Design strategy for all projects, pollutant discharge loads not to exceed Nitrogen 45, Phosphorus 65, Suspended Solids 85, Gross Pollutants 90 Goal 7: Ensure access to Australia is privileged to have reliable energy sources, therefore affordable, reliable, sustainable Landcom’s focus is on enhancing efficiency, improving cost of and modern energy for all living, and increasing the use of renewables. Climate Resilient Places Targets Target: By 2030, increase substantially the share of 5% of predicted energy demand supplied from onsite renewable energy in the global renewable energy, where site constraints permit energy mix All new projects modelled to reduce Green House Gas (GHG) emissions at a precinct scale (transport & stationary) by 50% against 2016 reference case (CCAP PRECINX modelling) Activities Landcom’s Sustainability Rebate for home owners continued to be rolled out to Macarthur Heights in FY20, with the first claims for the rebate made by residents. Goal 8: Promote inclusive and Landcom aims to support the Greater Sydney Commission sustainable economic growth, objective to achieve a 30 minute city. We’re focused on employment and decent work ensuring land use diversity across our projects to promote jobs for all close to homes. We are also committed to identify any risks of modern slavery Target: Take immediate or human rights infringements within our operations or supply and effective measures to chain, and take action. eradicate forced labour, end modern slavery and human Productive Places Targets trafficking and secure the Enable 30,000 enduring jobs by 2036 prohibition and elimination of the worst forms of child Accountable & Collaborative Priorities labour, including recruitment Develop an approach to human rights with consideration for and use of child soldiers, and modern slavery by 2025 end child labour in all Activities its forms In FY19 Landcom became a Participant to the United Nations Global Compact, committing to embed the 10 Principles in our operations. In FY20 we also advanced our approach to Modern Slavery, with a focus on specific risks related to labour hire through our supply chain. FY20 Sustainability Report 65 Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places Sustainable Development Goals & Targets Landcom Response Goal 9: Build resilient Landcom is committed to delivering and enabling resilient infrastructure, promote infrastructure and communities. We address this through our sustainable industrialization Climate Resilient Places targets, such as mandating resilience and foster innovation risk assessments and adaptation plans, adopting independent rating tools and pushing for highly efficient buildings. Target: Develop quality, Climate Resilient Places Targets reliable, sustainable and resilient infrastructure, All projects will adopt the use industry recognized rating tools including regional and at a masterplan and built form scale, achieving not less than transborder infrastructure, ‘Australian Best Practice’ equivalent. to support economic Above standard NABERS and BASIX building ratings development and human well-being, with a focus on All projects to prepare and implement an effective Climate affordable and equitable Change Adaptation Plan; and Community Resilience Plan access for all Goal 10: Reduce inequality We are focused on ensuring equity and inclusion across the within and among countries communities we are delivering, which is why we measure satisfaction with quality of life from our residents through our Target: By 2030, empower and Healthy & Inclusive Places Survey. This information helps us promote the social, economic identify areas to improve the social and economic inclusion of and political inclusion of all members in our communities. all, irrespective of age, sex, Healthy & Inclusive Places Target disability, race, ethnicity, origin, religion or economic or Achieve 90% resident satisfaction with quality of life, as other status measured by the Personal Wellbeing Index43 Healthy & Inclusive Places Priority Identify opportunities to positively impact diversity, inclusion and accessibility Activities FY19 Landcom adopted its Diversity & Inclusion Policy, and established a staff led Diversity & Inclusion working group. In FY20 we continued to deliver against the Policy and Diversity & Inclusion Action Plan. FY20 Landcom Community Development programs for a broad range of interests and needs, offered at various projects. 43 Personal Wellbeing Index, Deakin University & Australian Unity (2017) australianunity.com.au/.../wellbeing%20index/wellbeing%20index%2020 66 FY20 Sustainability Report Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places Sustainable Development Goals & Targets Landcom Response Goal 11: Make cities inclusive, Landcom’s objective is to deliver affordable and sustainable safe, resilient and sustainable communities. We do this through our commitments to sustainability, housing affordability and diversity, and Target: By 2030, ensure the provision of parks and open spaces throughout our access for all to adequate, safe communities – that are safe and equitable. and affordable housing and Healthy & Inclusive Places Targets basic services Deliver 5-10% Affordable Housing across the Landcom Target: By 2030, provide portfolio universal access to safe, Deliver 10-15% diverse housing across our portfolio inclusive and accessible, green and public spaces, in particular 20% of medium to high density dwellings within all new for women and children, older projects are achieve Liveable Housing Australia Silver persons and persons with Certification (or equivalent) disabilities Achieve a culture of safety throughout our organisation and on all Landcom projects, striving to achieve 90% overall community safety score at our projects Activities Held staff education on the importance of inclusive design via an All Staff Presentation by the Commissioner Open Space and Parklands, NSW Department of Planning & Environment. Met with project teams during Business Panning to discuss the outcomes of the audit carried out in FY19 to identify opportunities for improvement of existing Landcom project parks for the Everyone Can Play guidelines to help inform areas for improvement. Climate Resilient Places Targets 20-50% of the total project site area, in plan view, is comprised of building or landscape elements that reduce the impact of urban heat island effect Goal 12: Ensure sustainable Landcom has maintained a waste diversity from landfill consumption and target for many years. We continue to see our most material production patterns contribution to the Sustainable Development Goal as ensuring unnecessary construction waste does not end up in landfill, but Target: By 2030, substantially is recycled or reused. reduce waste generation Climate Resilient Places Targets through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse All new projects divert minimum 95% construction waste from landfill (excluding contamination or hazardous materials) 100% timber used in construction is FSC certified (or equivalent) Goal 13: Take urgent action to Landcom developed the Sustainable Places Strategy with the combat climate change and its Sustainable Development Goals and Paris Agreement at front impacts of mind. Our entire Strategy is focused on combatting climate change and its impacts, and building community resilience to Target: Strengthen resilience climate induced shocks and stresses. and adaptive capacity to Climate Resilient Places Targets climate-related hazards and natural disasters in all All targets found in this pillar of Landcom’s Sustainable Places countries Strategy FY20 Sustainability Report 67 Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places Sustainable Development Goals & Targets Landcom Response Goal 14: Conserve and Climate Resilient Places Targets sustainably use the oceans, Water Sensitive Urban Design strategy for all projects, seas and marine resources pollutant discharge loads not to exceed Nitrogen 45, Phosphorus 65, Suspended Solids 85, Gross Pollutants 90 Target: By 2025, prevent and significantly reduce marine pollution of all kinds, in particular from land-based activities, including marine debris and nutrient pollution Goal 15: Sustainably manage One of Landcom’s leadership goals is to ensure net positive forests, combat desertification, ecological outcomes across our portfolio. We address this halt and reverse land through the conservation or enhancement of biodiversity degradation, halt biodiversity and ecological communities at our projects, and encouraging loss responsible materials sourcing in our supply chain. Target: Take urgent and Climate Resilient Places significant action to reduce All new projects enhance the local habitat, biodiversity or the degradation of natural ecological communities, compared to the site conditions habitats, halt the loss of pre‑development biodiversity and, by 2020, protect and prevent the 100% timber used in construction is FSC certified (or extinction of threatened equivalent) species Activities Continued our partnership with the Sustainability Supply Chain School, and plan to make online training and resources available to staff in the second half of FY21. Goal 16: Promote just, peaceful Landcom seeks to advance inclusion and participation within and inclusive societies and across communities through our Community Development and Welcome Programs, by sourcing data through our Healthy Target: Ensure responsive, & Inclusive Places Survey, and between staff within our inclusive, participatory and organisation. representative decisionmaking at all levels Healthy & Inclusive Places Targets Achieve 90% resident reported community cohesion across all new projects, by fostering the integration of community networks and facilities Healthy & Inclusive Places Priorities Identify opportunities to positively impact diversity, inclusion and accessibility Goal 17: Revitalize the global Landcom is committed to promoting effective public, publicpartnership for sustainable private and civil society partnerships and engagement. Our development main framework to support this is our Join-In Framework, aligned with the IAP2, and dedicated to meaningful Target: Encourage and engagement. promote effective public, public-private and civil society Healthy & Inclusive Places Targets partnerships, building on the All new projects to conform to the community engagement experience and resourcing policy, Join-In Framework, aligned to industry best practice for strategies of partnerships stakeholder engagement practice 68 FY20 Sustainability Report Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places APPENDIX E: Stakeholders Summary of Stakeholder Issues Consultation method Issues Stakeholders State MPs Presentations and briefings Priorities and coordination Site visits and tours Timeframes Program milestones Federal Members of Parliament Telephone, video-conference and Environment Protection and and agencies, including: emails Biodiversity Conservation conditions Department of Environment, Site visits and tours Management of Military Heritage Department of Foreign Affairs Precinct and Trade Presentations and briefings State agencies, including: Meetings and briefings Whole of government coordination of investment decisions and delivery Department of Premier and Workshops Cabinet Development of plans for precinct Telephone, video-conference and Greater Sydney Commission emails Sustainability Strategy development and adoptions NSW Treasury Seminars Collaboration in accordance with Department of Planning, Ongoing project liaison including agreed frameworks Industry and Environment through Multi-Agency Steering Groups, Program Advisory Boards, Access to buildings/land Office of Environment and Program Control Groups and Heritage Leases and engagement with tenants working groups Transport for NSW Repurposing of heritage buildings Industry forums Roads and Maritime Services Coordinate transport management and Site tours and meetings infrastructure Heritage Council CEOs Reference Group Specific discussion of projects, Office of Strategic Lands components and progress against Hunter and Central Coast milestones and objectives Development Corporation Voluntary Planning Agreement and Trade and Investment modifications to existing approvals Office of the Government Regional Park embellishment and use Architect Provide service crossings to service Department of Education land Property NSW Title production Infrastructure NSW TAFE NSW Utilities FY20 Sustainability Report 69 Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places Summary of Stakeholder Issues Consultation method Issues Stakeholders Councillors and local Meetings, briefings and Ongoing consultation with Council government staff presentations Coordination with Council projects Telephone, emails and letters Statutory planning approvals, Workshops including: Development Control Plans, Town centre DAs and Voluntary Ongoing project liaison including Planning Agreement through Project Coordination, Reference and working groups Coordinate transport management and infrastructure Asset inspections Management of community impacts, place making and community development issues Resolve design and delivery issues Negotiate subdivision Council asset handovers Development commencement, progress, access, road closures, street name changes Land acquisition and asset handovers Local community, community Meetings and presentations Development of plans for precinct groups and organisations and Telephone and emails Impacts on local infrastructure and land owners properties Ongoing project liaison including through Community Advisory Opportunities for community input into Panels Reference Groups studies Website, social media and Provision of active recreational newsletter updates facilities Attendance at Community Group Adaptive reuse to secure long term Meetings Ongoing liaison through management and ownership Reference Groups Industry groups and businesses Presentations/talks at industry Development of plans for precinct events such as business breakfasts, Interest in development and other conferences, briefings opportunities Advertising Impacts on working harbour Media releases Impacts on lease arrangements and Presentations to industry groups planning certainty and conferences Commercial outcomes Presentations at events Servicing schedule and progress Meetings and briefings Maintain working relationships Workshops Negotiating access for works On site meetings and tours Telephone, emails and letters 70 FY20 Sustainability Report Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places Summary of Stakeholder Issues Consultation method Issues Stakeholders Department of Education, University Collaboration Agreement Development of plans for precinct Catholic Education Office, University Roundtable and Access to teaching materials and Schools and Universities Communities of Practice project information Telephone, emails and letters Facilitating schools precincts Surveys Maximising shared use of school buildings Fieldwork programs Shared use of open space Liaison with school principal Design, heritage and other aspects of Ongoing project liaison including existing spaces through Project Control Group meetings Access to buildings/land Meetings with academics Lectures, presentations and tours as part of course Indigenous groups Aboriginal Cultural Heritage Liaison Coordinate pre-construction activities Committee meetings Design of Aboriginal cultural heritage areas Other indigenous matters Media – TV news, radio and Interviews Development and progress of plans for newspaper precinct Social media updates Opportunity to explain balanced Ministerial updates outcomes at projects Media releases FY20 Sustainability Report 71 Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places APPENDIX F: GRI Content Index GRI 102: General Disclosures Location or comment 102-01 Name of the organisation About This Report FY20 Annual Report, Our Organisation 102-02 Activities, brands, products About This Report and services FY20 Annual Report, Our Organisation 102-03 Location of headquarters Reporting Boundaries 102-04 Location of operations Reporting Boundaries 102-05 Ownership and legal form FY20 Annual Report, Our Organisation 102-06 Market served FY20 Annual Report, Our Principle Objectives and Function 102-07 Scale of organisation FY20 Annual Report, Our Performance People, FY20 Economic and Financial Highlights, Chair’s Review, Project Map 102-08 Information on employees Staff Numbers Female Male Total and other workers Full-Time 76 75 151 Part-Time 12 1 13 Award Staff 71 48 119 Senior Management 17 28 45 Contract Award Staff Female Male Total Full-time 60 48 108 Part-time 9 0 9 Permanent 69 48 117 Term 2 0 2 Senior Management Contract Full-Time 14 27 41 Part-Time 3 1 4 Location Parramatta 87 73 160 Other 1 3 4 102-09 Supply chain Accountable & Collaborative Places Overview Human Rights Performance Results 102-10 Significant changes to the In FY20 Landcom had no significant changes to the organisation and its supply organisation size, structure, ownership or supply chain. chain 72 FY20 Sustainability Report Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places GRI 102: General Disclosures Location or comment 102-11 Precautionary principle or Approach to Environmental Management Principle 7 approach 102-12 External initiatives FY20 Annual Report, Chairs Review Accountable & Collaborative Places Overview Accountability Performance Results 102-13 Membership of associations Landcom’s main industry memberships include Green Building Council of Australia, Property Council of Australia, Master Builders Association, Urban Taskforce Australia, Urban Development Institute of Australia, Corporate Club of Australia, and Committee for Economic Development of Australia. 102-14 Statement from senior Message from the CEO decision‑maker 102-15 Key impacts, risks, FY20 Annual Report, Chairs Review, Chief Executive and opportunities Officers Review, Shaping our Year Ahead APPENDIX B: Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures APPENDIX E: Stakeholders 102-16 Values, principles, standards Landcom’s Code of Conduct and norms of behaviour Translation services are available on request 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and Landcom’s Code of Conduct concerns about ethics 102-18 Governance structure FY20 Annual Report, Governance Structure 102-19 Delegating authority FY20 Annual Report, Governance Structure APPENDIX B: Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 102-20 Executive-level responsibility APPENDIX B: Task Force on Climate-related Financial for economic, environmental Disclosures and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on Consultation on sustainability targets is required as part economic, environmental and of the Landcom Corporations Act 2001. See how we social topics consulted here. FY20 Sustainability Report 73 Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places GRI 102: General Disclosures Location or comment 102-22 Composition of highest FY20 Annual Report, Corporate Governance, governance body and its Our Governance Structure committees Note: As a State Owned Corporation Landcom has Minister Shareholders, not cross-shareholding or 102-23 Chair of highest governance controlling shareholders. body 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 102-25 Conflicts of interest 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values and strategy 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body 102-28 Evaluating highest governance body’s performance 102-29 Identifying and managing Landcom Corporations Act 2001 economic, environmental and social impacts APPENDIX B: Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 102-30 Effectiveness of risk FY20 Annual Report, Corporate Governance, management process Risk Management Landcom Corporations Act 2001 APPENDIX B: Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 102-31 Review of economic, Landcom’s Board meet monthly, and Audit & Risk environmental and social Management Committee meet every second month. topics 102-32 Highest governance body’s Landcom’s Board reviews and approves the annual role in sustainability reporting Sustainability Report. 102-33 Communicating critical The Board is provided risk updates on a monthly basis. concerns During the reporting period there were no risks of critical concern. 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 74 FY20 Sustainability Report Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places GRI 102: General Disclosures Location or comment 102-35 Remuneration policies FY20 Annual Report, Executive Positions, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 102-36 Process for determining The majority of Landcom staff are employed in remuneration accordance with the Landcom Award 2019, which sets compensation for full time and part time employees. 102-37 Stakeholder’s involvement in Landcom does not pay bonuses in any form. remuneration 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio 102-40 List of stakeholder groups APPENDIX E: Stakeholders 102-41 Collective bargaining Landcom Award Principle 3 agreements 102-42 Identifying and selecting Design through Engagement stakeholders 102-43 Approach to stakeholder Design through Engagement engagement APPENDIX E: Stakeholders 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 102-45 Entities included in the FY20 Annual Report, Financial Tables and Notes consolidated financial statements 102-46 Defining report content and Reporting Boundaries topic boundaries 102-47 List of material topics Material Matters 102-48 Restatement of information Any re-statements are indicated using footnotes in the report. 102-49 Changes in reporting About This Report 102-50 Reporting period About This Report 102-51 Data of most recent report About This Report 102-52 Reporting cycle About This Report 102-53 Contact point for questions Landcom website ‘Contact Us’ regarding the report 102-54 Claims for reporting in About This Report accordance with the GRI 102-55 GRI Content Index APPENDIX F: GRI Content Index 102-56 External assurance About This Report FY20 Sustainability Report 75 Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places GRI 103: Management approach Location or comment 103-1 Explanation of the material About This Report topic and its boundary 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach GRI 201: Economic performance Location or comment 201-1 Direct economic value FY20 Annual Report, Chair’s Review, FY20 Economic and generated and distributed Financial Highlights, Financial Tables and Notes Note: all operations are within Australia 201-2 Financial implications and Climate Resilient Places Pillar Overview Principle 8 other risks and opportunities APPENDIX B: Task Force on Climate-related due to climate change Financial Disclosures 201-3 Defined benefit plan FY20 Annual Report, Summary of Significant Accounting obligations and other Policies retirement plans 201-4 Financial assistance received NA. Landcom is a State Owned Corporation. from government GRI 203: Indirect economic impacts Location or comment 203-1 Infrastructure investments and Refer to GRI 102-1 through GRI 102-7 services supported 203-2 Significant indirect economic Productive Places Overview impacts Training & Employment Performance Results GRI 204: Procurement practices Location or comment 204-1 Proportion of spending on Landcom is a NSW State Owned Corporation, with all local suppliers operations within NSW (local). Procurement of immediate goods and services is all local to Australia. 76 FY20 Sustainability Report Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places GRI 205: Anti-corruption Location or comment Principle 10 205-1 Operations assessed for risks 100% of Landcom operations were assessed for risks related to corruption related to corruption. Significant corruption risks identified included Procurement, Contract Management and Third Parties. 205-2 Communication and training All Board and Executive Committee members received about anti-corruption policies training on anti-corruption during the reporting period. and procedures Landcom undertakes fraud and corruption awareness campaigns and training for all Staff, including annual refresher training on fraud and corruption or fraud and corruption related topics. An Ethical Behaviour page is published on Landcom’s internal intranet and is accessible to all staff. All service providers are required to comply with Codes of Conduct that require suppliers to meet high standards in relation to issues such as anti-corruption, environmental protection and social impacts. 205-3 Confirmed incidents of Nil corruption and actions taken GRI 301: Materials Location or comment Principle 8 & 9 301-1 Materials used by weight or Climate Resilient Places Pillar Overview volume 301-2 Recycled input materials used Waste & Materials Performance Results 301-3 Reclaimed products and their NA –Landcom’s products are in the form of land and packaging materials public infrastructure which is not supplied in physical packaging. GRI 302: Energy Location or comment Principle 8 & 9 302-1 Energy consumption within Climate Resilient Places Pillar Overview the organisation Energy & Emissions and Water 302-2 Energy consumption outside Energy & Emissions Performance Results of the organisation NSW Government Resource Efficiency Policy (GREP) 302-3 Energy Intensity Sustainability Rebate Case Study 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 302-5 Reduction in energy consumption of products and services FY20 Sustainability Report 77 Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places GRI 303: Water and effluents Location or comment Principle 8 & 9 303-1 Interactions with water as a Landcom has an indirect relationship with water. shared resource The greatest impact our developments will have is on the future use by those who live, work and do business in the 303-2 Management of water community once we have delivered it. We do not directly discharge-related impacts withdraw, consume or discharge water. This is why our targets focus on designing communities that will have low consumption by users, with forecast runoff meeting low impact pollutant loads. See how we established all Sustainable Places Strategy targets here. Climate Resilient Places Pillar Overview Energy & Emissions and Water Water Performance Results 303-3 Water withdrawal NA. Landcom does not directly or materially withdraw or discharge water. 303-4 Water discharge 303-5 Water consumption GRI 304: Biodiversity Location or comment Principle 8 & 9 304-1 Operational sites owned, Landcom activities taking place adjacent to protected leased, managed or adjacent or high biodiversity value are subject to legislative to protected areas of high approvals. biodiversity value outside Climate Resilient Places Pillar Overview protected areas Climate & Resilience 304-2 Significant impacts of Climate & Resilience Performance Results activities, products and services on biodiversity Biodiversity 304-3 Habitats protected or restored 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations 78 FY20 Sustainability Report Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places GRI 305: Emissions Location or comment Principle 8 & 9 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG Landcom’s most material Scope 3 emissions will come emissions from the communities we create, once operational. We seek to reduce the future operational GHG emissions of these communities through the adoption of emissions 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) reduction targets. GHG emissions Climate Resilient Places Pillar Overview Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions NSW Government Resource Efficiency Policy (GREP) 305-4 GHG emissions intensity NA. Landcom’s Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions are not material. 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Climate Resilient Places Pillar Overview Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting NA. substances Landcom does not emit any material ozone-depleting substances in our activities or products, or have any 305-7 NOx, Sox and other significant material air quality emissions. For details on how we are air emissions approaching air quality see Climate Resilient Places Pillar Overview. GRI 306: Effluents and waste Location or comment Principle 8 & 9 306-1 Water discharge by quality Climate Resilient Places Pillar Overview and destination Energy & Emissions and Water Water Performance Results 306-2 Waste by type and disposal Climate Resilient Places Pillar Overview method Waste & Materials Waste & Materials Performance Results 306-3 Significant spills There were no significant spills during the financial year. 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste Climate Resilient Places Pillar Overview Waste & Materials Waste & Materials Performance Results During the reporting period, contractors at Landcom development sites transported 820t of hazardous construction and demolition waste to processing facilities. 306-5 Water bodies affected by Climate Resilient Places Pillar Overview water discharges and/or Energy & Emissions and Water runoff Water Performance Results FY20 Sustainability Report 79 Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places GRI 307 Environmental compliance Location or comment 307-1 Non-compliance with Nil. environmental laws and regulations GRI 308: Supplier environmental assessment Location or comment 308-1 New suppliers that were All service providers are required to comply with screened using environmental Codes of Conduct that require suppliers to meet high criteria standards in relation to issues such as anti-corruption, environmental protection and social impacts. 308-2 Negative environmental Landcom has supplier panels set up for our main impacts in the supply chain activities, including: and actions taken • Builders (17 suppliers) • Civil works (10 suppliers) • Landscaping (13 suppliers) These panels are identified as having the potential to generate negative environmental impacts via works that may be undertaken. As part of the panels’ establishment environmental and sustainability criteria for evaluation. These panels are due to be renewed in May 2021 and we will continue to include environmental criteria in the evaluation. These suppliers are required to prepare an environmental management plan, and to undertake independent audits against their plans when they undertake work for Landcom. During the reporting period we did not agree on any improvements with these suppliers or terminate any relationships as a result of assessments. GRI 401: Employment Location or comment 401-1 New employee hires GRI 102-8 and employee turnover Age Gender Employees New Turnover Group Starter <30 Female 9 5 2 Male 8 2 1 Total 17 7 3 30Female 77 17 11 50 Male 59 10 11 Total 136 27 22 >50 Female 18 4 4 Male 22 1 1 LGBTQ+ 1 1 0 Total 41 6 5 80 FY20 Sustainability Report Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places GRI 401: Employment Location or comment 401-2 Benefits provided to full‑time Landcom Award 2019 employees that are not provided to temporary or part time employees 401-3 Parental Leave Total number of employees entitled to parental leave in accordance with the Landcom Corporation Act 2001: Gender Entitled Not Entitled Female 83 21 Male 80 9 LGBTQI+ 1 0 Total number of employees that took parental leave during the reporting period, including with CEO discretion to approve beyond the bounds of the Landcom Corporation Act 2001: Gender Taken Parental Female 6 Male 4 LGBTQI+ 0 Total number of employees returned to work from parental leave during the reporting period, or continue to be on parental leave at time of reporting: Gender Returned to work Still on Parental Leave Female 4 3 Male 3 0 LGBTQI+ 0 0 A return to work rate of 75% for females, and 100% for males was reported during this period. The retention rate for women beyond 12 months was 50% based on two female employees. Gender Returned to work Still on Parental Leave Female 2 1 Male 0 0 LGBTQI+ 0 0 FY20 Sustainability Report 81 Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places GRI 403: Occupational health safety Location or comment 403-1 Occupational health and FY20 Annual Report, Health, Safety & Environment, Risk safety management system Management Workplace Health & Wellbeing 403-2 Hazard identification, risk Landcom works with an integrated Health Safety and assessment, and incident investigation Environment Framework aligned to International. 403-3 Occupational health services Standards ISO45001 and ISO14001. Our approach to Health, Safety & Environment is one of continuous improvement. Landcom complies with the SafeWork NSW Code of Practice How to Management Work Health and Safety Risks, including identification. Integrum is Landcom’s Health, Safety & Environment incident notification system for all HSE issues, including all: Significant Near Misses, Medical Treatment Injuries, Lost Time Injuries (in line with contractual requirements) and Environmental Incidents. Once an incident has been entered into the system, Integrum has been configured to ensure all appropriate personnel are notified. 403-4 Worker participation, FY20 Annual Report, Health, Safety & Environment consultation, and Landcom has agreed to consult with workers through a communication on Work Health and Safety Consultative Committee. occupational health and safety 403-5 Worker training on Landcom Code of Conduct occupational health and Landcom Supplier Code of Conduct safety FY20 Annual Report, Health, Safety & Environment 403-6 Promotion of worker health Accountable & Collaborative Places Overview Human Rights Performance Results Workplace Health & Wellbeing 403-7 Prevention and mitigation Landcom Code of Conduct of occupational health and Landcom Supplier Code of Conduct safety impacts directly linked by business relationships 403-8 Annual Report – Health Safety & Environment 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management system 403-9 Work-related injuries 403-10 Work-related ill health NA Work-related ill health is not material to Landcom operations. 82 FY20 Sustainability Report Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places GRI 404: Training and education Location or comment 404-1 Average hours of training per FY20 Annual Report, Measuring People Performance year per employee 404-2 Programs for upgrading Workplace Health & Wellbeing employee skills and transition FY20 Annual Report, Measuring People Performance assistance programs 404-3 Percentage of employees 100% of Landcom employees receive performance receiving regular performance reviews and career development reviews annually. and career development reviews GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunity Location or comment Principle 6 405-1 Diversity of governance FY20 Annual Report – Workplace Diversity Performance bodies and employees As at the time of publication Landcom’s Board comprised three members, of which two are male over the age of 50, and one is female over the age of 50. 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and See GRI 404-1 for gender, age and other indicator remuneration of women to diversity breakdown. men Gender No of Employees Award Female 71 Male 48 Senior Female 17 Management Contract Male 28 Award Staff: 5.7% pay gap on average in favour of men Senior Management Contract: 2.2% pay gap on average in favour of men Overall: 3.4% pay gap on average in favour of men GRI 406: Non-discrimination Location or comment 406-1 Incidents of discrimination Nil and corrective actions taken GRI 407: Freedom of association and collective Location or comment bargaining 407-1 Operations and suppliers in Landcom Award 2019 which the right to freedom Accountable & Collaborative Places Overview of association and collective bargaining may be at risk Human Rights FY20 Sustainability Report 83 Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places GRI 408: Child labour Location or comment Principle 5 408-1 Operations and suppliers at Accountable & Collaborative Places Overview significant risk for incidents of Human Rights Performance Results child labour APPENDIX C: Modern Slavery Statement GRI 409: Forced and compulsory labour Location or comment Principle 4 409-1 Operations and suppliers at Accountable & Collaborative Places Overview significant risk for incidents of Human Rights Performance Results forced or compulsory labour GRI 411: Rights of indigenous peoples Location or comment Principle 1 411-1 Incidents of violations Nil involving rights of indigenous peoples GRI 412: Human rights assessment Location or comment Principle 1 & 2 412-1 Operations that have been Accountable & Collaborative Places Overview subject to human rights Human Rights Performance Results reviews or impact assessments APPENDIX C: Modern Slavery Statement 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies and procedures 412-3 Significant investment Landcom does not currently include human rights clauses agreements and contracts in significant agreements or contracts. that included human rights For information on how we are addressing modern clauses or that underwent slavery as part of our approach to human rights see: human rights screening Accountable & Collaborative Places Overview Human Rights Performance Results APPENDIX C: Modern Slavery Statement GRI 413: Local communities Location or comment 413-1 Operations with local Healthy & Inclusive Places Pillar Overview community engagement, Health, Equity & Inclusion, Community Connection, & impact assessments, and Safety Performance Results development programs 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities 84 FY20 Sustainability Report Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Appendices Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places 414-1: Supplier social assessment Location or comment 414-1 New suppliers that were Human Rights Performance Results screened using social criteria APPENDIX C: Modern Slavery Statement All service providers are required to comply with 414-2 Negative social impacts in Codes of Conduct that require suppliers to meet high the supply chain and actions standards in relation to issues such as anti-corruption, taken environmental protection and social impacts. GRI 415: Public policy Location or comment Principle 10 415-1 Political contributions As a government organisation Landcom is prohibited from making political contributions. GRI 416: Customer health and safety Location or comment 416-1 Assessment of the health and Healthy & Inclusive Places Pillar Overview safety impacts of product and service categories Health, Equity & Inclusion, Community Connection, & Safety Performance Results 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance FY20 Annual Report, Health, Safety & Environment concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services FY20 Sustainability Report 85 Lauren Brincat, The Plant Library, 2019. Installation view, Rouse Hill, NSW. Co‑commissioned by C3West on behalf of the Museum of Contemporary Art Australia and Landcom. Image courtesy and © the artist. Photograph: Romello Pereira
