CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Our Responsibility Taking action towards sustainable dairy content Forewords 3 STRONGER PEOPLE 21 Energy & climate 42 Arla Foods is a global dairy company, and the world’s Food safety 44 OUR SUSTAINABILITY Inspiring sustainable diets 22 largest organic dairy producer. We are also the world’s STRATEGY 6 Nutrition 45 Supporting communities 25 Governance and ways oldest cross-border dairy cooperative and, as such, our Caring for people 29 Health & safety 46 of working 8 Decent work 47 9,759 farmer owners in seven European countries are Business model 10 ABOUT ARLA 36 Responsible sourcing 48 the core of our business. Our mission is to secure the STRONGER PLANET 11 Company performance 37 Legal compliance 49 highest value for their milk. Environmental ambition 12 Owners 38 Anti-corruption & bribery 50 Sustainable dairy farming 13 AMBITIONS Our vision is to create the future of dairy, and Environmental, social and Resource efficient production 16 & PROGRESS DATA 39 governance data 51 fulfil the needs of our customers and consumers with Reducing waste 18 About this report 40 UN Global Compact 52 our natural, healthy, sustainably sourced dairy Materiality analysis Sustainable packaging 20 Sustainable dairy farming 41 53 products. Introduction Our sustainability strategy Stronger planet Stronger people About Arla Ambitions & progress data Strong performance, better climate Forewords from the chairman and the ceo 3 ARLA FOODS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Introduction Our sustainability strategy Stronger planet Stronger people About Arla Ambitions & progress data Taking responsibility for a sustainable future “ we are Sustainability is top of Arla’s agenda and we the next 10 years as part of our new sustainability We collaborate with experts from the scientific have taken a strong position in the ongoing strategy. It is ambitious and demonstrates our will community and universities on a variety of areas climate and sustainability debate in which and ability to act and drive change and make dairy such as how to further reduce greenhouse gas committed to dairy farming plays a central part. farming a sustainable part of the future, which is also emission from dairy cows, developing an animal being open and required by consumers and customers. welfare index and how carbon sequestration can Through our cooperative mindset we have come a play an important role in the reduction of emissions. transparent long way already and feel well prepared to take the To deliver on our ambitions we need strong tools to about our actions ” next important steps towards even more sustainable help us reach our targets on milk quality and animal As a global farmer-owned dairy cooperative dairy production. welfare in sustainable production. We have reviewed we collaborate with farmers around the world and aligned our quality assurance programme and support local dairy industries to develop a We perceive sustainability in the broadest sense and Arlagården® to be implemented on farms in 2020 sustainable dairy chain. In this report you will find work in respect of the environment, develop healthy across all owner countries, with focus on third examples of how we share our knowledge and products for feeding the rapidly growing world part audits, further strengthened animal welfare know-how in production and business to create population and respect human rights abroad and at parameters and focus on biodiversity and working win-win collaborations with our partners around the home alike. conditions for employees on our farms. globe. For me as chairman of Arla and as a farmer owner it As part of the sustainability work we will also Our mission is to secure the highest value for our is important that we as farmers continue to develop introduce a new, global climate check in 2020 farmers milk while creating opportunity for their our production in a responsible and sustainable where Arla farmers provide detailed information on growth. This report will give you an insight into way, and that we are committed to being open and their farm and production. This enables us to build how we aim to fulfil our mission in respect of our transparent about our actions. We contribute to the one of the world’s largest sets of externally verified corporate responsibility commitments. realisation of the UN’s Sustainable Development climate data from dairy farming. The climate checks Goals and to make the biggest impact, we focus on are a strong tool to identify and reduce emissions the goals closest to our value chain. even further on farm level, as they give clear, practical advice and examples on how to achieve In 2019, we launched our climate ambitions to sustainability improvements and targets. become carbon net zero by 2050 and to reduce Jan Toft Nørgaard greenhouse gas emissions by 30 per cent within Chairman of the Board of Directors 4 ARLA FOODS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Introduction Our sustainability strategy Stronger planet Stronger people About Arla Ambitions & progress data Significant action towards sustainable dairy “ A major step 2019 saw us take some important steps to While we are working on the long-term targets, foods affects climate, nature and social conditions, build confidence in dairy as one of the building we have taken more immediate action. We have and we have increasingly engaged in the high blocks of a sustainable diet, delivering part of launched the world’s first climate-neutral dairy profile public debate. In this respect, the 2020s was to announce the nutrition necessary for people to thrive. range based on milk from a group of organic Arla will be a defining decade for dairy. We will need to a carbon net zero ” farmers. The greenhouse gas emissions from the reshape dairy farming and dairy production to build Sustainability was an overarching theme in Arla range are counteracted by tree planting, tree trust and relevance – not only for consumers, but 2050 ambition during 2019. While delivering a strong performance conservation, and biogas production. also to attract the next generation of progressive on all our financial targets, we also succeeded in and responsible farmers. taking significant action within our operations and In our new sustainable packaging strategy we products. We set new ambitious targets, developed commit to reducing emissions from packaging by Dairy has the power to change the livelihoods of new farm programmes as well as enforced our approximately 8,000 tonnes of greenhouse gasses individuals, families, and communities. It generates sustainability governance to ensure business every year until 2030. In 2019, we converted jobs directly on the farm, up and down the value integration. packaging across Europe to become more chain, and in other local business. sustainable. A major step was to announce a carbon net We will continue to play our part in taking the zero 2050 ambition as well as a target to reduce Respecting human rights in our organisation as well necessary action and establishing essential greenhouse gas emissions per kilo of milk by 30 per as being a good citizen in the communities we are partnerships with our industry colleagues, academic cent by 2030. The target has been approved by the part of continue to be a fundamental objective. An institutions, governments, interest groups and Science Based Target initiative as being aligned with example of our community engagement is a new consumers. Together, I am confident that we can the Paris Agreement. public-private partnership to further development create a sustainable future for the dairy sector. of a long-term sustainable dairy industry and local To support our 9,759 cooperative farmers in dairy sector in Nigeria. The ambition is to help 1,000 identifying emissions on farm and enable them small scale farmers create better livelihoods by to take action to reduce them further, we have providing commercial opportunities for their milk. introduced a new climate check programme, the first of its kind to be used by farmers across seven During the last decade, we have witnessed a Peder Tuborgh countries in Europe. growing awareness of how production of different CEO 5 ARLA FOODS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Introduction Our sustainability strategy Stronger planet Stronger people About Arla Ambitions & progress data our Arla creates the future of dairy by taking action today. With strategies, actions and support from our farmer owners, we secure sustainability a responsible and sustainable business. strategy 6 ARLA FOODS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 IntroductionOur Introduction Our sustainabilitystrategy sustainability strategy Stronger Stronger planet planet Stronger people About Arla Ambitions & progress data A rla is one of the world’s largest dairy companies, and we work actively to feed people around the world within Sustainability Strategy the planetary boundaries. We see signs of pressure on the Earth’s ecosystems as well as a Stronger Planet Stronger People growing world population in need of nutritious food. By taking Improving the environment for Increasing access to healthy dairy responsibility across our value chain and continuously improving future generations nutrition and inspiring good food habits our performance, we drive sustainable dairy production and consumption now and for future generations. In 2019, we launched our new sustainability strategy, which focuses on improving the environment for future generations, and increasing access to healthy dairy nutrition and inspiring good food habits. The strategy is founded on our commitments to respecting human rights and ensuring responsible business practices across Code of Conduct our markets. Supporting the realisation of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Arla contributes to the realisation of the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The SDGs are closely linked and we know that we have an influence on all of them through our general business practices and commitments, as defined in our Code of Conduct. Our prioritised focus is on the SDGs relating to food, environment and climate. They are linked directly to our value chain, as this is where we can have the biggest positive impact and carefully address the potential negative impact. 7 ARLA FOODS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Introduction Our sustainability strategy Stronger planet Stronger people About Arla Ambitions & progress data governance and ways of working Arla’s Code of Conduct – Our Responsibility Our responsibility vision Our Code of Conduct is approved by Arla’s Board of Creating the future of dairy to bring health and – is our foundation for sustainable Directors. Arla’s Executive Management Team approves inspiration to the world, naturally. development. It covers all aspects of our strategies, prioritises areas, ensures progress, annual mission business and is at the heart of every decision follow up and sets direction for necessary improvements, and further updates. Securing the highest value for our farmers’ milk made in our company. while creating opportunities for their growth. All managers are responsible for embedding our Code of Conduct in Arla’s culture and business, and each Sustainability strategy governance and every colleague plays an important role in its In 2019, at the same time as we launched our new implementation. sustainability strategy, we formed a Sustainability Board. This board governs the implementation Our Code of Conduct is further operationalised in of the new strategy and is anchored in the top policies, processes, standards and codes of practice management with key competences across throughout our value chain. Our overall due diligence functions. During 2019, the Sustainability Board has process, which we apply before entering a new set goals for 2025, and initiated actions for 2020. partnership or joint venture, covers economic, social, Goals and activities are specified for workstreams on and environmental concerns. for example sustainable dairy farming, sustainable packaging, health and support to local communities. Business principles These are monitored by the Board of Directors. A strong part of Our Responsibility is a responsible business conduct, ensuring we are acting credibly Daily implementation of the strategy, underlying and with integrity, complying with applicable laws, ambitions and policies to support sustainable rules and regulations, in all of our operations. For us, a development lies with relevant functions. Strategic responsible business conduct also comes from living issues in particular in relation to farm management our company values, through our culture of openness are discussed and agreed with our Board of and transparency. Directors. 8 ARLA FOODS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Introduction Our sustainability strategy Stronger planet Stronger people About Arla Ambitions & progress data Respecting human rights Human rights commitments We work to ensure that we respect human rights, Advancing respect for human rights is key to sustainable As a multinational dairy company, we have a large number of and we continuously embed our human rights development. Our continuous human rights work minimises entities in our value chain. We have therefore prioritised focus policy in our business processes and plans. This Arla’s risk of having adverse human rights impacts and on our non-European growth markets where we face the highest is part of our compliance with the UN Guiding contributes to the realisation of SDGs. We continue to improve risk of negative impacts due to national contexts and complexity Principles on Business and Human Rights. and implement our systematic human rights due diligence in business operations. It is essential to Arla to operate in a Human rights are a reoccurring topic on our top process in compliance with UN Guiding Principles on Business responsible manner and we expect our business partners to live management’s agenda as it is Arla’s priority to and Human Rights, see illustration below. up to the same standards. Whenever we enter into a new joint stay focused and continuously raise venture in these markets, we roll-out the entire due diligence competences within the area. process to assess areas where Arla could potentially cause, contribute to or be directly linked to adverse impact. Human rights due diligence process By enhancing our tools and streamlining our approach, › aligning it with relevant and responsible functions in the business, we are developing a more comprehensive, › › › › efficient and integrated approach to assessing human rights risks. Online › communication High level Human Business Prevention Communication risk rights partner and of how human Annual reporting assessment country assessment mitigation rights impacts assessment plan are addressed 9 ARLA FOODS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Introduction Our sustainability strategy Stronger planet Stronger people About Arla Ambitions & progress our business model Owners & cows Milk collection Milk production, Arla farmers are at the core of our business. As both raw Arla collection trucks drive millions of km each packaging & innovation milk suppliers and owners of the cooperative, they are year – and we continuously optimise logistics We provide a safe and healthy working environment. leading the way making dairy farms more sustainable. through investments and route planning. Our 19,174 colleagues work to ensure world-class food ■■ We have 9,759 farmer owners in seven countries, ■■ We collect 13.7 billion kilos of raw milk each year. safety standards, resource efficient and sustainable responsible for over 1.5 million cows. ■■ We aim to switch to fossil-free fuel in our trucks. production, transportation and administration. ■■ Animal welfare is key to Arla and we provide digital tools This is already the reality in our Swedish business. ■■ We process milk at our 60 sites, where 33 per cent of the to our farmer owners to constantly track the well-being of energy use comes from renewable sources. their herds. ■■ Our innovative packaging solutions constantly reduce CO2 emissions and waste to landfill. Consumers & waste management Customers We inspire good food habits and support our consumers in making informed We use our knowledge and dedication to meet the needs of customers choices. It is important to us that our products have the least possible around the world. We take market expectations seriously and transform negative impact on the environment. them into actions in our supply chain. ■■ We provide healthy, accessible nutrition to millions of people around the world. ■■ We produce 6.7 billion kilos of healthy and nutritious dairy products a year. ■■ We provide tips and tricks online and on products about how to reduce food waste ■■ We are continuously in close dialogue with our customers about and recycle packaging. expectations and actions. 10 ARLA FOODS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Introduction Our sustainability strategy Stronger planet Stronger people About Arla Ambitions & progress data STRONGER PLANET We see Arla as being part of the solution to the planet’s challenges and we want to be judged by our actions. We are in the unique position of being able to work with every step from cow to consumer, to make a Our milk cartons with brown paper board combined with renewable plastic positive contribution to a more resilient and stronger reduce greenhouse gas emission per planet. package with 22 per cent. 11 ARLA FOODS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Introduction Our sustainability strategy Stronger planet Stronger people About Arla Ambitions & progress data Our environmental ambition Together with our 9,759 farmer owners we launched our climate targets in March 2019. The ambition is to become carbon net zero by 2050 and to reach our Science Based Targets by 2030, reducing Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 30 per cent in absolute terms, and Scope 3 emissions by 30 per cent per kilo milk. The Science Based Targets are aligned with climate science and define a clear path to accelerate the transition to sustainable dairy production. Our ambition covers three themes To reach our goals we will focus on three areas Better climate Clean air & water More nature Farms Production Packaging and Food waste ■■ Nitrogen and phosphorus ■■ Increase biodiversity and ■■ Optimized feed for cows to ■■ More fossil free transportation ■■  ore sustainable packaging M cycles in balance access to nature decrease methane emissions ■■ Energy-efficiency ■■ Decreased food waste through ■■ Improved manure efficiency ■■ Increased use of renewable several initiatives ■■ Boosted carbon capture in the energy in supply chain ■■ Increased use of recyclable soil on farms materials Where do our emissions come from? Scope 1 emissions relate to the activities under our control. It includes Scope 1 3% transport with Arla’s vehicles, and emissions from Arla’s production facilities. Scope 2 emissions are the indirect emissions caused by the energy that the company purchase, i.e. electricity, steam, heating or cooling. We are working towards reducing our impact by increasing the use of renewable energy. Farms Transport Production and offices Transport Waste management Scope 3 emissions are the indirect emissions from purchased goods and services (eg. raw milk, transport and packaging), but also from Scope 2 end-of-life processing of our waste (eg. recycling). Scope 3 1% 96 % Read more about Science Based Targets on page 16. Click here for more information on our ambitions. 12 ARLA FOODS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Introduction Our sustainability strategy Stronger planet Stronger people About Arla Ambitions & progress data Sustainable dairy farming Together with our farmer owners, we continue to improve sustainability at farm level as this is at the top of the agenda for us as well as for our stakeholders. With focus on aspects from animal welfare to farm management and climate impact, we collect data to support our farmer owners to achieve best practice and lead the way in sustainable dairy farming. Even though the climate impact of Arla milk is about half of the global average per kilo, Climate checks we continue to set higher ambitions. Our new global climate check tool will help farmer accelerate the journey owners to identify emissions on farm and provides a clear picture of the actions farmers can take to reduce emissions further. Each Arla farmer will input information covering towards carbon net zero aspects like herd size, housing, milk volumes, feed usage and feed production, energy and fuel usage and renewable energy production. The data is verified by an external advisor who will visit the farm to provide detailed advice on action plans to improve efficiency, reduce emissions and environmental impact, and improve animal welfare. The data captured will enable each farmer owner to see what level of greenhouse gas emissions they produce per kilo of milk (carbon footprint) and identify where there is room for improvement. Arla will support its farmer owners to deliver reductions of three per cent per year on average, so we can reach our target to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 30 per cent by 2030 and contribute to the carbon net zero ambition by 2050. With the information, Arla is also building one of the world’s largest sets of externally verified climate data from dairy farming. This will be the solid foundation for benchmarking, knowledge sharing across the dairy industry and correlation analysis. Farmer owners who sign up to the climate check in 2020 will be paid a financial incentive of one eurocent per kilo of milk. Areas measured in the climate checks ■■ Number of animals ■■ Crop production ■■ Manure handling ■■ Feed composition ■■ Use of fertilizer ■■ Use of electricity, fuel and renewable energy Carbon sequestration (capturing and storing carbon in the soil) is currently not included in the climate check as a standardised scientific methodology has not yet been agreed. 13 ARLA FOODS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Introduction Our sustainability strategy Stronger planet Stronger people About Arla Ambitions & progress data Sustainable dairy farming The 2020 strategy for the farm uses 1990 as Animal welfare is a top priority for Arla, Together with the launch of our new a baseline. To follow up on the 2020 strategy our farmer owners and consumers. The environmental strategy, we introduced a new we have used a fixed milk composition from updated programme has not only added new climate check tool with comprehensive support 2013, as data was not available for all farmers requirements but also made it compulsory for our farmer owners. This will pave the way for in all countries. In the 2020 strategy we did not to measure and assess animal welfare on the company to reach its ambition to reduce include non-owner milk in the reporting. Going a quarterly basis, using multiple indicators greenhouse gas emission by 30 per cent by forward, following up on the 2030 goals for farm such as cow mobility, cleanliness, lesions and 2030, compared to 2015, and have a carbon emissions, the actual milk composition will be body condition. Data will be uploaded using net zero impact by 2050. used also including non-owner milk. The 2019 Arlagården® digital tool. scope 3 emissions per kilo of milk at farm level While working towards new goals for 2030 was reduced with 7 per cent compared to 2015. We will regularly obtain data on Arla herds and our ambition for 2050, we have been from the member countries’ herd databases following up on the goal in our sustainable Arlagården® update and thereby build extensive knowledge about dairy farming strategy – to reduce the emission Our quality assurance programme Arlagården® performance. The data will be used to calculate of greenhouse gases from farms by 30 per cent has been comprehensively reviewed and different animal welfare indicators, for example, per kilo milk, from 1990 to 2020. updated and will be implemented in 2020. average lifespan for cows and mortality. The programme has been extended to include In 2019, we have continued our work with additional animal welfare and sustainability When it comes to working conditions, a carbon assessments on farms, going forward parameters and a new section addressing number of requirements regarding contracts, these are referred to as climate checks, working conditions for employees on accommodation, health and safety have been giving farmers the opportunity to receive farm. The new programme has translated included to ensure employee welfare, and also recommendations on how to further reduce market expectations into farmer-oriented to help prevent the risk of forced labour. such emissions. The results from climate requirements, and vice versa, supporting us in checks are compiled across markets and results our dialogue with customers. are reported the following year. Farm level emissions were reduced by 23 per Our quality assurance programme cent in 2018 (2017: 24) compared to 1990. Arlagården® has been comprehensively This reflects a small increase compared to previous year which can partly be explained by reviewed and updated and will be the draught situation in 2018. implemented in 2020. 14 ARLA FOODS CORPORATE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY REPORT REPORT 2019 Introduction Our sustainability strategy Stronger planet Stronger people About Arla Ambitions & progress data From 2020, as part of the updated programme, A number of the original documentation feed and its production. We continue to support farmer owners will be expected to self-assess their requirements have now become a mandatory research on how to further reduce greenhouse indicators of animal herds and farms, and they will be audited by an part of the updated Arlagården® programme, as gas emissions from dairy cows, in collaboration welfare external certification body to ensure compliance. we continue to work with our farmer owners to with Danish researchers with a special focus on the The indicators include scoring of the cow’s Farmer owners will be audited at least once every make continuous improvements on farm and drive connection between feed composition and methane mobility, cleanliness, lesions and body three years, and there will also be spot checks transparency. production. During 2019, the research group has condition, providing an objective indication of and extra audits of farms that demonstrate low been successful in getting additional funding, to the herd’s health and welfare. performance and/or do not submit mandatory data. Animal welfare further address the challenges in collaboration with If a farm fails to follow the Arlagården® programme, In cooperation with Aarhus University, Denmark, Danish as well as international partners. Somatic cell count (SCC) per millilitre there are clear and consequential sanction systems. we are developing an animal welfare index. The of milk is a main indicator of milk quality, index creates a common ground for discussing and Farmers leading the way reflecting the cow’s udder health. We Digital documentation working systematically with animal welfare on farm, To speed up the decrease of greenhouse gas continuously measure SCC to support farmer To streamline the updated Arlagården® and the and further improve animal welfare. The index is emissions, all Swedish organic Arla farmers are obliged owners’ work with animal health. climate check processes a digital platform was based on indicators from Arlagården® combining to stop using fossil fuels in their machines on farm developed in close collaboration with farmer eight weighted aggregated indicators. In 2019, our from 1 January 2022, at the latest. In Denmark, all owners. This is to replace the original digital farmer owners have been reporting quarterly on organic milk farmers have adopted new contracts with documentation center, which has been used to two types of these indicators. As we develop our higher demands for animal welfare. The milk from collect data on key animal welfare and sustainability measurements’ accuracy, reliability and data validity, these cows, labelled with two hearts, will be launched parameters. The new digital platform also enables we will add more indicators to our external reporting to Danish consumers as part of an animal welfare Carbon sequestration farmer owners to operationalise and document in the coming years. programme set out and controlled by the Danish One important way Arla farms contribute with Arla’s promise to customers. At year-end 2019, Government. During 2020 more products will carry positive environmental impact is through 89 per cent of our farmer owners had registered Feed and resource efficiency the two hearts signalling that the organic farmers are supporting ecosystem services, for example, their data, representing 97 per cent of our farmer One of the biggest possibilities we have to lower the moving towards a more sustainable way of farming by through the uptake of carbon in grasslands, hedges owners’ milk pool. carbon footprint per kilo of milk is to improve cows’ improving the animal welfare for the cows. and pasture lands, which mitigates climate change. Nevertheless, there is not scientific consensus on Several hundred farmers in the UK have joined how to calculate carbon sequestration in dairy Arla farms contribute with positive the Arla UK 360 programme throughout 2019, farming. Arla is part of a project called C-Sequ with a pioneering set of on farm standards that has other dairy and livestock organisations to develop environmental impact through supporting successfully launched with a number of Arla’s retail an internationally recognised and globally adopted ecosystem services. customers. carbon sequestration calculation method. 15 ARLA FOODS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Introduction Our sustainability strategy Stronger planet Stronger people About Arla Ambitions & progress data Resource efficient production With high ambitions and clear targets, we continue to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from our operations and transportation. Increasing the share of renewable energy, continuous energy efficiency projects, and food waste reduction are also on top of our agenda. Environmental strategy Since 2005, Arla’s emissions have One of the elements in the new sustainability strategy, is a new environmental strategy, decreased by 25 per cent, despite covering the areas of Better climate, Clean increased production. air and water and More nature. For Better climate, the long term ambition is carbon net zero by 2050. In 2019, Arla had Science Based Water efficiency Energy efficiency and renewable energy Targets for 2030 approved, ensuring that During 2019 we managed to reach our aim Our energy targets include an improved energy we take responsibility for reaching the Paris to improve water efficiency in production by efficiency of 3 per cent per year at site level. Agreement on climate change. These targets 3 per cent annually. However, the total water During 2019, our energy efficiency increased are to reduce the absolute emissions at site consumption increased due to a more diverse with 2 per cent. The results indicate that more and in transportation by 30 per cent by 2030, product mix, requiring for example more focus is needed on improving energy efficiency compared to 2015, and work towards carbon cleaning of equipment. More focus on how to going forward. net zero in our value chain by 2050. Depending reduce overall water consumption is needed on local conditions, some markets may have going forward. more ambitious targets. Arla Sweden is, for example, aiming for carbon net zero in 2045. SCIENCE BASED TARGETS in science We will still be following up on our targets in Arla set Science Based Targets to based target our 2020 environmental strategy, in which we significantly reduce our greenhouse gas setting and have committed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. The target for Scope independently emissions by 25 per cent within operations, 1 and 2 emissions is to reduce by 30 per assesses and packaging and transport, compared to the cent in absolute terms and for Scope 3 approves 2005 level. Since 2005, Arla’s emissions have emissions, expressed as per kilo milk at companies’ targets. It is a collaboration decreased by 25 per cent, despite increased farm level, it is to reduce by 30 per cent. In between Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), production. This is the result of a continued October 2019, the targets were approved World Resources Institute (WRI), the World focus on resource efficiency and the transition by the Science Based Targets initiative as Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) and the from fossil to renewable energy and fuels. aligned with climate science, contributing United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) to the UN Paris Agreement to limit global and one of the We Mean Business Coalition warming. The initiative defines best practice commitments. 16 ARLA FOODS CORPORATE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY REPORT REPORT 2019 Introduction Our sustainability strategy Stronger planet Stronger people About Arla Ambitions & progress data In 2010 we set a target to increase the utilization renewable energy by 2020 due to capacity increase Availability and price of biofuels remains a challenge of renewable energy to 50 per cent by 2020. The and expansion in the international segment, where in most of Arla’s markets, not least outside of Europe. 27% share of renewable energy in 2019 was 33 per cent, renewable energy sources are less accessible. Sweden is an exception, where we continue to drive increasing 6 per cent since 2018. This is mostly due to only on biofuels in all Arla-labelled trucks. Here a pilot an increase in the use of biogas in Denmark of more Fossil free transportation was launched where biogas, based in part on Arla than 120 per cent. This has mainly been achieved Arla has continued to focus on improving dairy farm manure, was successfully used to fuel both through investments in two 35 tonnes biogas motors transportation efficiency through optimised logistics milk collection and distribution vehicles. In Denmark, Food waste in our production sites was at the site Denmark Protein, with the capacity to throughout the business. Investments in more Arla launched a pilot where biogas from manure is reduced by 27 per cent compared to 2015. provide up to 40 per cent of the site electricity use efficient engines reduce fuel use, as does optimised used to fuel distribution vehicles in Copenhagen. Arla’s ambition is to reduce food waste by with renewable energy. Two of the five steam boilers routes and higher load capacity in the tankers that 50 per cent in 2030. have been rebuilt to run on biogas, providing about collect milk from the farms. In many cases, efficiency Biogas from manure represents an area where one third of the steam used at the site. improvements have been achieved in close dialogue Arla’s value chain can contribute significantly with customers. Joint benefits in terms of substantial to a circular bioeconomy, especially if dairy cow Despite the positive development, Arla no longer emission cuts have been achieved with reduced manure is co-digested with by-products from the food waste champions for spreading best-practice. We expects to achieve the goal of 50 per cent delivery frequency in the UK and Sweden. food industry, consumer food waste and other transparently report on progress, engage in dialogue high-quality resources for biogas production. We and share learnings with stakeholders on our different can use the energy produced, either at dairy sites markets. The results show a 27 per cent decrease in or, if it is upgraded, as fuel in our trucks. However, food waste in relation to processed milk since 2015. Renewable resources and land use this potential is heavily dependent on regulation One of the core principles in Arla’s new of for example greenhouse gases, nitrogen and investments so requires long-term policies If possible, we donate surplus products to charitable environmental strategy is to make the transition and phosphorous, and indirectly through the promoting the transition. food banks, preferably members in the Food Banks ‘From fossil to renewable’. This means we competition for land required to maintain of Europe. Other preferred uses of our surplus replace fossil with renewable carbon sources, vital ecosystems. Even if Arla does not source Food waste reduction in operations products and of by-products from production, is such as biofuels, renewable energy and products from regions with an expansion of land Arla has a goal to reduce food waste by 50 per cent in animal feed and reprocessing. The most common bio-based packaging materials. However, in the used for agriculture and forestry, our demand our own operations from 2015 to 2030 and we have use of our food waste is anaerobic digestion transition to a bio economy, land becomes a for renewables can be seen as indirectly causing worked on two dedicated projects over the year to followed by sewer and land application. Keeping potentially limiting resource. The use of land the transformation. It remains challenging to cut food waste on sites and in logistics. Food waste track of volumes and destinations enables Arla to to produce resources, have environmental account for that and report on environmental mapping and a structured approach to dealing with identify improvement potential in moving resources impacts, both directly through emissions impact, and Arla is following this debate closely. the hot-spots identified has been implemented, using up the value hierarchy, making better use of the a common approach across markets including local valuable nutrients in the raw materials. 17 ARLA FOODS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Introduction Our sustainability strategy Stronger planet Stronger people About Arla Ambitions & progress data reducing waste We have a strong commitment to use resources in the best possible way to reduce climate impact. This includes both improving recyclability of packaging and our ambition to combat food waste. Better climate and less waste through sustainable packaging We have continued our work to replace Packaging represents about five per cent fossil-based packaging material with of Arla’s full value chain climate impact. In 2018, we achieved our 2020 environmental bio-based alternatives across our strategy goal of reducing climate impact from product categories. packaging by 25 per cent from a 2005 baseline. However, we continue our work to reduce emissions, while balancing the focus on climate impact reductions and maintaining the critical plastic. Through this change, we have reduced in non-recyclable polystyrene to recyclable role of food packaging, which is to protect the the climate impact per carton by 22 per cent, polypropylene or paper-based cups for our food to maintain its quality and freshness and corresponding to about 2,500 tonnes of global brands such as Arla Skyr® along with to avoid food waste. greenhouse gas emissions in total. Another local brands such as Karolines Køkken® in example is the introduction of bio-based plastic Denmark. We have increased the share of During 2019, many initiatives were taken, in selected cheese foils in Denmark. recyclable packaging by 3 per cent since last delivering on the three principles in our year. packaging strategy; from fossil to renewable, The share of renewable packaging material circular economy and cooperation in the value in Arla was 53 per cent in 2019. Replacing chain. non-recyclable plastic packaging material with renewable carton and paper also contributes to 92% From fossil to renewable improved recyclabilty, as described below. We have continued our work to replace fossilbased packaging material with bio-based Circular economy alternatives across our product categories. In Making our packaging recyclable and using 2019, we converted packaging across Europe more recycled packaging materials is important Arla has now reached 92 per cent to become more sustainable, for example to contribute to a more circular economy. recyclable packaging. The remaining by converting millions of milk cartons to be During 2019, Arla launched several packaging 8 per cent consists primarily of complex fully renewable by replacing the fossil plastic initiatives to improve recyclability. One films and laminates for cheese, butter lids and coatings with renewable bio-based example is the transition from plastic cups and powder. 18 ARLA FOODS CORPORATE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY REPORT REPORT 2019 Introduction Our sustainability strategy Stronger planet Stronger people About Arla Ambitions & progress data In Finland and Sweden, we launched papereach year. The alliance consists of more than 100 on the back of milk cartons about how to avoid food plastic leakage based cheese packaging films, improving not private and public partners and is supported by the waste, and we provide inspiration for cooking with During 2019, Arla commissioned a study only recyclability but also the share of renewable European Commission. leftovers on social media, in recipe databases and to calculate how much of our plastic packaging materials. through apps and weekly meal planning tools. use ends up as unmanaged waste, this Arla is working to replace plastic spoons and straws, is termed plastic leakage. The analysis The share of recycled packaging materials used in close collaboration with suppliers, to comply with Many products are fine to consume beyond the includes Arla’s value chain from the dairy in Arla increased with 6,000 tonnes, equivalent to the upcoming EU-ban on certain single-use plastic best before date, especially if they have been farms to product end-of-life, including 7 per cent compared to 2018. Initiatives include items. stored at the correct temperature. To encourage waste handling in the countries where recycled material in secondary packaging and in consumers not to discard products only based on our products are sold. The focus is plastic milk bottles in the UK. Since 2019, new One of our challenges is how to further improve the date, Arla Sweden changed the date-labelling on on plastic packaging, but also plastic crates in Denmark contain recycled plastics which recycling of milk cartons on markets where this is fresh dairy products to ‘Best before, often good particles from transportation (tyres) and leads to a 30 per cent reduction of greenhouse not yet working well, such as Denmark and the UK. after’ in 2018. Following this example, Arla Denmark pellets’ production is included. The study gases compared to the previous crates. We have a good dialogue with authorities and other and Germany introduced the same labelling on a estimates that approximately four per stakeholders to get more efficient systems in place fresh milk label in 2019, and Arla UK started to label cent of the plastic used in Arla’s value Collaboration in the value chain to collect and recycle the cartons. fresh dairy products with a ‘Best before date’ instead chain is lost, mainly when the plastic Arla has joined the Circular Plastics Alliance with the of ‘Use by date’. packaging is disposed at its end-ofgoal to promote the use of more recycled plastic Inspiring food waste reduction life. This is almost equally distributed in Europe through voluntary action. This alliance For years we have encouraged consumers to reduce between upper, middle and lower income endorses the ambitious target that by 2025 at food loss and waste. We will continue the efforts countries. About 1,000 tonnes of plastic is least 10 million tonnes of recycled plastics should even if we cannot quantify the effect at this level. estimated to find its way into the oceans. find its way into products and packaging in Europe Examples include offering tips and tricks online and Arla has decided to act to address this problem through packaging innovation Making our packaging recyclable and and dialogues with local stakeholders on improving recycling systems. using more recycled packaging materials is important to contribute to a more circular economy. 19 ARLA FOODS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Introduction Our sustainability strategy Stronger planet Stronger people About Arla Ambitions & progress data sustainable packaging towards 2030 Our overall ambition is better climate and a circular economy avoiding waste, and that is not easy to achieve. We need to make sure the packaging protects the food and maintain its quality and freshness to avoid food waste. To make the necessary changes we rely on technological developments, being able to source the right material in the right place at the right time at reasonable cost, and we need governments and local authorities to put the systems and policies in place that allow consumers and us to reuse, recycle and reduce the amount of packaging circulating in society. Delivered through clear targets 6 strong levers We have two clear targets. Remove Remove 30% 100% aluminum layer 30 % CO2 reduction Towards 100 % recyclability by 2025. rethink reduce from 2015 to 2030. Our packaging must be recyclable in Partnering towards Reduce weight in core markets where sold. 100 % fiber dairy plastic milk bottles cups Going forward we have actions, goals and ambitions set out with different timelines, depending on what we need to achieve. guiding principles We have three guiding principles for further improving our recycle renew packaging. Spreadable butter Fully plant based cartons tubs to become for fresh products recyclable From Fossil to Renewable reuse circular economy Buckets certified for reuse in food service kitchens cooperation in the value chain 20 ARLA FOODS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 STRONGER people Our continued focus on innovation Across the world, dairy products enables us to meet consumer demands, for example with new are recommended as part of a lactose free and organic products. daily diet from childhood to old age. We have the possibility to positively influence millions of consumers’ food habits. Making dairy products available around the world will contribute to a future with stronger people. Introduction Our sustainability strategy Stronger planet Stronger people About Arla Ambitions & progress data inspiring sustainable diets We believe that dairy products play a positive role in a sustainable diet, balancing the environmental impact of production with the nutritional value of the food. To support better food choices, we constantly improve our product portfolio and we provide insight into the origin of our products. Integrating the health strategy continue over the next two years. Developed In our health strategy we have a commitment agile PLM systems can fulfil new demands on More nutrition for less to promote and offer healthy and affordable our product data and support our sustainability emission dairy products and to help people eat healthily goals. FAO, the Food and Agriculture around the world. This is now integrated into Organization of the UN has the following our new sustainability strategy, balancing our Nutrition Criteria for Arla® branded definition of sustainable diets: efforts towards the realisation of the SDGs. products Dairy products are recommended as part of a “Sustainable diets are those diets with Food safety comes first daily diet from childhood to old age, across the low environmental impacts which We want to help people to eat healthily, but first world. Milk naturally contains one of the richest contribute to food and nutrition security and foremost, we want to ensure that eating combinations of nutrients you can find in a and to healthy life for present and future and drinking our products is always safe. The single food source, such as calcium, vitamin B2 generations. Sustainable diets are approval of a global Arla quality and product and B12, iodine, a high content of protein and a protective and respectful of biodiversity safety policy in 2019, further supports this broad range of other vitamins and minerals. and ecosystems, culturally acceptable, commitment and strengthens the continuous accessible, economically fair and improvement of our quality culture. The Arla® Nutrition Criteria secure the content affordable; nutritionally adequate, safe of dairy protein and calcium, while limiting and healthy; while optimising natural and Control of product lifecycle the amount of added sugars, salt and fat. The human resources.” (FAO, 2010, Sustainable Diets and Biodiversity) To capture quality parameters and other criteria are the guiding principles that support sustainability aspects of our products, our development of healthier products and we throughout their lifecycle, we use our Product strive to ensure our products fulfil the criteria. Arla uses the FAO definition of Lifecycle Management (PLM) system. PLM sustainable diets. We work to deliver integrates people, processes, data and systems Our ambition is to increase the percentage on its aspects through our strategies to increase efficiency and speed. It also helps of products complying with the criteria and on health and environment, and our us to improve transparency and control of achieve 95 per cent by 2020. In 2019, 90 per continued focus on human rights. Our our product data and our ability to share cent of the Arla® branded products in the work to ensure food safety and quality information about our products internally as milk, yogurt and everyday cheeses categories is also key, as is our collaboration with well as externally. The roll-out of PLM across comply with the criteria. This is one per cent farmer owners and customers. Arla began in 2018 and by the end of 2019, 20 down compared to 2018, due to decline in dairies used the PLM solution. The roll-out will sales of drinking milk. 22 ARLA FOODS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Introduction Our sustainability strategy Stronger planet Stronger people About Arla Ambitions & progress data We are in the process of improving our Nutrition Denmark, we have launched an organic non-lactose This healthy, filling option was first launched Criteria, based on advice from independent scientific skyr and a fermented yogurt, both with flavour. Both in Sweden and Finland and was introduced in experts. products have a keyhole mark, which is a Nordic Denmark last year. The range has a broader market nutrition mark to help consumers make informed presence, as the same product packaging is used Product innovation choices. For our young consumers we have across three different markets. The text on the front We continuously develop new products and explore launched Arla® Explorers, which is lactose free and of the pack is in English and the back of pack is new ideas to meet consumers’ needs. To meet without any artificial flavours, colours or sweeteners. written in the three local languages. the needs of lactose intolerant consumers, as well Our three new yogurts (Swirl, Bubble and Squeeze) as consumers who are interested in lactose free all contain at least 30 per cent less sugar than Dairy’s role for diabetic consumers products, we have relaunched the lactose free similar products in the market. We have also We collaborate with several stakeholders within assortment. reduced the sugar content in our Arla® Explorers health and nutrition to enhance our knowledge drinking and 4-pack yogurt, which means that the and to jointly develop new solutions that will bring Natural ingredients 4-pack now carries the keyhole mark, as the only benefits to our consumers. For example, the publicOur technical guidelines support our efforts towards product in the children’s category to do so. private partnership in nutrition research – Arla using natural ingredients when possible. We do, Food for Health – in cooperation with Bispebjerg however, use artificial ingredients, for example to Last year’s launch in Germany of flavoured yogurts University Hospital in Denmark has published a secure the safety of products that are transported with no added sugar, sweeteners, additives, study which challenges dietary recommendations long distances. We are striving to reduce our use of stabilisers or concentrated fruit juices has been for diabetic consumers. The study questions artificial ingredients and are continuously searching successful. The products were the first on the the recommended carbohydrate-rich diet, since for natural alternatives. market to contain only natural yogurt and fruit and results suggest that cutting some of the carbs have now been introduced in Denmark. and replacing them with protein and fat is more Sugar reduction Another example of products being launched in beneficial for blood sugar management. The study We are continuously working to further improve more markets is the innovative range of products to has encouraged more researchers to reassess our portfolio when it comes to sugar reduction. In deliver small and healthy in-between meal options. guidelines for diabetic consumers. We are continuously working to further improve our portfolio when it comes to sugar reduction. 23 ARLA FOODS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Introduction Our sustainability strategy Stronger planet Stronger people About Arla Ambitions & progress data Natural food inspiration 500 We want to inspire consumers to better food Farm visits for school Inspiring recipes million choices by providing knowledge and insight into the children We believe inspiration and knowledge about cooking is the origin of our products and the work that takes place Over the years, our ‘little farmer best way to develop good food habits. Our recipe services on farm. For example, we invite school children and programmes’, in which we invite school provide cooking inspiration on our national websites, in the general public to visit our owners’ farms. children to our owners’ farms, have brochures and via online apps. educated more than one million children Engaging with consumers In Denmark, Sweden, Germany, Belgium, Holland about life on farm. The visits are usually Arla is increasingly using short films to engage consumers In markets where Arla® is a well-known and the UK, our owners hosted open farm days, combined with study material for children in cooking, and sharing tips and tricks, and also to raise brand, social media is now the main attracting almost 474,000 people in total. to work with at school before and after awareness of topics including sustainable farming and platform for consumer engagement. the visit. In 2019, Arla farmers in Denmark, increased recycling of packaging. In 2019, Arla had 500 million (2018: 230) To stress the importance of the origin of milk, as Sweden, Holland and Germany hosted digital engagements, which means: well as Arla being a farmer-owned cooperative, we more than 125,100 children on farm. use our farmer owners in external communications, ■■ Visitors spend more than two from TV commercials to on-pack information. minutes on one of our websites food camps ■■ Visitors are watching a video to the Providing recipes is another important source of Each year, Arla donates 10 million DKK to the Arla end on YouTube inspiration for consumers around the world. On Foundation. The foundation annually arranges food ■■ Likes and comments on social media several markets we publish recipes and inspiration in camps for 1,600 school children aged 13–14 years. different formats, from brochures and cookbooks to The evaluation of these is positive, showing increased We also engage in consumer dialogue various on-line channels. confidence in cooking among the young chefs as well as face to face, as an example, Arla met an interest in, for example, tasting new vegetables. with a total of 32,000 consumers at Stockholm Central Station, reminding them about the unique taste of milk, Improved school meals and discussing topics like sustainability To broaden our contact with Danish school children, and health. we also provide study material, which aims to improve the culture around school meals, for example focusing on enough time to eat in a calm environment and encouraging an open attitude to trying different foods. 24 ARLA FOODS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Introduction Our sustainability strategy Stronger planet Stronger people About Arla Ambitions & progress data supporting communities We have the opportunity and responsibility to contribute to sustainable development in the communities we are part of, and across markets. This encompasses creating jobs, providing nutritious affordable products, ensuring transparent dialogue with stakeholders, and contributing to dairy value chain development. DAIRY VALUE CHAIN Examples of partnership projects in which we water, which is necessary to process and bring DEVELOPMENT are participating: the milk to market. Moreover, the government will establish schools and health clinics for its Partnerships for sustainable development Milky Way Partnership project in Nigeria nomad citizens. During the year, we have further strengthened Arla is the lead business partner in a partnership our involvement in selected emerging markets project to develop a sustainable dairy value The project will primarily be funded by loans to promote sustainable development, which is chain in Nigeria in partnership with SEGES, provided by the Central Bank of Nigeria and a key priority in Arla’s sustainability strategy. Danish Agricultural and Food Council, Care taken by the local state. As the commercial DK, CORET, a Nigerian farmer association, and partner, Arla will, among other things, invest in Whenever we engage in national dairy sector Milcopal, a farmer cooperative in Kaduna state, establishing milk collection centres. These will development in emerging markets, we Nigeria. Supported by the Danish Ministry of be pivotal to Arla’s role as a processor of the safeguard the strategic match of commercial Foreign Affairs, the five-year project, launched milk supplied by the farmers. interests and fulfilment of the SDGs. We believe in 2016, aims to increase the livelihoods of 450 the full dairy value chain should be strong farmer households through capacity building and commercially viable and that this is the and milk off-take agreements with Arla. Secure cold chain in foundation for long-term value creation for all Nigeria stakeholders. Following the positive development of During 2019, the Milky Way project the partnership, a new Memorandum of in Nigeria expanded to include To ensure that our local engagement actively Understanding with Kaduna State and the four farm clusters with around 70 supports national plans to implement the Nigerian government was signed during farmer households. To build a wellSDGs, we have enhanced our dialogue with civil September 2019. The State and the Government functioning commercial cold chain society organisations, national governments, will provide 1,000 nomadic dairy farmer from cow to consumer, innovative UN organisations, multi-stakeholder households with permanent farmlands and milking parlours were installed, a milk initiatives and Embassies. In particular, our access to water, while Arla will be the commercial truck is operational, and the dairy plant involvement in national dairy sectors, where partner that will purchase, collect, process and has been upgraded and is managed we join partnerships, facilitates the pooling of bring the local milk to market. Arla will play a key by Arla. Additional farm clusters have knowledge, expertise, technology and financial role in managing the comprehensive project. been identified to be included in 2020. resources. It also further builds the foundation The target is to reach 450 farmer for Arla’s long-term ambitions and presence in Part of the public commitment is to secure households before 2022. these markets. the infrastructure such as roads, power and 25 ARLA FOODS CORPORATE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY REPORT REPORT 2019 Introduction Our sustainability strategy Stronger planet Stronger people About Arla Ambitions & progress data Organic dairy farming in Indonesia Chinese dairy partnership The interest for organic dairy farming is increasing Arla has a long-term partnership with Chinese dairy Improving dairy farming in in Indonesia. Therefore, Arla and its business partner company Mengniu. Since 2012, we have been China Indofood have been approached by the Indonesian working together to improve animal welfare, milk The main focus for the cooperation government and pioneer farmers to support the quality, food safety, environmental impact and between Arla and Chinese Mengniu has, development of organic farming in the country. Arla knowledge about milk production. Our common during 2019, been on improving the skills has hosted a study tour on modern dairy farming goal is to contribute to a more sustainable dairy and knowledge of both farmers, farm in Denmark for a group of Indonesian cooperative industry in China. workers and employees working within farmers and co-facilitated a roundtable discussion dairy production. This has been achieved titled “Trend of Organic Consumption and Lifestyle by hosting seminars with over 1,200 in Indonesia”, attended by representatives from participants, conducted via several on farm Ministries, organic experts and practitioners as well workshops, advisory work on local farms as media. and by publishing a monthly newsletter containing advice and articles on dairy production. Calf rearing project in East Java Together we have also had special focus Together with our Indonesian business partner, to farmers at an affordable price. This income is on saving costs in milk production. In this we contribute to the development of the invested back into the operation in order for it to project, 24 local farms have participated, calf rearing project on East Java, with direct become a sustainable business unit. with close to 20,000 dairy cows in total. investments and capacity building. The first Furthermore, we are establishing know-how model stable has been established. As result, The rearing centre is expected to rear 60 cows amongst local advisors and qualifying them cow barns have been expanded and more each year ready to become high quality dairy to expand the approach to more farms. adequate infrastructures have been built. Calves cows when full-grown, for the benefit of local are fed with the right amount of nutrients and farmers and to increase overall local milk are also reared with due regard to the comfort production. Our experience from the centre and principles of animal welfare. When calves are will form the basis for a guideline that could be at an age when they can mate, they will be sold implemented in other locations. 26 ARLA FOODS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Introduction Our sustainability strategy Stronger planet Stronger people About Arla Ambitions & progress data By 2022, we aim to have empowered 5,000 The four-year project, which started in 2018, is products for 1.25 million low income consumers supported by the Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs in rural Bangladesh. The two Bangladeshi women to generate their own income. and we work in partnership with Dutch-based NGO organisations have so far recruited, trained BoP Innovation Center, and Bangladesh based NGO and managed a network of 150 female microBRAC, Dnet and social enterprise iSocial. The project entrepreneurs. By 2022, we aim to have empowered aims to increase access to our affordable dairy 5,000 women to generate their own income. NUTRITION AROUND THE WORLD Bangladesh and the social enterprise iSocial in order to conduct a literature review mapping intake of Nutrition surveys in developing markets nutrients, food habits and preferences, as well as In Bangladesh and Nigeria, we have initiated studies the health status amongst middle and low-income to better understand the nutritional and health consumers. Based on the findings, an actual dietary status of families. The studies will identify nutritional intake and health research programme will be gaps in specific target populations, enabling more initiated in specific areas of Bangladesh. focused efforts to address malnutrition through, for example, product innovation. Better access to affordable nutrition More than half of the children in Bangladesh are In Nigeria, we have performed a comprehensive underweight and malnutrition is still prevalent literature review to identify gaps in the nutritional despite of progress in the country. Arla has a longand health status of the population. Continuation of term presence in the country and is the second most the project will result in detailed and area-specific popular milk powder brand in the country. Arla is nutritional and health data, which will support determined to give everyone access to affordable, public institutions, NGOs and private companies nutritious dairy products and this was the reason when developing targeted initiatives to improve for us to become the lead commercial partner in a nutrient deficiencies and the health status of project to create a last-mile-distribution network of Nigerian families. female micro-entrepreneurs in Bangladesh. As well as selling nutritious Dano® milk powder sachets, the In Bangladesh, Arla has initiated a collaboration women educate people about health and diet, at the with the International Health Research Institute, same time they are securing a reliable income, lifting International Centre for Diarrhoeal Disease Research, themselves out of poverty. 27 ARLA FOODS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Introduction Our sustainability strategy Stronger planet Stronger people About Arla Ambitions & progress data Arla Foods Ingredients partnerships As a GAIN Nordic partner, Arla Foods Ingredients Arla Food Ingredients, which is a subsidiary of Arla is designing the drink and training the staff at the Foods and a whey ingredient supplier, has continued dairy. This project was completed in 2019. The next partnerships with GAIN (Global Alliance for Improved phase is local implementation in 2020. Nutrition) Nordic and DanChurchAid. Projects include: Local production of nutritious food in Ethiopia Sustainable dairy supply chain in Ethiopia Arla Foods Ingredients, DanChurchAid and several Arla Foods Ingredients is the lead business partner other companies have formed a partnership to in a GAIN Nordic Partnership project to develop share knowledge and expertise and develop new a sustainable dairy supply chain in Ethiopia in affordable food concepts. Their first joint initiative is cooperation with a local dairy and dairy farmers. the Sustainable Food Platform, a project to promote Supported by the Danish development cooperation local production of nutritious food for people living Danida, the three-year project aims to bring safer in or around refugee camps. Ethiopia is the primary and better dairy nutrition to low-income families. country in focus, with links to Uganda and Kenya. During 2019, development of an affordable, nutritious yogurt has continued. The yogurt is In 2018, the Sustainable Food Platform was planned to go into production at the local dairy awarded funding by P4G – a global forum that in spring 2020. GAIN is responsible for the school supports public-private partnerships with a focus on feeding programme in the project’s final phase. accelerating sustainable development. P4G is partly funded by the Danish government and hosted at Nutritious long-life drink in Zambia World Resources Institute. The UK Department for International Development (DFID) is funding a GAIN Nordic project to establish The ideation phase has continued in 2019 and local production and sales of a nutritious long-life will be completed by March 2020. This includes drink to address malnutrition among children and determining local needs and identifying potential women in Zambia. The drink will be made from local manufacturers. The partners hope to obtain local milk and will include whey permeate, which further P4G funding for the scale-up phase. will both enable a higher production volume and support product quality. 28 ARLA FOODS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Introduction Our sustainability strategy Stronger planet Stronger people About Arla Ambitions & progress data caring for people Our worldwide operations provide employment for many people and contribute to economic growth. We value the relationships we have with people, organisations and communities. No matter the nature of the relationship, we are committed to maintaining mutual respect and understanding. We prioritize human rights’ assessments in and identity documents unless they require HUMAN RIGHTS markets where we already have, or are in the otherwise, incorporating our commitment to process of acquiring, production facilities work against modern slavery including forced Respecting human rights to ensure a high level of focus. In 2019, we labour in our General Membership terms signed Arla works to ensure that we respect human made our first human rights risk assessment by all Arla owners, and a continuous focus on rights, and we continuously embed our human in Bahrain, and continued monitoring and how we risk assess our suppliers. rights policy in our business processes and following up on risks in Saudi Arabia, Nigeria plans. During 2019, we have enhanced our and Bangladesh. During the last year, we have continued to governance structure to ensure that executive raise awareness among our farmer owners and management in strategic growth markets Modern slavery colleagues throughout the organisation, and receive an annual report on critical and major Modern slavery is a serious challenge in our we have carried out a training session with our human rights risks, identified non-compliance supply chains. Since the publication of our first European union collaboration forum, the Works and issues resolved. This report, together with modern slavery statement in 2017, we have Council. In our training and communication, we a plan of action for the coming year has been taken steps to further strengthen our processes have also included how to escalate concerns formally signed off. to mitigate the risks. These include, for example, either through our whistleblower function, improved internal data checking, ensuring or other reporting channels. There were no To further embed our human rights policy migrant worker colleagues retain passports modern slavery reports in 2019. and processes in the business, several global functions responsible for the daily management of Arla have been trained on how to integrate human rights in their daily business operations. Human rights risks in Bahrain To support the acquisition process of a cheese business in Bahrain, the Danish Institute To strengthen the implementation of our for Human Rights (DIHR) developed a short briefing on key human rights risks of human rights action plans in emerging markets, relevance to Arla. Based on the briefing, a human rights assessment has been conducted, we have continued to coordinate and align together with an action plan for mitigation. Follow-up with the management team in findings. We ensure exchange of findings, Bahrain, as well as global support functions and on-site support will ensure integration in alignment of mitigation plans and improved Arla’s health and safety reporting, human resource systems and responsible supply chain follow-up through regular on-site visits and a management are on track. No critical or major adverse human rights impact have been database with access to shared documentation. identified. 29 ARLA FOODS CORPORATE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY REPORT REPORT 2019 Introduction Our sustainability strategy Stronger planet Stronger people About Arla Ambitions & progress data DIVERSITY, EQUALITY AND Workshops on Responsible Human Rights Dialogue Gender equality in Nigeria INCLUSIVENESS Business Conduct Forum In August 2019, Arla hosted the second When participating in publicly funded partnerships, In November, we invited a number of workshop on responsible business conduct Securing diversity all partners involved have the obligation to adhere internal and external stakeholders to our in Kaduna State, Nigeria with some 40 value We believe a diversified workforce enhances to international standards for responsible business first Human Rights Dialogue Forum. The chain actors participating. The focus was to productivity and innovation, no matter where in the conduct. With Arla’s human rights processes in purpose of the Forum was to improve follow-up on our human rights’ action plan world. Our focus on diversity and inclusion has been place, we have been assessing and addressing our business practices through dialogue and to promote gender equality and women re-activated through several initiatives including human rights risks in the projects, together with and sharing of expertise with key partners empowerment. Prior to the workshop, a e-learning courses and internal network groups. our partners. We have also been responsible for amongst NGOs. Further, it provided an gender analysis was conducted, including Themes including “how to avoid unconscious bias” the identification and development of action plans opportunity for us to receive feedback on several recommendations. and “how to improve team performance through related to Responsible Business Conduct for our our current and planned work with human inclusion” are covered. partnerships in Nigeria and Bangladesh. The focus rights, and to discuss potential improvement The outcome of the workshop was an for 2019 was on human rights, including gender areas. agreed action plan to promote gender To support Arla’s leaders in making diversityequality. equality in the project dairy value chain conscious decisions, resources have been made The discussions at the Forum clearly through education, communication, available during 2019 including e-learning and In September 2019, the first workshop on showed that it is necessary to consider income generation and cultural change. video courses as well as updated recruitment responsible business conduct was held in environmental and human rights impacts Women already make up more than 30 per guidelines. Dhaka, Bangladesh by Arla with some 20 together, and not work in silos. The cent of the workforce employed at our dairy participants from our five key partners. Its focus collaboration with the NGOs will continue, and a model for equal distribution of dairy In June, Arla held a diversity and inclusion event was to assess potential weaknesses within our and we will review our commitments on income has been agreed with one farm with several external speakers at the Danish head own organisation in terms of human rights climate and environment, taking human cluster. Similarly, women are employed office, attended by around 100 colleagues in the management systems. It was identified that rights impacts into the equation. as milking parlour managers and we have auditorium and around 500 on-line. This event potential risks are mainly related to local supply developed a communication strategy to was the culmination of a series of local initiatives chain management and distribution partners. The external participants came from ensure equal involvement in the Milky Way in association with the Pride celebrations across A plan of action has been agreed and follow-up Amnesty International, GAIN Health, Care Partnership project activities. countries. will be conducted in 2020. For some partners, Denmark and Danchurch Aid, and the internal human rights management systems Forum was facilitated by the Danish Institute must be strengthened. for Human Rights. 30 ARLA FOODS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Introduction Our sustainability strategy Stronger planet Stronger people About Arla Ambitions & progress data Our operation in Bangladesh has We acknowledge our responsibility as employer to a risk-based monitoring system to proactively respect the human rights of these colleagues. support all Arla locations worldwide. This has been been acknowledged globally as a implemented in 2019, with the main focus being on frontrunner with 1,000 days without The process of improving the housing facilities that our locations in Africa, the Middle East and South Arla provides in the Middle East continued during East Asia. To ensure knowledge and ownership, a lost time accident. the year in Qatar, Oman, United Arab Emirates incident management drills are conducted. and Saudi Arabia. In 2019, we have resolved all non-compliance issues. In Saudi Arabia, where Protecting people, food and sites SAFE AND HEALTHY COLLEAGUES Bangladesh, USA and Canada. Our operation in the vast majority of Arla’s migrant workers are Our safety programme includes protection of sites Bangladesh has been acknowledged globally as employed, new employer-provided accommodation against all types of threats, from sabotage to nature Decent working conditions a frontrunner with 1,000 days without a lost time has been rented in Ryadh to ensure that we are now disasters, since that could threaten colleagues, food We want all our colleagues to stay safe at work. Our accident. in full compliance with ILO (International Labour safety and buildings. In 2019, we started to roll out a target is zero work accidents, and for many years we Organisation) standards. Only minor issues remain in new standardised supply chain security programme have worked systematically to prevent accidents. Based on our assessment of human rights risks, we Oman and United Arab Emirates. in the UK and Sweden, which will be implemented To advance this work, we introduced a step change have enhanced our action plans to address adverse in the rest of the supply chain in 2020. The main programme ‘Arla Cornerstones’ in 2017. Most impacts related to decent work. For example, it was Global security focus is on access control, CCTV surveillance, fences accidents are a result of unsafe behaviour and the revealed that our main challenges regarding decent In cooperation with external partners we make and burglar alarm systems. programme focuses on rooting global operating work are related to local distribution managed sure all colleagues who travel as part of their role, standards, boosting operational safety competences through a large number of business partners in including expats and their families are safe before, and embedding our existing behaviour safety high-risk markets. This will be addressed in 2020 during and after they travel. We have developed programme. through a strengthening of supplier contracts and dialogue with business partners. During 2019, we have seen greater levels of colleague engagement and significant reductions Housing facilities in accidents, and we will continue with the strong In the Middle East, we employ a large number of Our safety programme includes focus, towards our ambition of zero accidents. migrant workers. These colleagues are potentially protection of sites against all types in a vulnerable position as they live and work in In 2019, we implemented our global reporting host countries and are thereby at risk of not being of threats, from sabotage to nature system for health and safety in Nigeria, Middle East, granted the same legal rights as national workers. disasters. 31 ARLA FOODS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Introduction Our sustainability strategy Stronger planet Stronger people About Arla Ambitions & progress data ENGAGING COLLEAGUES New ways of learning among our blue collar colleagues is key to create development, people management and our new Continuous training of colleagues at all levels the future of dairy. In Denmark, for example, we Executive Masterclass, in which more than 350 Colleague engagement survey is important to safeguard competence and had around 2,500 participants totally in 2019 from colleagues were trained in one day. The annual engagement survey, Barometer, was performance. In 2019, learning in Arla has been our blue-collar population taking part in various conducted in October and distributed to 18,117 significantly streamlined in relation to delivery courses. One focus area supporting the Calcium colleagues in 16 different languages. The response methods. The global portfolio consisting of transformation is what we call ‘operator asset care’. rate was 83 per cent, 2 per cent less than last year. leadership and personal development training This means upskilling our operators to be able to The result continues to show that Arla colleagues opportunities has been converted to more blended perform more technical skills on our machines. are very engaged. It also shows that there is still a learning programmes, containing face-to-face, Not only is this an opportunity to develop our need for focus on communication, which is being digital and peer-to-peer learning. When we follow up operators, it also results in a reduction of costs addressed for example by using multiple digital with colleagues taking part in these programmes, as we are able to fix potential breakdowns more channels to ensure information is available for after three and six months, their feedback shows quickly. colleagues when needed. Additional attention that the knowledge, attitude and behaviour of areas for the coming year are customer focus people managers has improved, while costs have Talent programmes and the continued work on reducing incidents of also been driven down. Over the last three years, we have recruited 40 Skilled industrial harassment. graduates from 17 different countries and four operators Learning is now taking place within functional continents to our international F15®graduate The dairy industry is becoming increasingly Recruitment processes learning task forces and mentoring programmes. programme. The gender split is more or less even, complex with higher demand for efficiency, Arla has a global recruitment policy that outlines This means more learning is integrated into a although there are slightly more women. which in particular will put colleagues with talent acquisition processes for all white-collar roles colleague’s work, which is expected to deliver shorter formal training under pressure. across all markets. The process ensures validated greater impact from the learning initiatives. The We have launched a new talent development Therefore, Arla has joined forces with two tools as well as an engaging candidate experience. challenge during 2019 has been a perception concept with approximately 150 participants, 30 of Danish trade unions to which the majority We use assessment tools that support our efforts to among colleagues that there is no training available, whom are our global talents, sponsored by EMT. The of blue-collar employees in the Danish dairy minimise bias in selection and assessment. as training is typically viewed as a course or face-togroup consists of people from five management industry belong. For three years, we have face training. levels, nine nationalities and seven business units. committed to upskill 80 Arla colleagues Our recruitment IT system has been extended to There is a 40/60 per cent women/men mix. to skilled industrial operators to fulfil the include blue collar roles for core countries. This Blue-collar upskilling needs of the business and to increase ensures a good quality of hire, and solid candidate In our supply chain, we are constantly developing Furthermore, a total of 571 colleagues (212 women, employability of the participants in the experience. our colleagues. Building functional capabilities 359 men) have participated in Arla’s leadership project. 32 ARLA FOODS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Introduction Our sustainability strategy Stronger planet Stronger people About Arla Ambitions & progress data The European Works Council (EWC) is our high-level EU-project to promote forum for open dialogue between management and dairy education employees and for discussing corporate matters in Compared to other European industries, Arla. The EWC comprises employee representatives the dairy industry is quite small in terms from each of the EU countries in which Arla has of the number of people it employs, and more than 150 employees. Arla’s CEO, Executive as a company we rely on well-educated Vice President for supply chain and Executive colleagues. We acknowledge that we need Vice President for human resources represent the to put a lot of effort into protecting and company management at these meetings. The developing the dairy education systems in Select Committee of the EWC is always informed our core markets. Over the past three years, prior to major changes in the Arla organisation. Arla has been engaged in an EU-project with partners from 13 European countries. In September 2019, we revised and signed a new The project has been successful in terms EWC agreement to ensure that the UK remains of underlining the need for dairy skills in scope for EWC, although the underlying EU across Europe and has shown the potential Directives only apply to EU member states. We for greater cooperation between dairy have therefore made an agreement that will enable colleagues, universities, and dairy companies. us to maintain EWC as the forum that oversees all employee cooperation in European countries. Cooperating with unions To strengthen the global perspective of business A good forum for internal dialogue is our Works practices, Arla continues its dialogue with Councils, at both local and global level. The councils International Union of Food, Agricultural, Hotel, normally consist of colleagues as well as employer Restaurant, Catering, Tobacco and Allied Workers’ representatives and they work to secure the Associations International (IUF). One outcome conditions necessary for the company’s continued during 2019, was the signing of an agreement to competitiveness and development, and for the wellfight sexual harassment, and discussions are under being and safety of all colleagues. way to further formalise the collaboration. 33 ARLA FOODS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Introduction Our sustainability strategy Stronger planet Stronger people About Arla Ambitions & progress data RESPONSIBLE SOURCING their agents and sub-contractors also fulfil the Supplier audits Workshops with suppliers requirements set out in these documents. Every year, we carry out audits based on risk Sourcing management evaluation, during which we visit suppliers and In Indonesia, we have continued Our supply chain is one of our most important levers Focus on service suppliers inspect relevant areas. In 2019, we have provided to financially support workshops in in creating a positive impact in the world as well as During 2019, we have conducted human right training to suppliers outside Europe to strengthen collaboration with our main supplier of one of our most critical aspects with regard to risk impact assessments on all our sourcing categories, their workplace, environment, safety and human palm oil. Our primary objective has been mitigation. To ensure the right quality of ingredients including service categories such as labour providers, rights processes. We have also informed Arla to strengthen sub-supplier understanding for our products, we have procedures in place and cleaning, catering and security. We look into our colleagues outside Europe about how to work of human rights and labour issues and to only use approved suppliers. We recognise that our suppliers’ work with human rights principles and in accordance with our purchasing policy and improve plantation management practices. suppliers have a major impact on our sustainability eradication of modern slavery in their supply procurement processes. Through the workshops, suppliers also gain performance, and we pay close attention to their chains. Beginning in the UK, we have made the a deeper understanding of responsible environmental, social and ethical practices. In March decision to require SEDEX (Supplier Ethical Data To ensure that collegues hear about Arla’s sourcing expectations. This year’s focus 2019, we published a Statement on Responsible Exchange) registration, demanding suppliers to purchasing policy, official purchasing channels has been the implementation of a child Sourcing which outlines our ways of working in our register on SEDEX and complete a self-assessment and the importance of purchasing compliance, all protection policy, which was finalised with upstream supply chain. questionnaire. This will enable us to monitor and new white collar colleagues joining Arla in six core the support of UNICEF. track the providers’ status for human rights and markets during 2019, were invited to an online Our ambition is for all external suppliers to sign modern slavery, the first one will be labour providers. information session. Those who do not sign up for We also continue to provide training to our code of conduct for suppliers, which governs Implementation is still ongoing. By doing this, we the first session are invited to next month’s session four key suppliers in the Asia Pacific region. environmental, social and human rights aspects. believe we reduce the risk of modern slavery in our as well. More than 600 persons have joined the This year’s focus has been on ingredients Written contracts control the commercial and supply chain. sessions. Existing colleagues are encouraged to in organic products, bacteria and enzymes, legal terms, and we expect all suppliers to ensure complete the eLearning course on the same topic. and food additives and processing aids, including the latest updates of European Commission regulations. Our ambition is for all external suppliers to sign our code of conduct for suppliers, which governs environmental, social and human rights aspects. 34 ARLA FOODS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Introduction Our sustainability strategy Stronger planet Stronger people About Arla Ambitions & progress data Sourcing positions Using credits to drive We have identified three ingredients with particular sustainable production sustainability challenges: soy, palm oil and cocoa, In Arla’s sourcing positions on soy and and we have developed sourcing positions to palm oil, we include credits within the mitigate the risks and to contribute positively to certification systems Round table for more sustainable practices, including reducing Responsible Soy (RTRS) and Round Table risk of negative impact on human rights and for Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). By doing environment. We believe we can use our purchasing this, we push for more responsible practices power to contribute to these categories being in production while more robust supply more sustainably produced, in close dialogue with chains for segregated certified products are key stakeholders. The sourcing positions identify developing. certification standards that we support and request, for each of the three risk ingredients. Recently, there is an increasing stakeholder push for full traceability of risk commodities Our target of 100 per cent responsibly sourced palm contributing to deforestation and land oil, soy and cocoa has been achieved for soy and conversion of high value nature areas. cocoa. In 2019, the share of segregated certified However, currently there is limited supply palm oil was 98.5 per cent whereas 1.5 per cent of of traceable, segregated and certified the palm oil use was covered by RSPO-credits due to commodities, leading to high costs and lack of availability for segregated certified products individual actors have limited leverage. in some markets. We see a risk that the transformation of production practices will be delayed if the approach of RTRSand RSPO credits is devaluated, as it offers a cost-efficient way to promote the transition. 35 ARLA FOODS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Introduction Our sustainability strategy Stronger planet Stronger people About Arla Ambitions & progress data about arla We are proud of our strong Arla Foods is a global dairy company and a cooperative brands and adapt our portfolio to regional markets. owned by dairy farmers in seven European countries. Our products are sold under well-known brands around the world. 36 ARLA FOODS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Introduction Our sustainability strategy Stronger planet Stronger people About Arla Ambitions & progress data company performance Results 2019 Brexit preparations CEO Arla’s net revenue in 2019 amounted to EUR 10.5 billion, compared Arla is the biggest dairy company in the UK and will continue to be to EUR 10.4 billion in the previous year. The profit for the year was a significant player in the UK dairy industry after Brexit, supporting HR Finance, IT & Legal Corporate Strategy & Transformation EUR 323 million, compared to EUR 301 million in 2018. thousands of jobs, and being home to 25 per cent of our farmer owners. Arla is focusing on maintaining free trade and minimizing the Marketing & Milk, Supply Innovation, Arla Foods The dairy industry is volatile and to secure future growth and a long-term negative effects of a potential increase in bureaucracy. Members & Chain Communication, Europe International Ingredients Trading Sustainability competitive milk price for our farmer owners, a three-year transformation Diagram6: Revenue_product_p37 Diagram5: Revenue_market_p37 Chairman Jan Toft Nørgaard CEO Peder Tuborgh programme, called Calcium, was introduced in 2018. The purpose of Since the UK decided to leave the EU in 2016, we have worked on the programme is to transform the way we work, reduce bureaucracy, contingency planning to ensure we are as prepared as possible for the cut unnecessary costs, reinvest more in selected strategic initiatives, and different scenarios. This includes supporting our UK colleagues who Revenue by product group Revenue by segment save EUR 400 million during the period. The programme delivered EUR live and work in the EU and EU colleagues in the UK to ensure they Diagram6: Revenue_product_p37 Diagram5: Revenue_market_p37 110 million in 2019, ahead of our expectations, and it is contributing were aware of the potential rule changes and the need to comply with Fresh products and milk powder 43 % positively to the company’s milk price to farmer owners. new migration legislation. We also offered information to our UK farmer Europe 60 % Cheese 26 %Diagram9: Global_contracts_p39 International 17 % owners on how to prepare for a no deal Brexit, working with external Butter and spreads 14 % Arla Foods Ingredients 7 % Market development consultants to provide practical advice which supplemented publicly Ingredients, whey products and non dairy 17 % Trading and other 16 % Arla maintains its position as the world’s fourth largest dairy company available information. in terms of volume of milk intake. The global dairy market is Fresh products and milk powder 43 % Europe 60 % increasingly competitive and fast-moving putting pressure on us to Acquisition in the Middle East Cheese 26 %Diagram9: Global_contracts_p39 International 17 % Butter and spreads 14 % Arla Foods Ingredients 7 % continuously deliver on customer and consumer expectations. We In May 2019, Arla’s acquisition of a processed cheese business Ingredients, whey products and non dairy 17 % Trading and other 16 % maintain our strong position by focusing on consumer demands and in Bahrain was formally completed. The acquisition gives us full The revenue by product group was similar Arla’s total revenue has increased by 1 per continuous innovation of products and packaging, a more diversified ownership of a state-of-the-art cheese production site, which provides to 2018. cent since 2018. For further information, product portfolio and product launches in new markets. Arla is the opportunity to further expand the company’s branded cheese see Arla’s annual report. Diagram19: Milk price changes_A_p24 expanding sales in South East Asia and in Sub-Saharan markets. production in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA). Milkprice EUR Milk price As demand for dairy continues to increase in MENA, the site in Bahrain EUR 0.5 In 2019, for a full year, Arla was able to hold the average performance will be Arla’s key strategic manufacturing hub in the region. The 0,5 price at 36.6 EUR-cent/kilo, compared to 36.4 EUR-cent/kilo last year. majority of Arla products sold in the region will now be produced 0.4 0,4 During the year, global milk production remained stable, with slight locally at the site, which means we can further expand our branded growth in production in Europe and New Zealand, which was offset by cheese production and improve overall efficiency in our supply 0.3 0,3 reductions in other major exporting areas, particularly North and South chain. By moving production of processed cheese and sterilised America. This limited growth resulted in commodity prices remaining firm cream from Europe to this site, we expect to improve the shelf-life of 0.2 0,2 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 and increased demand was balanced by increases in supply. The outlook these products by up to six weeks as transport and handling time to The graph shows the prepaid price, and the dots the average performance price. for the milk price for the coming months remains stable. customers in MENA are reduced significantly. 37 ARLA FOODS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Introduction Our sustainability strategy Stronger planet Stronger people About Arla Ambitions & progress data owners Democratic organisation All newly elected members of the Board of Representatives attend a Germany, Belgium, Denmark Sweden Luxembourg and UK Arla’s mission is to secure the highest value for our farmers’ milk two-day Introduction programme and also have access to our Mentor 2,436 owners 2,497 owners the Netherlands 2,190 owners 2,636 owners while creating opportunities for their growth. All farmer owners Partnership Programme where experienced members of the Board have the opportunity to influence important decisions through the of Representatives are paired with newly elected to strengthen their Denmark and Sweden District councils Germany, Belgium, democratically governed farmer cooperative. development in the new role. The current mentoring programme has Luxembourg and UK the Netherlands Local organisations 46 pairs and will conclude at the Board of Representatives meeting in Denmark and Sweden Local organisations Regions Arla has 9,759 owners in seven countries: Denmark, Sweden, UK, February 2021. Germany, Belgium, Luxembourg and the Netherlands. In October, Arla Board of Representatives 175 owners and 12 employee representatives announced the appointment of two external advisors to its Board of All newly elected district representatives are also invited to attend Directors, Florence Rollet and Nana Bule, who will bring global digital, a two-day introduction course in each member area, during which Area Council DK Board of Directors Area Council CE 15 owners, 3 employee representatives marketing and technology expertise to complement the strong they learn more about the business, the strategy, the democracy and Area Council SE and 2 external advisors Area Council UK commercial and farming knowledge of its elected board members. also about meeting management from an external coach. In addition, The chart shows the number of owners/members as of December 31, 2019. All experienced members of the Board of Directors have been offered a elections and polls are held according to the ‘one owner, one vote’ principle. The Board of During 2019, among other things, elected representatives have been course to gain a deeper insight into Arla’s markets and business. Representatives is Arla’s top decision-making body. Diagram3: Raw_milk_p38 involved in workshops, discussing Arlagården® and sustainability. At Arla Local farmhouse meetings (earlier referred to as Arla Seminars) Owner strategy farmer owners meet in smaller groups to discuss current topics. Each Raw milk intake, million kilos Following the decision of our farmer owners in the UK and Central market has specific targets for the share of farmer owners attending Europe in 2018 to become direct members of Arla Foods amba, we these meetings. Denmark 4,940 have been working to align all processes and workflows. The purpose UK 3,230 Sweden 1,788 is to ensure a well-functioning and transparent democratic structure, Digital Learning – Arla Farmer Owner website Germany 1,700 with the same democratic governing body and rules for all individual Within the new global owner web, we have created a new learning area Netherlands, Belgium, and France 724 farmer owners in Arla. accessible for all members. The digital learning content is specifically Non-owner milk 1,323 designed to support members’ understanding of their business, the Engaging farmers in the cooperative democracy, Arlagården® and sustainability. Arla’s total milk intake amounted to 13,705 million kilos in 2019, which means that the As a strong and visionary cooperative, Arla needs a pool of future milk intake is almost unchanged compared to 2018. Owners’ milk represents around 90 per cent of total milk intake. farmer representatives. With the training programme, Arla Next, we want to inspire more Arla farmers to become elected representatives, and we offer an international network within the cooperative. The second Arla Next programme concluded in January 2019 and many of the cohort were elected as farmer representatives in the spring elections. Others have gone on to support Arla as ambassadors. 38 ARLA FOODS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 ambitions & progress data The famous Danish butter has a history of more than 100 years and is today sold worldwide. We are committed to sustainable development, to work towards ambitions and targets and to report transparently on progress. Introduction Our sustainability strategy Stronger planet Stronger people About Arla Ambitions & progress data ABOUT THIS REPORT Our aim is to be open and transparent Sustainable development scope Risk management towards our stakeholders. In this report we In the following section we describe our ambitions and Our approach to due diligence show our progress towards our sustainability targets for is integrated in the way we work share examples from our global business, the financial year 2019. The scope is Arla colleagues and do business along our value providing an overview of our significant and companies where we have management control, chain. We identify, prevent social, ethical and environmental unless otherwise stated. Joint ventures and other entities and mitigate risks related to commitments and results – and some of over which Arla does not have management control are our activities to help minimise not covered in the quantitative reporting. However, we adverse impact on people, the actions planned for 2020 and the work with our partners to ensure an ongoing focus on society and business. We focus strategies going forward. sustainability issues. on reporting on progress in relation to social and employee During 2017, we updated our materiality analysis. We issues, environment, climate, invited main stakeholders to prioritise the importance of corruption, human rights and 22 defined aspects related to our sustainability activities, other topics material to us. Transparent reporting see page 53. The report serves as our annual communication on progress against the UN Global Compact and The outcome, in combination with continuous dialogue the statutory statement on CSR in accordance with key stakeholders, helps us improve the scope and For further information and with section 99a of the Danish Financial focus of our work, reporting and communication processes. accounting principles, please Statements Act. Furthermore, it serves as a basis when relating to the Global visit arla.com and read Arla’s Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines. Annual Report 2019. This English master version has been translated into several languages. 40 ARLA FOODS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Introduction Our sustainability strategy Stronger planet Stronger people About Arla Ambitions & progress data sustainable dairy farming POLICY/AMBITION PROGRESS IMPACT ON SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS AND TARGETS Both Arla’s environmental strategy 2020 and the new Cabon Energy Farm sustainability strategy, launched in 2019, are targeting SUSTAINABLE DAIRY FARMING assessments assessments workshops sustainable dairy farming as one of the most important areas UK 2010–2018 3,057 – 587 to address in our value chain. The ambition is to minimise 2.3 By 2030, double the agricultural productivity and incomes of small-scale food negative and maximise positive impacts by targeted actions Sweden 2013–2018 608 409 55 producers, in particular women, indigenous peoples, family farmers, pastoralists and at farm level. Denmark 2013–2018 1,339 22 39 fishers, including through secure and equal access to land, other productive resources Central Europe* 2013–2018 58 – 12 and inputs, knowledge, financial services, markets and opportunities for value addition IMPACT ON SOCIETY and non-farm employment Total 2010–2018 5,062 431 693 We have identified raw material production, especially milk, 2.4 By 2030, ensure sustainable food production systems and implement resilient as our most significant environmental impact on society, UK 2019 121 – 19 agricultural practices that increase productivity and production, that help maintain involving greenhouse gas emissions, land use, biodiversity ecosystems, that strengthen capacity for adaptation to climate change, extreme Sweden 2019 103 – – impacts and contamination of air and water. weather, drought, flooding and other disasters and that progressively improve land and Denmark 2019 133 – – soil quality IMPACT ON ARLA Central Europe* 2019 100 – – Climate change, water stress and malfunctioning ecosystems Total 2010–2019 5,519 431 712 are threats to our supply chain, mainly to our farmer owners and other farmers providing our agricultural raw materials. The table shows the number of activities carried out in line with our sustainable dairy farming 13 Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts Rising costs and/or declining availability are business risks strategy and the new environmental strategy. going forward. Not addressing environmental and climate 13.1 Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-related hazards and natural challenges pose reputational risks as well. CLIMATE IMPACT** disasters in all countries Reduction 1990–2018 23 % TARGETS To mitigate risks identified at farm level, one of our strategic ARLAGÅRDEN ® DIGITAL DOCUMENTATION 15.1 By 2020, ensure the conservation, restoration and sustainable use of terrestrial goals is to reduce climate impact per kilo of milk at farm level by 30 % from 1990 to 2020. Share of farms participating 87 % and inland freshwater ecosystems and their services, in particular forests, wetlands, mountains and drylands, in line with obligations under international agreements In 2019, Arla set new Science Based Targets towards 2030, aiming to reduce greenhouse gas emissions per kilo of milk at ANIMAL WELFARE 2019 2018 2017 2016 farm level by 30 %, with 2015 as the baseline year. The longterm ambition is to reach carbon net-zero by 2050 through Udder health, share of farms reaching top level 55 % 53 % 56 % 53 % focus on emission reductions, carbon sequestration and other activities reducing global warming. Also, Arla promotes The updated Arlagården® programme has not only added new requirements but also made it sustainable dairy farming at farmer workshops for sharing of * Germany, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and Belgium. compulsory to measure and assess animal welfare on a quarterly basis, using multiple indicators best practice and expertise. such as cow mobility, cleanliness, lesions and body condition. Data will be uploaded using ** The 2020 strategy for the farm uses 1990 as a baseline. To follow up on the 2020 strategy Arlagården® digital tool. we have used a fixed milk composition from 2013, as data has not been available for all Further, we have the goal to build a more diverse, robust and accessible local agricultural landscape to increase biodiversity farmers in all countries. In the 2020 strategy we did not include non owner milk in the Arlagården® audits reporting. and access to nature. All Arla farms are audited according to our quality assurance programme Arlagården® a minimum of once in every three-year period. In the UK, our farmer owners also adhere to the UK industry By 2018 the reduction is 23 % compared to 1990. This reflects a small increase compared to The new environmental strategy targets clean air and water, previous year which can partly be explained by the draught situation in 2018. standard, the Red Tractor Farm Assurance Dairy Scheme, and are assessed every 18 months to with the goal to protect regional water sources and reduce ensure compliance to both standards. In total, 3,412 audits were carried out during 2019 across all emissions across the whole value chain, with a particular goal Going forward for the SBT (2030 goals) the actual milk composition will be used including seven owner countries. non owner milk. on nitrogen and phosphorus cycles in balance. 41 ARLA FOODS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Introduction Our sustainability strategy Stronger planet Stronger people About Arla Ambitions & progress data energy & climate Diagram15: Water_p42 POLICY/AMBITION TARGETS PROGRESS CONTINUED Arla’s environmental strategy 2020 is targeting three Our environmental strategy sets goals for our supply chain, focusing on climate impact Water consumption Million m areas: climate, energy & water and zero waste, in and resource fficiency. Climate targets stipulate a reduction of 25 % in greenhouse gas During 2019 we managed to reach our aim to improve 25 addition to sustainable dairy farming, reflecting the emissions from each of the areas packaging, transport and processing 2005–2020 water efficiency in production by 3 % annually. However, 20 material environmental impacts identified in our (scope 1+2+3), see page 12. the total water consumption increased due to a more 15 value chain. The ambition for the identified areas is diverse product mix, requiring for example more cleaning to minimise negative and maximise positive impacts Arla set Science Based Targets for 2030, using 2015 as a baseline, where emissions per kilo of equipment. More focus on how to reduce overall water 10 by targeted actions in production and logistics, and milk (scope 3) should be reduced by 30 % and emissions from transportation, packaging, consumption water is needed going forward. The diagram 5 together with consumers. In Arla’s new environmental sites (scope 1 and 2) should reduce by 30 % in absolute terms. includes all Arla facilities at the end of 2019. Previous years’ 0 Diagram12: Climate_impact_p42 strategy, focus areas are Better Climate, Clean Air and data has been updated. 05 10 15 18 19 Water and More Nature. Energy targets include an improved energy efficiency of 3 % per year at site level, and to use Water from wells on site at least 50 % renewable energy by 2020. For water the target is to improve water efficiency External mains water IMPACT ON SOCIETY in production by 3 % annually. Climate impact Million tonnes of CO₂-e The use of energy, water and packaging materials Zero Waste targets include zero waste to landfill from our sites by 2020 and a 50 % Arla’s goal is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from 2.0 in processing risk contributing to climate change, reduction in food waste in production for 2015–2030. We cannot quantify food waste of our operations, transportation and packaging by 25 % by depletion of non-renewable resources and airand products at consumer level but we are addressing it with inspiration and information. For 1.5 2020, compared to the 2005 levels. Since 2005, Arla’s water pollution. Waste related to our business, both packaging, the target is to have 100 % recyclable packaging by 2025. Our packaging must total climate impact has decreased by 25 %, despite Diagram11: Energy_consumption_p42 1.0 at dairy sites and at consumer level, cause multiple be recyclable in core markets where sold. increased production. The largest decrease has been within environmental impacts. operations. 0.5 Diagram8: Waste_p42 IMPACT ON ARLA PROGRESS 0 05 10 15 18 19 For the follow up on the new strategy and Science Based Climate change, water stress and malfunctioning Energy consumption TWh Packaging Targets, please see the ESG table on page 51. Transport ecosystems are threats to our supply chain, mainly to Arla’s goal is to improve energy efficiency in production 3.5 3.0 Operations our farmer owners and other farmers providing our by 3 % annually. During 2019, our energy efficiency agricultural raw materials. In addition, our processing increased with 2 %. The results indicate that more 2.5 2.0 Waste Tonnes sites depend on access to clean and abundant water focus is needed on improving energy efficiency going 1.5 Arla’s goal is zero waste to landfill by 2020. The development 30,000 resources, energy and other raw materials such as forward. The share of renewable energy has increased 1.0 of total waste from 2005–2019 is directly connected to the packaging materials. Rising costs and/or declining continuously and reached 33 % in 2019, due to large 20,000 0.5 increase in number of sites. The proportion of waste that is availability are business risks going forward. Not biogas investments in Denmark. Despite the positive 0 recycled and incinerated is increasing and waste to landfill 10,000 addressing environmental and climate challenges pose development, Arla no longer expects to achieve the 05 10 15 18 19 has decreased by more than 77 % since 2005. The remaining reputational risks as well. goal of 50 % renewable energy by 2020 due to capacity Oil 0 volumes are mainly in non-European countries where landfill is increase and expansion in the international segment, Gas 05 10 15 18 19 still common (4,383 tonnes waste to landfill in 2005 and 988 where renewable energy sources are less accessible. Electricity Hazardous in 2019). The diagram includes all Arla facilities at the end of Bioenergy Landﬁll 2019. Previous years’ data has been updated. District heating Incineration Recycling 42 ARLA FOODS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Introduction Our sustainability strategy Stronger planet Stronger people About Arla Ambitions & progress data energy & climate PROGRESS CONTINUED IMPACT ON SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS AND TARGETS RENEWABLE ENERGY Total, % 33 6.3.1 Proportion of wastewater safely treated FOOD WASTE 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 6.4.1 Change in water-use efficiency over time Proportion of purchased materials, % 1.73 1.90 1.97 1.52 2.36 The food waste proportion of purchased food raw materials has reduced since 2015. Sent to anaerobic digestion/biogas production, tonnes 273,651 7.2 By 2030, increase substantially the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix Animal feed and reprocessing, tonnes 106,580 7.3 By 2030, double the global rate of improvement in energy efficiency Donations to charity, tonnes 1,640 12.2 By 2030, achieve the sustainable management and efficient use of natural resources 12.3 By 2030, halve per capita global food waste at the retail and consumer levels and reduce food losses along production and supply chains, including post-harvest losses 12.5 By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse 13 Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts 13.1 Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-related hazards and natural disasters in all countries 43 ARLA FOODS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Introduction Our sustainability strategy Stronger planet Stronger people About Arla Ambitions & progress data food safety POLICY/AMBITION PROGRESS IMPACT ON SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS AND TARGETS As a global food company, food safety is key to Arla. It is PRODUCT RECALLS 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 identified as our most material aspect by internal as well Recalls 4 2 10 7 6 as external stakeholders. We are committed to never compromise the safety, quality or compliance of food and 2.1 By 2030, end hunger and ensure access by all people, in particular the poor and people in feed. This commitment requires everybody to understand Despite our strict quality and food safety routines, we have recalled products on four vulnerable situations, including infants, to safe, nutritious and sufficient food all year round their responsibility and importance in delivering safe and occasions during the year, as the products did not meet required standards. good products to our customers and consumers. Even though the number of product recalls was higher in 2019 than in 2018, we have kept IMPACT ON SOCIETY a relatively low level of product recalls compared to the years before. Besides following the number of product recalls, we also monitor a number of other factors including other Unsafe foods pose serious risks to consumers’ health. Diagram10: Antibiotics_p44 product incidents than recalls; these show a very good trend verifying our continuous efforts Food safety is therefore important for the general health, to improve quality and safety and prevent failures. Decisions on whether to recall a product daily life, economic development, and social stability in a from the market will always be taken based on consumer safety and fulfillment of product society. Arla’s role is to ensure that our products are safe quality expectations. for consumers to eat and drink, and that the content of the product is clearly labelled on the packaging. Sourcing raw milk quality Discarded milk, tonnes Implementation The diagram shows the volume of discarded milk at our 6,000 of new method IMPACT ON ARLA dairies in our owner countries. 5,000 4,000 Food safety incidents can pose a serious business risk. Cows maybe treated with antibiotics when they are ill. 3,000 Incidents can impact customer and consumer trust We have procedures to prevent milk from treated cows 2,000 negatively and may also involve legal risks and severely reaching the consumer. This milk is discarded at the farm 1,000 damage Arla’s reputation. Food safety problems can also during the treatment period and for a period afterwards. 0 lead to reduced production efficiency, increasing food 15 16 17 18 19 waste along the value chain. As an extra precaution, all milk is tested before it is Central Europe unloaded at the dairy. If it contains antibiotic residues it UK is discarded. Sweden TARGETS Denmark No discard of milk caused by antibiotic-residue. We have during 2019 improved the sensitivity of the No unsafe products sent to market – no recalls. quality control testing on delivery at dairies. With this new method we are able to detect even lower levels of antibiotics, which is reflected in the statistics. The improved testing gives us better possibilities for driving continued improvements at farm level. 44 ARLA FOODS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Introduction Our sustainability strategy Stronger planet Stronger people About Arla Ambitions & progress data nutrition POLICY/AMBITION TARGETS IMPACT ON SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS AND TARGETS Access to adequate, affordable and healthy food is a Arla® Nutrition Criteria: 95 % of Arla® branded products fulfill the criteria in 2020. basic human right, and we want to provide high quality products that match consumers’ nutritional needs around Affordability: In 2020 increase market penetration by 2 %, reaching 71.4 million lower income the world. Our Arla® Nutrition Criteria are the guiding consumers in Nigeria and Bangladesh (defined as segment D and below, based on national SEC 2.2 By 2030, end all forms of malnutrition, including achieving, by 2025, the internationally principles that support the development of healthier segmentation). Market penetration rate based on Kantar Worldpanel and population data from agreed targets on stunting and wasting in children under 5 years of age, and address Arla® branded products. The nutrition criteria secure the World Bank. the nutritional needs of adolescent girls, pregnant and lactating women and older persons content of beneficial dairy protein and calcium, while limiting the amount of added sugar, salt and fat. PROGRESS Arla® Nutrition Criteria: Currently 90 % Arla® branded products fulfill the criteria. This is a IMPACT ON SOCIETY decline in 1 % since 2018, as the consumption of liquid milk has decreased. 3.4 2030, reduce by one third premature mortality from non-communicable diseases One of the most important factors for a healthy life is our through prevention and treatment and promote mental health and well-being diet. Physical as well as cognitive health through all stages Affordability: Currently we reach 70 million lower income consumers in Nigeria and Bangladesh, in life depend on quality nutrition. By offering a wide range based on data from Kantar Worldpanel and population data from World Bank. of nutritious products for different needs, Arla contributes to healthy eating patterns as well as addressing different aspects of malnutrition, and thereby supporting more prosperous societies. IMPACT ON ARLA Contributing positively to healthy and sustainable diets is important to build Arla’s reputation and responsible growth, and key to fulfill stakeholder expectations on Arla. 45 ARLA FOODS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Introduction Our sustainability strategy Stronger planet Stronger people About Arla Ambitions & progress data Health & safety Diagram13: Accidents_at_work_p46 POLICY/AMBITION PROGRESS IMPACT ON SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS AND TARGETS Our colleagues are key to the success of our business. Our The diagram shows number of work accidents involving Working accidents overall ambition is to provide all colleagues with safe and more than one day’s absence per million working hours. 30 healthy working conditions. We are committed to preventing 25 accidents, injuries and work-related illnesses. We apply a Our Senegal site is not yet fully integrated in our reporting. 20 8.8 Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working environments for systematic approach to setting targets, tracking progress and all workers, including migrant workers, in particular women migrants, and those in 15 work in close dialogue with colleagues to mitigate problems and precarious employment 10 reduce risks. 5 0 IMPACT ON SOCIETY 05 10 15 18 19 We have a complex and long value chain and offer a large variety of jobs across geographies and societies. One part of our license to operate is our ability to ensure safe and healthy working conditions. IMPACT ON ARLA Not safeguarding the health and safety of our colleagues poses a business risk to Arla in terms of loss of efficiency, profitability and the opportunity to attract competent colleagues. Further, the ultimate risk related to safety is serious injuries and fatalities, which pose business risks such as legal action, reputational damage and loss of license to operate. TARGETS Our target is zero work accidents. 46 ARLA FOODS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Introduction Our sustainability strategy Stronger planet Stronger people About Arla Ambitions & progress data decent work POLICY/AMBITION PROGRESS IMPACT ON SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS AND TARGETS Diversity is key to the success of the business. Arla’s policies do not Diversity statistics for teams are calculated monthly and communicated to the differentiate between men and women when it comes to promotion business. opportunities or remuneration. We want to ensure a workplace with a diverse workforce, characterised by mutual respect and trust, promoting 5.1 End all forms of discrimination against all women and girls everywhere GENDER BALANCE, FEMALE % 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 equal opportunities allowing colleagues to live up to their full potential. Our policies on Human Rights, Diversity and Anti-harassment governs Directors and above 26 23 22 22 21 5.5.2 Proportion of women in managerial positions how related issues are handled in a structured manner. Further, our Works Vice president and above 18 14 12 16 16 Councils, at both a local and global level, help secure workplace decisions are made in the best interests of both colleagues and company. There are significantly fewer women than men among our top managers. Only 18 % of vice presidents and senior vice presidents are female, which is far from IMPACT ON SOCIETY the 27 % among all colleagues. For information about diversity at Board level, see 8.5 By 2030, achieve full and productive employment and decent work for all women and Arla’s Annual Report. men, including for young people and persons with disabilities, and equal pay for work of We recognise our responsibility to respect basic human rights in the equal value workplace and across markets, to contribute to sustainable societal In general women are underrepresented in the blue collar workforce of Arla, and development. We want to ensure that both current and future colleagues to a lesser extent in the white collar workforce as well. 8.7 Take immediate and effective measures to eradicate forced labour, end modern slavery are treated in a fair non-discriminatory manner, which will in turn support and human trafficking and secure the prohibition and elimination of the worst forms of child prosperous societies. labour, including recruitment and use of child soldiers, and by 2025 end child labour in all its forms IMPACT ON ARLA We respect basic human rights in the workplace by ensuring an open inclusive dialogue, taking the perspectives and innovative approaches of people with diverse backgrounds into account. This approach mitigates 17.9 Enhance international support for implementing effective and targeted capacitysignificant business risks to Arla, as well as the risk of legal actions and building in developing countries to support national plans to implement all the sustainable reputational damage. development goals, including through North-South, South-South and triangular cooperation TARGETS Zero discrimination, harassment including sexual harassment and bullying. The ambition is that no team should consists of more than 70 % of the same gender, age group or nationality. 47 ARLA FOODS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Introduction Our sustainability strategy Stronger planet Stronger people About Arla Ambitions & progress data Responsible sourcing POLICY/AMBITION PROGRESS IMPACT ON SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS AND TARGETS Our ambition is for our preferred suppliers to follow our code RESPONSIBLE SOURCING of conduct for suppliers, which governs environmental, Preferred suppliers 1,465 social and human rights aspects. Furthermore, to support a more sustainable production of raw materials with particular Preferred suppliers have signed our code of conduct for 2.3 By 2030, double the agricultural 8.7 Take immediate and effective 13 Take urgent action to combat challenges, we have sourcing policies for soy, palm oil and suppliers 93 % productivity and incomes of smallmeasures to eradicate forced labour, climate change and its impacts cocoa. Supplier audits with a focus on CSR and food safety have scale food producers, in particular end modern slavery and human been performed. This is a 21 % increase compared to women, indigenous peoples, family trafficking and secure the prohibition 13.1 Strengthen resilience and IMPACT ON SOCIETY 2018, due to an increased number of tenders and new farmers, pastoralists and fishers, and elimination of the worst forms of adaptive capacity to climate-related suppliers. 51 including through secure and equal child labour, including recruitment hazards and natural disasters in all Sourcing of both goods and services is identified as having access to land, other productive and use of child soldiers, and by 2025 countries important environmental, socio-economic and human rights’ Share of certified soy 100 % resources and inputs, knowledge, end child labour in all its forms impacts on societies. We acknowledge our opportunity to Share of certified palm oil* 98.5 % financial services, markets and influence suppliers, and thereby also societies, through our opportunities for value addition and 8.8 Protect labour rights and Share of certified Diagram9: cocoa Global_contracts_p48 100 % demands on sustainable and responsible business practices. non-farm employment promote safe and secure working External spend managed by the procurement department 83 % environments for all workers, 15.1 By 2020, ensure the 2.4 By 2030, ensure sustainable food including migrant workers, in conservation, restoration and IMPACT ON ARLA *1 .5 per cent of the palm oil use was covered by RSPO-credits due to lack of production systems and implement particular women migrants, and sustainable use of terrestrial and availability for segregated certified products in some markets. A well-functioning supply chain, with sustainable and resilient agricultural practices that those in precarious employment inland freshwater ecosystems and responsible business practices, is key to our production, increase productivity and production, their services, in particular forests, profitability and reputation. that help maintain ecosystems, that wetlands, mountains and drylands, Packaging 25 % strengthen capacity for adaptation in line with obligations under Ingredients 23 % TARGETS Logistics 21 % to climate change, extreme weather, international agreements Business services 19 % drought, flooding and other disasters 12.2 By 2030, achieve the All preferred suppliers to sign our code of conduct for Energy 8 % and that progressively improve land sustainable management and 15.2 By 2020, promote the suppliers. Maintenance, repair, operations 4 % and soil quality efficient use of natural resources implementation of sustainable management of all types of forests, 100 % responsible sourcing of palm oil, soy and cocoa, defined 12.4 By 2020, achieve the halt deforestation, restore degraded as certified products according to internationally recognised environmentally sound management forests and substantially increase third party certification systems. Palm oil ingredients must External spend of chemicals and all wastes afforestation and reforestation be certified according to the standard of Round Table of The diagram shows the external spend handled by Arla’s procurement 6.3.1 Proportion of wastewater throughout their life cycle, in globally Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO), segregated certified. Soy in department, divided across product and service categories. Our 10 largest safely treated accordance with agreed international animal feed must be certified according to the standards suppliers account for 17 % (18 % in 2018) of our total external spend. frameworks, and significantly reduce organic, ProTerra or Round Table for Responsible Soy (RTRS) 6.4.1 Change in water-use efficiency their release to air, water and soil or covered with RTRS credits. Cocoa must be UTZ-certified for In 2019, the following companies were our five largest suppliers in over time in order to minimize their adverse Arla® branded products and Cocio. order of size of spend: Tetra Pak (packaging materials and machinery), impacts on human health and the Elopak (packaging materials and machinery), Ørsted (energy), Superfos environment (packaging materials and machinery) and Dentsu Aegis Network (media). 48 ARLA FOODS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Introduction Our sustainability strategy Stronger planet Stronger people About Arla Ambitions & progress data legal compliance POLICY/AMBITION PROGRESS Arla is committed to complying with applicable legislation and regulation DATA PRIVACY in all the countries in which we operate. We develop our policies to Number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in fines 0 capture relevant legislation and provide training for employees in policies and processes relevant for their job function, and we track and act upon Number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in non-monetary sanctions 0 non-compliance. COMPETITION LAW TRAINING IMPACT ON SOCIETY Number of colleagues trained face-to-face 698 In order to contribute to a sustainable societal development, it is important that Arla complies with laws and regulations in general. SUBSTANTIATED COMPLAINTS CONCERNING BREACHES OF CUSTOMER PRIVACY 0 IMPACT ON ARLA There are multiple business and reputational risks associated with NUMBER OF INCIDENTS OF NON-COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS AND/OR VOLUNTARY CODES RESULTING IN FINES non-compliance to laws and regulations in general. Incidents regarding product information and labelling 0 TARGETS Decisions regarding marketing 0 No fines or sanctions – to comply with legislation and regulation. SIGNIFICANT FINES AND NON-MONETARY SANCTIONS FOR NON-COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND/OR REGULATIONS PROGRESS IN THE SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC AREA 0 GDPR In order to ensure continued GDPR compliance, we have initiated activities SIGNIFICANT FINES AND NON-MONETARY SANCTIONS FOR NON-COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND/OR REGULATIONS to further expand our internal compliance program, including updating IN THE ENVIRONMENTAL AREA 0 of privacy policies and guidelines; conducted mandatory GDPR training for new employees as well as additional training activities for relevant employees; taken additional steps to ensure that relevant data protection agreements are concluded when engaging new suppliers and business partners; implemented a stronger process for managing rights of data subjects and data breaches. 49 ARLA FOODS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Introduction Our sustainability strategy Stronger planet Stronger people About Arla Ambitions & progress data anti-corruption & bribery POLICY/AMBITION PROGRESS IMPACT ON SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS AND TARGETS Conducting our business in an honest and ethical manner is key to Strengthened processes maintaining our license to operate, our reputation and responsible growth. We continuously strengthen our internal controls and policy Arla’s Anti-bribery policy sets out our zero-tolerance approach to bribery monitoring activities, to ensure compliance to our Code of Conduct and corruption and our commitment to upholding all relevant laws in all and policies. 16.5 Substantially reduce corruption and bribery in all their forms jurisdictions in which we operate. Gifts and hospitality to and from third parties are controlled by rules and must be registered. Payments fulfill the 4-eye principle, meaning the approval of two people. Currently we are looking into further strengthening this IMPACT ON SOCIETY process to manage risks. Bribery and corruption present risks to societies by undermining trust in Reporting on Whistleblowing function public institutions and the mishandling of resources. Where funds and Since its inception in 2012, Arla has received 121 reports from priorities are diverted to activities that will benefit corrupt individuals, fair its whistleblowing function. In 2019, the whistleblowing function competition is undermined. With our global presence, and long and diverse received 25 reports of which 13 led to further investigation. value chain, we impact societies across the world, and have an opportunity Depending on the outcome of the investigation, appropriate to contribute to positive societal development by honest and ethical measures have been taken. business conduct. During 2019 the reports have delivered additional input to the IMPACT ON ARLA improvement of internal processes, and as an example the purchase to pay process is one of the areas where we will continue to Any kind of involvement in bribery or corruption would present risks strengthen compliance training. of heavy legal fines and loss of business opportunities. A finding of involvement in bribery would be damaging to our reputation and impacts 9 reports could not be handled in the whistleblower system due to the business environment. legal reasons. The reporter was informed about alternative reporting channels. TARGETS 3 reports were tests made during external audits to check that we Zero corruption and bribery, zero facilitation payments. have a system in place. 50 ARLA FOODS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Introduction Our sustainability strategy Stronger planet Stronger people About Arla Ambitions & progress data Consolidated environmental, social and governance data 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 GRI ESG figures in the following section were chosen according ENVIRONMENTAL to their materiality, and following the most recent reporting CO2e scope 1 Mio. kg 470 497 498 483 535 305-1 guidelines published by the Danish Finance Society/CFA Society Denmark, FSR – Danish Auditors, and Nasdaq. With the CO2e scope 2 Mio. kg 275 263 313 334 342 305-2 chosen figures Arla aimed at providing a complete picture of CO2e scope 3 Mio. kg 17,758 18,073 18,217 18,292 19,802 305-3 the company’s impact on the environment, how employees are Total CO2e Mio. kg 18,503 18,834 19,028 19,110 20,679 treated and how the quality of products is safeguarded. Maturity and quality of data was also taken into consideration when selecting the figures presented in this section. We are further Progress towards 2030 CO₂e reduction –15 % –13 % –8 % –7 % inspired by the GRI indicators. target (scope 1 and scope 2) Progress towards 2030 CO₂e reduction Arla’s biggest environmental impact relates to the indirect, –7 % –7 % –6 % –6 % target (scope 3 per kg milk and whey) scope 3 CO2e emissions, more precisely to milk production on Renewable energy share % 33 % 27 % 24 % 21 % 19 % 302-1 farm (around 86 % of total CO2e emissions). From 2020 Arla is going to enhance scope 3 reporting by accelerating data Solid waste in production Tonnes 33,713 34,600 32,608 32,192 33,106 306-2 collection on farms through the company’s new global Climate Check programme. For more information go to page 13. SOCIAL In 2019 Arla’s emissions targets were officially approved by the Full time equivalents average 19,174 19,190 18,973 18,765 19,025 102-7 Science Based Target initiative as aligned with climate science. Gender diversity for all employees % of females 27 % 27 % 26 % 26 % 27 % 405-1 Our science-based targets: Gender diversity in management % of females 26 % 23 % 22 % 22 % 21 % 405-1 ■■ Reduce greenhouse gas emissions with 30 % for scope 1 Gender diversity in top management % of females 29 % 29 % 29 % 29 % 13 % 405-1 and scope 2 in absolute terms from 2015 to 2030 Gender pay ratio, white collar male to female 1.05 1.06 405-2 ■■ Reduce greenhouse gas emissions with 30 % for scope 3 Employee turnover % 12 % 12 % 11 % 14 % 401-1 per kg of raw milk from 2015 to 2030 Food safety Number of recalls 4 2 10 6 7 Beyond the science-based targets, in 2019 Arla also announced Accident frequency Per 1 Mio. working hours 6 8 10 11 14 403-2 the ambition to produce carbon net zero dairy by 2050. The methodology used for calculating emissions on farm level is GOVERNANCE DATA constantly evolving. For example, currently carbon sequestration Gender diversity Board of Directors* % of females 13 % 13 % 12 % 7% 7% 405-1 on farms is not included in the method and thus the figure Board meeting attendance % 96 % 99 % 99 % 98 % 97 % presented here is a conservative estimate. Developments in methodology will also be reflected in restatements of baseline. This ESG table relates to Science Based Targets, for follow up on Arla’s 2020 Environmental strategy, please see page 42. For further information about Arla’s accounting principles and * Including all board members, those elected by the general assembly, employee representatives relevant notes, please read Arla’s Annual Report. and external advisors, the share of females was 20 % as of 31 December 2019. 51 ARLA FOODS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Introduction Our sustainability strategy Stronger planet Stronger people About Arla Ambitions & progress data un global compact In early 2008, Arla signed up to the Global Compact, the UN initiative to promote ethical business practices. As a participant, we are committed to observing the Global Compact’s 10 fundamental principles. Since 2008, Arla has been a member of the HUMAN RIGHTS 1. support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Global Compact’s Nordic Network. In May 2009, 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Arla signed up to Caring for Climate, a voluntary and complementary action platform seeking to LABOUR demonstrate leadership around the issue of climate 3. uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; change. In 2010, Arla’s CEO signed a CEO Statement 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; of Support for the Women’s Empowerment 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and Principles, an initiative from the Global Compact and 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and o ­ ccupation. UNIFEM (the UN Development Fund for Women). ENVIRONMENT Read more about the Global Compact and its 7. support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and principles at www.unglobalcompact.org, and more 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. about Arla’s Code of Conduct at arla.com. ANTI-CORRUPTION 10. work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 52 ARLA FOODS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Introduction Our sustainability strategy Stronger planet Stronger people About Arla Ambitions & progress data materiality analysis Through our materiality analysis, first performed in 2014 and updated in 2017, we aim to identify material aspects in the views of our main stakeholders, and use this knowledge to better prioritise our activities. External stakeholders including consumers, Higher customers, owners, non-profit organisations and financial institutions in Denmark, Sweden, the UK and Germany/Central Europe have taken part in the analysis. All stakeholder groups have received Food safety 1 Food safety a survey and been asked to prioritise 22 defined Animal care Importance to external stakeholders 2 Animal care areas of interest. Moreover, a group of non-profit Natural 3products (including Natural products organic)organic) (including Product4innovation Product innovation organisations were interviewed to get a deeper Healthy and affordable food understanding of their views and opinions. Responsible sourcing 6 Responsible sourcing 1 Food safety Transparent and accountable 7 Transparent andcare 2 Animal business accountable business 3 Natural products (including organic) Supply chain efficiency In addition to prioritising our activities, we also use Greenhouse 4 Product innovation gas emissions 9 Greenhouse gas emissions the results to help us improve the scope and focus Recycling10and waste Recycling 6 Responsible sourcing & waste 7 Transparent and accountable business Working11 conditions Working conditions of our reporting and communication processes. Employee © Arla Foods amba, 2020 12 training Employee 9and development Greenhouse training gas emissions and development Furthermore, the study serves as a basis when Product13 information Product 11 10 Recycling & waste supp. informed information supp. informed Working conditions choiceschoices relating to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Water availability and quality 14 Water availability 12 Employee and quality training and development Stakeholder 13 Product information supp. informed choices dialogue dialogue Project coordinator: Arla Foods 15 Stakeholder guidelines. Sharing 16 knowledge 14 Water availability and quality 15on Sharing knowledge healthdialogue and Stakeholder on foodand food health Production management: Anna Michélsen Fair behaviour 16 Sharing knowledge on health and food in foreign markets Text: Arla Foods in collaboration with Anna Michélsen 17 Fair behaviour in foreign markets Biodiversity, keep and 17 Fair behaviour in foreign markets develop Graphic design: Waldton Design, We love people (p. 10, 12) Based on the results from the study in 2017, we 18 Biodiversity, Jobs and19 econ. keep 18 Biodiversity, keepdevelop and and develop Graphic production: Formalix Jobs growth 19 Jobsinandthe econ.countryside growth in the countryside and econ. growth in the countryside have identified food safety, animal care and natural Diversity20and inclusion Diversity 20 Diversity & inclusion &Farmer 21 inclusion development emerging markets Photography: Hans-Henrik Hoeg, Unsplash and Arla’s High products as key areas of focus. These are followed Farmer development emerging 22 Local 21 Farmer development community markets engagement emerging markets archive Local community engagement 22 Local community engagement by product innovation, healthy and affordable food High Importance to internal stakeholders Higher and responsible sourcing. 53 ARLA FOODS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Introduction Our sustainability strategy Stronger planet Stronger people About Arla Ambitions & progress data Arla Foods amba Sønderhøj 14 DK-8260 Viby J Denmark Phone +45 89 38 10 00 E-mail arla@arlafoods.com www.arla.com 54 ARLA FOODS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019
