ANNUAL REPORT 2019 CPFL Energia's headquarters at Campinas (SP) SUMMARY Message from Chairman 4 Society shared value 70 Message from the CEO 6 CPFL nos Hospitais Program 72 Safety first of all 76 Energy of the future 8 Supplier management 78 2019 Highlights 10 Instituto CPFL 81 Raízes Program 87 Business model 12 How we stand out 14 Our enablers 88 Our brands 16 People development 89 Transparency in governance 25 Ethics and transparency 96 Sustainability in strategy 30 Our results 98 Sustainable energy 40 How to use this document Dam safety 43 To learn more 102 Messages Climate change 46 Supplement to GRI Disclosures 106 MENU Environmental management 51 Navigate through the top menu GRI content index 122 for the chapters of your interest Assurance report 129 Smart sollutions 56 ARROWS Navigate page by page using the arrows in the top menu Efficiency and quality 59 Smart grid is the future 63 HOME Focus on the customer 64 Click this icon to return to the summary Innovation and growth 66 PRINT Use this shortcut to print PDF content Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Message from Chairman 2019 Highlights • Generation business – The integration of generation • Social responsibility and sustainability – The Company The year of 2019 was marvelous for CPFL Energia. The segments has been proved effective and began to cultivated corporate culture through high-end exchange Company has fulfilled the follow-on offering in the unleash potential synergy. The conventional generation of cultural and philosophical ideas for employees and local global capital market and became the major player delivered the yearly availability of 97.67% while remaining communities, supported healthy growth for the younger in Brazilian energy sector in terms of market value. leading position in the power sector. Some of our wind generation with diversified programs, kept on helping The integration of generation business, including farms realized in-house operation and maintenance with underprivileged groups and respecting the environment conventional and renewable energy, resulted in huge significant availability improvement. protection, which demonstrated its social responsibility and operational synergy. By accomplishing the 2020-2024 practical capability as a major power utility company in Brazil. Strategic Plan, the future direction and ways for the • Unregulated energy service – CPFL Soluções, a perfection have been indicated. By pursuing clean brand and platform of one-stop energy solution, has In 2019, the Company has honorably won the IASC Award and sustainable development, in 2019, the integrated been materialized including distributed generation, conferred by ANEEL and also the most sustainable company in service quality has been continuously improved in both energy trading, and engineering construction service for the Brazilian energy sector named by Exame Sustainability Guide supply and demand sides of electricity consumption. customers. 2019, as well as the only significant energy company recognized The Company’s business showed dynamics and in Você S/A’s Top 150 Brazilian Employers listing. better performance with gross annual revenue of • Safety management – Safety culture has been extended R$ 45.01 billion and EBITDA of R$ 6.39 billion, increased throughout CPFL Group and safety is the prioritized action Market prospective by 5.6% and 13.4% respectively on a year-on-year basis, for all employees. In 2019, internal working accidents Brazilian economy has been gradually recovering in recent years. and market value reached R$ 42 billion. We believe that decreased by 32% and Disabling Injury Frequency Rate As the biggest nation in South America, its bright prospects of the CPFL Energia has created value for both shareholders decreased by 34% on a year-on-year basis. The Company hit social and economic development are attractive for international and corporate, and strode firm steps towards the the historical record of the safety results which obviously investors. Electricity supply has vital role in propelling economic vision of becoming a leading power company in reinforced employees’ confidence and competence. progress, we firmly believe that CPFL will find more opportunities Brazil and Latin America. in such a historic process of economic recovery. • Corporate governance – The governance structure • Distribution business – Continued investment has been optimized by taking reference of the best It is common knowledge that energy transformation is has been utilized to modernize the electricity grid by practice in the market. The Corporate Governance evolving at fast pace globally. Renewable energy expands attaching importance to innovation and digitalization. Department has been established with the excellent pervasively, Smart grid is updating. Big data, Internet of things The Company proactively implemented Smart Grid professionals joining the team. The relevant corporate (IoT) as well as block-chain technologies have been utilized from pilot projects by exploring better ways to upgrade the regulations have been updated to keep the Company concept to reality. The traditional electricity system and utilities service quality of electricity supply. operating effectively and to ensure the return of our are facing various challenges driven by rapid global energy shareholders to the maximized extent. transformation nowadays. Annual Report 2019 4 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more In an intensely competitive market, the capable workforce CPFL will focus on sustainable development and highly is crucial to success. Based on the market-oriented efficient business operations, listening to viewpoints principle of employment selection, the professional from all walks of life, while continuing to nurture the training and practical skill improvement will be harmony among company, society and environment. strengthened systematically, and the career planning With assurance on safety, high efficiency, clean and for the new recruitment will be encouraged, while the environment-friendly in the full life cycle of construction performance evaluation at all levels will be supportive as and operation of power grid assets, we can provide well. We believe, by forging integrity, professionalism and reliable and sustainable electricity supply with high innovativeness of workforce, the momentum of Company’s quality service for our customers. innovation and advancement will be enormous. Taking Instituto CPFL as the platform, the Company will Furthermore, these strategic thinking, including keeping proactively fulfill its social responsibility by contributing abreast of the trend of the times, establishing strategic to social well-being of the communities. Based on insight, optimizing the strategy portfolio, consolidating normalizing and branding strategy, the Company will core business advantages, exploring better progress paths, seek to build up brand-oriented programs, which can relying on technology and management innovation to create a lasting and extensive value for the society, serve strengthen core competence, nourishing service-oriented for economic development and civilian life, as well as and innovative business ecosystem, are the key elements to promote the corporate value comprehensively. determine the future of CPFL group. Last but not least, on behalf of Board of Directors of CPFL Energia, The strategy of State Grid Corporation of China (SGCC) I would like to extend my heartfelt thanks to the management Way forward in 2020 international business adheres to long-term sustainable, team and all employees who have been contributing their Opportunities and challenges coexist in 2020, CPFL market-oriented and localization collectively, which utmost effort in transforming the Company. And I sincerely commits to realizing both corporate and shareholder has borne fruit abundantly and accumulated expertise acknowledge the people from communities who have supported value as a goal. Following the strategic plan, corporate richly. In recent years, the in-depth communication and enlightened us in moving forward business. I believe, with governance improvement, core competence enhancement between SGCC and CPFL has expanded knowledge steadfast endeavor of us, CPFL group will definitely embrace and corporate cultural inclusion can be further fostered. and experience sharing of both sides, boosted mutual much progress, better results and promising future in 2020. The Company will continuously improve the quality and understanding and trust, and improved management efficiency of business development to consolidate and efficiency of the Company. There is no doubt that SGCC Wen Bo promote the brand image and its influence in the Brazilian will continue to support the high-quality development of Chairman of Board Directors power industry. CPFL Group. of CPFL Energia S.A. Annual Report 2019 5 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Message from the CEO CPFL Energia is committed to generating value for its we are now ready to leverage our growth capacity seeks to install photovoltaic panels for self-generation and stakeholders and to the objective of supporting the through the acquisition of greenfield projects in this other combined solutions in order to reduce energy costs resumption of the country’s economic growth, taking the segment, ensuring our commitment to decarbonizing and provide these institutions with greater capacity to lead in discussions about improving the power sector and the energy matrix. allocate resources to improve service conditions in favor of encouraging sustainable development. the public health and the well-being of the population. Through CPFL Soluções we expanded our supply of In 2019 we carried out a public offering of shares of the products and services so that our clients can obtain even At the same time, Instituto CPFL intensified holding company on the São Paulo stock exchange and more advantages in the energy free market, meeting their its efforts in social, cultural and sports projects that increased the amount of capital on the market to 16.23%, power demands in a sustainable way and with greater transform the communities in which we operate, directly maintaining a listing on the Novo Mercado segment, freedom of choice. We provide support for strategies impacting more than 320,000 people in 121 cities across which strengthens our commitment to adopting best around trading, distributed generation, improving 9 states through programs such as CineSolar, Carreta practices in corporate governance when interacting with efficiency, infrastructure services, and various other Literária, a partnership with Orcampi to train athletes, all our shareholders. solutions to take advantage of opportunities that have among many other projects. In addition, Café Filosófico arisen as a result of the energy sector’s development. CPFL, which provides reflections on relevant topics to In the distribution segment we invested R$ 2.0 billion in society, was watched by about 830,000 viewers through 2019 to update and expand our networks, implementing As part of our efforts to better align our actions its live broadcasts and another 12 million viewers through new technologies, digitalizing several processes, with society’s major demands and our shareholders’ TV Cultura. The project also reached 7.5 million views incorporating analytics and big data systems, and further long-term vision, we approved our 2020-2024 Sustainability on its YouTube channel, and hosted 5,300 people at its developing telemetry. On this last front, we moved forward Plan, which provides guidelines and commitments for our recording studios. with our pilot project to install smart meters at 100% of our businesses to grow and generate value for all stakeholders. customers in the municipality of Jaguariúna, São Paulo. All The Plan brings together, in a comprehensive and We also upheld our commitment to our non-negotiable of this with the aim of creating smarter cities and further objective way, the vision proposed by the UN’s Sustainable value: the safety of our employees and of the population. improving our service quality indicators. Development Goals (SDG) and Global Compact principles The Guardião da Vida program, a permanent campaign with the main trends in our market. to disseminate and reinforce the safety culture, focuses Another important milestone was the expansion of our on actions that raise awareness, prevent accidents and generation portfolio, which grew to 4.3 GW with the One of the main actions proposed under this Plan is the reduce the risks associated with electric energy. We see integration of CPFL Renováveis – turning us into leaders CPFL in Hospitals Program, an innovative project targeting this as a continuous investment and we cannot accept any in renewable energy in Brazil, with a significant portion public and philanthropic health institutions. With planned deviations from the protocols and procedures we currently coming from wind power. With the know-how we acquired investment of R$ 150 million through 2022, the program have in place, and which we are always improving. GRI 102-14 Annual Report 2019 6 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more CPFL Energia is commited to generating Supported by a management model that is responsive to all the value for all stakeholders, acting as economic, social and environmental aspects that impact every one of our a protagonist to support the power businesses, we have achieved significant results. In 2019, the company's EBITDA reached R$ 6.4 billion, expanding 13.4% from the previous year. We sector improvement and foster Brazil's achieved record net profit of R$ 2.7 billion. sustainable development All of these results are only possible thanks to the commitment and discipline of our more than 13,000 employees. In the past year, more than R$ 18 million was invested in programs focused on the evolution of key competencies, with emphasis on the Innovation Culture, which encourages the development of new leadership and people-management skills, new processes, and the creation of opportunities. Our outlook is that Brazil will resume a healthy pace of economic growth and productive activity starting in 2020. The strengthening of the energy sector is fundamental to supporting this development, and all of us at CPFL Energia are ready for this moment. In light of this scenario, our plan is to invest approximately R$ 13.5 billion through 2024 to continue offering services with more technology, efficiency and quality. With the support and trust of State Grid our majority shareholder our investors, and capital market agents, the company will continue to fulfill its role of building an increasingly renewable power matrix and guaranteeing that society has access to energy in ways that are innovative, reliable and secure. Thank you to all of you, Gustavo Estrella CEO of CPFL Energia GRI 102-14 Annual Report 2019 7 CPFL Energia 1. ENERGY OF THE FUTURE Campinas (SP) aerial view Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Energy of the future Foz do Rio Choró Wind Farm (CE) The Brazilian power sector is undergoing transformations that will increasingly give the customer an unprecedented role in this business ecosystem. The greater demand for energy generated from renewable sources, the incorporation of new distribution technologies, and new models for self-production of energy are some of the factors that are leading to the redesign of our business model, increasingly focused on customers, on digitalization of processes and services, and on operational efficiency. The revision of regulations underway in Brazil’s Congress, with bills currently being discussed in the Senate and in the Chamber of Deputies, should boost the expansion of the energy free market. An increasing number of consumers will gain access to opportunities to choose their supplier and sources of energy. In the distribution segment, investments in automation and artificial intelligence make possible a more efficient operation model and ensure better service-quality indexes for customers. With the consolidation of the Internet of Things, connecting electrical-network equipment to reliable digital operating environments, the country can make greater progress towards the implementation of smart grids, with remotely accessible meters and several other possibilities that give customers more control over their consumption. These trends herald a sector that is undergoing a profound and unprecedented transformation, which requires that power companies be able to generate value in Transformations in the electricity sector a decentralized, decarbonized, digitalized, and increasingly democratized model. For us at CPFL Energia, these changes are already part of our operating strategy and guide all our businesses towards this new sector landscape. further empower customers and encourage the generation of energy from renewable sources GRI 102-1 Annual Report 2019 9 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more 2019 Highlights TRANSMISSION GENERATION Initiated implementation Integration of three new of CPFL Renováveis developments • Maracanaú II Substation (Ceará) 13.1 terawatt-hours (TWh) • CPFL Transmissão Sul I of generated energy (Santa Catarina) R$ 29.9 billion • CPFL Transmissão Sul II 98.3% in net operating revenue (Santa Catarina and of total power generated from Rio Grande do Sul) renewable sources R$ 6.4 billion in EBITDA R$ 2.7 billion DISTRIBUTION SOLUTIONS in net profit 68.1 TWh Delivery of projects for customers of distributed energy in various segments, such as data R$ 2.3 billion 1.8% centers, paper and pulp, automotive, invested increase in customer base wind generation, and others 329,400 kilometer Construction network of Americana Solar Plant, with 3,320 generation units GRI 102-7 Annual Report 2019 10 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more SUSTAINABLE ENERGY Close to 9,000 transformers updated by Equipment Refurbisher Dam safety Execution of first safety drill with population of Americana and Limeira (São Paulo) SMART SOLUTIONS SOCITEY SHARED VALUE 20,300 smart meters Launch of CPFL nos Hospitais Program, already installed in Jaguariúna (São Paulo) with forecast of R$ 150 million in investments 80% of services executed through digital channels 34% reduction in accident rate Second edition of CPFL Inova, with R$ 39.4 million invested by Instituto CPFL 12 scale-ups selected for acceleration GRI 102-7 Annual Report 2019 11 CPFL Energia BUSINESS 2. MODEL CPFL Energia employees Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Business model Our company, with more than 100 years of experience, has a history of leadership in the Brazilian power sector, contributing to MISSION VISION the country's economic progress and to the comfort and safety of millions of citizens. Our business model is vertical and diversified, covering all energy segments: generation, transmission, distribution, and services and solutions for customers. • We provide sustainable, accessible and reliable • We pursue to be the leading energy to all walks of life, and enhance power utility in South America that We rank among the 20 largest companies in Brazil in terms a safer, healthier and prosperous life of people supplies reliable electric energy and of net revenue. Our ability to generate value is based on the in regions where we operate. credible services. knowledge, experience, and competence of our employees. That • We propel our business growth in a more • We pledge to forge the prolonged is why we are recognized in the market for our ability to develop strategic and competitive way, keep its dynamics strength in developing business and and implement innovative and sustainable solutions, always and vitality, and create a more standardized, innovation as well as culture. in line with the concerns of customers, investors, government diversified and international corporate culture, authorities, and society. while nurturing its legacy. Our ability to execute and manage energy assets was further • We protect the level playing field for each employee’s strengthened by State Grid Corporation of China’s (SGCC) arrival growth and attract all talents to join CPFL. in Brazil. The Chinese group, the world’s largest electric energy company, is our majority shareholder and is the driver behind the integration of the most advanced technologies in the electric sector, which boosts the operational efficiency of all businesses. VALUES • For us, safety is a nonnegotiable commitment • Our strength comes from collaboration among people • We innovate to deliver the best solutions to our customers • We strive to evolve always in the pursuit of excellence • We are ethical and responsible in all we do to deliver sustainable results GRI 102-16 Annual Report 2019 13 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more How we stand out Sustainable brand Technology Digitalization Sustainability is a central element for our business In line with our strategic objectives, we invest In our quest for greater efficiency in our model and, therefore, it is part of our corporate strategy in technological innovation along the entire operations and to improve the quality of and incorporated into our decision-making process. electricity chain. In generation, we support our relationship with customers, we have In 2019, we developed our Sustainability Plan, which research and development projects that promote implemented digitalization solutions, analytics systematizes actions and objectives for the next five the use of new technologies in dam-safety systems, and big data to reduce operating costs years under the scope of sustainability management. inspection and, in distribution, we implement and improve customers’ service experience. Thus, we consolidated the work we have carried out energy-efficiency and smart-grid initiatives. Improvements to digital channels and service since 2014 with the creation of the Sustainability The pilot project to install smart meters in tools, such as our website and smartphone app, Platform, which monitors the company's performance Jaguariúna (São Paulo) stands out in this regard, help expand accessibility to our services and through indicators and strategic themes and reinforces as it contributes to the Brazilian electric sector’s improve the customer experience. our alignment with the United Nations’ Sustainable modernization and places us at the forefront of Development Goals (SDGs) and its 2030 Agenda. technological development in the sector. Knowledge Knowledge management is an essential intangible Safety We have a genuine commitment to promoting the Innovation asset for our company’s evolution. That is why We have intensified our efforts to map out we are working on two fronts to produce and safety of our employees, customers, third parties, and innovative initiatives that offer new avenues share knowledge and information. CPFL University the general population. We want to be sure operations for the electricity market. CPFL Inova’s provides specialized training and skills-building do not put people's physical integrity, health, and startup-acceleration platform carried out its to our employees, in addition to qualified training lives at risk. For this reason, we continuously invest second edition in 2019, with the participation programs for the populations in our concession to improve safety conditions, with technical and of 12 companies that received support and areas (such as Electrician Schools). The Instituto administrative processes focused on reducing possible guidance to develop solutions for topics such as CPFL, meanwhile, which manages the company's risks and zeroing internal and external occurrences artificial intelligence, smart grids, and the internet social investments, supports social-transformation related to our activities. In addition, through different of things, among others. initiatives and promotes activities that disseminate communication channels we carry out awareness far-reaching areas of knowledge, such as the Café campaigns such as the Guardião da Vida (“Guardian of Filosófico CPFL. Life”) program – that alerts the general population about risks related to the power grid. Annual Report 2019 14 CPFL Energia AWARDS CPFL Energia was named the best company in the power sector in Exame The awards we receive are a public recognition of magazine’s Sustainability the quality of our services and the sustainability Guide, with special mention that we practice in all our businesses. Sharing these of our community relations programs. achievements with all employees and celebrating another year of great victories is part of our culture. CPFL Energia and CPFL Renováveis were recognized by the 2019 SDG Global Compact Award and received special mention at the “2019 SDG in Brazil” event held at UN headquarters in New York (USA). CPFL Energia’s Living Lab project was the winner in the Planet group. The Raízes Program's Water Security Project was recognized with the Water and Sanitation Award from the Global Compact Network Brazil for its contribution to Sustainable Development Goal 6. CPFL Energia was selected CPFL Energia was CPFL Santa Cruz to take part in Pró-Ética named one of the and RGE were the 2018/2019, developed by 150 Best Companies winners of the Brazil’s Federal Comptroller to Work For in the Abradee Social General. This initiative ranking prepared by Responsibility Award recognizes organizations Você S/A magazine, for energy-distribution with outstanding programs in partnership with companies. to combat corruption and to Fundação Instituto de enhance ethics. Administração (FIA). Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Our brands Click on the icons of the power sector chain to learn more about our brands Solutions Offers a portfolio of integrated energy s olutions Generation Transmission Distribution Customer Produces energy and Supplies energy to Transports generated end consumers under sells it in regulated energy and is Purchases energy in markets (via auctions) regulated conditions and one of the contracting remunerated for is remunerated for the and free market providing this service environments environments management of our assets Communities Back to top Services supporting the Group GRI 102-2 Annual Report 2019 16 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Map of business DISTRIBUTION GENERATION 1 1 HPP Luís Eduardo Magalhães 2 HPP Serra da Mesa 3 HPP Foz do Chapecó 4 HPP Campos Novos 5 HPP Barra Grande 2 SERVICES 6 Ceran Complex 1 2 3 • HPP Monte Claro • HPP Castro Alves 9 • HPP 14 de Julho 20 Operational Basis (SP) 7 2 SHPPs (SP) 1 Refurbisher (SP) 1 5 Market Business Offices 8 6 HGPs (SP, AM, PE, RS, PR) 4 (SP), 2 (MG) 1 9 TPPs 2 Termoparaíba and Termonordeste 1 1 See the CPFL Geração shareholding in 2 the assets on page 27. 3 3 4 pessoas 8 RENEWABLE 7 24 3 1 1 supre 1 34 1 4 finanças 3 8 3 infra 1 40 SHPPs 1 17 (SP), 10 (MG), 4 (RS), 2 1 1 6 (SC), 2 (MT ), 1 (PR) 3 2 2 4 5 TRANSMISSION 2 45 Wind Farms 4 6 1 12 (CE), 29 (RN), 4 (RS) 1 3 1 7 Subestations HPP Hydroelectric Power Plant 2 (SP), 1 (CE), 1 (SC), 3 (RS) 3 8 TPPs (Biomass) SHPP Small Hydroelectric Power Plant 2 5 (SP), 1 (RN), 1 (MG), 1 (PR) HGP Hydroelectric Generating Plants 2 5 Transmission lines 4 Tanquinho Photovoltaic Solar TPP Thermoelectric Power Plant 2 (SC), 4 (RS) PV Photovoltaic Plant Plant (PV ) (SP) GRI 102-4 Annual Report 2019 17 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Generation HPP Foz do Chapecó (SC/RS) In the past year, our activities in the generation segment 13.1 terawatt-hours (TWh), which represents an were strengthened through the integration of CPFL increase of 19.5% from the previous year. Of this total, Renováveis, the country’s largest renewable energy approximately 98.3% came from renewable sources. generator, into our asset portfolio. The shares that State Grid owned in the company were acquired by the holding With our cutting-edge asset management structure, company CPFL Energia through a purchase and sale we achieved average availability of 96.1% for agreement, allowing us to take advantage of synergies, all generation assets in 2019, in line with our reduce costs, and boost efficiency, fostering continuity of performance in the previous year. Maintaining this our investments in renewable generation projects. high rate is the result of our efforts that target efficiency and optimization in operations, especially Thanks to this operation, our installed capacity now in monitoring, maintenance, and operations. Some totals 4.3 gigawatts (GW ) in assets spread out across four initiatives that stand out include the Integrated of the country’s five regions, making us the third-largest Operation Center (COI) and predictive technologies privately held company in terms of generation and the projects, with machine learning tools that help identify Brazilian leader in renewable energy. In 2019, we generated early on any equipment that is susceptible to failures. INSTALLED CAPACITY BY SOURCE* ENERGY PRODUCTION* 4% 2% 8% 9% HPP (Hydroelectric Power Plants) HPP (Hydroelectric Power Plants) Wind 11% Wind 11% SHPP (Small Hydroelectric SHPP (Small Hydroelectric 4.3 GW 46% Power Plants) and HGP 13.1 TWH 49% Power Plants) and HGP (Hydroelectric Generating Plants) (Hydroelectric Generating Plants) Biomass Biomass Thermal Thermal 30% 31% *Includes installed capacity of CPFL Geração and CPFL *Includes net production of CPFL Geração and CPFL Renováveis projects in proportion to stakes held by CPFL Renováveis projects in proportion to stakes held by CPFL Energia. Solar sources represent less than 1% of total Energia. Solar sources represent less than 1% of total installed capacity. energy generation. GRI 102-6 | 102-10 | EU1 | EU2 | EU6 Annual Report 2019 18 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Transmission Our activities in the transmission sector In 2019, we began the process of implementing three In the state of São Paulo, two business units seek to take advantage of synergies projects that were auctioned off by the National Electricity already operate power transmission systems: between generation and distribution Regulatory Agency (ANEEL) at the end of the previous year: CPFL Transmissão Piracicaba and CPFL assets, with a focus on diversifying Transmissão Morro Agudo. our portfolio through opportunities in • Construction of the Maracanaú II substation niche businesses. Therefore, we direct in the state of Ceará; In this segment, the sharing of experiences investments to smaller operations, • CPFL Transmissão Sul I (Lot 5), which includes and knowledge with State Grid can serve focusing on improvements in operational improvements in the Itá substation and 320 kilometers as a driver for our business. In Brazil, the efficiency that also add value to the of transmission lines; company operates long-distance and highGroup's generating units and benefit • CPFL Transmissão Sul II (Lot 11), with the construction voltage transmission networks, using the customers in our concession area. of two new substations and 85 kilometers of latest technologies to build more robust and transmission lines, working in the states of Santa intelligent systems. Catarina and Rio Grande do Sul. CPFL CPFL CPFL CPFL CPFL Transmissão Transmissão Transmissão Transmissão Transmissão Piracicaba Morro Agudo Maracanaú Sul I Sul II Power 800 MVA 800 MVA 450 MVA 224 MVA 549 MVA Concession through 2043 2045 2048 2049 2049 AAR* R$ 12.1 R$ 14.3 R$ 8.3 R$ 27.3 R$ 35.0 million million million million million *Allowed Annual Revenue (updated as of June 2019). GRI 102-6 Annual Report 2019 19 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Distribution We are the second largest company in the electricity The second initiative underway is our distribution segment in Brazil in terms of the amount project to swap out and install smart of energy sold, with a 14% share of the national market. meters in Group B consumers (low-voltage Our four companies operate in the states of São Paulo, customers, such as homes, small businesses Rio Grande do Sul, Minas Gerais and Paraná, with a and rural properties) in the municipality of concession area that covers 687 municipalities and serves Jaguariúna, in the interior of São Paulo. This approximately 9.8 million customers. technology will allow us to remotely read meters and reduce losses, among other In 2019, we distributed approximately 68.1 TWh benefits. At the same time it will also give of energy in our concession areas, up 1.3% from the customers more control over how they previous year. During the same period, our customer use electricity, allowing them to change base increased by 1.8%. consumption habits to be more efficient and reduce costs. In recent years, the investments we have made in Maintenance improving infrastructure, modernizing equipment and on live line implementing new technological solutions have allowed us to achieve levels of quality that are a benchmark in the national market. This advancement is being accelerated with the unification of RGE's operations, concluded last year. With the standardization and centralization of NUMBER OF CPFL ENERGIA CUSTOMERS IN DISTRIBUTION SEGMENT processes, we are improving customer service and the supply of power in Rio Grande do Sul. 2017 2018 2019 Residential 8,330,237 8,544,035 8,721,256 Two projects illustrate our investment strategy in Industrial 59,825 58,241 57,116 this segment. The first is the development and Commercial 545,095 532,592 529,815 implementation of our Advanced Distribution Management System (ADMS), a platform that integrates a Rural 359,106 361,908 363,500 wide range of data and allows us to monitor assets with Government 60,639 60,685 61,868 more agility and intelligence, facilitating the identification Public services 9,790 10,194 10,512 of possible failures and enabling a more efficient Public lighting 11,230 11,659 11,809 reestablishment of energy supply. Own consumption 958 982 943 Total 9,376,880 9,580,296 9,756,819 GRI 102-6 | EU3 Annual Report 2019 20 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Map of distribution concessions DISTRIBUTION 12,900 kilometers of transmission lines 555 substations 329,400 kilometers of networks GRI 102-4 | EU4 Annual Report 2019 21 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Solutions for the free market CPFL Soluções includes To meet consumers’ different energy demands, CPFL Energia an ample portfolio of relies on two companies that offer customized solutions: CPFL Soluções and ENVO. CPFL Soluções is a unique platform that offers integrated solutions that generate value and increase customer competitiveness, taking advantage of all opportunities offered Energy Free Energy Distributed Management Market Generation in the new energy market. In 2019, the unit achieved positive Complete consultancy so Freedom to choose results with the delivery of projects serving customers across Self-production that customers can better the energy supplier of energy from the country in segments including data centers, pulp and paper, manage their energy, and negotiate prices, renewable sources with greater savings quantities, energy automobiles, and wind power generation, among others. and predictability sources and commercial in their bills conditions ENVO is another company in our portfolio that focuses on offering distributed solar generation solutions to mediumand low-voltage consumers, such as homes and small businesses and companies. Under this model, we operate across all stages of the Energy Energy Services project – from the technical design, supply and installation of Efficiency and Infrastructure solar panels, to gaining access approval with the local DisCo. Diagnose, provide Solutions to improve solutions, and execute energy productivity and Construction of the Americana Solar Plant in the city of electrical installation reduce costs and projects: construction, Americana, São Paulo, was one of the highlights of 2019. environmental operation, maintenance, With 3,320 generator modules, the new plant has 1.12 MW impacts and retrofit of capacity and annual generation capacity of 1,771 MWh – enough to supply 738 houses with average consumption of 200 kWh/month during the period. This plant’s operation can reduce connected customers’ energy CPFL Soluções has more than 2,100 customers, bills by up to 95% and prevent the emission of 131 tons of carbon dioxide (CO2), the equivalent of planting around 900 trees. and in 2019 achieved 6% growth in EBITDA GRI 102-6 | EU3 Annual Report 2019 22 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Services supporting the Group Our business model relies on the performance of a group of companies that support the company's administrative and operational activities. This way we can guarantee the standardization of processes, with operational optimization and cost reductions. As part of this structure, CPFL Atende and CPFL Total add value to our business model through the provision of services. CPFL Atende Customer service through a toll-free 0800 telephone number, virtual chats, social networks, and the Group’s distribution companies (DisCos) e-mail contacts. The company is based in Ourinhos, with a branch in Araraquara – both cities located in the interior of São Paulo state. CPFL Total Financial services, focused on facilitating the use of electricity bills as a means of payment in partner transactions. In 2019, NECT, our Shared Services Center, CPFL employees was split into four different brands CPFL Pessoas CPFL Supre CPFL Finanças CPFL Infra Personnel and human Logistics and Financial organization Service to manage resources management supply-chain planning and operationalization assets such as car service, with operations and management, to support companies' fleets, real estate, covering payroll, benefits, with purchasing, decision making process, administrative third-party management, and materials planning, with accounting, services, and building recruitment, selection and distribution, and budgeting, billing and maintenance and admission of employees logistics services payment services security Annual Report 2019 23 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Universidade CPFL Instituto CPFL Activities related to training, skills-building, and improving our employees are led by Universidade CPFL. With investment of R$ 18 million in 2019, the program promotes development actions, technical and mandatory courses, coaching and training curricula for CPFL Energia’s different areas and companies, as well as operating technical training schools open to the community, providing skills tracks such as Electricians, Designers, and Operators. Universidade CPFL’s task is to facilitate the development of knowledge, encourage professionals to take the lead in their own careers, and stimulate their colleagues to learn new skills. Universidade CPFL in Campinas (SP) CPFL Running and Walking Circuit Instituto CPFL is responsible for managing the private social investment we make, bringing our brand closer to the communities we work in and boosting our businesses’ contribution to local development. Since 2003, the institute has promoted and supported activities and projects in the areas of knowledgebuilding, sports, and culture, with a focus on civic engagement and transforming the reality of the regions in which we operate. One example of this engagement is our support for Instituto Vanderlei Cordeiro de Lima (IVCL/Orcampi), which works to train young athletes, offering comprehensive monitoring and medical and educational support to children and adolescents in the region of Campinas, São Paulo. Learn more about Instituto CPFL's activities on page 81. Annual Report 2019 24 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Transparency in governance Our company adheres to the best corporate governance practices to CPFL employees in ensure that decision making is aligned with shareholders’ strategic vision Campinas (SP) to generate value in the long term while complying with the principles of transparency, equality, and ethics. With this goal in mind, we list our shares in the Novo Mercado segment of B3 S.A. – Brazil, Bolsa, Balcão (“B3”) – which instructs companies on how to adopt the highest standards of governance and management. For this reason, our actions and initiatives are disclosed and communicated to the market with the utmost transparency, ethics, equity, and quality in information, adhering to the country’s most stringent guidelines. In 2019, we carried out a new (follow-on) public offering of shares, boosting the percentage of the company's free-floating shares in the market to 16.29%. In addition to increasing the liquidity of our shares, the operation also raised R$ 3.7 billion. Our participation in the capital market opens up opportunities to boost capitalization and investments in our business. The follow-on offering, for example, was preceded by a roadshow to talk to investors in order to clarify any questions they may have about our business. We held 61 face-to-face meetings in Brazil, the United States, and the United Kingdom, as well as 14 videoconferences, reaching more than 115 investors. CPFL Energia’s follow-on share offering on the B3 exchange increased free-floating capital to 16.29% and raised R$ 3.7 billion, opening up opportunities to boost capitalization and investments in our business GRI 102-5 | 102-10 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 Annual Report 2019 25 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Reorganization in the capital market In 2019, our Board of Directors approved the company's delisting of shares on the New State Grid is our company’s main shareholder, controlling York Stock Exchange (NYSE), where American Depositary Shares (ADS) were traded. The 83.71% of capital, and the world’s largest energy sector board concluded that under the current scenario there was no longer an economic company, with operations in several countries including rationale for utilizing this instrument to trade common shares and to increase brand Australia, Philippines, Georgia, Greece, Hong Kong, Italy and visibility in the United States. Portugal. Since 2010, State Grid has had operations in Brazil, and is present in 15 states, investing more than US$12.5 The criteria guiding this decision were the increase in the volume of shares traded by billion in the country’s electric sector. foreign investors on the Brazilian stock exchange (B3 S.A.) and the downward trend in ADS The shareholder aspires, through its worldwide businesses, trading volume. The delisting process was completed in February 2020. to be a global reference in the energy industry. To this end, it acts as a transformative hub for energy solutions and a Another change in the capital market structure was board approval of a Public Tender value-generating platform that benefits society and the Offer (OPA) for outstanding common shares of CPFL Renováveis. This category of stock entire value chain. represents 0.056% of the company's capital, and the operation to be carried out in 2020 depends on registration with Brazil’s Securities and Exchange Commission (CVM) and authorization from B3 S.A. • 5th place on the Fortune Global 500 State Grid Corporation list, which ranks the world’s biggest of China corporations • Close to US$600 billion in assets • 1.6 million employees • Serves 88% of China’s population, equivalent to 1.1 billion people • Global leader in distribution technology and a benchmark in long-distance power transmission GRI 102-10 Annual Report 2019 26 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Free Float Corporate structure 83.71% 16.29% 100% 100% 2 100% DISTRIBUTION COMMERCIALIZATION 59.93% Paulista Lajeado 100% 100% 5.94% Investco UHR Serra da Mesa3 100% 1 99.95% 100% CPFL Centrais Geradoras 51.54% 100% GENERATION 100% 100% 100% CPFL Transmissão CPFL Brasil Varejista 100% Piracicaba S.A. 65% 100% CPFL Transmissão 100% Morro Agudo S.A. 25.01% CPFL Transmissão 100% Maracanaú S.A. 100% 2 48.72% CPFL Transmissão 100% Sul I S.A. 100% 53.34% CPFL Transmissão 100% Sul II S.A. 100% 51% 100% finanças SERVICES RENEWABLE 1 RGE Sul is controlled by CPFL Energia 100% infra (89.0107%) and CPFL Brasil (10.9893%). 4 2 CPFL Soluções = CPFL Brasil + CPFL 99.94% Serviços + CPFL Eficiência. 100% pessoas 3 51.54% stake of the availability of power and energy of Serra da Mesa HPP, regarding 100% supre the Power Purchase Agreement between CPFL Geração and Furnas. 4 CPFL Renováveis is controlled by CPFL 100% 2 Energia (46.7609%) and CPFL Geração (53.1831%). 100% CPFL GD Annual Report 2019 27 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Governance structure In conjunction with the follow-on, we strengthened our corporate governance structure so that the company's decision-making process keeps up with market trends and changes. Governance structure In this sense, the composition, attributions, and internal regulations of the Committees that advise the Board of Directors have been revised, as have the Corporate Governance Shareholders’ General policies for Transactions with Related Parties and Dividend Distribution. Guidelines Meeting Our Board of Directors is made up of members from different cultures, with recognized technical capacity and knowledge in different business areas, elected Bylaws at the Shareholders' General Meeting for an annual term. Among the elected members there are two independent directors, in accordance with Novo Mercado Board of Directors Fiscal Council Rules. Furthermore, the company's Chief Executive Officer and two Vice-Presidents are also on the board. Auditors Currently, five Committees advise the Board of Directors, analyzing ahead of time all the issues submitted to the board in accordance with their attributions Committees established in the Internal Regulations. Members whose resumes and professional experiences are more aligned with these aspects are appointed to these Strategy and Management Processes committees. Human Resources Management Related Parties In the past year the company also approved the creation of the Corporate Risk Management Governance Department to manage, monitor and constantly improve the Group's Budget and Corporate Finances governance processes. The new structure operates transversally, following the Board of Executive Officers, Fiscal Council, and Board of Directors’ decision flow, along with the respective analyses of their Committees, and of shareholder Executive Management meetings or meetings with partners. The Board of Executive Officers is the body responsible for proposing and Executives Board of Executive executing the corporate strategy. The Chief Executive Officer and Vice-Presidents Officers are elected by the Board of Directors for a two-year term, and all of them may be Click here re-elected, ensuring continuity of management. to learn more about our governance structure and the committees GRI 102-18 | 102-24 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 Annual Report 2019 28 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Fiscal Council COMPOSITION OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Fiscal Council complements our governance structure by acting independently from management Bo Wen Chairman and external auditors. At our company, the council Shirong Lyu1 Vice Chairman operates permanently and performs functions similar to an audit committee, a configuration that follows the Yang Qu Advisor best practices in governance. The Fiscal Council’s three Yumeng Zhao 2 Advisor members meet monthly and follow a minimal schedule of activities, which include periodic meetings with Gustavo Estrella3 Advisor internal and external auditors, the Board of Executive Hong Li Advisor 1 Also holds the position of Senior Executive Vice Officers, and the Board of Directors. President of CPFL Energia and Interim Vice President Anselmo Henrique Seto Leal Advisor of Strategy, Innovation and Business Excellence. 2 Also holds the position of Executive Vice President Antonio Kandir Independent Member of CPFL Energia. 3 Also holds the position of Chief Executive Officer of Marcelo Amaral Moraes Independent Member CPFL Energia. Conflicts of interest We comply with the provisions of Law 6,404/76 COMPOSITION OF BOARD OF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS (Brazilian Corporation Law) regarding conflicts of interest and have established principles on this topic in our main governance documents: Internal Gustavo Estrella1 Chief Executive Officer Regulations of the Board of Directors, Internal Senior Executive Vice-President Regulations of Board of Directors Committees and Shirong Lyu1 Advisory Commissions, Governance Guidelines, and Strategy, Innovation and Business Excellence Vice-President (interim) the Code of Ethical Conduct. Yumeng Zhao1 Executive Vice-President Each governance agent is responsible for preventing and managing conflict of interest Yuehui Pan Chief Financial and Investor Relations Officer situations of divergences in procedures. In addition, anyone with a real or potential conflict of interest Luís Henrique Ferreira Pinto Regulated Operations Vice-President should refrain from participating in meetings that deliberate on such topics. This abstention is recorded Karin Regina Luchesi Market Operations Vice-President in the respective meeting minutes, which, in the case of the Board of Directors, are made publicly available. Gustavo Pinto Gachineiro Legal and Institutional Relations Vice-President In situations of a potential conflict in transactions with related parties, we comply with the applicable Vitor Fagali de Souza2 Business Development Vice-President requirements in Brazilian Securities and Exchange Commission (CVM) regulations. Flávio Henrique Ribeiro2 Business Management Vice-President 1 Also a member of the Board of Directors. 2 Executives assumed their respective roles in January 2020. GRI 102-22 | 102-23 | 102-25 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 Annual Report 2019 29 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Sustainability in strategy Strategic planning City of Campinas (SP) The operation and development of our businesses follow the Strategic Plan created by the Board of Executive Officers, based on the analysis and evaluation of macroeconomic and market trends over a fiveyear horizon (through 2024). This management tool is updated and approved by the Board of Directors annually, allowing the establishment of goals and prioritization of investments to promote the company’s solid and long-term growth. In 2019, the updating process engaged all leadership in workshops that discussed critical themes and industry scenarios. In a more participatory manner we have advanced in defining the objectives and levers that drive our capacity to generate value and align our company with State Grid's strategic vision. We also considered the expectations of our main stakeholders shareholders, customers, society, employees, regulatory bodies and suppliers. Identification of these demands occurs through different sources of information and includes evaluation of studies carried out by industry The annual strategy-update process associations and by ANEEL, internal climate surveys, events and meetings with suppliers, benchmarks of other companies in the electricity sector, and involves the entire CPFL leadership interviews with shareholders, among other inputs. and considers the expectations of our This way we were able to map out opportunities for all businesses, taking main stakeholders advantage of synergies through an efficient and vertical performance model for project execution. Our organizational model creates a favorable structure for the “Plug & Play” of new assets and organic growth. GRI 102-15 | 102-26 Annual Report 2019 30 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Our main directives for the next five years are Working safely, disseminating Comply with industry Continue to invest in this value as one of the regulatory requirements technologies to add value company’s non-negotiable and act proactively by mapping to the business and allow commitments risks/opportunities technological advances in our search for greater Generation operational efficiency, such as the modernization of Increase the availability and Growth: develop projects our power plants and the efficiency of our assets seeking that help us grow, while implementation of digital to maximize energy generation also looking for acquisition systems to monitor dams and financial results opportunities and other assets Grow through acquisitions Working safely, as our Implement digitalization of new DisCos in the non-negotiable commitment actions to facilitate customer coming years services Act quickly and carefully in Take steps to combat all interventions in the electrical losses and default Distribution system to reduce SAIDI and SAIFI to ensure business Implement a smarter network, automating and sustainability modernizing assets to increase Take care of our relationship reliability and quality of with customers, focused on service Digital operations, attention, cordiality, and meeting through dispatch deadlines automation and ADMS Customer focus with Efficiency and quality to Institutional and outstanding service increase the competitiveness of regulatory updates, by segmentation and our integrated solutions, seeking influencing the agendas of development of partnerships innovations in processes and regulatory bodies regarding to provide complete energy technologies the sector’s main themes solutions Solutions Digitalization of our processes Growth through the and systematization of after-sales implementation of new and customer service market business models GRI 102-15 Annual Report 2019 31 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Sustainability plan For our shareholders, the way we develop our activities is Our sustainability management structure as important as achieving the strategic objectives and goals that are established annually. For this reason, the Board of Our governance follows guidelines established by the Sustainability Policy, Directors asked the Board of Executive Officers to define the in effect since 2015, which strengthens sustainability management across all Sustainability Plan, which guides business development and businesses and the monitoring of actions by the Board of Executive Officers investments in a way that is aligned with our values and with and the Board of Directors. global trends to promote sustainable development. Approved in 2019, the Plan establishes guidelines so that Click on each body in this structure to learn about their attributions we can “provide sustainable, affordable and reliable energy and responsibilities within the scope of sustainability management. at all times, making people's lives safer, healthier, and more prosperous in the regions where we operate.” Our corporate objective is to power the transition to a more sustainable and Board of smart way of providing and using energy, maximizing our Directors positive impacts in the community and value chain. To this end, we have identified three pillars that sustain the CPFL Energia Strategy and way we conduct our business and execute our strategy: Presidency Management Sustainable Energy, Smart Solutions and Society Shared Value. Process Committee Based on these pillars we made 15 public commitments to contribute to economic, social, and environmental growth across the value chain. Chief Legal The construction of the Sustainability Plan took place through and Institutional Relations Officer a collaborative process between the different departments and operational areas of the company. At the end of 2019, the end result was presented to the Board of Directors, and its execution is already underway. Environment and Sustainability Sustainability Committee Department Back to top GRI 102-15 | 102-20 | 102-26 Annual Report 2019 32 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more CPFL'S SUSTAINABILITY DRIVER Provide sustainable, accessible and reliable energy to all walks of life, and enhance a safer, healthier and prosperous life of people in regions where we operate POWER SECTOR Transition to Changing customer New technologies Regulatory framework TRENDS a low carbon matrix profiles and habits and digitalization modernization Power the transition to a more sustainable and smart way of providing and using energy, maximizing OBJECTIVE our positive impacts in the community and value chain PILLARS SUSTAINABLE ENERGY SMART SOLUTIONS SOCIETY SHARED VALUE Aiming for the smallest possible Providing the solutions for Maximizing our positive impacts in the environmental footprint the future of energy community and value chain ENABLERS Ethics Transparency Employee development and inclusion GRI 102-15 Annual Report 2019 33 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Contribution toward Sustainable Development Goals The 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) actions that promote economic growth, 17 1 released worldwide in 2015 are the result of a joint respect for human rights, women's inclusion 16 2 effort by governments, business organizations, civil and empowerment, the protection of children entities, and several other social actors to build an and youth, the preservation of biodiversity, 15 3 agenda for economic, social and environmental and actions to prevent climate change, prosperity. These actors were engaged by the United among other topics. Nations (UN) and, through multilateral conferences 14 4 and meetings, structured an ambitious set of 169 Therefore, in order to develop and undertake the goals to be achieved globally by the year 2030. 15 public commitments in our Sustainability Plan, we evaluated the connection of our businesses 13 5 Our company sees the 17 SDGs as a powerful tool to to the SDGs. Our objective was to identify the guide our performance and our positioning relative greatest possible contributions to these objectives to sustainability. We believe that their development and, thus, to enhance them through more 6 12 is capable of reflecting humanity's desire for concrete relevant action plans and investments. 11 7 10 8 9 How we developed our Sustainability Plan 1 2 3 4 How is sustainability How does the market manage Where are we going? Sustainability in practice related to our business? sustainability? Internal engagement and Defining public Analysis of trends and externalities that Benchmarking against companies seen collaborative plan to identify commitments impact the electricity sector as references by the market our ambitions and propose Presentation of the Plan action plans to the Board of Directors How do we manage sustainability? Execution of the Internal diagnosis sustainability strategy of our performance GRI 102-15 | 102-26 Annual Report 2019 34 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more SUSTAINABLE SMART SOCIETY ENERGY SOLUTIONS SHARED VALUE Keep at least 95% from renewable Invest R$ 150 million in Energy 1 sources in our generation portfolio until 2024 6 Reach 100% of Group A clients with telemetering until 2020 11 Efficiency actions in Public Hospitals between 2020 and 2022 Invest R$ 200 million in Energy 2 Reduce in 10% our carbon intensity indicator until 2024 7 Invest R$ 350 million in distribution network automation until 2024 12 Efficiency actions toward low income communities until 2024 Maximize our positive impact in the 3 Publish our climate change adaptation actions 8 Achieve 90% of attendance by digital channels until 2024 13 communities, investing at least R$ 60 million in social projects until 2024 Continuously seek to improve health Refurbish at least 40,000 equipments Invest R$ 45 million in the 4 (transformers, voltage regulators, reclosers etc.) until 2024 9 development of electrical mobility technology until 2024 14 and safety indicators, intensifying our actions towards employees, community and suppliers Ensure the destination of 100% of the Integrate sustainability aspects in the 5 main grid components to recycling or to the reverse supply chain until 2024 10 Offer to our clients low carbon solutions for their energy transition 15 monitoring process for 100% of our critical suppliers until 2024 CONTRIBUTION TO SDGS NO GOOD HEALTH QUALITY GENDER CLEAN WATER AFFORDABLE AND DECENT WORK AND INDUSTRY, INNOVATION REDUCED SUSTAINABLE CITIES RESPONSIBLE CLIMATE LIFE PEACE, JUSTICE PARTNERSHIPS POVERTY AND WELL-BEING EDUCATION EQUALITY AND SANITATION CLEAN ENERGY ECONOMIC GROWTH AND INFRASTRUCTURE INEQUALITIES AND COMMUNITIES CONSUMPTION ACTION ON LAND AND STRONG FOR THE GOALS AND PRODUCTION INSTITUTIONS GRI 102-15 Annual Report 2019 35 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Sustainability Platform The Sustainability Plan will be monitored through our Sustainability Platform, a management tool created in 2014 and updated annually, which establishes indicators and targets for the protection, optimization and creation of value in our businesses, taking into account economic, social, and environmental impacts and risks. Below we report on the structure of the 2019 cycle, as well as the main results achieved. In 2020, it will be reformulated to adapt its structure to our 2020-2024 Sustainability Plan. MATERIAL TOPICS 13 BUSINESS SUSTAINABILITY LEVERS Safe & Efficient Corporate Reputation & Operations Development, Growth Responsibility & Innovation 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Workforce 1 Safety culture 6 Human capital 11 Labor Employees development contingency 8 9 10 11 12 13 Outsourced 2 Efficient supplier Suppliers management 7 Attraction and retention For each one of the 13 business sustainability DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES QUALITY EDUCATION DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH levers, there are indicators (58 in total) that measure the protection, optimization and value creation of the company Business 3 Efficient services 8 Carbon market and 12 Improvement Relationships creation Investments in new STAKEHOLDERS GHG emissions in relationships processes, capacityShareholder 4 Information Technology Future vision & new building and relationships Regulator 9 New business and economy to enable future value Clients opportunities optimization Cost avoided and AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES CLIMATE ACTION SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES additional revenues AND PRODUCTION Efficiency & achieved through more business productivity efficient & smart processes protection Value protected through improved Communities 5 Prevention and 10 Sustainable 13 Community Risk management business processes to Population mitigation of impacts solutions development & compliance reduce exposure to Civil society identified risks NGOs Business value and set goals for the SUSTAINABLE CITIES RESPONSIBLE LIFE AFFORDABLE AND SUSTAINABLE CITIES CLIMATE GOOD HEALTH QUALITY REDUCED SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES CONSUMPTION ON LAND CLEAN ENERGY AND COMMUNITIES ACTION AND WELL-BEING EDUCATION INEQUALITIES AND COMMUNITIES AND PRODUCTION 5 year cycle to improve our performance in sustainability GRI 102-15 Annual Report 2019 36 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Main goals and results KPI 2018 2019 DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE Efficient supplier Performance index for Goal 76% Goal 81% critical business suppliers Results 79% Results 85% management Supplier compliance rate Goal 82% Goal 91% Results 94% Results 91% AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE Service Equipment reverse logistics Goal R$ 38.4 million Goal R$ 50.2 million efficiency revenue Results R$ 48.5 million Results R$ 57.8 million Number of refurbished Goal 8,400 Goal 8,400 SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION equipment Results 8,672 Results 9,011 AND PRODUCTION Investment in safety Goal R$ 3.3 million Indicator replaced by the number of people in the campaigns for the Results R$ 3.7 million community engaged in safety campaigns community Goal 144,822 Results 350,388 QUALITY EDUCATION DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH Human capital Average hours Goal 18.0 Goal 20.0 development of training for leaders Results 22.7 Results 36.0* AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY CLIMATE ACTION Low carbon Emissions avoided Goal 2.1 million tCO2e Goal 2.2 million tCO2e economy and GHG Results 2.0 million tCO2e Results 2.6 million tCO2e emissions SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES Strengthening of Percentage of services Goal 75% Goal 80% relationships performed through digital Results 78% Results 80% channels GOOD HEALTH QUALITY AND WELL-BEING EDUCATION Community Instituto CPFL social Goal R$ 26.3 million Goal R$ 27.1 million development investment Results R$ 28.2 million Results R$ 39.5 million REDUCED INEQUALITIES SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES Cities served by Instituto Goal 249 Goal 100** CPFL programs Results 249 Results 121** * Management of this indicator has been improved, and encompasses specific training conducted by executives inside and outside the company, in addition to courses offered by Universidade CPFL. ** The way of accounting for cities has been changed. In 2018, all the cities served over the years up to 2018 were considered. Starting in 2019, we began counting only those cities served in that specific year. GRI 102-15 Annual Report 2019 37 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Integrated risk management A NN I NG PL E The corporate risk map consolidates the main trends affecting our business and the main Identification and XE strategic risks to which CPFL Energia companies are exposed, organized into the following prioritization of strategic CU risks, based on opinions by categories: Financial, Operational, Legal, Energy Market, Sector Regulation, Environmental, Senior Management and TIO and Reputational. The Corporate Risk Management Policy, approved by the Board of Strategic Planning Development of N Directors, provides models, indicators, and limits for risk exposure, and these are approved risk models and/ by the highest governance body, as well as laying out in detail the treatment and reports or indicators and Development and definition of viable required should these thresholds be surpassed. limits, which are implementation of mitigation plans to Our model for approved by the The Policy also lays out the roles and responsibilities of each level of the corporate risk keep exposure to strategic risks Board of Directors possible risks within management of CPFL Energia management structure. The approach when developing this management is based on established limits, as four pillars planning, execution, verification, and action. The indicators and limits are well as reporting to continuously evaluated and, when necessary, the Board of Executive Officers proposes interested parties in a changes and submits them to the Board of Directors for deliberation. timely manner Management of limits In 2019, we began collecting data and migrating from CPFL Renováveis’ corporate risk map to AC through continuous that of the holding company. The proposal follows the model of CPFL Energia, consolidating TI monitoring of exposure the main trends and strategic risks in the power generation sector that affect the business. ON N O ATI C IFI Risk management structure VER Fiscal Council Board of Advisory (FC) Directors Committees Synergies also include the governance, roles, and responsibilities established in the Corporate Risk Management Policy. For the year 2020, we will begin monitoring works in progress. President (CEO) To complement our activities, a consolidated report was created with the main Internal Audit, Risk, highlights of risk management, compliance, internal controls, and internal audit. and Compliance Customized reports are prepared for the vice-presidencies every two months. This Management practice allows executives to keep up to date on these issues and to make evermore timely decisions to ensure the achievement of strategic objectives and the Risk, Ethics, generation of value. Internal Audit Market Businesses Audit, and Compliance Management Risk, and Compliance Management Management GRI 102-15 | 102-30 Annual Report 2019 38 CPFL Energia Barão Geraldo is a neighborhood R$ 95 in Campinas – a municipality in the state of São Paulo – where about million 50,000 people live. We chose this invested in LIVINGLAB region to create one of the largest living laboratories for testing new Purchase of materials technologies and innovations in the electrical sector: the Living Lab. This Acceleration of startups is a real platform to build bridges to Laboratory equipment a future of renewable energy and less carbon intensity in the production Personnel training models. The community will benefit Construction to adapt the local from an innovation ecosystem focused distribution network on environmental preservation, sustainable electricity generation and Installation of photovoltaic consumption, and the development of generation systems smart cities for future generations. Implementation of charging stations for electric vehicles Technologies Challenges studied Testing new technologies Electric mobility in real time Solar energy Accelerating the insertion of emerging Energy storage technologies 79 scientific articles published Campinas Smart consumption Preparing the energy 13 master's dissertations Smart campus sector for the future 10 doctoral dissertations Getting support among 3 postdoctoral dissertations the region’s population for real testing 3. SUSTAINABLE ENERGY Tanquinho Solar Plant in Campinas (SP) Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Sustainable energy Aracati II Wind Farm (CE) Our business model has great potential to contribute to opportunities for acquisitions and development of a cleaner energy matrix and one that is less dependent greenfield projects. on fossil fuels. One commitment we make in our Sustainability Plan is ensuring that through 2024 at least Part of this growth is already underway, with the 95% of our generation portfolio continues to consist of construction of two projects that were successfully renewable sources. bid on in 2018: SHPP Cherobim (+ 28 MW) and the Gameleiras Wind Complex (+ 81.7 MW), comprising In this regard, the 2019 integration of CPFL Renováveis four wind farms. In 2019, we obtained the installation into our business structure is strategic, as is the license for the two new plants and complied with consequent capture of synergies that leverage our the projected timeline. Our expectation is that investment capacity in this segment. The company, we will be able to begin operations at the Wind the leader in its segment in Brazil, mapped out a Complex ahead of schedule, a relevant strategy to pipeline of new businesses capable of adding 2.9 GW to ensure its economic competitiveness and return on installed capacity, amid a highly pulverized sector with investment. PIPELINE OF CPFL RENOVÁVEIS PROJECTS (MW) 340 5,134 2,415 149 2,133 110 CAPACITY UNDER WIND SHPPs SOLAR TOTAL INSTALLED CONSTRUCTION Annual Report 2019 41 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more In addition to the development of new projects, CPFL Renováveis is developing an asset maintenance and operation plan that seeks to maximize operational efficiency ensuring that assets add as much renewable energy as possible to the national energy matrix. In the past four years, the company has executed its Avançar (Advance) Plan, which includes a series of initiatives to improve plant operations, standardize processes, train employees, and implement new technological tools. Management of these assets is carried out at the Integrated Operation Our commitment is to ensure that through 2024 Center (COI), located in the municipality of Jundiaí, São Paulo. In 2019, this structure was reinforced with the creation of the Asset Monitoring at least 95% of our generation portfolio will continue Center, an advanced engineering unit that monitors the main pieces to be made up of renewable sources of equipment through sensors installed at the generation units, which communicate remotely with the operating systems. This solution allows CPFL Renováveis to take proactive steps to ensure the plants’ availability Distribution of CPFL Renováveis portfolio and reliability. Our expanding use of data analysis tools and machine learning enables us to identify possible failures and create more assertive preventive maintenance plans, reducing costs and decreasing downtime. In addition to these improvements, CPFL Renováveis recovered its efficiency indicators at Wind Biomass SHPPs Solar wind farms in Rio Grande do Norte, which were extraordinarily affected when an Operation and Maintenance supplier in Brazil ceased its activities. To resolve the issue, the company is handling operations in house, generating gains from greater 45 farms 8 plants 40 plants 1 plant control over assets and better performance evaluation. Annual Report 2019 42 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Dam safety Ensuring the safety of our employees and the general population is a priority for all our businesses. In the generation segment, one of our main initiatives concerns the inspection of the dams that form the reservoirs for our hydroelectric plants and SHPPs, using state-of-the-art equipment and internationally recognized methodologies to ensure the structures’ reliability. Every single plant has a designated team that monitors high-precision instruments installed in the structures and inputs this information into the Dam Safety Management System (SGSB), a digital tool developed by the company to provide real-time management of dam conditions through a database with cloud computing resources. In addition, an engineering team carries out regular inspections so that, in conjunction with the monitored data, we can attest to our assets’ good performance. The processes we have adopted are in accordance with Brazil’s laws and standards, especially the National Dam Safety Policy, Campos Novos HPP (SC) instituted in 2010 through Law 12,334/10. This law stipulates, among other things, that all generating units must be classified in terms of the risk of breach and its potential damage with the most critical assets (classification A or B) required to prepare and deliver an Emergency Action Plan (PAE) to the competent authorities. The PAE is a legal document that provides support in emergency response actions, establishes procedures for security controls, and helps municipalities prepare their own contingency plans. All of our plants covered under the pertinent legislation have up-to-date Dam Safety Plans, with the necessary steps to prevent risks GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | EU21 Annual Report 2019 43 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Americana SHPP (SP) All of our units classified as A or B have drawn up their respective Dam Safety Plans (PSB), which include a list of steps necessary to avoid risks and take action in case of noncompliance. The PAE, which is part of these plants’ PSB, was duly delivered to city administrators and civil defense forces in order to be incorporated into local contingency plans. One example of our commitment to safety is CPFL Renováveis’s actions at Americana SHPP, located on the Atibaia River close to the city of Americana (São Paulo). In 2016, we identified the need to carry out maintenance on a dam gate, even though this did not present an immediate risk for the structure’s safety. Nevertheless, the company undertook actions to improve the structure, and as a preventive measure requested that the asset be classified under a more significant risk category (risk A) and readjusted the PAE in order to align it to the new situation. A year later, after completing our interventions and being evaluated by regulatory bodies, the asset was once again given a lower risk rating (risk B). In the meantime, the Legislative Assembly of the state of São Paulo created a Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry (CPI) to assess the plant's safety conditions. The company's leadership presented state legislators with technical details of this process and also of the differences between the types of dams that exist in Brazil – explaining that the construction model for Small Hydroelectric Power Plants (SHPPs) is distinct from dams containing mine tailings and runoff. GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | EU21 Annual Report 2019 44 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more In addition to dialoguing with public authorities, CPFL Renováveis was a pioneer in Brazil when it participated in drills held in the municipalities of Americana and Limeira to train the population about what to do in case of an incident. State and Three ongoing Research SDG municipal civil defense forces coordinated the drill, which also included the Civil and Development (R&D) projects and Military Police and the Fire Department. All planning was carried out based on are linked to the improvement of dam-safety AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY the PAE presented to the regulatory bodies. It was the first time that a drill like this monitoring processes was carried out at an SHPP in the state of São Paulo. To reinforce our commitment to safety, we also reinforced communications with the general public through social networks, with informative ads and videos that INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE explained the status of the dam and its safety conditions. Finite Elements This project seeks to build a real-time monitoring system for dams using the finite element method, based on data from a fully automated station and instrument readings. The system will also Watch the allow us to carry out simulations in the structure under different PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS CPFL Renováveis video scenarios. The plan is to complete this project by May 2021. about the safety of the dam in Americana Slope Monitoring The objective is to reconstruct hydroelectric dam slopes threedimensionally through images made by specialized and autonomous drones. As a result, it will be possible to monitor the integrity of these structures and schedule safety and maintenance interventions. The plan is to complete this project by February 2021. Tunnel Inspection This seeks to develop an autonomous underwater vehicle to inspect the structure of adduction channels through 3D mapping. The plan is to complete this project by May 2021. GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | EU21 Annual Report 2019 45 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Climate change Climate change generates significant impacts for the entire energy sector. Changes in rainfall We are leaders in the How we operate under climate In 2019, we integrated patterns and other atmospheric conditions can CDP Supply Chain, a program that engages change scenarios CPFL Renováveis into our GHG-emissions negatively affect both hydroelectric generation inventory in proportion companies committed capacity and energy distribution as the result to promoting supplier to our new share in the of greater risks to the network’s integrity engagement in company (99.94%). We monitoring GHG conducted a study to from more severe storms. However, demands emissions and assessing harmonize activity data, to decarbonize the energy matrix creates climate change risks. Engagement with emission factors, and associations Assessment of data collection via the opportunities to expand our generation from scope 1, 2, online system. renewable sources and to develop projects that and 3 emissions emit less CO2 into the atmosphere. Report to CDP and t GH In order to deal with such a complex scenario, Public Emissions en n ma G e Analysis of m e otio na emission-reduction SDG we have structured a model that establishes Registry measures En m s and ga ion four fronts of action (see diagram). In 2019, iss t CLIMATE this management system was driven by two pr g Move forward m men ACTION commitments made in our Sustainability Plan: o ge in our role in facing the challenges of climate • Achieve a 10% reduction in our carbon change and sustainability, while enhancing the intensity by 2024 creation of value for nt Identification all stakeholders pp of c of risks and • Communicate the steps we are taking I nn or l i m a t e opportunities to adapt to climate change Focus on tun the development ovat ities io n e of low carbon a g em o In 2019, we initiated products Ma n d Creation k s an the process of ris of mitigation renewing the carbon credit-generation plans period of five CPFL Transfer of 16 electric cars Innovative Renováveis CDM to the company's fleet in solutions for our projects, and in 2020 2019 resulted in 53,000 Working with we started assessing operations carbon pricing liters in fuel savings. a project that will generate new credits for trading. GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 Annual Report 2019 46 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more GHG emissions management In the course of preparing our annual emissions inventory we Biomass plant in monitor the volume of GHG released into the atmosphere as a Pirassununga (SP) result of our activities. Our inventory follows the guidelines and methodology proposed by the Brazilian GHG Protocol Program and is published in the Public Emissions Registry, and stamped with the Gold Seal as a result of being submitted to third party verification. In scope 1, our emissions totaled 425,354 tCO2e, a reduction of 39% from the previous year. Composed of direct emissions from our operations, this category was impacted by less demand for power from Epasa and by the consolidation of CPFL Renováveis data proportional to our share stake which increased to 99.94%. In scope 2, mainly composed of technical losses in distribution, we totaled 359,285 tCO2e in 2019, a slight increase of 3.4% that accompanies the increase in the National Interconnected System’s (SIN) emission factor. In scope 3, we emitted 32,816 tCO2e, a reduction of 80% due to a period in which there was no power plant construction. This scope includes business trips, commutes, purchase of materials (steel, aluminum, cement, among others), and treatment of effluent and solid waste from operations. Since 2018 we have been studying the data collected to develop 759.9 GHG EMISSION INVENTORY (thousand tCO2e) mechanisms to reduce or offset our emissions. This work has been 695.1 carried out by an interdisciplinary working group and monitored by the Sustainability Committee. 425.4 423.3 347.3 359.3 159.3 Scope 1 emissions in 2019 32.8 decreased by 39% from the 8.9 previous year SCOPE 1 SCOPE 2 SCOPE 3 2017 2018 2019 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 305-1 | 305-2 | 305-3 Annual Report 2019 47 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Management of climate risks and opportunities Our business model can be positively or negatively impacted by Risks and opportunities for physical parameters climate change intensification. To measure this effect on our value chain, we compiled a Map of Climate Risks and Opportunities, a tool that classifies these events into three categories: changes in Less rainfall Extreme weather events regulation, changes in physical parameters, and changes in other • A reduction in precipitation may • Storms pose risks to the plants’ physical affect our plants’ availability for structures due to the dramatic increase in parameters. generating electricity, in addition water volume in reservoirs. In contrast, heat Hydroto causing conflicts over the use waves can increase water evaporation and eletricity of water for other purposes compromise water availability for generation Regulation • Risks may be related to the creation of carbon taxation. However, there are opportunities for cap-and-trade systems. Wind intensity For example, we estimate a revenue-generation potential • Changes that affect the intensity, duration, direction and speed of winds can make by selling approximately 1 million carbon credits per year in generation in wind complexes more unstable projects registered under the CDM. Wind • There are opportunities to increase renewable generation through incentives that make new energy sources more competitive. Changes in precipitation and temperature patterns • This condition impacts cloud formation and can reduce the incidence of solar radiation, compromising the generation capacity of solar parks Solar Physical parameters • Risks and opportunities are split between the business in which we operate and, in generation, Changes in precipitation and temperature patterns for each energy source (learn more to the right). • These conditions also affect the distribution of land suitable for agricultural cultivation and crop productivity, which may reduce the availability of biomass for generation Biomass Other parameters • One of the main impacts is on the electricity consumption Changes in Increased incidence of storms, profile. Demand for energy tends to increase with greater temperature extremes lightning and wind intensity use of climate control equipment (such as air conditioning) • Longer periods of heat or • More frequent and intense storms and lightning in our concession area. cold can increase electricity strikes affect our distribution network, which consumption, overloading could interrupt supply, as well as increasing costs • The demand for distributed-generation systems and energydistribution systems in our most from network maintenance and reimbursement efficiency services creates opportunities for CPFL Soluções, Distribution critical operating regions to customers in the event of damage to their which has experience and can offer complete services to electronic devices customers. GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 201-2 Annual Report 2019 48 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more We started mapping out the possible financial impacts of climate change. In terms of generation, we have invested heavily in dam safety (learn In generation, the main impact is related to the Generation Scaling Factor more on page 43), in addition to seeking improvements in efficiency (GSF). In a scenario of an unfavorable hydrological regime, hydroelectric and operational control with the Avançar Program at CPFL Renováveis. plants are obliged to buy energy from other sources (for example, thermal) This program will centralize the Integrated Operation Center (COI), to honor their contracts, which can generate additional costs for the entire facilitating control over the company's 94 generation assets. More system. We renegotiated this risk for most of our plants, but in 2019 we than 700,000 points are now monitored on a consolidated basis, were exposed to an impact of R$ 24 million. giving more flexibility to the teams' response following weather events, among other operational factors. We have invested in mitigation and adaptation actions that minimize our exposure to risks and ensure a better level of readiness to deal with the irreversible effects of climate change. In regard to our DisCos, we highlight projects that incorporate innovation into management solutions. This is the case of the Weather Translator System (WeTS), which Projects that incorporate innovation into cross-references data from weather forecasts with our operational impact and criticality levels, in proportion to the number of interrupted customers. management solutions ensure a better level of The system uses advanced artificial intelligence techniques and establishes readiness to deal with the impacts of climate change 24-hour and 72-hour scenarios for our entire concession area. Implemented in October 2019 at the DisCos' Operations Centers, the initiative has helped with the planning and allocation of teams in case of storms. The project was also recognized in December with an award by Project Design Management magazine in the category of Innovative Projects in 2019. In 2020, WeTS will be improved thanks to a solution being developed by Pluvi.ON, a startup that participated in the CPFL Inova program and that will use low-cost weather stations to provide data that will provide detailed information to field operations. PixForce, another CPFL Inova participant, is developing a project that will help implement an automated vegetation inspection system in urban networks, reducing the risk of contact with the electricity grid in case of rain. This initiative should boost synergies from the Arborização + Segura ( Safer Tree Planting ) project which focuses on replacing trees in cities with species that are better suited for the urban environment – thanks to the planned development of an algorithm to identify tree types (learn more on page 54). CPFL employees GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 201-2 Annual Report 2019 49 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Low-carbon solutions Our operating model creates opportunities for As for renewable energy seals, CPFL Renováveis the sale of carbon credits and renewable-energy has two projects registered in the Renewable Pedra Cheirosa Wind seals. In terms of carbon credits, we have projects Energy Certificate System (RECs), a voluntary Farm (CE) registered both in the regulated market – the Clean platform for trade in renewable energy certificates Development Mechanisms (CDM) and in the that was created by the International Renewable voluntary market Verified Carbon Standard (VCS). Energy Certificate (I-REC Standard) to encourage the development of renewable energy. In 2019, we initiated the process of renewing the carbon credit-generation period of five CPFL Renováveis CDM In 2019, we sold more than 110,000 carbon credits projects, and in 2020 we started assessing a project that (CDM and VCS) and a volume of more than 70,000 will generate new credits for trading. renewable energy seals from the projects below. CDM VCS I-RECs Ceran Monte Claro HPP Barra da Paciência, Ninho da Águia, Corrente Grande, Paiol, São Gonçalo and Várzea Alegre SHPPs Santa Luzia SHPP EURUS I Wind Farm Total 20,150 92,863 71,835 GRI EU5 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 Annual Report 2019 50 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Environmental management SDG Our business model requires that the company have a far-reaching The main effects caused by our assets during the construction phase are related to capacity to manage and monitor environmental impacts. Our the reduction of vegetation, temporary changes in water, air, and soil quality, and LIFE generation, transmission, and distribution assets interfere in varying changes in rivers’ water regimes. All these impacts are evaluated when obtaining the ON LAND ways with their surrounding ecosystems, and therefore our approach preliminary license, by way of environmental impact studies, and classified according seeks to improve the environmental performance of each segment’s to their nature, duration, extent and reversibility. Effects considered irreversible operations. are adequately compensated in accordance with requisites established by the competent agencies. The guidelines and processes we have adopted are unified in the Environmental Management System (EMS), and calibrated according to all the legal requirements applicable to generation, transmission, and distribution projects. Through this platform we ensure compliance with environmental licenses across all operations and direct our investments towards projects that add value to the entire production chain. Environmental licensing processes are supported by preliminary studies that identify the potential effects of our projects, and we apply the precautionary principle to minimize these impacts and mitigate risks. The same procedure occurs during the other phases of projects, using constructive techniques in the installation stage and efficient control systems in the operation stage to avoid environmental damage. Biodiversity The installation of generating plants and transmission and distribution lines constitute the business areas with the greatest potential to impact biodiversity. In line with prevailing legislation and our EMS, we carry out environmental impact studies that identify changes in ecosystems and support the creation of mitigation and compensation action plans. Part of our operations involves working with regulatory bodies to secure environmental licenses for the execution of projects. Monte Claro HPP (RS) GRI 102-11 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 304-2 Annual Report 2019 51 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more During the operation phase, the impact on biodiversity is positive due to the Foz do Rio Choró Wind maintenance of preservation areas and, in the case of hydroelectric plants, to Farm (CE) the conservation of vegetation along the edges of the reservoirs. In 2019, 348.9 hectares were planted at the Foz do Chapecó, Luís Eduardo Magalhães and Epasa plants, in which CPFL Energia holds a stake. Considering all the plants owned by CPFL Geração, CPFL Renováveis, and in which we hold a stake, the total protected area last year was 17,784 hectares (equivalent to almost half of the municipality of Jundiaí, in São Paulo), including the Permanent Protection Areas and Legal Reserves. The impacts on the local fauna are evaluated in accordance with the characteristics of each generating source. At our wind farms, one of the main risks refers to birds and bats colliding with wind-turbine blades. At hydroelectric plants, the main impacts are related to fish getting trapped in the turbines, and possible interference in their reproductive cycles. These aspects are managed by monitoring the fauna, chasing them away, or through rescue SDG programs, where applicable. DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH The fauna-monitoring campaigns are tied to the measurement of the generating plants’ environmental impacts. Generally, the maintenance of Impacts of renewable generation conservation areas helps restore local fauna and increase the availability of suitable habitats for the protection of endangered species. These campaigns SUSTAINABLE CITIES The projects under construction by CPFL Renováveis can generate sociofollow specific timelines that depend on each unit’s environmental license. The AND COMMUNITIES environmental impacts as a result of the work’s interference in the community's extinction risks of identified species are cataloged according to local, national, daily life, such as temporary increases in the population due to the arrival of and International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) lists. workers, pressure on local infrastructure, and increased traffic on back roads, to name a few. On the other hand, there are positive impacts that benefit the entire In the transmission and distribution segments, the main effects are associated LIFE ON LAND local community as a result of job creation, higher tax revenues for the municipality, with line construction, which often requires plant suppression and can alter and incentives for local economic growth. the local landscape, flora, and fauna. In these situations we carefully conduct In 2019, the company started construction on the Gameleiras Wind Complex, but all the legal requirements involved in environmental licensing, minimizing the impacts described above have not yet been observed. This is because we have impacts and compensating them accordingly. The network layout, for example, merely engaged the contractor, but have yet to carry out any construction activities. PARTNERSHIPS is defined after considering the least possible impact on isolated forests and FOR THE GOALS To mitigate the negative impacts, provide clear and transparent information, and trees. In stretches where it is not possible to change the location of the towers enhance the positive effects of the project, we installed a Social Communication Center (CEC) in the Boqueirão community, which is close to the wind farm. The and wires, we increase the height of the structures to avoid interacting with center provides a place for dialogue between the company and the community, the local vegetation. allowing the strengthening of relationships and the peaceful resolution of conflicts and disagreements. GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 304-2 | 304-3 | 413-1 | EU13 Annual Report 2019 52 CPFL Energia WATER Stages of the project: Approximately 45,000 people live in the 1 municipalities of João Câmara and São Miguel do SECURITY Gostoso, both in the state of Rio Grande do Norte. This is a region of stunning natural landscapes and Preliminary participatory strong winds, typical of the Brazilian Northeast, but diagnosis of the with a chronic problem: the local population’s lack water situation in the of access to water. Located in the Brazilian semiarid communities involved region, it is common for both cities to declare a state of emergency as a result of droughts. 2 The Water Security Project, part of the Raízes Program for social development carried out by CPFL Conducting community Renováveis, helped transform the situation of 807 work to reform local families in nine rural communities in regions where families’ plate cisterns the company operates wind generation projects. This initiative was conducted between 2016 and 3 2019, in partnership with the Local Economic Development Agency (Adel) and Transforma Aí, a consultancy specializing in social impact projects. Implementation of simplified water-supply Based on a participatory diagnosis, the project systems for homes led to the installation and renovation of cisterns to store drinking water and the development of 4 irrigation structures for subsistence agriculture and the sale of surpluses, depending on the needs of each region. Moreover, families were trained to Implementation of carry out collective and collaborative management irrigation systems of their water supply structures, creating a permanent legacy for the entire population. 5 Technical and organizational training with communities for efficient management and operation of 629 278 449 R$ 3.5 solutions, technologies and systems implemented families with access to desalinated families with access to families trained in collaborative and collective management of million for water security water for human desalinated water supply structures at the invested in the consumption water for community level project irrigation Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy solutions Smart Solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Arborização + Segura Planting saplings in São Leopoldo (RS) ( Safer Tree Planting ) Project In the municipalities served by our energy DisCos, the focus is on promoting a safer and more harmonious interaction between vegetation and electrical networks. Since 2015, we have carried out the Arborização + Segura project, which replaces large trees with species that are better adapted to urban environments. Each year the initiative is expanded to more cities in our concession areas through partnerships and agreements with local city governments. In the past year, the project reached SDG 37 municipalities in the states of São Paulo, Paraná and Rio Grande do Sul. In the past five years we invested more than AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY R$ 2 million in urban reforestation through the replacement of 3,400 trees and the donation of 20,000 seedlings. Among the species donated are quaresmeira, manacá-da-serra, aroeira, pitangueira, and cereja-do-rio-grande, among others. The seedlings are already at a minimum size, which ensures greater SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES likelihood of rooting and less risk of loss from vandalism. In addition to replacing trees, we develop environmental education campaigns in schools, guiding teachers and educators on how they can communicate with students about how to care for the plants properly. CLIMATE ACTION This project contributes both to expanding green coverage in urban areas and to creating a financial return for the company in terms of avoided network-maintenance costs. In 2019, we carried out a calculation of return on investment (ROI) on this project’s sustainability, which demonstrated the cost-benefit of replacing LIFE ON LAND and planting trees more compatible with aerial networks. PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS Click here to learn more about Arborização + Segura GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 304-2 Annual Report 2019 54 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Waste and reverse chain In the energy-distribution segment, the generation and proper disposal of waste materials are critical in guaranteeing our businesses’ SDG sustainable performance. To reduce our environmental footprint, we have addressed these issues in our Sustainability Plan RESPONSIBLE commitments. Our goal is to refurbish and reuse at least 40,000 pieces CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION of equipment in the distribution networks by 2024 and to direct 100% of the main components removed from the network to recycling or reverse chain systems. To this end, and based on the principle of the circular economy, we have structured a more efficient solution to treat 640 tonnes of waste generated monthly by DisCos located in the state of São Paulo. Every month our Equipment Refurbisher evaluates 765 transformers and Equipment voltage regulators that would otherwise be discarded and manages to Refurbisher in São José rehabilitate 60% of them for reuse. do Rio Pardo (SP) Among the materials that need to be disposed of, copper is sent to cable factories, which recycle the material and return it to the company at a lower cost compared to new products. For other types of waste, such as utility poles and electric insulators, we are able to add value and At CPFL Renováveis units this process is controlled by means of sell them to licensed and approved recycling companies and groups. specific forms that analyze the waste that is potentially generated and evaluate the compliance of transporters, vehicles and professionals Since 2017 this process of recirculating materials has generated revenue hired to dispose hazardous materials. In 2019, we generated a total of of approximately R$ 146 million and has generated around 200 direct approximately 1,200 tons of class I waste. jobs, in addition to the environmental benefits from pollution controls and reducing the use of natural resources. In the state of São Paulo, 100% of our waste is reused, and we are evaluating mechanisms to expand the practice to Rio Grande do Sul. In 2019, the Equipment Refurbisher updated Acting on this performance model is possible because we have a waste around 9,000 transformers. The company was management program that identifies and classifies disposable materials recently certified according to ISO 14001 in our operations. For hazardous waste (class I), we have storage and transportation standards, in addition to appropriate forms of disposal (environmental management) and ISO 9001 that comply with current legislation. (quality management) standards GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 306-2 Annual Report 2019 55 CPFL Energia 4. SMART SOLUTIONS Smart meters Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Smart solutions Digital connectivity between people and equipment, provided by the evolution of telecommunication technologies, has led to a paradigm shift in the energy sector. The Internet of Things (IoT ), a comprehensive concept to define how vehicles, appliances, and other devices are increasingly connected to the internet, redefined the way customers relate to the entire energy universe. Our strategic vision is to promote the construction of a more reliable and secure network, with significant investments in expansion, automation, modernization of equipment, and innovation to generate more efficient consumption of energy resources. To this end, in 2019 we invested R$ 2 billion to improve the quality of distribution services for customers, and over the next five years we plan to invest R$ 11.6 billion on projects that will improve the attendance and the quality of services provided to customers in our concession area. CPFL Energia customer We plan to invest R$ 11.6 billion over the next five years on projects that will improve the attendance and quality of services provided to customers in our concession area GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | EU6 Annual Report 2019 57 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more INVESTMENT IN ITEMS RELATED TO THE RELIABILITY AND AVAILABILITY OF ENERGY IN DISTRIBUTION (R$ million) 2017 2018 2019 Customer service* 314.3 283.8 293.8 Investment in reliability and availability Support for market growth 397.6 228.8 400.4 in energy distribution reached R$ 2 billion, Maintenance and improvements to the electrical system** 1,010.4 997.5 1,154.1 an increase of 13% from the previous year Others 160.3 259.5 185.0 Total 1,882.6 1,769.6 2,003.3 * Includes recovery of commercial losses. Net special obligation values. ** Includes special projects, personnel capitalization, MSO, and logistics operator. SYSTEM AVERAGE INTERRUPTION DURATION INDEX (SAIDI) 2017 2018 2019 Our DisCos are benchmarks because of the high quality levels reached, measured by two main indicators related to energy supply SAIDI CPFL Paulista 7.14 6.17 6.72 (duration of interruptions) and SAIFI (frequency of interruptions). In CPFL Piratininga 6.97 5.92 6.48 2019, our levels were steady in comparison to the previous year, despite CPFL Santa Cruz 6.20 6.01 5.56 the greater intensity of rainfall that led to more incidents involving the RGE1 14.17 13.43 14.01 electricity grid. RGE Sul 15.58 15.56 Consolidated CPFL Group 2 9.40 8.62 8.83 EVOLUTION OF DISCOS’ 1 In 2019, includes consolidated data for RGE and RGE Sul due to the unification of the DisCos. 2 Calculated based on the weighted average number of customers of each DisCo and the value calculated for the SAIDI. QUALITY INDICATORS SDG 9.40 SYSTEM AVERAGE INTERRUPTION FREQUENCY INDEX (SAIFI) 8.83 AFFORDABLE AND 8.62 CLEAN ENERGY 2017 2018 2019 5.69 CPFL Paulista 4.94 4.03 4.38 4.68 4.93 CPFL Piratininga 4.45 3.87 4.34 INDUSTRY, INNOVATION CPFL Santa Cruz 5.12 5.09 4.25 AND INFRASTRUCTURE 2017 2018 2019 RGE1 7.74 6.30 6.25 RGE Sul 7.62 5.89 SAIDI System Average Interruption Duration Index (in hours) Consolidated CPFL Group 2 5.69 4.68 4.93 SAIFI System Average Interruption Frequency Index (in number) 1 In 2019, includes consolidated data for RGE and RGE Sul due to the unification of the DisCos. 2 Calculated based on the weighted average number of customers of each DisCo and the value calculated for the SAIFI. GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | EU6 | EU28 | EU29 Annual Report 2019 58 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Efficiency and quality One of the main fronts on which we are working to offer an increasingly reliable network and to continuously improve our operations with technology and innovation is the ADMS Program (Advanced Distribution Management Systems). The implementation of the new platform at the DisCos’ Integrated Operation Centers in São Paulo and Rio Grande do Sul has been underway since 2018 and is expected to be completed by 2022, with total investment of R$ 47 million. In 2019, we focused on developing CPFL’s specific needs, importing electrical assets that will be operated by the system in the future, adjusting our satellite systems so that we are ready to communicate with the ADMS, and testing units to ensure the systems’ correct functioning before coming online. This solution will improve the quality of our distribution networks’ operations. The high degree of process digitalization and automation, integrating different operating systems, creates opportunities for our specialists to expand data analysis in order to identify and propose SDG structural improvements, while autonomous mechanisms organize the AFFORDABLE AND various tasks to ensure energy supply and meet customer demands. CLEAN ENERGY Integrated Operation Center (COI) in Campinas (SP) INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE With the implementation of ADMS, we will transform the way we manage and act on our networks, bringing our distribution SUSTAINABLE CITIES operations to a new level of efficiency and quality AND COMMUNITIES GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | EU6 Annual Report 2019 59 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more With the completion of the ADMS, we will transform the way we manage and act on our networks. We will make progress on selfTelecom Operations Center in Campinas (SP) healing actions (automatic reconfiguration of the network in case of supply interruptions), in locating interruptions and dispatching of maintenance teams, in the identification of technical losses, and various other activities that we carry out daily to maximize operational quality and efficiency. Together with the ADMS, we carried out several other strategic planning projects to transform our operations. These initiatives include improvements in the dispatch of teams, scheduling service orders requested by customers, and efficiency gains from the reduction of trips to handle unfounded calls, among others. We have also taken steps in structuring our analytics tools to evaluate and interpret the large volume of operational information we have in our databases, seeking to identify opportunities for generating synergies and scalability in management processes. On the engineering front, our investments are directed towards the technological evolution of the network, with the installation of more intelligent and remote-controlled equipment. Automatic reclosers, capable of resuming operation automatically when there SDG are improper interventions in the network, are an example of this progress. In 2019, we reached a total of 11,400 reclosers connected ChatBot: innovation and technology in operations AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY to our network – 16% growth in a year-over-year comparison – and we expect to more than double that number by 2027. Our operation teams have an important ally when it comes to improving the quality, agility and value of our business. A ChatBot system was developed to One of the commitments we assume in our Sustainability Plan is to automate the flow of communication of relevant deadlines and information in real time. The system will improve the management of emergency and commercial invest a total of R$ 350 million in network automation by 2024. This INDUSTRY, INNOVATION service calls awaiting execution. It also manages information on major events and AND INFRASTRUCTURE will allow us to achieve significant reductions in supply interruptions shutdowns that impact productivity. and in dispatching teams on maintenance calls, benefiting customers The system automatically sends and receives messages through an instant with better quality and speed, at the same time that we reduce the messaging application using the operation's database. One example of the tool’s environmental impacts of vehicle use and fuel consumption. application is when a customer requests the reconnection of their power and the deadline to do so is close to expiring. In this case, ChatBot identifies the deadline conditions and makes the decision to send messages to the operations center and to the field teams with the information relevant to the service. GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | EU6 Annual Report 2019 60 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more In Rio Grande do Sul, a state in which RGE serves 381 municipalities, our plan is to strengthen distribution networks through backups that will ensure supply in the event of interruptions in locations not supported by electrical substations. This is an initiative that adapts Transmission towers in our operations to regulatory parameters and will lead to Campinas (SP) improved service for customers. Our investments have also allowed us to install new utility poles that make use of self-grounding, a solution created under our Research & Development program. By using new compounds in concrete, this technology allows the hardware mounted on the utility pole to conduct surges into the ground, where the energy dissipates. The innovation increases safety for the population and simplifies the conventional grounding process, which uses copper wires and presents greater risks of failure due to corrosion or vandalism. By 2019, a total of 78,011 self-grounding poles were already installed in our concession area. One of the commitments we make in our Sustainability Plan is to invest a total of R$ 350 million in network automation by 2024 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | EU6 Annual Report 2019 61 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Telecommunications infrastructure To maximize the positive impacts of the automation and digitalization processes of our distribution networks, our operations need to be connected through a reliable, secure, and resilient infrastructure. Telecommunication between remote-controlled equipment and the integrated SDG operations center is ensured in São Paulo by our own network, which boosts the quality and efficiency of our operations. In Rio Grande do Sul, a state served by RGE, we are evaluating ways to AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY achieve the same level of reliability in network interconnections. INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE Expansion of our telecommunications structure in 2019 Addition of R$ 14 million 85% of substations The fiber optic network is 95% of the 250 kilometers invested in 2019 are served by their own present in concession area in SUSTAINABLE CITIES of fiber optic cables communication systems 24 municipalities, the state of São Paulo with more than has its own voice AND COMMUNITIES Installation of 1,300 kilometers communication Construction of 59 new radio of optical cables links system 19 towers CLIMATE ACTION 66% Digital radio 34% Fiber optics 409,230 Avoided emission 136,410 Average reduction telecommands and of 1,637 tCO2e hours of 25 minutes in the time it telemeter readings into the atmosphere from saved in team takes to restore power to the population using the network use of vehicles* movements** in 28,742 outages*** *Considering average travel of 20 km (round **Considering an average time ***Considering time of 25 minutes (travel, trip) per operation or reading and 200 g/km of 20 minutes (round trip) per identification, signaling the area, and action) of CO2 emissions for diesel trucks, according movement and a total of 409,230 multiplied by 28,742 recloser operations in 2019. to CO2 emission data for motor vehicles movements avoided in 2019. released by INMETRO in 2019. GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | EU6 Annual Report 2019 62 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Smart grid is the future One of the main positive impacts of the Internet of Things in the of 6,643 smart meters for Group A consumers in our concession electricity distribution segment is the opportunity to create intelligent, area. In 2019, we swapped out meters for 2,320 customers, and SDG automated and interconnected networks. Remote measurement of the plan is to complete all replacements by December 2020. AFFORDABLE AND customer consumption is one possibility that is already underway in our CLEAN ENERGY concession area. Since 2018, CPFL Santa Cruz has been running a pilot Thanks to remote metering, not only will our customers’ project to install smart meters throughout the municipality of Jaguariúna relationships to energy consumption be transformed, but so (São Paulo), with a population of approximately 51,000 inhabitants. As of will the entire distribution networks’ operation model. The last year, about 20,300 new pieces of equipment had been swapped out, opportunities and possibilities that arise from automation and INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE and by August 2020 this phase of the project will be completed, with a digitalization of the supply-monitoring and consumption-billing total of 22,700 meters installed. processes will provide greater quality and agility in services, provision of information, loss prevention, and equipment Another front in this project is our evaluation of different technologies maintenance and intervention models. SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES for connecting smart meters to our operation centers. In Jaguariúna, we will test four options (MESH, LoRa, LTE and PLC) to identify the best We estimate that we will invest R$ 5.5 billion over ten years to solution depending on the network’s physical parameters, consumer incorporate this model across our concession area. To become unit’s location, external interference, and other factors. Investment in the a reality, this scenario – which already exists in Europe and the project will total R$ 26 million. United States – will require regulation updates for the sector and judicious evaluations of return on capital. One of the main advantages smart meters offer our customers is the possibility of monitoring energy consumption through applications that indicate the days and times when there is greater consumption. With this information, consumers can adapt their daily habits to secure more efficiency and savings. In 2019, we launched a beta version of a tool with this functionality for user tests and evaluations. Approximately 20,300 new smart meters For Group A (high voltage) consumers, formed by companies with a high consumption load, remote readings have been a reality since 2016. DisCos in São Paulo state have applied this technology to customers, and in 2020 have already been installed in the city of RGE will also cover its entire concession area. In Rio Grande do Sul, R$ 32.2 million will be invested in this initiative, and as a result we will have a total Jaguariúna, in the countryside of São Paulo GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | EU6 Annual Report 2019 63 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Focus on the customer Consumers increasingly take the lead when it comes to their relationship to companies that offer products and provide services. As a result of this change, we have placed the customer at the center of our business strategy, and we seek Evolution of indicators innovations that improve customer interactions with our company, thereby over the past four years increasing satisfaction with our services. Customer satisfaction increases when we invest to improve responses to service requests and complaints. Our development In this sense, we have invested to improve communication channels to make requests of action plans and methodologies for continuous improvement more efficient and agile. In 2019, we created an analytics center for the commercial has led to significant achievements on the company’s main area to optimize responses at the call center, with cost reductions and efficiency gains. relationship fronts. On the DisCos' website, we provide a FAQ with simple answers to frequently asked questions, and created Conta Fácil, which presents simplified graphics and information so customers can have a better understanding of their energy consumption. In three months of operation, Conta Fácil was accessed more than 72,000 times. REDUCTIONS 93% in commercial services provided Customer service outside the regulatory period 82% in FER – an indicator that measures the number of complaints per thousand customers SDG 69% in the number of AFFORDABLE AND consumer complaints CLEAN ENERGY 93% in servicing complaints outside the regulatory period INDUSTRY, INNOVATION 61% in the number of complaints filed with Ombudsman AND INFRASTRUCTURE 88% in complaints regarding deadlines 2019 data compared to 2015. GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | EU24 Annual Report 2019 64 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more We also made progress in digitalizing tools, boosting self-service RGE meter reader options in the smartphone application, DisCos' websites, and the totems available at brick-and-mortar agencies. In addition to making the channels more agile and intuitive, we expanded the range of services that can be requested on them. These initiatives join the digital video service that we launched in 2018, in which customers ask questions and receive guidance from a human attendant on an audio and video platform. This growth will continue in 2020 as we expand the number of cities served by video service totems. Another initiative we are working on is expanding the use of ChatBot, a new service channel offered on our website since December 2019. In 2019 we also initiated plans to implement a model agency in Combating losses the city of Campinas, São Paulo, a municipality in the CPFL Paulista Investment in automation and digital government to offer low-income families concession area and home to the holding company’s headquarters. technologies also helps combat total energy discounts of up to 65% in their energy bills. In The agency was designed to offer an even more welcoming and losses in our concession area. By using analytics the past year, the number of our customers responsive experience to customers needing any kind of service. The and data-checking tools we have been able to receiving the benefit increased by 44%, covering new space will have the technological structure needed to support identify frauds more quickly, improving methods a total of 366,000 families. digital services, as well as in-person support from our employees. for cutting-off service and regulating facilities. In 2019, even with the country’s unfavorable economic scenario and high unemployment LOSSES IN ENERGY DISTRIBUTION rates – conditions that have historically impacted DisCos' losses – we managed to reduce the total 8.91% 9.03% 8.89% index, mitigating the negative effects of the 2.2 million customers have registered market. In the non-technical losses segment, we focused on developing and implementing 2.77% 2.80% 2.76% to receive energy bills by email, new shielding technologies, which will provide greater benefits in 2020. which generates savings of 3 MWh Our commercial activities also focus on 6.14% 6.23% 6.13% at printing centers reducing the risk of default, which generates inconveniences for our customers and can cause 2017 2018 2019 supply interruptions. We intensified efforts to register customers who qualify for the Social Technical Energy Tariff, a program created by the federal Non-technical GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | EU12 | EU24 Annual Report 2019 65 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Innovation and growth Innovation is the lever that boosts our connection to SDG the energy sector’s modernization trends, allowing QUALITY us to anticipate opportunities and create solutions EDUCATION that increase our operational efficiency and customer satisfaction. We believe that innovation culture must be continuously strengthened among our employees through training, proposal of new ideas, and openness AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY to experimentation. DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH How we develop innovation CPFL Energia customer at our company INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES Strengthening Relationship Structural Operational the innovation with startups projects excellence projects culture Based mainly on the Developing long-term Initiatives focused on CLIMATE ACTION Actions focused on CPFL Inova program, we seek innovations focused on improving the provision employees to create to strengthen the company's the future of the electric of services and current a favorable environment relationship with the startups sector, accompanying operations, aimed for proposing and ecosystem and provide a favorable technology trends and at increasing implementing environment for experimentation, new business models customer satisfaction PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS new ideas prototyping, testing and adjustments (iteration) GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | EU8 Annual Report 2019 66 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more One of our main initiatives is the Trilha de Inovação (“Innovation Trail”), a training and development program led by Universidade CPFL that offers practical tools for collaboration, experimentation, multidisciplinarity and empathy, in order to transform employees in multipliers of this culture. SDG In its first edition in 2018, the Trilha trained more than 400 employees in 232 different business areas. In 2019, we expanded the program QUALITY EDUCATION by training another 300 employees – and the 100% approval rating of trained employees deserves mention. At the business level, we have an internal innovation-consulting AFFORDABLE AND structure that supports different areas in their development of CLEAN ENERGY new projects and solutions through recognized and widespread methodologies such as Design Thinking. We also organize Innovation Week every year, an event that includes corporate initiatives and special lectures on the topic for employees. DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH Another important action directed at our professionals is INLAB, an “ideas program” that seeks to engage them in the development of innovative solutions, thereby fostering intrapreneurship and a collaborative culture INDUSTRY, INNOVATION at the company. The program is divided into two parts: in the first, via an Training at AND INFRASTRUCTURE online platform the employee can input ideas for the challenges that are Universidade CPFL posted on occasion; then some proposals are selected and the best ones are worked on in-person, with mentors helping prepare a pitch to be presented to the challenge committee. At each stage the employee is rewarded with SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES awards and experiences. During the first three months of the program, 143 suggestions were entered and 6 were selected for implementation. In 2019, we invested approximately Our Research & Development (R&D) program, carried out with investments R$ 44 million in Research and CLIMATE that follow ANEEL criteria, is another front that opens up room for ACTION innovation. In this regard, our biggest initiative is the CPFL Inova Development (R&D) programs program, which helps accelerate startups with disruptive projects targeting the electricity sector. In 2019, we carried out the project’s second edition and selected 12 scale-ups for acceleration, all of them PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS connected to issues of energy consumption, operational efficiency, digital transformation and smart cities. More than 490 companies have signed up to participate in the selection process. GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | EU8 Annual Report 2019 67 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more During a five-month period, the selected scale-ups were Four projects to develop electric mobility solutions are set to be developed within the mentored by company executives and guests from the scope of item 22/2018 of ANEEL's Strategic Research and Development Project. Endeavor network, which promotes entrepreneurship Click on each one to learn more about the objective and stage of development. and has connections to some of Brazil’s most prominent SDG business leaders. Based on this initial guidance, QUALITY the selected startups managed to increase their EDUCATION revenue by 49.8% during the acceleration period and Electric Mobility Develop a new charging generate more jobs, with an increase in the number Services Platform station concept of employees (from 496 to 605). Overall, the second OBJECTIVE OBJECTIVE edition of CPFL Inova generated R$ 7 million in new Create a link between the end user and Identify the optimal solution for AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY business with participants. the owner of the charging infrastructure, integration with the concept providing interoperability of smart cities One of the biggest opportunities for innovation Click here to learn more Click here to learn more in our sector is in electric mobility. Advancements DECENT WORK AND in electric engines for commercial and passenger ECONOMIC GROWTH vehicles, in addition to other types of transportation, will require the creation of a more robust, digitalized, and connected energy infrastructure. This vision guided our creation of the Emotive program, an R&D INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE initiative that during a five-year period has evaluated possible business models for battery recharging and customer service. In 2020, our strategic vision will Back include continued work on the topic. Our Sustainability to top SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES Plan includes investment of R$ 45 million in the development of technologies for electric mobility through 2024. Electrification of 100% of CPFL “Second Life”: reutilization of used Piratininga's operational fleet in the electric-vehicle batteries CLIMATE city of Indaiatuba OBJECTIVE ACTION OBJECTIVE Reduce the risks related to the electric-vehicle Test adequacy of different vehicle models resale market, increasing the potential in DisCo's field operations; evaluate a for adopting the technology; mitigate critical adoption scenario; and internalize environmental impacts related to premature PARTNERSHIPS knowledge for future expansion disposal; and maximize battery capitalization, the FOR THE GOALS most expensive component of an electric vehicle Click here to learn more Click here to learn more GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | EU8 Annual Report 2019 68 CPFL Energia A friendly and playful scientist with a not-so-subtle mustache arrived on the scene in 2019: Professor Energia, a character we created for a series of tutorial videos available on social networks and offline media to teach our customers how to use DisCos' digital channels to more easily and quickly request services. The videos, published on platforms such as YouTube, teach customers how to request a duplicate copy of their electricity bill, alert us to power outages, update the customer name on the account, and various other types of functions. An innovative and fun way to provide our customers with information. Wearing his distinctive white lab coat, Professor Energia was introduced to the public on July 19 via a teleportation machine set up at Praça Rui Barbosa, one of the busiest places in the city of Campinas, São Paulo. The blue booth provided an interactive way for customers to enter the digital world and learn about the various services that can be requested through the website or via the cell phone app. Professor Energia videos were viewed more than 780,000 PROFESSOR ENERGIA times Click here to watch the series of Professor Energia videos 5. SOCIETY SHARED VALUE CPFL nos Hospitais Program Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Society shared value Our business model generates positive impacts on society and on the value chain that go beyond the safe and reliable supply of renewable electricity. We have a management structure and tools that help maximize the various benefits of safety campaigns to raise people's awareness, engage with our suppliers to adopt good environmental management and compliance practices, and provide social investments. This value generation is amplified by the educational and professional actions we carry out, helping society interact more safely and harmoniously with electricity. Information allows communities to work proactively to prevent accidents involving the network and that is why safety is also a priority issue in the relationships we establish with our customers and suppliers. Instituto CPFL is our company’s main channel for connecting to these communities, thanks to projects that reinforce our commitment to sustainable development and valuing people. In 2019, by using resources made possible by tax incentives, our private social investment totaled R$ 39.4 million and allowed us to carry out different initiatives that promote the transformation of local communities. In addition to Instituto CPFL projects, we positively impact communities through the Raízes Program, developed by CPFL Renováveis in those municipalities located in the generating plants’ areas of influence. Started in 2013, Raízes is present in 90 cities in six different states Ceará, Minas Gerais, Rio Grande do Sul, Rio Grande do Norte, Santa Catarina and São Paulo. Raízes Program GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 413-1 Annual Report 2019 71 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more CPFL nos Hospitais Program Launched in 2019, the CPFL nos Hospitais (“CPFL in Hospitals”) Program Using resources from the Energy Efficiency represents the maturation of our strategy to benefit communities and make a positive impact in the locations where we operate. The project Program, the initiative provides hospitals SDG integrates energy efficiency initiatives and private social investment to with solar panels, reducing these institutions’ drive improvements in the service provided by public health institutions, energy costs which are essential for the local population’s quality of life. GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING Photovoltaic system at SOBRAPAR Hospital in AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY Campinas (SP) SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION CLIMATE ACTION PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 Annual Report 2019 72 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Using resources from the Energy Efficiency Program, between now and 2022 our four DisCos will allocate a total of R$ 150 million to benefit around 200 hospitals by installing solar panels and replacing existing lightbulbs with more energy-efficient LED lights, along with other efficient technologies. The expectation is that these actions will allow health institutions to save approximately R$ 18 million a year by reducing their energy bills, an amount sufficient to pay for the medical care of 75,000 additional patients a year. In the long run, represented by the 20-year lifetime of solar panels, savings from lower energy bills could help provide treatment to more than 1.5 million people. The program also provides environmental benefits from prioritizing renewable energy produced from a solar source. In the past year, we identified an initial group of 80 hospitals to be benefited by the Program. Other public and philanthropic institutions can also participate, and these will be engaged as investments and results assessments evolve. The second pillar of the program will be conducted by Instituto CPFL. The goal is to promote humanization and to improve conditions for services, research projects, equipment purchases, and facility repairs. A third action front for the CPFL nos Hospitais Program Energy Efficiency Project in will be fortified thanks to the operating model of CPFL Total, a hospital in Campinas (SP) a company that allows other services and products to be paid for via energy bills. This will allow communities to donate resources to health institutions using this payment method, a practice that already happens in Rio Grande do Sul and By 2022 our four DisCos will have allocated a total of São Paulo, benefitting 94 hospitals through average annual R$ 150 million, benefitting close to 200 hospitals collections of around R$ 3.7 million. GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 Annual Report 2019 73 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more More actions of the Energy Efficiency Program In 2019, we invested a total of R$ 72.4 million in the Another initiative under the Energy Efficiency Click here Energy Efficiency Program, which adheres to ANEEL's Program is the CPFL nas Escolas (“CPFL in Schools”) to watch a video about the regulatory guidelines. The projects we developed have project, which raises student awareness and trains project we carried out in Santa SDG saved approximately 40,000 MWh of energy, enough to them in the conscientious use of electric energy. Maria, Rio Grande do Sul serve around 17,000 residential customers for one year. More than 1,300 teachers and 40,000 students at 400 GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING This saved volume also represents emissions of 2,248 tons educational institutions will benefit from this new of CO 2 , which is equivalent to the planting of 13,400 trees. phase of the initiative that will be completed in 2020. Among the projects developed in 2019, UTI Domiciliar We should also mention the efficiency project (“Home ICUs”) stands out. This program was an RGE at the Santa Maria Air Base, where a Photovoltaic initiative that donated LED lamps and helped install 55 System for Power Generation is being installed, along QUALITY EDUCATION photovoltaic systems serving low-income consumers with replacement of conventional fixtures with LED who use essential life-saving electrical devices at home lighting. Altogether, there are three photovoltaic to care for critical patients. The reduction in total energy generation systems that add a total of 125 kWp of consumption can reach 125.9 MWh and makes it possible power, capable of generating 160 MWh/year. We also for people to maintain these so-called Home ICUs. replaced 6,358 lamps with LED technology lamps. AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY Highlights of the Energy SUSTAINABLE CITIES Efficiency Program AND COMMUNITIES CPFL nas Escolas Truck 254,331 lamps replaced RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION 1,370 connections regularized 107,274 students benefited CLIMATE ACTION 19 hospitals made more efficient 40,000 MWh saved 2,248 tCO e avoided PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS 2 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 Annual Report 2019 74 CPFL Energia CPFL NOS “The Hospital de Caridade São Vicente de Paulo is a highly complex medical center, with The assembly of the equipment was very well executed. As a health institution, we were concerned HOSPITAIS specialists in oncology, neurology, cardiology with the safety of people who were going to work at and orthopedics. Our medical services are elevated heights that pose a risk of falling, but we saw essential for a population of almost 900,000 that all safety standards were followed. people in the city of Jundiaí, in the interior São Our hope is that the energy generated by solar panels Paulo, and neighboring municipalities. will result in savings of around R$ 140,000 a year in In 2019, we registered with the CPFL nos our electricity bill. This money will be invested in R$ 375,000 Hospitais Program and were one of the first health institutions to be benefitted by the other priority areas to serve the population. Especially in 2020, with the arrival of the coronavirus in Brazil invested in the project project. A team of specialized technicians from and the growth of confirmed cases, these financial 15.8 MWh CPFL Energia visited the hospital and developed resources will be very important for our work. a project to install 396 solar panels, making will be generated each month maximum use of the roof area. The panels cover Alexandre Mezei, on average almost a thousand square meters – and we advisor to the Superintendent of the Hospital didn't pay anything for them. de Caridade São Vicente de Paulo Reduced emissions by 14.7 tCO2e The energy is sufficient to guarantee the monthly supply of up to 79 families* *Average consumption of 200 kWh/month per household. Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Safety first of all The safety of our employees, outsourced parties, and the population whenever Operation in they interact with the power grid is an absolute priority for our company. The substation at Campinas (SP) Primeiro as Pessoas (“People First”) Program covers a series of steps we take to raise employee awareness and ensure that safety procedures are followed in all operations, with the goal of minimizing the risk of accidents and making our work environment healthier and more productive. Another initiative worth mentioning is the Vida 100% (“100% Life”) Project, which uses a collaborative methodology to discuss and disseminate the culture of safety during interactions between leaders and their teams. In the conversation circles, the goal is to involve and engage employees, CIPA (internal accident prevention committee) members, health and safety teams, leaders, managers and executives with the objective of zeroing accidents through everyone’s proactivity and leadership, to be 100% in favor of life, as well as working towards the continuous improvement of processes, organizational climate and integration between areas. Based on these observations, the units develop an action plan and monitor its implementation. The Vida 100% project was carried out at seven units and led FREQUENCY RATE OF ACCIDENTS 461 ACCIDENT SEVERITY to positive results in accident reduction. Our goal for 2020 is to SDG WITH LEAVE* RATE* cover all businesses with this methodology and also to share it with our service providers. GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING 2.85 In addition, we continued campaigns and practices that reinforce the safety culture at our company. These include the 1.90 Internal Workplace Accident Prevention Week (SIPAT ) and the DECENT WORK AND 1.26 26 19 Safety Dialogues, held daily with the operational areas and ECONOMIC GROWTH weekly with the administrative areas. Combined, these efforts contributed to the 34% and 27% reduction in the frequency and 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 severity rates of employee accidents, respectively. Altogether, *Includes employees only. Calculated based on the number *Includes employees only. Calculated based on the there were 41 accidents involving our staff, compared to 60 the of accidents with leave per every 1 million man-hours of number of leave days for accidents per every 1 million exposure to risk. man-hours of exposure to risk. previous year. GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 403-2 Annual Report 2019 76 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more SDG GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING DECENT WORK AND Public campaigns SAFETY INDICATORS FOR ECONOMIC GROWTH THE POPULATION The Guardião da Vida (“Guardian of Life”) Program also invests in information Engagement with the public also happens through and awareness campaigns aimed at the general population, with the objective quick campaigns in the municipalities where the 64 61 of preventing accidents involving the electricity grid in all 687 municipalities in population suffered the highest accident rates. our concession area. In 2019, we allocated R$ 3.5 million to this project. In these campaigns we visited construction sites 49 These resources allowed us to structure a communication model to provide and building materials stores, providing important information and awareness to the population through real testimonials from information to raise awareness among construction people who know about electrical risks and take preventive actions. This professionals, the group most exposed to the 26 material’s publication was carried out via digital media and other channels, electricity grid and its risks. 22 reinforcing the care that must be taken by children, when performing In 2019, we reduced accidents by 23% and fatalities 19 construction and painting tasks, and about the risk of clandestine connections, by 14% as a result of our actions and investments. among other day-to-day situations. Of these accidents, 42 were classified as mild and The campaign also has a website (guardiaodavida.com.br) with 7 as serious. However, we will continue to invest all useful information for the population. The goal is to turn every person the resources we have available to provide greater ACCIDENTS FATALITIES into a Guardian of Life. awareness and security. 2017 2018 2019 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | EU25 Annual Report 2019 77 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Supplier management We are committed to generating positive impacts throughout our value chain, and we therefore work to train and engage Logistics operation our suppliers. In all our interactions with this group we seek In 2019, we began execution on a plan to transform our logistical operational to disseminate and support the adoption of good practices design to supply distribution centers and advanced stations. These structures related to management and operation, in harmony with ensure the supply of critical materials and equipment to DisCos in the states transformations in the electricity sector and the economic, of São Paulo and Rio Grande do Sul. The change incorporates a series of social, and environmental trends going forward. technologies and best practices in our value chain that increase productivity and SDG provide greater security, with increased storage capacity and improved service. We have developed a structured model to assess and DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH monitor our suppliers’ performance. Starting with the process of registering suppliers on our database, we evaluate companies’ financial aspects, technical performance, security, legal and documentary compliance, as well as their ethical alignment with our values. Wind farms INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE One highlight of our supplier management strategy concerns the Gameleira Wind Complex, which is being built by CPFL Renováveis in Rio Grande do Norte. When suppliers are hired, we assess whether they are highly The project includes the installation of the largest wind turbines ever (in terms of critical to operations or if they offer reputational risks for the size and power) in our operations. The contracting strategy – based on building company. Companies that fall under these conditions are solid partnerships with suppliers – allowed us to overcome logistical challenges, RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION classified as strategic and are included in our performanceAND PRODUCTION maximizing actions and investments in favor of sustainable development. qualification platform Supply Base Management (SBM). With this tool we can monitor companies' operational performance monthly across six main criteria technical, PEACE, JUSTICE documentary, legal, security, financial, and ethical. Based on AND STRONG INSTITUTIONS this analysis we come up with an evaluation grade, which directs partners to develop improvement plans and also Innovation supports future selection and hiring processes. In 2019, we prioritized several innovation initiatives in the supply chain, with improved management – based on sanitizing the database – and investment in data analytics, PARTNERSHIPS automation, and artificial intelligence, seeking not only to reduce costs but also FOR THE GOALS to boost operational efficiency and flexibility in our processes, with a focus on the best customer and partner experience and on increasing the level of service. We have formed partnerships with suppliers to develop new projects, such as startups, universities, innovation, technology, and R&D institutes. GRI 102-9 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 308-1 | 414-1 Annual Report 2019 78 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more In 2019, we evaluated a total of 256 partners on SBM. These companies, responsible for providing essential materials and services for different businesses’ value chains, are classified as critical or strategic. Within this universe, we monitor the performance of 161 suppliers (63% of the total) based on social and environmental criteria, with different assessment requirements and methodologies to deal with the risks identified in each type of market. Monitoring mechanisms include annual visits to the facilities to check up on certain aspects of working conditions, respect for the environment, and social responsibility. These risks are mapped based on a self-assessment report SDG filled out by new suppliers during the approval phase, discussing issues related to environmental management, DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH social responsibility, health, safety, and quality topics covered in our Integrated Management System (IMS). Starting in 2020 the SBM will begin monitoring suppliers classified as strategic among the 1,371 suppliers that serve RESPONSIBLE CPFL Renováveis' operations. CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION CPFL Soluções PEACE, JUSTICE AND STRONG INSTITUTIONS We monitor the suppliers considered critical and PARTNERSHIPS strategic to the business through self-assessment reports, FOR THE GOALS document checks, and visits to these partners’ facilities GRI 102-10 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 308-1 | 308-2 | 414-1 | 414-2 Annual Report 2019 79 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more CPFL Energia employees The Mais Valor Network is the main platform for engaging our suppliers, with meetings to exchange experiences and an annual award In terms of work conditions for outsourced discussions was the creation of a training program workers, we periodically check up on our partners. about corporate greenhouse-gas emissions (GHG) One highlight of this work is the Third-Party inventories for these companies. SDG Documentation Management Cell, which verifies documents and labor records in order to ensure Every year we recognize suppliers who have DECENT WORK AND these contracts comply with the legislation and achieved significant advances and positive results ECONOMIC GROWTH rules applicable to the sector. We also carry out with the CPFL Mais Valor (“More Value”) Prize. Last field inspections with safety auditors to assess year, we held the tenth edition of this event, with the situation of workers who support us in the theme Workforce management in the face of RESPONSIBLE carrying out operational activities. In 2019, we challenges and transformations, with a focus on Ethics and integrity CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION evaluated the conditions of about 8,500 service initiatives that seek to reduce the deficit of skilled in the value chain providers – covered by 220 contracts signed with labor in the electric sector. 97 different suppliers. Through specific anti-corruption clauses in The award-winning companies are selected by our contracts, we disseminate our Integrity In addition to monitoring and evaluation, we an internal committee that evaluates criteria Program to all suppliers. We also formally PEACE, JUSTICE AND STRONG INSTITUTIONS offer suppliers with training opportunities. The such as job security, excellence in service, require our partners to adhere to the terms and conditions of our Code of Ethical Conduct main platform for this is the Rede de Valor (“Value quality, deadlines, sustainability, and social or, alternatively, to ratify their compliance with Network”), with allows contracted companies to responsibility. Of the 27 finalist companies, 12 similar documents specific to our suppliers – as exchange experiences and best practices. We held were recognized in four categories services, long as they are in line with the basic principles PARTNERSHIPS three meetings in 2019, with the participation materials, recognition, and highlights. The of our corporate guidelines. Learn more about FOR THE GOALS of 82 partners, to discuss issues such as quality, winners participated in a ceremony in Campinas our Integrity Program on page 96. safety, sustainability, future scenarios, and new and received a trophy, a certificate, and a seal businesses. One practical outcome of these representing this achievement. GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 308-2 | 414-2 Annual Report 2019 80 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Instituto CPFL Presentation by the China Conservatory General Orchestra Thanks to private social investment Social Transformation we bring our company closer to local communities and support social development through initiatives that foster 20 Municipal Councils knowledge, sports, and culture. These for the Rights of Children activities are directed by the Instituto and Adolescents and the CPFL, which centralizes the planning and Elderly and 6 public hospitals execution of our actions, in line with our Social Investment Policy. received support, impacting 195,000 people Café Filosófico CPFL Key figures 33 programs, with 5,300 spectators in our studios and 121 cities 830,000 people watching the live 9 states transmissions on Instituto 320,000 people reached CPFL’s social networks Culture 391 activities carried out R$ 39.4 million invested Sports Three free artistic exhibits in Campinas and Botucatu (SP), and cinema and music 240 athletes supported through programming in Campinas, with a total CPFL Circuit the Vanderlei Cordeiro de Lima audience of more than 31,000 people Institute (IVCL/Orcampi) 233 activities were carried out Chinese Culture Month in 101 municipalities, reaching Volunteer Program more than 79,000 people through 18,500 people reached with the special sports and cultural activities 1,300 employees engaged programming of the event’s 3rd edition GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 413-1 Annual Report 2019 81 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Social Transformation One of the main objectives of our social development program, coordinated by Instituto CPFL, is to promote Instituto CPFL’s Social the sustainable development of communities through Development actions that contribute to the improvement of public Program policies and that encourage inclusion, social leadership and networking, training and legitimizing every actor to face social challenges. In 2019, 20 rights councils and six public hospitals were supported, with projects targeting the most vulnerable segments of the population children, adolescents and the elderly directly impacting 44 municipalities and reaching 84 indirectly. Altogether, 195,000 people were benefited. SDG Our work focuses on strengthening the Municipal NO POVERTY Councils for the Rights of Children and Adolescents, through networking with the different actors involved, training sessions, the development of social diagnoses, and the implementation of action plans and projects GOOD HEALTH aimed at reducing the index of social vulnerability. AND WELL-BEING We also work with Municipal Councils for the Rights of the Elderly, based on the World Health Organization’s (WHO) concept of active aging by promoting quality of REDUCED INEQUALITIES life to senior citizens through the Cidade para Todas as Idades (“City for All Ages”) project. In 2019, we worked with four municipalities, benefiting two hospitals (IVCL/Orcampi) training of more than 240 Looking to the Pan American Games in Lima (Barretos and Veranópolis – SP) and two long-term young athletes in the Campinas region through (2019) and the Tokyo Olympics (2020), the focus PARTNERSHIPS institutions (Montenegro – RS). specialized training, psychological guidance, and of the work during the year was on supporting FOR THE GOALS medical and educational support. In addition to high-performance athletics. The results were We understand that another lever for social offering an opportunity for personal and sports very good: in Peru, IVCL/Orcampi athletes won transformation is young people’s inclusion through development, this project creates an important three medals, and seven of them managed to sport. For this reason, in 2019 we reinforced our work socialization space to reduce these children and pre-qualify for the Olympic competition in Japan of supporting the Vanderlei Cordeiro de Lima Institute’s adolescents’ social vulnerability. during the Doha Athletics World Championship. GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 413-1 Annual Report 2019 82 CPFL Energia Semear Every year, the Semear Program brings volunteers from the CPFL Our employees can be: in 2019 Group together to work on actions that benefit schools, social assistance Supportive Volunteers Social Participate Donate their protagonists institutions, and other entities that with donations time, talents Work on social 1,379 volunteers make a difference in the life of local registered in fundraising and knowledge projects that can communities. campaigns to specific or affect public Coordinated by Instituto CPFL, continuous actions policies to the Semear Program organizes at the selected transform social 10 fixed and employees, relatives and friends entities reality 5 part-time into teams that work on various teams were formed activities that have a positive impact. This group helps plant community gardens, build computer 15 municipalities labs, provide art, dance, and music VOLUNTEERING were impacted by classes, organize theater workshops, volunteer actions and many other actions. In this endeavor, protagonism is the keyword. Each team consists of 5,500 up to 15 employees, who are also beneficiaries, responsible for selecting the social including schools, NGOs, organizations where they wish to hospitals and other volunteer. A great union to transform entities the social reality of the communities where our company is present. Click here to learn more about the Semear Program Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more CPFL Circuit SDG CPFL Circuit is an itinerant cultural and sports project developed by Instituto CPFL to benefit and positively impact GOOD HEALTH the communities in our concession area. In 2019, 230 CPFL Circuit AND WELL-BEING activities were organized at 101 municipalities throughout Brazil, Cine Solar in reaching more than 79,000 people. Morro Reuter (RS) One initiative within this program that has a significant social QUALITY EDUCATION impact is Carreta Literária, a mobile library that circulates around the city, providing access to books and encouraging reading habits among young people. Six cities were directly impacted by the project, which benefited 100 schools and around 28,900 people. AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY Another important activity within the scope of CPFL Circuit is CineSolar, a mobile movie theater powered by solar energy. Using vans equipped with photovoltaic panels, the project brings cinema to locations that wouldn’t otherwise have places to show movies, REDUCED INEQUALITIES thus helping democratize access to cinema and forming an audience for this kind of art. In addition to showing movies, we carry out activities to expand SUSTAINABLE CITIES discussions around sustainability and to encourage these AND COMMUNITIES communities’ audiovisual production. At the same time, we work to raise public awareness about the potential of renewable energy through activities such as Oficinema Solar, where we playfully show how sunlight is transformed into electrical energy. In 2019, RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION CineSolar vans visited 78 cities, bringing movies and information about clean energy to more than 18,200 people. PARTNERSHIPS CPFL Circuit also promotes sports activities, such as the Running and Walking project, which organized runs and CPFL Circuit also organized contemporary music concerts in six cities in the state of São Paulo, FOR THE GOALS walks in 16 cities in 2019, encouraging more than 28,400 people to engage in physical activities. bringing together 3,600 people GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 413-1 Annual Report 2019 84 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Democratizing art and culture One relevant aspect of Instituto CPFL activities is the diffusion of art, Another initiative is our institutional support for the 43rd facilitating the population’s access to artistic performances and works. São Paulo International Film Festival and the 14th Latin We offer the public access to movies through initiatives such as Cine American Film Festival of São Paulo, with some movies CPFL, which shows Brazilian and foreign movies free of charge at Sala playing for free at Sala Umuarama. We held 64 film sessions, Umuarama in Instituto CPFL headquarters. 8 debates and 2 international film exhibitions in 2019. Music is also included in our work of artistic diffusion. Since 2013, we have been partners in the production Rodin Exhibit at the Instituto CPFL of the Brazilian Contemporary Music Festival. We also Art Gallery in Campinas (SP) held 10 free contemporary music concerts in 2019, which were recorded and then broadcast by Rádio Cultura FM in the state of São Paulo. Visual arts exhibitions promoted by Instituto CPFL also seek to give the public closer access to works of art. We held two main exhibitions in 2019, which included 550 educational tours by public schools and the general public. The first, “Figura e Modernidade,” brought works by the SDG French sculptor Auguste Rodin in the collection of the Pinacoteca de São Paulo to the cities of Campinas and QUALITY EDUCATION Botucatu. The second, “Tinta sobre Tinta,” presented pieces by artists such as Flávio de Carvalho, Iberê Camargo and Tomie Ohtake from the São Paulo Museum of Modern Art (MAM-SP) collection. Altogether, these cinema, music and REDUCED art events brought together more than 31,000 people. INEQUALITIES Another initiative was the third edition of the Chinese Culture Month, with the aim of expanding cultural exchanges between Brazil and China through actions PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS such as special debates at Café Filosófico CPFL, Cine CPFL sessions, and musical performances open to the public. About 18,500 people were reached, with 28 activities in nine cities. GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 413-1 Annual Report 2019 85 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Café Filosófico CPFL One of the most relevant and publicly recognized initiatives of the We invite special speakers to discuss topics Instituto CPFL in the area of culture is the Café Filosófico CPFL. Created in 2003, this project organizes a series of debates on relevant to today's society, engaging diverse audiences relevant and exciting contemporary topics, hosting experts and through TV and social media broadcasts renowned figures from Brazil and across the world. In 2019, Café Filosófico CPFL discussed topics such as Café Filosófico Special in Santos (SP) childhood and maturity in the contemporary world, the ethical challenges of politics, individual and social identities, and spirituality and religion, to name just a few. Featured speakers included Fernando Henrique Cardoso, Leandro Karnal, Viviane Mosé and Mario Sergio Cortella. In September, during the Chinese Culture Month at CPFL Energia, we organized two debates on the construction of modern China’s image, focusing on the economic and technological transformations that have taken place in that country in recent decades. SDG In all, we recorded 33 shows, with a total of 5,300 spectators QUALITY in the studios and more than 830,000 people watching live EDUCATION transmissions through Instituto CPFL's social networks. On our YouTube channel, in which we also publish “bite-size” segments of the debates and exclusive videos, we registered more than 7.5 million views. Through TV Cultura, which SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES broadcasts recordings of these gatherings, we reached more than 12 million viewers. Our presence on social networks is also an important tool for our activities, and we share audiovisual content produced PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS by the Instituto CPFL on our Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and LinkedIn channels. In addition to encouraging public discussion, these initiatives strengthen the CPFL brand among different audiences across Brazil. GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 413-1 Annual Report 2019 86 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Raízes Program SDG Developed by CPFL Renováveis in the generating plants’ NO POVERTY areas of influence, the Raízes Program was recognized as one of the most comprehensive models for the inclusion and promotion of sustainable development in the electricity sector. Operating since 2013, Raízes has GOOD HEALTH invested approximately R$ 16 million in projects covering AND WELL-BEING three thematic lines water security, commitment to future generations, and production chains. One highlight of the Raízes methodology is the QUALITY EDUCATION Participatory Preliminary Diagnosis, which allows us to identify the main social needs and guide investments according to the potential to make the greatest positive impact. This process allowed CPFL Renováveis to see CLEAN WATER that the issue of access to water was one of the main AND SANITATION challenges in the development of communities. Based on this diagnosis, the company sought out partners to put actions in place to transform the local REDUCED INEQUALITIES reality. Between 2016 and 2019, we helped install cisterns and water desalination equipment using energy supplied by photovoltaic panels, assisted in creating irrigation systems for subsistence plantations and Raízes Program SUSTAINABLE CITIES productive development, and developed methodologies AND COMMUNITIES for collaborative and collective management of water supply structures at the community level, among other benefits that represent a permanent legacy for generations to come. Structured along three thematic lines, the CPFL Renováveis PARTNERSHIPS initiative has allocated R$ 16 million since 2013 to projects FOR THE GOALS that local communities helped prioritize GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 413-1 Annual Report 2019 87 CPFL Energia 6. OUR ENABLERS CPFL Energia employees Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Our enablers CPFL employees The development of our businesses and all the activities we carry out are based on three key facilitators: Employee Development and Inclusion; Ethics; and Transparency. We believe that qualified and prepared employees, a robust ethics and integrity system, and a corporate culture of inclusion and diversity are essential to achieving the economic, social, and environmental results that generate value for our shareholders and for all of society. People development Our employees are protagonists in the construction and implementation of a more sustainable business model, generating positive impacts on society and customer satisfaction. That is why we invest in training and in strengthening a culture based on our corporate values. In 2019, we restructured our leadership-development model, in line with our vision, mission, and values and focused on essential competencies for growing our business towards the horizons established in our strategy. EMPLOYEES BY GENDER EMPLOYEES BY REGION EMPLOYEES BY AGE GROUP 137 7 1,212 2,467 3,693 10,832 9,462 8,388 3,699 Southeast Men South Up to 30 years old Women Northeast Between 30 and 50 years old Center-west More than 50 years old GRI 102-8 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 Annual Report 2019 89 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more To complement this aim, we optimized our employee-performance analysis model, in line with the changes made regarding leadership. This assessment considers aspects of behaviors, goals, and potential, in SDG consideration of the different functional levels and areas of expertise. QUALITY EDUCATION Evaluations are discussed in calibration committees that provide leaders with comments from peers, superiors and subordinates before presenting the final result to evaluated employees in individual meetings. Based on this feedback, an Individual Development Plan (PDI) is defined to address DECENT WORK AND possible changes and improvements, as well as celebrate outstanding Our training sessions and performance-analysis model strengthen ECONOMIC GROWTH behaviors. At these meetings, goals and priorities for the coming cycle are also established. CPFL Energia's culture and values The process of evaluating CPFL Renováveis employee performance is currently being integrated with that of parent company CPFL Energia. In 2019, the eligibility criteria and timetable adopted were already the same beginning in December and wrapping up in March 2020. Another instance of synergy was the adoption of a similar methodology and process for coordinators, managers, superintendents and directors. PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES THAT UNDERWENT PERFORMANCE EVALUATION CPFL Energia CPFL Renováveis Consolidated 2017 2018 2019* By gender Men 69% 76% 93% 87% 92% Women 75% 82% 87% 87% 87% By job level Leadership** 22% 64% 90% 87% 90% Other employees 73% 73% 91% 87% 91% Total 70% 77% 91% 87% 91% *Quantitative data refer to the 2018/2019 cycle, as the current cycle is still in progress and will be completed in March 2020. Historical data (2017 and 2018) do not include CPFL Renováveis. CPFL Employee **Includes directors, managers, coordinators, supervisors and leaders. GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 404-3 Annual Report 2019 90 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Continuing professional education 717,800 hours Universidade CPFL is responsible for structuring and executing programs, courses and learning tracks aimed and performance: we managed to reduce our absenteeism rate to 5.5% – far below the of training at at training and developing our professionals. This average of 13% observed in the overall market – Universidade CPFL and structure grants our employees access to a wide range of training programs and incentives targeting professional thanks to our high level of employee satisfaction. another 14,700 hours at development, in line with company priorities and with In 2019, we invested approximately R$ 18 million CPFL Renováveis trends in the electricity sector. in continuing education initiatives, of which R$ 1.7 million was allocated to revising and More than 1,100 classes One of the most important tools developed by creating new programs, courses, and learning Universidade CPFL is the Learning Track, organized tracks. Among the innovations, we highlight the in Regulatory Standards via modules giving employees a systemic view of Explore Energy virtual training series, which technical training the company's key processes, such as project and presents and explains the main aspects and construction development, energy management, and processes of the Brazilian electricity sector, and so on. Launched in 2018, the various Learning Tracks Explore CPFL, which didactically lays out the have already impacted our professionals’ achievements company's business. Leadership development AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING PER EMPLOYEE* In 2019, we kicked off the second edition of our CPFL Energia CPFL Renováveis Consolidated leadership mentoring program, which seeks to accelerate 2017 2018 2019 skills development, strengthen leadership in career SDG management, and create good knowledge-management By gender practices through intellectual capital. This involves an QUALITY Men 74.3 57.6 55.2 34.1 54.5 orientation process where more senior professionals in EDUCATION Women 80.2 46.1 58.9 26.3 57.8 the company act as mentors to the executives in the program. Since the initiative’s creation, 113 leaders have By job level benefited as mentors or mentees. Leadership** 21.7 55.9 63.7 45.5 61.9 We also rely on the individual coaching process, DECENT WORK AND Other employees na 54.8 55.4 30.0 54.6 available to managers and executives who want to ECONOMIC GROWTH 79.8 54.9 55.8 32.7 55.1 develop the full potential of their competencies. Total The process is conducted by a coach, hired from *Historical data (2017 and 2018) does not include CPFL Renováveis. recognized and specialized consultancies, who works **Includes directors, managers, coordinators, supervisors and leaders. with “coachees” (the ones undergoing this process) and their immediate manager. GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 404-1 | 404-2 Annual Report 2019 91 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Benefits and workplace environment Seeking greater equity in benefits across the Group's companies, we have implemented group life insurance policies and access for 100% of our employees to physical activity programs in partnering gyms. In addition, we created a single private pension plan for new hires at DisCos CPFL Paulista and CPFL Piratininga, in addition to CPFL Brasil and CPFL Geração. In terms of human resources management, we started to implement a data-analytics system that facilitates managers’ monitoring of issues such as overtime and per diems, streamlining internal processes within the teams. An important highlight of 2019 in this area was the creation of CPFL Pessoas – the result of spinning off NECT – which focuses on personnel and human resources management for all companies under the holding company. SDG Our employees’ involvement and engagement is also GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING a constant concern. In 2019, we reinforced the use of MultiApp, a smartphone application that gives access to a range of relevant information, such as new policies, internal CPFL employee in processes, and awards. Campinas (SP) QUALITY EDUCATION One engagement initiative implemented in 2019 was the CPFL Atitude Program, in which employees are invited to share stories of colleagues who acted in line with corporate values. The most representative cases from The CPFL Atitude Program recognizes DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH nearly 600 submissions were formally recognized by the initiatives by our employees that are aligned Executive Board. with our corporate values GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 401-2 Annual Report 2019 92 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Another effort we made in the context of improving the work environment was to raise awareness about occupational health. We also carried out information campaigns on issues such as breast cancer (Pink October) and prostate cancer (Blue November), with weekly publications on internal channels, conversations with medical CPFL Energia was recognized in the specialists, and publicizing videos with prevention and early diagnosis 150 Best Companies to Work For ranking as tips. Employees were asked to donate scarves and caps that the company delivered to patients undergoing cancer treatment (which the leader in the energy sector can cause temporary hair loss). We also organized blood and marrow donation campaigns, with informative displays and events at our offices in Campinas (SP) and São Leopoldo (RS). The results of this work are being felt inside and outside the organization. In 2019, we carried out a new organizational climate survey to assess engagement and satisfaction with the work RGE employees in environment, which indicated that 78% of employees are satisfied with São Leopoldo (RS) the conditions provided by CPFL Energia. We were also recognized as one of the “150 Best Companies to Work For,” a ranking carried out in Brazil by Você S/A magazine to identify companies that stand out in people management and good organizational climate. In the electricity sector we ranked first among the largest companies in the sector. The benefits we offer employees follow best market practices, helping attract new talents and to fulfill all legal requirements and applicable union agreements or conventions. The diversity of businesses in which we operate, both geographically and in terms of markets, requires us to diversify benefits to attend to local realities. Globally, we offer internal staff (although not necessarily at all companies) medical and dental assistance, private pension plans, food, meal and transportation vouchers, life insurance, various benefits, physical-activity incentive programs, psychosocial assistance, and educational subsidies. GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 401-2 Annual Report 2019 93 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Inclusion The promotion of diversity has guided our actions when managing the company's human capital, and we have increasingly intensified our efforts to ensure a more inclusive environment for our employees. In 2019, for example, Strengthening actions to promote people’s we carried out a “blind recruitment” pilot project for interns. The objective was inclusion and development in the workplace to test out tools that allow a more objective selection process, minimizing any is one of our priorities impacts from hiring leaders’ unconscious bias. Employee at Universidade CPFL We also plan to strengthen these discussions by creating working groups to implement and monitor actions for the inclusion and development of people with disabilities (PWD) and the issues of gender and culture. A project of this kind is also being developed at the Technical Training Schools, which promote women’s professional training and inclusion in the Brazilian electricity sector. In 2019, we held two internal workshops with employees to discuss ideas related to attracting PWD to our company. The events, held in the cities of Campinas, São Paulo, and São Leopoldo, Rio Grande do Sul, had 42 participants and generated almost 300 ideas related to aspects of leadership awareness, improvements in accessibility, communication, and recruitment and selection, among others. We also carried out benchmarking studies with large companies that have been recognized for adopting good inclusion and diversity practices. We participated in events that discuss this theme in our SDG concession areas and held meetings with external partners to increase GENDER innovations in this issue to our business model. These actions will EQUALITY continue in 2020, including specific training on leadership diversity, formation of affinity groups, and other initiatives. GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 Annual Report 2019 94 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Intelligent Solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more 816 Professional education for the community people trained in three lines: The School of Operational Excellence, • Electricians School which is managed by Universidade CPFL, • Designers School is responsible for training employees in • Operators School operational methods and standards of the transmission and distribution segments. This structure extends beyond our employees and benefits communities in the regions where we operate by offering professional training courses. We offer three lines aimed at local communities: the Electricians School, CPFL employees the Operators School, and the Designers School. Each of these works to disseminate technical information and develop skills among people who are not employed at CPFL Energia companies, enabling them to pursue a professional career in the electricity sector. In 2019, we organized 46 class groups at the Electricians School (77% more than in the previous year), with more than 19,000 hours of training offered. In total, 765 residents of cities in our concession areas were trained, and approximately 70% of them were hired. SDG The Operators School, a pioneering initiative in Brazil launched in 2019, trains professionals QUALITY EDUCATION to work at the DisCos’ control centers. The first edition trained 24 students, who graduated after 592 hours of training – and 3 people have already been hired. The DECENT WORK AND Designers School, meanwhile, trains ECONOMIC GROWTH technicians to create and analyze electrical distribution network projects in accordance with CPFL Energia rules and procedures. The course held in the state of São Paulo REDUCED INEQUALITIES trained 27 students, providing 372 hours of coursework, and allowed 16 people to join our teams. GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | EU14 Annual Report 2019 95 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Ethics and transparency In order to generate positive impacts with our employees and business development, we base our actions on ethical and transparent conduct when building relationships with all our stakeholders. Our Integrity Program has pillars and mechanisms to ensure that compliance covers all sensitive and critical areas of operations and allows us to develop action plans to improve internal controls and anticorruption practices. The Integrity Program was developed in accordance with Law No. 12,846/2013 (Anticorruption Law) and with Article 42 of Decree No. 8,420/15, which regulated said legislation. Its execution is guided by our Code of Ethical Conduct, which formalizes the behaviors expected from our employees and suppliers, and by the Anti-Corruption CPFL employees Policy, which seeks to establish principles for controlling and fighting corruption. These premises are disseminated to our professionals CPFL ENERGIA EMPLOYEES TRAINED IN ANTI-CORRUPTION GUIDELINES* through continuous training programs (with in-person Employees Percentage Employees Percentage Employees Percentage and online formats) and communication and awareness trained of total trained of total trained of total activities (events, lectures and campaigns). Training 2017 2018 2019 around this topic is done in person for those audiences considered critical following an assessment of compliance By job level risks, and on an online platform that is available to all Leadership** 529 64% 661 87% 683 97% employees. All professionals and members of governance All other employees 7,467 62% 8,842 72% 9,609 79% SDG are introduced to the Code of Ethical Conduct at the time By region PEACE, JUSTICE of their admission and electronically sign their commitment Southeast 6,419 72% 7,016 76% 7,230 78% AND STRONG INSTITUTIONS to follow the guidelines set out in the document. In 2019, South 1,577 39% 2,487 66% 3,062 84% we included ethics and integrity issues in outsourced Total 7,996 62% 9,503 73% 10,292 80% contractors’ integration training programs. * Does not include CPFL Renováveis employees. At that company, 100% of employees were trained in anti-corruption directives in 2019. ** Includes directors, managers, coordinators, supervisors and leaders. GRI 102-16 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 205-2 Annual Report 2019 96 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more We created the Ethics Channel so that anyone can notify us CPFL employees in of behaviors or situations that are in conflict with the law or Campinas (SP) with our values. These alerts are treated in accordance with the flow defined by the Integrity Program, ensuring whistleblowers’ anonymity and confidentiality. CPFL Renováveis has a specific channel, the Complaints Portal, managed by the same specialized company responsible for managing the holding company’s platform. Accusations can be made 24 hours a day, every day of the week. Instances are reviewed by a specialized team, which includes lawyers and psychologists who can properly direct and understand the accusations. Upon registration of an occurrence, the channel’s user receives a protocol number to monitor the case until its conclusion. Our Integrity Program obtained the Pró-Ética program seal for the 2018/2019 Ética Viva Program edition, which is developed by Brazil’s Federal Comptroller General. The seal The Ética Viva (“Living Ethics”) Program at CPFL Renováveis continued in 2019, bringing together recognizes companies that take outstanding activities that seek to disseminate the culture of ethics and compliance among all employees. Among actions to combat corruption and fraud in our initiatives, we highlight the annual survey of all SDG their business environments employees to identify corporate and unique aspects of leadership in topics related to the development of PEACE, JUSTICE ethical conduct at the company. As of August 2019, AND STRONG INSTITUTIONS thanks to CPFL Renováveis’s integration into the holding company, these initiatives were incorporated into CPFL Energia’s Integrity Program. GRI 102-17 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 205-1 Annual Report 2019 97 CPFL Energia OUR 7. RESULTS CPFL employees in Jaguariúna (SP) Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Our results Our financial results in 2019 exceeded the record-setting performance of 2018, driven mainly by the DisCos – due to market performance, In 2019, the company's net profit tariff revisions and readjustments that took place throughout 2018 and grew 26.9% compared to the 2019, and lower interest rates. In conventional generation, contract readjustments and lower financial expenses led to an improvement in previous year net income. In renewable generation, the negative impacts from lower incidence of winds were offset by lower expenses with the Generation Scaling Factor (GSF), our strategy of seasonally adjusted contracting, and reductions in the cost of debt. GROSS OPERATING REVENUE EBITDA NET PROFIT INCOME STATEMENT FOR THE FISCAL YEAR SUMMARY – CPFL ENERGIA (R$ million) (R$ billion) (R$ billion) (R$ billion) 2017 2018 2019 6.4 Gross operating revenue 40,053 42,626 45,009 5.6 2.7 42.6 45.0 4.9 2.2 Net operating revenue 26,745 28,137 29,932 40.1 Cost of electricity (16,902) (17,838) (18,371) 1.2 Operating costs and expenses (6,822) (6,509) (7,198) Result of services 3,022 3,708 4,363 Ebitda 4,864 5,637 6,394 Financial result (1,488) (1,103) (726) Profit before tax 1,847 2,940 3,986 Net profit 1,243 2,166 2,748 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 Annual Report 2019 99 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Main indicators Operating revenue Distribution of Added Value (DVA) 5.6% Main factors Our added value totaled ADDED VALUE DISTRIBUTED IN 2019 Tariff revisions and readjustments in Distribution, market 2018 R$ 42,626 million R$ 20.4 billion, an increase of (R$ billion) growth and readjustments in energy sales contracts in the 2019 R$ 45,009 million Generation and Renewables segments 7.8% from 2018, mainly due to 13.4% 7.2% higher revenues and the added value received from transfers. Cost of electricity Of this total, 70.9% went to taxes, charges and contributions, the 3.0% Main factors most significant portion of DVA 8.5% 2018 R$ 17,838 million Increase in the amount of energy purchased, effects of in the electricity sector due to R$ 20.4 billion 70.9% exchange-rate variation on the price of energy from Itaipu, the taxation structure. The main 2019 R$ 18,371 million and increase in sectorial charges changes in the annual comparison were an 11.3% decrease in Operating costs and expenses remuneration of external capital and the 26.9% increase in Employees and benefits Main factors 9.2% The most significant increase occurred in infrastructure remuneration of own capital. Taxes, charges and contributions Remuneration of external capital 2018 R$ 6,590 million building costs, which has a similar counterpart in operating Remuneration of own capital revenue. In addition, there were increases due to higher PDD 2019 R$ 7,198 million accounting, and increased network maintenance, personnel, and other expenses VALUE ADDED STATEMENT – MAIN LINES (R$ million) EBITDA 2017 2018 2019 Revenue 40,688 42,760 45,092 13.4% Main factors Growth driven by Distribution, thanks mainly to the market Inputs acquired from third parties (23,120) (23,379) (24,304) 2018 R$ 5,637 million expansion and the increase in tariffs, partially offset by PMSO Gross added value 17,568 19,381 20,789 2019 R$ 6,394 million and PDD. Renewable Generation remained stable despite Retentions (1,534) (1,602) (1,688) wind farms’ poor performance in 2019 Added value received by transfer 1,279 1,183 1,331 Net added value to be distributed 17,314 18,962 20,432 Net profit Employees and benefits 1,397 1,391 1,475 26.9% Main factors Taxes, charges and contributions 12,182 13,453 14,477 Higher EBITDA on an annual comparison and reduction in Remuneration of external capital 2,491 1,952 1,731 2018 R$ 2,166 million financial expenses, mainly due to lower interest rates and Remuneration of own capital 1,243 2,166 2,748 2019 R$ 2,748 million lower debt levels GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 201-1 Annual Report 2019 100 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Debt Capital markets We ended 2019 with net debt of R$ 16.4 billion, 8.4% lower As of December 30, 2019, CPFL Energia shares were traded on the São Paulo than in December 2018. In the criteria established under stock exchange (B3) and the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). In 2019, these the company's financial covenants, which considers the securities appreciated 23.3% and 17.8% on their respective exchanges, and proportional consolidation of generation assets, net debt ended the period priced at R$ 35.55 and US$ 17.46. Average daily trading reached R$ 16.8 billion, an increase of 3.5% from 2018, mainly volume also increased in the annual comparison, especially due to the Re-IPO, influenced by CPFL Energia’s greater stake in CPFL Renováveis which increased the number of shares available for trading. after acquiring the portion that was held by State Grid. After the company announced in late 2019 its intention to delist from the Despite higher debt levels, our leverage, as measured by NYSE, trading in the North American market was suspended on January 28, adjusted net debt over adjusted Ebitda, declined from 3.05x 2020. This decision was motivated by: (i) the increased volume of Brazilian in December 2018 to 2.52x in December 2019. shares traded on B3 S.A. – Bolsa, Brasil, Balcão in Brazil by foreign investors, due to the internationalization of Brazilian financial and capital markets, in addition to more similar disclosure standards in Brazil and US markets in terms of financial reports; and (ii) a downward trend in recent years in the trading Investments volume of the company's American Depositary Shares (ADS) on the NYSE. In 2019, we invested R$ 2.25 billion in our operations, 9.3% more than the previous year. This growth was mainly directed towards expanding, Investment Plan (R$ billion) Dividends reinforcing and improving the distribution system, which accounted 3.1 For 2020, the Board of Directors for 90% of the total. 2.9 2.9 proposed a payout of R$ 2.075 billion 2.3 2.3 based on 2019 earnings, which Over the next five years we represents dividends of R$ 1.80 per expect investments of approximately common share, or approximately R$ 13.5 billion, 86% of which will go 80% of adjusted net income. towards DisCos. We will also invest in To learn more the construction of two renewable Our dividend policy stipulates the generation projects (Gameleira wind distribution of at least 50% of our Click here to consult CPFL Energia's farm and the Lucia Cherobim SHPP) adjusted net income in the form Financial Statements for more and three transmission projects of dividends. information on our 2019 financial performance (Maracanaú, Sul I and Sul II). 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 Annual Report 2019 101 CPFL Energia 8. TO LEARN MORE CPFL headquarters in Campinas (SP) Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more To learn more The preparation of this Annual Report strengthens our industry associations, and an online survey totaling more transparency and accountability to all our stakeholders. This than 500 participants. Based on this process, we identified 11 year, the publication began to more fully reflect the impacts material topics, which determine the content of this Report and results of CPFL Renováveis, whose corporate activities were and cover our stakeholders’ main expectations and demands. integrated into CPFL Energia in 2019. In addition, we improved the document’s structure to reflect the material topics identified with In 2019, we carried out a critical analysis of our materiality our stakeholders in the Sustainability Plan, designed and approved in light of the issues identified in CPFL Renováveis’ 2018 by our leadership last year. independent report. By cross-referencing the reports we identified synergies between matrices, and ensured that The Report maintains all the best practices that we had already all aspects previously prioritized by CPFL Renováveis were adopted in previous years. Covering the period from January 1 to covered by the 11 CPFL Energia topics. December 31, 2019, the report complies with the GRI Standards, a standard defined by the Global Reporting Initiative and the most widely adopted by companies worldwide when developing this type of publication. In addition, we considered integrated reporting guidelines proposed by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC), and highlight throughout the content our main contributions to the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), defined in the UN’s 2030 Agenda. As in the previous year, we prioritized information according to our materiality matrix, last updated in 2018 following a broad engagement study in partnership with the School of Economics, Our Annual Report complies with Business Administration and Accounting at the University of the GRI Standards, an international São Paulo in Ribeirão Preto (FEA-RP/USP). This process included extensive analysis of corporate documents, six focus groups standard for reporting sustainability with our main stakeholders (leaders and employees, suppliers, management customers, and the community), interviews with executives from GRI 102-40 | 102-42 | 102-43 | 102-45 | 102-46 | 102-49 | 102-50 | 102-51 | 102-52 Annual Report 2019 103 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Our material topics Click on each topic to better understand which aspects were prioritized in the materiality process, which SDGs they are related to, and where you can read about them in the Report Human Climate resources change management Conservation Health, of ecosystems safety and and biodiversity quality of life Gestão Corporate Sustainablede sustentável governance management fornecedores of and ethical suppliers conduct Relationship Innovation with and long-term community vision To learn more Click here and consult the Energy 2018 Annual Report for more Relationship efficiency information on the materiality matrix with customer Operational and efficient review process. If you have any excellence questions, suggestions, or concerns resource use about this publication, please and financial Back contact us by e-mail at performance to top sustentabilidade@cpfl.com.br GRI 102-44 | 102-47 | 103-1 Annual Report 2019 104 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Stakeholder engagement By building solid and lasting relationships based on dialogue, transparency Our stakeholders are identified and prioritized based on an and trust, we engage the different stakeholders that interact with the assessment of how much they are impacted by the company company to generate and share value with the whole of society. We have and the degree of influence they have on the business. Another Rules for Stakeholder Engagement that guides the management model criteria is the frequency of routine interactions across the various we have adopted to monitor these value relationships. areas of the company and the relevance of relationship processes in decision making. Based on this weighting of factors we Working this way, we have developed instruments to monitor the compose our Stakeholder Map, formed by the different types of impacts generated by corporate actions, define strategies, identify audiences and their different levels of impact and influence. opportunities, prevent risks, and protect and generate financial and reputational value for the company. Engaging with all these parties is carried out through different communication channels, such as websites, social networks, call centers, e-mail, chats, regular face-to-face events and meetings, Our objectives monitoring via telephone calls, workshops, opinion polls, and other channels. Generate value for the company and society by In 2018, we conducted a consultation process and a study building solid and lasting relationships, based on to identify and update the most relevant topics for our dialogue, transparency and trust performance from the perspective of our stakeholders, as well as to understand their perception of how we generate Develop specific forms of engagement for sustainable value. The project was carried out in partnership each priority stakeholder with FEA-USP of Ribeirão Preto. The study was divided into two phases: the qualitative and face-to-face phase, involving focus Improve processes and effective communication groups and interviews; and the second, quantitative phase, based on insights gained from interaction with carried out through an online questionnaire. Employees, the stakeholders board of executive officers, customers, suppliers and industry associations all participated in the study. Plan our engagement based on the Principles of Engagement Our goal is to carry out this type of engagement both in person and online every two years. The next stakeholder Proactively promote engagement in order to identify consultation is scheduled for 2020. opportunities, prevent risks, and protect value Guide strategic decision-making GRI 102-40 | 102-42 | 102-43 Annual Report 2019 105 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more Supplement to GRI disclosures 102-3 | Location of headquarters 102-12 | External initiatives Our headquarters is located on Engenheiro Miguel Noel Nascentes Burnier Highway, km 2.5, in Campinas, Our company is a signatory to the following commitments to São Paulo. promote sustainable development • Global Compact Brazil Network (United Nations – UN) 102-8 | Information on employees and other workers We participate in the Brazilian Committee and the Energy and We have no seasonal variation in our operation’s workforce. Significant outsourced activities are related to Climate and SDG Working Groups the maintenance of the distribution network, facilities, and inventory logistics. The number of employees Our Sustainability Director is currently chairman of the Board of grew 2.5% on an annual comparison, due to the consolidation of CPFL Renováveis teams. Disregarding this Directors of the Global Compact Brazil Network effect, the workforce remained stable (reduction of 0.9%). Of the total number of employees, 42 professionals • Open Letter on Carbon Pricing (Business Climate Initiative – IEC) allocated to the Southeast (37 men and 5 women) have fixed-term employment contracts. • CEO Guide to the SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) (World Business Council for Sustainable Development – WBCSD) • Support letter for the Task Force on Climate-related Financial NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES BY TYPE OF EMPLOYMENT AND GENDER* Disclosures – TCFD (Financial Stability Board – FSB) Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total • RGE, UNICEF, and You Initiative Friends of the Child (United 2017 2018 2019 Nations Children's Fund – UNICEF) • Brazilian Business Commitment to Water Security (Brazilian Full-time 10,324 2,407 12,731 10,408 2,497 12,905 10,812 2,427 13,239 Business Council for Sustainable Development – CEBDS) Part-time 59 72 131 35 36 71 20 40 60 We participate in the Climate Working Group Total 10,383 2,479 12,862 10,443 2,533 12,976 10,832 2,467 13,299 • São Paulo Environmental Agreement – initiative to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and encourage sustainability actions *Includes CLT employees of companies 100% controlled by CPFL Energia and CPFL Renováveis as of Dec. 31. We consider part-time those employees who work up to 179.99 hours per month. Once they reach 180 hours a month, we consider them full-time employees. This information is controlled (Government of São Paulo and CETESB) by the SAP (CPFL Energia) and ADP Expert (CPFL Renováveis) system. • Program to Combat Child Labor (Labor Courts) • Initiatives of the Center for Sustainability Studies (Fundação Getulio Vargas – FGVces) Business for Climate Platform (EPC) Local Development (ID Local) Brazil GHG Protocol Program | Public Emissions Registry Emission Trading Scheme Simulation Annual Report 2019 106 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more 102-13 | Membership of associations Associação Brasileira de Energia Solar Fotovoltaica Grupo de Trabalho Agentes do Rio Tocantins Our company participates in industry associations and (Brazilian Photovoltaic Solar Energy Association – ABSolar) (Rio Tocantins Agents Working Group) organizations with the aim of helping strengthen the Promotes and publicizes developments in the photovoltaic Forum to analyze and promote actions that mitigate electricity sector and the capacity to generate value at the solar-energy generation sector in Brazil, involving agents from the impacts of low water availability for the institutional level and in the context of sustainability. The the entire production chain. We participate in the Environment generation of energy at Tocantins River hydroelectric main ones are: Working Group (GTMA), with discussions on environmental plants. The group proposes public policies, actions licensing and reverse logistics processes. to increase water availability and water quality, Associação Brasileira de Distribuidores de integration of generating agents, and identification Energia Elétrica (Brazilian Association of Electricity Acende Brasil Institute of synergies between environmental programs to Distributors – Abradee) The institute is focused on technical studies and works to optimize resources and efficiency. The entity helped discuss ANEEL Resolution No. 482, contribute to the Brazilian electric sector’s modernization. which deals with a tariff discount for micro and mini Our participation provides broad benefits, such as access 102-24 | Nominating and selecting the generators. Also included on the agenda were the to information and research data and the dissemination of highest governance body topics of electricity distributor regulations, remuneration strategic positions for society. We are on the institution's Board. The process of selecting board members seeks out on investments, and other tariff subsidies. This involvement professionals who are aligned with CPFL Energia's benefited the preparation of joint proposals sent to the Associação Brasileira dos Produtores Independentes de principles and values. Members are selected from executive branch and regulatory bodies. We participate Energia Elétrica (Brazilian Association of Independent senior professionals with diverse training and who in the entity’s board. Power Producers – Apine) collectively have proven experience in the electricity Apine deals with issues such as dam safety, hydrological risk sector or in their respective areas of activity. Associação Brasileira da Infraestrutura e (GSF), generation concession contracts, and market expansion. The company follows the rules established by Indústrias de Base (Brazilian Association of Our involvement brings benefits in the preparation of joint Law No. 6,404/76, Novo Mercado Regulations, and Infrastructure and Basic Industries – Abdib) proposals sent to the executive and legislative branches and the Brazilian Securities and Exchange Commission’s Evaluates privatization programs (PPIs) and public-private regulatory bodies. We are members of the Board. (CVM) Instructions on the appointment of members partnerships (PPPs). Our involvement benefited from the of the Board of Directors. Furthermore, discussions elaboration of joint proposals sent to the executive branch Federação das Indústrias do Estado de São Paulo about potential new board appointments take into and regulatory bodies, collaborating technically for the best (Federation of Industries of the State of São Paulo – Fiesp) account the availability of their time, since the Board practices in these processes. We participate in the Board of One of our executives is a member of the organization’s of Directors meets at least 12 times a year, as Directors and the Advisory Board. Infrastructure Board, which is the most representative in the established in our Bylaws. sector. Our presence allows for very close contact with the In this same sense, when choosing members of Associação Brasileira dos Comercializadores de Energia market to understand our customers’ demands. the Advisory Committees to the Board of Directors, (Brazilian Association of Energy Traders – Abraceel) the Chairman of the Board of Directors relies Discussed topics including guarantees for the market’s Associação Brasileira de Energia Eólica (Brazilian Wind on assistance from the human resources and financial sustainability, sustainably opening the free market, Energy Association – Abeeólica) performance management department, and and hydrological risk (GSF). Our participation generated The entity evaluates mechanisms to improve environmental possible candidates are indicated in regard to their benefits in the preparation of joint proposals sent to the licensing processes, subsidies for renewable generation, rules specific knowledge. executive branch, regulatory bodies and the Electrical for auctions, and other aspects relevant to the development of Energy Trading Chamber. We are on the Association's Board. wind power in generation. We are on the Board. Annual Report 2019 107 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more 102-27 | Collective knowledge of highest 102-35 and 102-36 | Remuneration policies; 102-41 | Collective bargaining agreements governance body and Process for determining remuneration In our workforce, 99.75% of employees are covered In the context of the Strategic Plan’s annual elaboration, Members of the Board of Directors and the Fiscal Council by collective bargaining agreements or conventions we organized conferences with outside experts to are remunerated according to market parameters. Of the with unions. The exception to this is the 32 executives, assist with our analysis of scenarios and to reflect upon 9 members of the Board of Directors, 3 are remunerated who have a statutory contract and whose employment fundamental themes for our business’s future. for their executive functions and 2 independent relations rules are established in a private company In 2019, we held three meetings, which help members also receive fixed monthly payment. Of the 4 management contract. continuously improve the knowledge of executives external members, only 1 is paid in the same way. No involved in this process: member of the Board of Directors receives any additional 102-48 | Restatements of information • Market trends: scope and complexity of the sectorial compensation for his or her duties as a member of an Possible restatements of previously published regulatory agenda, providing more clarity to market advisory committee. In the Fiscal Council, two directors information are indicated, when pertinent, in the movements and opportunities; have waived their remuneration fully and partially. respective sections. • Macroeconomic: advances and challenges for the CPFL Renováveis follows the same parameters, and Brazilian economy, presenting the main indicators and only 1 independent member of the Board of Directors 102-54 | Claims of reporting in accordance forecasts for the country in the coming years; receives remuneration according to market parameters. with the GRI Standards • Competitive: strategic vision of the positioning and In the Fiscal Council, all members completely waived This report has been prepared in accordance with recent movements by the main players in the sector. remuneration. the GRI Standards: Core option. Another mechanism for improving our senior leadership Executives on the Statutory Board receive fixed monthly is training that is held every two years at Universidade compensation, benefits, and short and long-term CPFL and in partnership with the Brazilian Institute of incentives. Direct and indirect benefits, such as medical Corporate Governance (IBGC). In 2019, no such training and dental assistance, life insurance, food vouchers, etc., was carried out, since the counselors had received are in line with market practices. Short-term incentives training the previous year. In 2020, the planning of seek to direct executive performance to achieve our these actions will be completed after assessing our business strategy, while long-term incentives aim to development and training needs. create vision and commitment, aligning interests to create sustainable value. The global remuneration of these groups is established at the General Shareholders' Meeting, with proposals based on market research and prior assessment by the Human Resources Management Committee that advises the Board of Directors. For employees, salary surveys are also significant inputs, by way of internal processes at the People and Performance Management Department. Annual Report 2019 108 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more 201-3 | Defined benefit plan obligations 205-1 | Operations assessed for risks communication, there are several institutional initiatives and other retirement plans related to corruption related to anti-corruption. Through a partnership with We currently have 15 pension plans allocated to seven All of our operations (100%) are periodically assessed for the Corporate Communication area we have developed financial managers (including banks and closed social corruption risks. At CPFL Energia, this is done by means a strategic plan for structured communications around security entities), of which four are Defined Benefit and of the following tools: the topic, allowing us to organize and carry out events, Variable Contribution (BD and CV ), four are Defined • Risk Assessment: Annual process in which the Audit, conferences, and campaigns. Contribution and seven are VGBL/PGBL plans. Only Risk and Compliance Department reviews the Executive In terms of employee training, there are two modalities: the first group can represent any long-term financial Board’s perception of risks to which the CPFL Group in-person and online. The first is held annually, and the liabilities, since in the others there is no risk as the is exposed. This process guides the Audit, Risk and audience defined through a risk assessment, with those benefit amount is limited to the reserve accumulated Compliance Department’s planning and work; employees occupying positions of greater exposure to over the contribution period. BD and CV plans are • Fraud Risk Analysis (FRA): Methodology applied on integrity risks required to receive training in person. In subject to the conditions of macroeconomic scenarios, demand to assess a specific process or area, detailing addition, online training is available to and mandatory for such as changes in interest rates and increases in the associated fraud risks and proposing actions and all company employees. average life expectancy. To mitigate this exposure, we controls to mitigate them based on provisions of In 2019, CPFL Renováveis carried out three training rely on our own teams and on hired companies to Law No. 12,846/13; sessions that covered 100% of employees in the monitor sponsored plans. In addition, the entities that • Sensitive Stakeholder Assessment: Evaluation of company’s main locations: São Paulo, Campinas, João manage these plans are subject to PREVIC regulation, CPFL Group processes regarding sensitivity to the risk of Câmara, Jundiaí and Fortaleza. which establishes mandatory annual reporting, corruption, with the purpose of mapping the need for In addition, we implemented the Monthly Integrity including, among other aspects, actuarial analyses of the training of employees allocated to sensitive positions Conversation (CMI) in 2019, which reinforces topics plans. Using this management approach, we monitor within these processes. related to the Integrity Program for all company the risks related to the plans' financial liabilities, and • Anti-Corruption Policy and Internal Regulations: Set employees. currently our projections indicate a balance between of internal policies and standards that establish the assets and liabilities. guidelines and conduct to be observed within CPFL About 85% of employees adhere to these benefits at Group operations from the perspective of the Integrity 205-3 | Confirmed incidents of corruption the CPFL Energia companies where they are offered. The Program. and actions taken contribution of each employee varies depending on the At CPFL Renováveis, the Ethics Questionnaire is carried In 2019, no corruption cases were registered (in the company where they are employed and their salary. The out annually within the scope of the Ética Viva Program. context of Anticorruption Law No. 12,486/13 or under company's counterpart contributions are included in the At both companies the internal audit processes cover article 42 of Decree No. 8,420/15) related to CPFL Energia annual budget. risks related to compliance. or CPFL Renováveis operations. 205-2 | Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures The CPFL Group has two major avenues for disseminating Integrity Program guidelines: communication and training. In terms of Annual Report 2019 109 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more 302-1 | Energy consumption within the organization 303-1 | Water withdrawal by source In 2019, we acquired 9,563,121 GJ of electricity. No other types of energy were purchased At our DisCos, service companies and corporate offices, from third parties. The energy generated from fuel consumption is shown in the table. 100% of water consumption comes from public or private water supply systems at each location. In 2019, we consumed ENERGY GENERATED FROM FUELS (GJ) about 179,100 cubic meters in these activities. At CPFL Geração, the main source of water consumption is for human use that is, use in bathrooms, pantries, and sinks. The 2017 2018 2019 water used for this purpose is either collected directly from Renewable sources artesian wells or purchased from suppliers using tanker trucks. Sugarcane bagasse 21,114,969 21,173,765 38,547,440 At CPFL Renováveis, water is also used for industrial purposes at biomass plants and in some SHPPs, with the objective of Ethanol (assuming 27% blend in gasoline) 51,622 47,256 58,112 cooling of the system and/or feeding the boiler. In this case, Biodiesel (10% of diesel) 24,654 21,026 21,665 CPFL Renováveis captures the water itself, by means of a Subtotal 21,191,244 21,242,047 38,627,217 groundwater abstraction grant, or it is captured by the ethanol Non-renewable sources or ethanol/sugar plant to which the biomass plant is linked. Diesel 323,189 221,644 215,080 On occasion, water consumption may also take place during Gasoline 35,041 28,968 32,131 construction on new projects. In 2019, no water was consumed LPG 176 446 in the construction of the Gameleiras Wind Complex, which started in November. Work on the Cherobim SHPP, meanwhile, Fuel oil 5,994,307 4,276,440 2,048,137 had not started. Subtotal 6,488,736 4,688,501 2,295,524 Total 27,679,980 25,930,548 40,922,741 WATER CAPTURED IN 2019 (thousand m3)* CPFL Renováveis CPFL Geração Surface water 3,998.8 19.1 Groundwater 878.1 40.9 Public or private supply 0.2 2.9 Total 4,877.1 62.9 *This indicator is being reported for the first time and, therefore, does not include a historical series. Annual Report 2019 110 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more 304-1 | Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Unit 1 and 2 Unit size (hectares) Location in relation to conservation areas (UC) Rio do Peixe II SHPP 126 Adjacent to Carlos Botelho State Park São José HGP 865 Next to UC (less than 10 km) Lavrinhas HGP 51 Next to UC (less than 10 km) Turvinho HGP 14 Next to UC (less than 10 km) Santa Alice HGP 1 Next to UC (less than 10 km) São Sebastião HGP 8 Next to UC (less than 10 km) Pinheirinho HGP 44 Next to UC (less than 10 km) Barra Grande HPP 12,580 Next to UC (less than 10 km) Campos Novos HPP 5,050 Next to UC (less than 10 km) Monte Claro HPP 449 Next to UC (less than 10 km) 14 de Julho HPP 797 Next to UC (less than 10 km) Castro Alves HPP 1,021 Next to UC (less than 10 km) Foz do Chapecó HPP 13,461 Next to UC (less than 10 km) Luís Eduardo Magalhães HPP 5,668 Adjacent to Serra do Lajeado State Park and Lajeado Environmental Protection Area (APA) Macaco Branco SHPP 7 Close to Campinas APA Boa Vista 2 SHPP 261 Adjacent to Nova Baden State Park Jaguari SHPP 118 Adjacent to Campinas APA and Piracicaba Juquerí-Mirim Area II APA Ludesa SHPP 1,002 Close to (9 km) Mata Preta Ecological Station Ninho da Água SHPP 24 Inside Serra da Mantiqueira APA Novo Horizonte SHPP 82 Adjacent to Rio Turvo State Park Salto Grande SHPP 20 Adjacent to Campinas APA Santana SHPP 178 Adjacent to Mata do Jacaré Ecological Station São Gonçalo SHPP 231 Close to (5 km) Piracicaba APA Socorro SHPP 6 Close to (10 km) Piracicaba Juquerí-Mirim Area II APA 1 Operating units not Tanquinho PV 42 Close to (0.5 km) Campinas APA included in this table are more than 10 km away Baia Formosa Biomass 0 Close to (3 km) Mata Estrela Private Natural Heritage Reserve and close to (5km) Piquiri – Una APA from a conservation unit. Ester Biomass 0 Close to (8 km) Matão de Cosmópolis area of relevant ecological interest 2 It was not possible to present data from Serra da Ipê Biomass 0 Close to (7 km) Aguapeí State Park Mesa HPP this year. We will obtain the information for Biopedra Biomass 0 Close to (5 km) Guarani Municipal Ecological Station the next report. Annual Report 2019 111 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more 304-4 | IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations Unit* Number of species identified Degree of risk Reference list Foz do Chapecó HPP 21 Vulnerable and endangered National (Ibama) State (Rio Grande do Sul) Alto Irani SHPP 2 Almost threatened National (Ibama) Arvoredo SHPP 2 Almost threatened National (Ibama) Boa Vista 2 SHPP 4 Almost threatened and vulnerable International (IUCN) Figueirópolis SHPP 7 Almost threatened, vulnerable and threatened National (Ibama) International (IUCN) Lençóis SHPP 1 Almost threatened State (São Paulo) Ludesa SHPP 2 Vulnerable State (Santa Catarina) Plano Alto SHPP 1 Almost threatened National (Ibama) Salto Góes SHPP 1 Vulnerable State (Santa Catarina) Santa Luzia SHPP 1 Vulnerable State (Santa Catarina) Bloco Sul Wind Farm 3 Vulnerable National (Ibama) Pedra Cheirosa Complex 3 Almost threatened and endangered State (Ceará) Icaraizinho Wind Farm 3 Almost threatened, vulnerable and critically endangered State (Ceará) Paracuru Wind Farm 1 In danger State (Ceará) Aracati Complex (Enacel, Canoa 3 Almost threatened and vulnerable State (Ceará) Quebrada and Bons Ventos) *Operating units not included in this table did not identify endangered species in 2019. Annual Report 2019 112 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more 305-1, 305-2 and 305-3 | Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions; Energy indirect 306-1 | Water discharge by quality (Scope 2) GHG emissions; and Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions and destination The only operation that has a high volume of effluents GHG EMISSIONS INVENTORY (thousand tCO2e) is Epasa, which in 2019 totaled 17,200 cubic meters. This volume is 36% lower than in the previous period, since 2017 2018 2019 generation is proportional to operational activity, which was reduced due to the lower need for dispatches from Scope emissions the National System Operator (ONS). In the past year, Epasa Scope 1 759.9 695.1 425.4 generated only 15% of its capacity. CPFL Energia has a Scope 2 423.3 347.3 359.3 53.34% stake in this unit. Scope 3 8.9 159.3 32.8 306-3 | Significant spills Biogenic emissions and removals linked to Scope 1 In 2019, no significant leaks were recorded at any Emissions 2,770.5 2,801.9 5,034.6 CPFL Energia or CPFL Renováveis units. Taking as a Removals 32.2 63.9 0.0 reference the definition of environmental emergencies established in Environmental Management System (EMS) procedures, GED 12672, GED 2292 and in the corporate 305-4 | GHG emissions intensity environmental risk rule specific to the topic, we had environmental occurrences involving brief spills, normally GHG EMISSION INTENSITY INDICATORS* associated to theft of equipment, which were properly addressed. Due to the governance of the subject in 2017 2018 2019 question, these occurrences were considered insignificant because they did not surpass the value of R$ 500,000, the By generated energy (Scope 1 tCO2e/GWh) 87.2 63.4 32.5 limit between low and moderate risks, or because they By distributed energy (Scope 2 tCO2e/GWh) 6.5 5.2 5.2 were thus classified by the Environment team due to By net operating revenue (Scope 1 + Scope 2 tCO2e/R$ million) 44.2 37.0 26.2 their low environmental impacts, in compliance with *Data restated for 2017 and 2018 due to the change in the calculation methodology EMS regulations. 306-4 |Transport of hazardous waste 100% of the waste generated is transported and disposed of. In 2019 there was no import/export, nor international transport. Annual Report 2019 113 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more 306-2 | Waste by type and disposal method CPFL ENERGIA’S HAZARDOUS WASTES, BY METHOD OF DISPOSAL (t)* CPFL RENOVÁVEIS WASTE, BY TYPE AND METHOD OF DISPOSAL (T) IN 2019* 2017 2018 2019 Hazardous Hazardous Reuse 290.1 284.0 186.8 Recycling 507.6 Recycling 12.8 14.2 49.7 Incineration 60.2 Recovery/Coprocessing 254.1 463.0 231.8 Industrial landfill 92.6 Incineration 15.3 113.3 9.8 Total 660.4 Others 0.0 0.0 70.7 Not hazardous Total 572.3 874.5 548.8 Landfill 153.3 Not hazardous Recycling 3,271.1 Recovery/Coprocessing** 0.0 0.0 37.2 Total 3,424.4 Landfill*** 187.4 159.0 165.4 *In 2019 there was no waste from construction work. The construction of the Gameleiras Wind Complex started only in November, but the contractor had at that moment only been engaged. Construction on Cherobim SHPP Total 187.4 159.0 202.6 has not started. *Only includes operations 100% controlled by CPFL Energia (DisCos, CPFL Soluções, transmitters, and CPFL Centrais Geradoras). CPFL SERVIÇOS MATERIALS SENT TO THE REVERSE CHAIN IN 2019 (t)* **Includes uncontaminated PPE and CPE as of 2019. In previous years, the total volume was sent to landfill (2018 = 58.55 tons and 2017 = 6 tons). ***Includes class II waste that is generated at headquarters in Campinas, where the largest volume of employees is located. For the other units, the waste is collected directly by the local governments or their partners. Steel 698.8 Aluminum 2,383.0 Rubber 14.3 Bronze 14.0 Ceramics 1,024.5 Copper 536.0 Iron 2,027.6 Mineral oil 152.7 Plastic 80.0 Porcelain 33.3 Glass 3.0 Others 766.2 Total 7,733.4 *There are also other materials that are sold by piece, and so conversion to tons is not possible. Annual Report 2019 114 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more 307-1 | Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations We did not receive any significant fines in the period. We consider significant penalties as those equivalent to at least 1% of the maximum amount established by Article 61 of Federal Decree No. 6,514/2008, that is, fines of more than R$ 500,000. 401-1 | New employee hires and employee turnover HIRES IN 2019 DISMISSALS IN 2019 CPFL Energia CPFL Renováveis Consolidated CPFL Energia CPFL Renováveis Consolidated Number Rate Number Rate Number Rate Number Turnover Number Turnover Number Turnover rate* rate* rate* By gender By gender Men 1,634 15.6% 135 37.3% 1,769 16.3% Men 1,610 15.5% 94 31.6% 1,704 16.0% Women 479 20.1% 52 61.9% 531 21.5% Women 634 23.4% 96 88.1% 730 25.6% By age group By age group Up to 30 years 1,135 31.6% 71 67.0% 1,206 32.6% Up to 30 years 789 26.8% 56 59.9% 845 27.7% Between 30 and 50 years 942 11.7% 111 35.7% 1,053 12.6% Between 30 and 50 years 1,137 12.9% 124 37.8% 1,261 13.8% Above 50 years 36 3.0% 5 17.2% 41 3.4% Above 50 years 318 15.0% 10 25.9% 328 15.2% By region By region Center-west 0 0.0% 4 66.7% 4 57.1% Center-west 0 0.0% 0 33.3% 0 28.6% Northeast 0 0.0% 56 40.9% 56 40.9% Northeast 1 0.0% 12 24.8% 13 25.2% Southeast 1,801 19.5% 126 47.0% 1,927 20.4% Southeast 1,810 19.6% 176 56.3% 1,986 20.7% South 312 8.5% 1 2.9% 313 8.5% South 433 10.2% 2 4.3% 435 10.1% Consolidated 2,113 16.4% 187 41.9% 2,300 17.3% Consolidated 2,244 16.9% 190 42.3% 2,433 17.8% *Rate calculated using the number of hires in each category relative to the headcount of the respective category on 12/31. *Rate calculated using the number of hires and dismissals / 2 in each category relative to the headcount of the respective category on 12/31. Annual Report 2019 115 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more 401-2 | Benefits provided to full-time 403-2 | Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, employees that are not provided to and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities temporary or part-time employees In 2019, we did not register any fatal accidents with our employees, which reflects an Among the total number of CPFL Group employees, improvement in safety indicators. However, four fatal events occurred involving third parties: 99.7% are professionals hired under the CLT regime and two at RGE, one at CPFL Serviços and one at CPFL Piratininga. The rates for outsourced workers for an indefinite period. The remaining hires (42 people) are not shown, since the information is not available as it depends on the contracted companies. have the same benefits offered to the majority of the We also do not disclose our absenteeism rate. workforce. NUMBER OF ACCIDENTS WITH LEAVE* 403-1 | Workers representation in formal 2017 2018 2019 joint management–worker health and safety By gender committees We have three formally established health and safety Men 84 56 40 committees, which guarantee the representation of 100% Women 5 4 1 of employees in these forums for discussion and planning By region actions to create a safer working environment. Northeast 0 0 1 • Executive Health and Safety Committee (CSS): composed Southeast 64 51 30 of senior leadership members, its role is deliberating and South 25 9 10 defining strategic directions and actions. Total 89 60 41 • Operational Safety Committee (COS): consisting of *Only takes employees into account. No accidents were registered in the Center-west region. a multidisciplinary team, its purpose is to reinforce **Data from 2019 now includes figures for CPFL Renováveis. accident prevention during the execution of operational activities, identifying and promoting solutions with NUMBER OF DAYS LOST* utmost agility. • Internal Accident Prevention Commissions (CIPAs): in 2017 2018 2019 2019, our employees had 1,101 participants in 113 CIPAs, whose meetings addressed proposals and suggestions By gender for improvements on health and safety issues. Men 14,382 807 620 Women 34 20 3 By region Northeast 0 0 15 Southeast 7,611 747 511 South 6,805 80 97 Total 14,416 827 623 *Only takes employees into account. No accidents were registered in the Center-west region. **Data from 2019 now includes the figures for CPFL Renováveis. Annual Report 2019 116 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more 403-3 | Workers with high incidence or high 406-1 | Incidents of discrimination and 413-2 | Operations with significant risk of diseases related to their occupation corrective actions taken actual and potential negative impacts As in previous years, we have not identified a high risk or In 2019, we registered one case of gender discrimination, on local communities incidence of occupational illnesses in our operations. which was investigated and considered valid by the Ethics Our operations had no significant negative and Business Conduct Committee. We were timely in dealing impacts on local communities during the 403-4 | Health and safety topics covered in with the case and properly applying disciplinary measures. In operation phase. Even so, our plants maintain formal agreements with trade unions addition, the unit manager talked to the victim, reinforcing communication channels to hear demands from All union agreements to which we have committed CPFL's objection to any form of prejudice, discrimination, and the community by phone, e-mail and, in the case address health and safety topics related to the harassment, in accordance with guideline No. 27 of our Code of Baesa and Enercan, a Population Service Center. performance of CIPAs, the issuance of Occupational of Ethical Conduct. No cases of this kind were registered via Health Certificates (ASO), safety inspections of CPFL Renováveis' Complaints Portal. 418-1 | Substantiated complaints contractors, properly reporting Communication of Work concerning breaches of customer Accident (CATs), and holding meetings on the subject 413-1 | Operations with local community privacy and losses of customer data with union entities (in the case of CPFL Paulista, engagement, impact assessments, and We did not register any substantiated complaint CPFL Piratininga, CPFL Brasil and CPFL Geração). development programs about breach of privacy or loss of customer In line with their respective Sustainability and Social data through our Ombudsman channel and the 404-2 | Programs for upgrading employee Investment Policies, the plants in which we have a stake Ethics Committee. skills and transition assistance programs have allocated resources to support local communities’ Following CPFL Renováveis’s integration into the initiatives to promote culture, education, sports, health, and CPFL Group holding company, the administrative job and income generation. At Baesa, Ceran and Enercan, areas previously located in the city of São Paulo were investments totaled R$ 5.6 million to support social transferred to the municipality of Campinas, about projects in 2019, a decline of 11.8% from the previous 100 kilometers away. The company developed an period, with 94% of resources coming from tax incentives. outplacement program for employees who did not make The collection of projects is carried out on a publicly the transition to the new office. For the other employees accessible online platform, and the selection is carried there was no specific program, although there is also no out by an internal committee formed by employees from required leave due to retirement. different areas of the companies. In Foz do Chapecó, R$ 4.0 million was allocated, 14.3% more than in 2018, with all resources coming from tax incentives. Annual Report 2019 117 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more 419-1 | Non-compliance with laws and EU1 | Installed capacity, broken down by primary energy regulations in the social and economic area source and by regulatory regime With regard to non-compliance with laws and regulations in The main explanation for variations is related to the bigger stake in CPFL the social and economic areas in 2019, or in previous years Renováveis, which went from 51.56% to 99.94%. that were paid out in 2019 no penalties were levied by ANEEL on CPFL Energia Group's DisCos. However, it is important to TOTAL INSTALLED CAPACITY BY SOURCE (MW)* report, in regard to non-compliance with laws and regulations in the technical and commercial areas – in 2019, or in previous 2017 2018 2019 years that were paid out in 2019 – that CPFL Energia Group's HPP (Hydroelectric Power Plant) 1,991.0 1,991.0 1,990.3 DisCos were charged monetary fines by ANEEL which totaled SHPP (Small Hydroelectric Power Plant) 242.4 257.9 452.8 R$ 15,390,256.47 (corrected as of the payment date). and HGP (Hydroelectric Generating Plant) It is worth mentioning that we have dedicated regulatory teams at each business area of the company, with Solar 0.6 0.6 1.1 professionals focused on monitoring and complying with Wind 674.6 674.6 1,307.8 the obligations established in the concession contracts and Thermal 182.3 182.3 182.3 authorizing acts of its electricity generation, transmission Biomass 190.8 190.8 369.8 and distribution projects. These professionals are responsible Total 3,281.7 3,297.2 4,304.1 for ensuring and influencing the fulfillment of demands emanating from regulatory bodies (Brazilian Electricity *Includes the installed capacity of CPFL Geração and CPFL Renováveis projects proportional to the stake held by CPFL Energia. Regulatory Agency and Associated Agencies) and the granting authority (MME), complying with the necessary procedural deadlines and processes, and monitoring the evolution of the EU2 | Net energy output broken down by primary energy regulatory framework to mitigate risks of penalties and identify source and by regulatory regime new opportunities for the CPFL Energia Group. NET ENERGY PRODUCTION BY SOURCE (GWh)* 2017 2018 2019 HPP (Hydroelectric Power Plant) 4,499.7 6,959.3 6,397.8 SHPP (Small Hydroelectric Power Plant) 712.3 789.3 1,404.0 and HGP (Hydroelectric Generating Plant) Solar 0.8 0.8 1.6 Wind 2,304.6 2,165.5 4,006.5 Thermal 661.0 480.8 224.3 Biomass 532.6 561.9 1,063.7 Total 8,710.9 10,957.5 13,097.8 *Includes the net energy production of CPFL Geração and CPFL Renováveis projects proportional to the stake held by CPFL Energia. Annual Report 2019 118 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more EU4 | Length of above and underground transmission and distribution lines by regulatory regime In addition to the 342,200 km of primary and secondary distribution lines and transmission lines managed by the DisCos, in 2019 we had 984.2 km of aerial transmission networks at CPFL Renováveis. Of this total, 967.9 km had a voltage greater than 69 kV (and the remaining 16.3 km had voltage of less than 69 kV). EXTENSION OF CPFL RENOVÁVEIS TRANSMISSION LINES (km) 2019 By type Aerial 984.2 EU3 | Number of residential, industrial, institutional and commercial customer accounts Total 984.2 By tension ENERGY DELIVERED BY DISCOS (GWh) Less than 69 kV 16.3 69 kV and greater 967.9 2017 2018 2019 Total 984.2 CPFL Paulista 29,960.3 30,567.5 31,368.6 CPFL Piratininga 13,729.5 14,140.4 14,057.7 EXTENSION OF DISCOS’ TRANSMISSION LINES BY VOLTAGE (km) CPFL Santa Cruz 2,769.0 2,876.0 3,060.5 RGE 19,112.3 19,629.1 19,567.8 2018 2019 Total 65,571.1 67,213.0 68,054.6 Less than 69 kV 1,415.7 1,468.7 69 kV and greater 11,123.8 11,387.4 Total 12,539.5 12,856.1 EXTENSION OF THE DISTRIBUTION NETWORK BY TYPE (km) 2018 2019 Urban 129,178.6 131,793.0 Rural 193,654.9 196,342.3 Underground 1,145.6 1,234.6 Total 323,979.1 329,370.0 Annual Report 2019 119 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more EU6 | Management approach to ensure which the assets are exposed, with their respective probability short and long-term electricity availability and impact. The GRO consolidates CPFL Renováveis’s operational risk and reliability matrix, guiding mitigation actions. In 2019, CPFL Renováveis allocated At the DisCos, Electric System Expansion Planning is carried R$ 256 million to measures that contribute to assets’ reliability and out annually, with a cycle of diagnosis and proposition availability, of which R$ 209 million was in Opex (operational) and of solutions over ten-year horizon. This plan provides the R$ 47 million in Capex (investment). structural projects that will guarantee support for market growth and the reliability of electrical systems. Based on EU21 | Contingency planning measures, disaster/ market forecasts per substation or power transformer, emergency management plan and training programs, diagnostics of the electrical system are carried out in order and recovery/restoration plans to identify the need for reinforcements or extensions, We have Emergency Response Plans (PASE) that establish response which are dealt with through the works proposals that are actions in case of critical and emergency situations that may occur at the part of the Substations and High-Voltage Distribution Lines company's business units. Works Plan. These PASEs include procedures necessary to mitigate/minimize The periodic maintenance of assets is scheduled via a consequences in the event of an unexpected or unwanted event that five-year investment plan, seeking to improve the quality puts the physical integrity of employees at risk. One of the plan’s activities of the energy supply, ensure the safety of employees include drills to assess the effectiveness of emergency procedures and the and the general population, and guarantee the facilities’ possibility of improving processes. The procedures carried out in 2019 are useful life. This way we can ensure the increased efficiency shown in the table. and robustness of the system, providing greater energy availability to consumers. This plan is executed annually, PASE PROCEDURES PERFORMED IN 2019 with support from specialized contractors and the monitoring of key indicators. PASE Frequency Execution At CPFL Renováveis, the maintenance management system for generating plants is called Engeman. This system Fire fighting Semester February and August registers all inspection and improvement plans, including Sudden illness Semester March and September details of the technical, human and financial resources Traffic accident Yearly April required for their execution. The scheduled interventions are evaluated and approved by the technical teams and Fall from a height Yearly May executed at the most opportune time, that is, when they Drop in conductor Yearly June will have the least possible impact on energy generation. Rescue at heights Yearly July Field teams also use this system to register anomalies and Attack by poisonous animal Yearly October unscheduled maintenance. Using this data, corporate Dam collapse Yearly November teams can better evaluate and forecast future investments. Confined space Yearly December We also have the Operational Risk Management System Helipad emergency Yearly November (GRO), which presents, on an online platform, the risks to Annual Report 2019 120 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more EU25 | Number of injuries and fatalities to the public involving company assets including legal judgments, settlements and pending legal cases of diseases In 2019, we concluded 93 legal cases involving the health and safety of the population in the distribution segment, with a financial impact of R$ 2.9 million. At the end of the period, we had 377 ongoing cases. In unregulated markets, one case was concluded with no significant financial impact, and another three remained open at the end of the year. EU8 | Research and development activity and expenditure aimed at providing reliable electricity and promoting sustainable development INVESTMENT IN R&D BY DISCOS (R$ thousand)* INVESTMENT IN R&D BY GENERATORS AND TRANSMITTERS (R$ thousand)* 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Alternative sources of electricity generation 9,511 8,013 683 Alternative sources of electricity generation 4,827 2,843 133 Safety 2,308 2,173 1,547 Thermoelectric generation 6,200 1,142 395 Energy efficiency 2,190 4,978 6,204 Management of basins and reservoirs 287 1,402 3,398 Electric power systems planning 6,478 3,647 2,588 Environment 3,337 2,623 1,737 Operation of electric power systems 2,553 3,962 2,300 Safety 0 1,364 2,135 Supervision, control and protection of electrical energy systems 2,365 968 2,885 Energy efficiency 4,201 1,647 1,989 Quality and reliability of electricity services 88 704 2,866 Electric power systems planning 261 678 1,411 Measurement, billing and combating commercial losses 161 3,639 8,256 Operation of electric power systems 1,356 1,237 478 Other 1,667 4,269 2,196 Supervision, control and protection of electrical energy systems 780 497 556 Management programs** 1,336 1,609 1,781 Other 553 107 0 Total 28,657 33,963 31,306 Management programs** 27 476 641 *The values consider the stake held by CPFL Energia. Total 21,829 14,016 12,871 **Category that includes values related to the hourly dedication of team members, prospecting activities, publication of concluded projects, and other activities inherent to the R&D program. *The values consider the stake held by CPFL Energia's. 2018 data restated. **Category that includes values related to the hourly dedication of team members, prospecting activities, publication of concluded projects, and other activities inherent to the R&D program. Annual Report 2019 121 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more GRI content index General disclosures Disclosure Page Omissions Global Compact SDG GRI 101 | Foundation 2016 General disclosures Organizational profile 102-1 | Name of the organization 9 102-2 | Activities, brands, products, and services 16 102-3 | Location of headquarters 106 102-4 | Location of operations 17 and 21 102-5 | Ownership and legal form 25 102-6 | Markets served 18, 19, 20 and 22 102-7 | Scale of the organization 10 and 11 GRI 102 | General 102-8 | Information on employees and other workers 89 and 106 6 8 disclosures 2016 102-9 | Supply chain 78 17 102-10 | Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 18, 25, 26 and 79 102-11 | Precautionary Principle or approach 51 102-12 | External initiatives 106 102-13 | Membership of associations 107 Strategy 102-14 | Statement from senior decision-maker 6 and 7 102-15 | Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37 and 38 Ethics and integrity 102-16 | Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 13 and 96 1 and 10 16 102-17 | Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 97 1 and 10 16 GRI 102-55 Annual Report 2019 122 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more General disclosures Disclosure Page Omissions Global Compact SDG Governance 102-18 | Governance structure 28 102-20 | Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics 32 16 102-22 | Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 29 16 102-23 | Chair of the highest governance body 29 102-24 | Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 28 and 107 16 102-25 | Conflicts of interest 29 16 102-26 | Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy 30, 32 and 34 102-27 | Collective knowledge of highest governance body 108 4 102-30 | Effectiveness of risk management processes 38 102-35 | Remuneration policies 108 102-36 | Process for determining remuneration 108 Stakeholder engagement GRI 102 | General 102-40 | List of stakeholder groups 103 and 105 disclosures 2016 102-41 | Collective bargaining agreements 108 3 8 102-42 | Identifying and selecting stakeholders 103 and 105 102-43 | Approach to stakeholder engagement 103 and 105 102-44 | Key topics and concerns raised 104 Reporting practice 102-45 | Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 103 102-46 | Defining report content and topic Boundaries 103 102-47 | List of material topics 104 102-48 | Restatements of information 108 102-49 | Changes in reporting 103 102-50 | Reporting period 103 102-51 | Date of most recent report 103 102-52 | Reporting cycle 103 102-53 | Contact point for questions regarding the report 131 102-54 | Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 108 102-55 | GRI content index 122, 123, 124, 125, 126, 127 and 128 102-56 | External assurance 129 GRI 102-55z Annual Report 2019 123 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more General disclosures Disclosure Page Omissions Global Compact SDG GRI Electric utilities EU1 | Installed capacity, broken down by primary energy source and by regulatory regime 18 and 118 7 sector supplement 2013 EU2 | Net energy output broken down by primary energy source and by regulatory regime 18 and 118 7 EU3 | Number of residential, industrial, institutional and commercial customer accounts 20, 22 and 119 EU4 | Length of above and underground transmission and distribution lines by regulatory regime 21 and 119 7 EU5 | Allocation of CO2e emissions allowances or equivalent, broken down by carbon trading 50 13 framework Material topic | Human Resources Management GRI 103 | Management 103-1 | Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95 and 104 approach 2016 1 103-2 | The management approach and its components 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94 and 95 103-3 | Evaluation of the management approach 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94 and 95 GRI 201 | Economic 201-3 | Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 109 performance 2016 GRI 401 | Employment 401-1 | New employee hires and employee turnover 114 6 8 2016 401-2 | Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary 92, 93 and 116 6 8 or part-time employees GRI 404 | Training and 404-1 | Average hours of training per year per employee 91 6 4 and 8 education 2016 404-2 | Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 91 and 117 6 4 and 8 404-3 | Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 90 6 8 development reviews GRI Electric utilities EU14 | Programs and processes to ensure the availability of a skilled workforce 95 4 and 8 sector supplement 2013 Material topic | Health, Safety and Quality of Life GRI 103 | Management 103-1 | Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 43, 44, 45, 76, 77 and 104 approach 2016² 103-2 | The management approach and its components 43, 44, 45, 76 and 77 103-3 | Evaluation of the management approach 43, 44, 45, 76 and 77 GRI 403 | Occupational 403-1 | Workers representation in formal joint management–worker health and safety 116 8 health and safety 2016 committees 403-2 | Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, 76 and 116 3 and 8 and number of work-related fatalities 1 The management approach refers to all the GRI topics and Sector Supplement listed within the material topic “Human resources management”. 2 The management approach refers to all the GRI topics and Sector Supplement listed within the material topic “Health, safety and quality of life”. GRI 102-55z Annual Report 2019 124 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more General disclosures Disclosure Page Omissions Global Compact SDG Material topic | Health, Safety and Quality of Life GRI 403 | 403-3 | Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 117 3 and 8 Occupational health 403-4 | Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 117 8 and safety 2016 GRI Electric utilities EU21 | Contingency planning measures, disaster/emergency management plan and training 43, 44, 45 and 120 sector supplement 2013 programs, and recovery/restoration plans EU25 | Number of injuries and fatalities to the public involving company assets including legal 77 and 121 8 judgments, settlements and pending legal cases of diseases Material topic | Corporate Governance and Ethical Conduct GRI 103 | Management 103-1 | Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 25, 28, 29, 96, 97 and 104 approach 2016³ 103-2 | The management approach and its components 25, 28, 29, 96 and 97 103-3 | Evaluation of the management approach 25, 28, 29, 96 and 97 GRI 205 | 205-1 | Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 97 and 109 16 Anti-corruption 2016 205-2 | Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 96 and 109 16 205-3 | Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 109 16 GRI 307 | Environmental 307-1 | Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 115 16 compliance 2016 GRI 406 | Non406-1 | Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 117 8 and 16 discrimination 2016 GRI 419 | Socioeconomic 419-1 | Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area 118 16 compliance 2016 Material topic | Relationship with Community GRI 103 | Management 103-1 | Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 71, 72, 73, 74, 81, 82, 84, 85, 86, 87 and 104 approach 2016 103-2 | The management approach and its components 71, 72, 73, 74, 81, 82, 84, 85, 86 and 87 103-3 | Evaluation of the management approach 71, 72, 73, 74, 81, 82, 84, 85, 86 and 87 GRI 413 | Local 413-1 | Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, 52, 71, 81, 82, 84, 85, 86, 87 and 117 1 10 communities 2016 and development programs 413-2 | Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts 117 1 10 on local communities 3 The management approach refers to all the GRI topics listed within the material topic “Corporate governance and ethical conduct”. GRI 102-55 Annual Report 2019 125 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more General disclosures Disclosure Page Omissions Global Compact SDG Material topic | Relationship with Customer GRI 103 | Management 103-1 | Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 64, 65 and 104 approach 2016 4 103-2 | The management approach and its components 64 and 65 103-3 | Evaluation of the management approach 64 and 65 GRI 418 | Customer 418-1 | Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy 117 16 privacy 2016 and losses of customer data GRI Electric utilities EU24 | Practices to address language, cultural, low literacy and disability related 64 and 65 1 and 7 sector supplement barriers to access and safely use electricity and customer support services 2013 Material topic | Operational Excellence and Financial Performance GRI 103 | Management 103-1 | Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 99, 100, 101 and 104 approach 20165 103-2 | The management approach and its components 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 99, 100 and 101 103-3 | Evaluation of the management approach 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 99, 100 and 101 GRI 201 | Economic 201-1 | Direct economic value generated and distributed 100 8 performance 2016 GRI Electric utilities EU12 | Transmission and distribution losses as a percentage of total energy 65 7, 8, 12 and 13 sector supplement EU28 | Power outage frequency 58 7 2013 EU29 | Average power outage duration 58 7 Material topic | Energy Efficiency and Efficient Resource Use GRI 103 | Management 103-1 | Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 51, 55 and 104 approach 2016 6 103-2 | The management approach and its components 51 and 55 103-3 | Evaluation of the management approach 51 and 55 GRI 302 | Energy 2016 302-1 | Energy consumption within the organization 110 8 12 GRI 303 | Water 2016 303-1 | Water withdrawal by source 110 8 6 and 12 GRI 306 | Effluents and 306-1 | Water discharge by quality and destination 113 8 6, 12 and 14 waste 2016 306-2 | Waste by type and disposal method 53 and 114 8 12 306-3 | Significant spills 113 8 6, 12, 14 and 15 306-4 | Transport of hazardous waste 113 8 12 4 The management approach refers to all the GRI topics and Sector Supplement listed within the material topic “Relationship with customer”. 5 The management approach refers to all the GRI topics and Sector Supplement listed within the material topic “Operational excellence and financial performance”. 6 The management approach refers to all the GRI topics listed within the material topic “Energy efficiency and efficent resource use”. GRI 102-55 Annual Report 2019 126 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more General disclosures Disclosure Page Omissions Global Compact SDG Material topic | Innovation and Long-Term Vision GRI 103 | Management 103-1 | Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 59, 60, 61, 63, 66, 67, 68 and 104 approach 2016 103-2 | The management approach and its components 59, 60, 61, 63, 66, 67 and 68 103-3 | Evaluation of the management approach 59, 60, 61, 63, 66, 67 and 68 GRI Electric utilities EU6 | Management approach to ensure short and long-term electricity availability 18, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63 and 120 7, 9 e 11 sector supplement and reliability 2013 EU8 | Research and development activity and expenditure aimed at providing reliable 66, 67, 68 and 121 7, 9 e 11 electricity and promoting sustainable development Material topic | Sustainable Management of Suppliers GRI 103 | Management 103-1 | Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 78, 79, 80 and 104 approach 2016 7 103-2 | The management approach and its components 78, 79 and 80 103-3 | Evaluation of the management approach 78, 79 and 80 GRI 308 | Supplier 308-1 | New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 78 and 79 8 environmental 308-2 | Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 79 and 80 8 assessment 2016 GRI 414 | Supplier social 414-1 | New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 78 and 79 2 8 assessment 2016 414-2 | Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions take 79 and 80 2 8 Material topic | Conservation of Ecosystems and Biodiversity GRI 103 | Management 103-1 | Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 51, 52, 54 and 104 approach 20168 103-2 | The management approach and its components 51, 52 and 54 103-3 | Evaluation of the management approach 51, 52 and 54 GRI 304 | 304-1 | | Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and 111 8 15 Biodiversity 2016 areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 304-2 | Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity 51, 52 and 54 8 15 304-3 | Habitats protected or restored 52 8 15 304-4 | IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas 112 8 15 affected by operations GRI Electric utilities sector EU13 | Biodiversity of offset habitats compared to the biodiversity of the affected areas 52 8 15 supplement 2013 7 The management approach refers to all the GRI topics listed within the material topic “Sustainable management of suppliers”. 8 The management approach refers to all the GRI topics and Sector Supplement listed within the material topic “Conservation of ecosystems and biodiversity”. GRI 102-55 Annual Report 2019 127 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more General disclosures Disclosure Page Omissions Global Compact SDG Material topic | Climate Change GRI 103 | Management 103-1 | Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 46, 47, 48, 49, 50 and 104 approach 2016 9 103-2 | The management approach and its components 46, 47, 48, 49 and 50 103-3 | Evaluation of the management approach 46, 47, 48, 49 and 50 GRI 201 | Economic 201-2 | Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change 48 and 49 7 13 performance 2016 GRI 305 | Emissions 305-1 | Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 47 and 113 7 and 8 13 2016 305-2 | Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 47 and 113 7 and 8 13 305-3 | Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 47 and 113 7 and 8 13 305-4 | GHG emissions intensity 113 8 13 9 The management approach refers to all the GRI topics listed within the material topic “Climate change”. GRI 102-55 Annual Report 2019 128 CPFL Energia Messages Energy of the future Business model Sustainable energy Smart solutions Shared value Our enablers Our results To learn more VERIFICATION STATEMENT OF 2019 ANNUAL REPORT OF CPFL ENERGIA RINA BRASIL SERVIÇOS TÉCNICOS LTDA, on basis of the assessment carried out by its technical personnel, declares that the Annual Report, for the year 2019, named DECLARAÇÃO DE ASSEGURAÇÃO DO RELATÓRIO ANUAL 2019 DA CPFL ENERGIA CPFL – 2019 Annual Report drawn up by the organisation CPFL Energia O RINA BRASIL SERVIÇOS TÉCNICOS LTDA, com base nas avaliações realizadas por sua equipe técnica, declara que o Relatório Anual da CPFL Energia, para o ano 2019, denominado CPFL Relatório Anual 2019 Complies with the requirements provided by the Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines, for the “Core” approach elaborado pela organização drawn up by the organisation CPFL Energia CPFL Energia Está em conformidade com os requisitos previstos nas Diretrizes da GRI, para a abordagem essencial escolhida pela Organização. Verification of 2019 annual report has been performed in accordance with the methods described in the RINA document “Rules for the verification of sustainability reports” available from the RINA site www.rina.org. Elaborado pela organização CPFL Energia Date: 25/03/2020 A verificação do Relatório Anual 2019 foi realizada da maneira descrita no documento do RINA Regulamento para verificação dos relatórios de sustentabilidade , disponível no site do RINA, www.rina.org. Data da declaração: 25/03/2020 Natal Ferreira Vasconcelos DIRECTOR RINA BRASIL Natal Ferreira Vasconcelos DIRETOR RINA BRASIL Form: SR_STM-STD (02-2018) GRI 102-56 (02-2018) Form: SR_STM-STD Annual Report 2019 129 CPFL Energia Aerial view of Santos (SP) Credits and corporate information CPFL Energia S.A. Rod. Engineer Miguel Noel Nascentes Burnier, 1755 São Quirino Park Campinas SP | Zip code: 13088-900 GENERAL DIRECTION Legal and Institutional Relations Vice-Presidency Environment and Sustainability Department Communication and Institutional Relations Department GATHERING OF INFORMATION Employees of CPFL Energia Group (subsidiaries and affiliates) CONTENT, CONSULTING, DESIGN AND INFOGRAPHICS usina82 PHOTOGRAPHY CPFL Energia Collection CONTACT Environment and Sustainability Department sustentabilidade@cpfl.com.br GRI 102-53
