SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Moving Together SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Cover photo: Wind Turbines. Anthony Into.(Artphoto 2019) 2 Letter from the President Chapter 1. 1.1. Identity and values 4 4 1.2. Overview of the Arteche Group 8 How we understand 1.3. Our sustainable commitmente 14 sustainability 1.4. Our sustainability plan 16 Chapter 2. 2.1. Corporate governance system 21 21 2.2. Ethics 26 Good governance, 2.3. Risk management system 29 ethics and risk management Chapter 3. 3.1. Risks and crime prevention program 32 3.2. Corruption prevention measures 33 Our commitment 31 against corruption and bribery Chapter 4. 4.1. Our Team 36 35 Our commitment to the people 4.1.1. Employment 4.1.2. Equality and accessibility 4.1.3. Work organization and social relations 36 42 46 4.1.4. Health & Safety 47 4.2. Our fight for Human Rights 49 Chapter 5. 5.1. Management and environmental approach 52 51 Our environmental commitment 5.2. Environmental issues 54 Chapter 6. 6.1. Our collaboration with society 62 61 Our social commitment 6.2. Subcontracting and suppliers 6.3. Clients 6.4. Tax information 67 69 71 Capítulo 7. Funikularra. Felix Urrutia. (Artphoto 2019) 75 About this report SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 From a financial point of view, we have closed profitability, but a growth that is in accordance this biennium with a strengthened position. We with our values. Our values have been rooted for have strengthened our international commercial more than 70 years in the people who are part of presence with a 24% growth in two years and Arteche and for whom sustainability and an ethical an improvement in results of more than 25%. and transparent way of doing things have always In addition, with the reorganized portfolio of been the guideline. products and solutions, all businesses are growing This year, as an essential part of our Strategic Plan, and are profitable. we have defined a Sustainability Plan which, in line From a geographic standpoint, we have grown in with our mission and values, should guide all of the most countries, especially in our main markets in Group’s actions in the field of sustainability. Europe and the Americas; and our performance For this plan, we have selected the Sustainable in North America, where we have grown all of Development Goals as the main focus of our our portfolio’s products by almost 50%, is worth activity, taking into account the sector in which we noting. As far as products and solutions are are, the type of company we are and the countries concerned, in addition to growing in Arteche’s Letter from the President Letter from the President in which we are present. Therefore, we will focus “core” business, we are growing at a faster rate in our efforts, capacities and technological innovation the future products and solutions oriented to the on contributing to goal number 8 (Decent Work intelligent network and renewable generation. and Economic Growth), 11 (Sustainable Cities Some data that reconfirm this effort are the and Communities), 9 (Industry, Innovation interconnection of more than 30GW of renewables and Infrastructure), 4 (Quality Education), 12 to the grid between 2018 and 2019 with our (Responsible Production and Consumption) and 5 solutions, and the fact that sales of products and (Gender Equality). solutions focused on the smart grid have increased 0 threefold in the last two years. In order to measure our contribution to these goals, 0 Letter from the President we have set up a panel of indicators following GRI As I said before, the goal is to continue growing. standards and we are already starting to see some 1 Our plan calls for significant growth in sales and results in 2019. 1 _ This year, as an In this document, we present the 2019 fiscal year Sustainability Report, with the aim of providing society and the company’s stakeholders with a global 2 essential part vision of our strategy and the lines of action in the area of sustainability. A 2 of our Strategic strategy that in line with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals › Delivery of the “Welcome › Reduction of the salary › 82% of workers on 3 Plan, we have and with our commitment, as a signatory company, to the principles of the to Compliance” pack to all gap to 10.1% permanent contracts 3 Global Compact. defined a newcomers › Virtually all employees under Sustainability The Sustainability Report details our progress in environmental protection, › 76% of employees trained in collective agreement 4 Plan which, in engagement in society, and ethical response to business challenges in all the Code of Ethical Conduct in 4 countries where we are located. 2019 line with our The management indicators we use to monitor our sustainability objectives 5 mission and follow the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) standards, which makes it possible 5 values, should for us to better evaluate our performance and facilitates monitoring and › Reduction of electricity external comparison for our stakeholders. consumption by 2.7% 6 guide all of the › Firmados 54 convenios › Reduction of water 6 Group’s actions During the 2018-2019 biennium we completed the first stage of our 2022 de colaboración con consumption by 11.8% Strategic Plan. diferentes centros 7 in the field of formativos › 0 environmental accidents 7 An ambitious plan with an organic growth target of more than 8% year-onsustainability year, reinforced with an acquisition plan with which we seek to strengthen our growing presence in the world with new locations and business partners. To this end, a strong commitment to the excellence of our processes and › Adjustment of the criminal › Full review of the crime › Boosting the risk to improving the efficiency of our factories, together with a significant risk map to the new prevention Program management System investment in technological innovation and digitalization, are key factors in regulations › 74% of our purchases this exciting moment in the electricity sector. from local suppliers Our sector is undergoing a period of development and transformation. Economic growth and the demand for energy, electrification of the economy, the decisive drive towards renewable generation and digitalization are transforming the electrical grid. We are advancing and fulfilling the objectives deWe are experiencing an era of both challenges and opportunities for everyone fined in all fields, but we have exciting challenges in the sector and, at Arteche, we are preparing to take advantage of both of ahead of us, which we face with the confidence that them. a great team of committed professionals gives us. In this context, 2018 and 2019 have been consolidation years, years of laying Throughout Arteche’s 70+ years of history, we the foundations for future growth. We have completed work implemented in have distinguished ourselves by our closeness to recent years by refocusing our activity: we have identified the businesses in our clients, our flexibility in meeting their needs which we want to be present and divested ourselves of those areas that we with technology and service, and by always resdon’t consider essential to our future. ponding to difficulties. This has made us stronger. We are taking on the challenges and opportunities This feature, which has made us stand out from the offered by the evolution of the electricity grid with a solid portfolio of products Alexander Artetxe very beginning, and is summarized in our Moving and solutions focused on electricity substations, connection of renewable Together brand philosophy, takes on greater imChairman and Chief Executive Officer energy to the grid, supply quality improvement, and smart grid development. portance today during this time of transformation. 2 3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Light square. Pablo Quiroga (Artphoto 2019) Mission statement Our mission is to be an international reference in the electricity sector, with the vocation of helping our customers to provide the maximum value to grow together in the development of the electricity network of the future, being a family business, with roots and corporate headquarters in Bizkaia. Our focus is to master technology, and enhance knowledge and the development of people, within a sustainable project that is attractive and responsible to society and the environment. Visión How we understand sustainability How we understand sustainability We aspire to always be at the forefront of technological innovation in the sector and be recognized internationally for quality and service level in all our products and solutions for the network of transport and distribution of energy. Values 0 In order to develop our mission and vision, in Arteche we have condensed 0 our corporate values into the following four values: 1 1 2 Chapter 1. › Clients › Proximity 2 1 How we understand › Contact with the client Proximity and commitment › Fulfilling commitments 3 › Rapid response 3 sustainability › Search for solutions › Listen, learn and contribute to the client 4 4 5 2 › People › Commitment to the company’s project 5 › Commitment to the people _ “Our 1.1. Identity and values Professionalism and shared › Sharing knowledge 6 commitment is project › Joint effort to achieve shared goals 6 Arteche is an organization with an ininnovation, adapting to the different to move forward ternational calling, with over 70 years needs of each client and, as a conse› Taking on challenges 7 together, Moving of history, which has production and quence, establishing close relations› Solving problems when they occur 7 Together. We technical-commercial facilities all hips with them. over the world and products installed want to pave the in more than 150 countries. This way of working makes Arteche way together, an organization that is very aware This reality allows us to be directly of tomorrow’s challenges and that, together, we familiarized with the local contexts nowadays, is internationally recogni› Excellence › Getting it right the first time want to pave the of the electrical sector, its demands zed for its strength, knowledge, tra3 Continuous improvement and › Ambition to exceed the highest quality way” and complexities. This is an undersjectory and outreach. bettering and efficiency standards tanding that has been structured into › Continuous improvement Arteche’s mission, vision, corporaa dynamic organization, prepared to te values, and policy all of them › Pursuit of a high corporate reputation boost growth in geographic areas approved by the Board of Directors and technological developments and endorsed by senior managewith present and future business ment describe our long-term raison opportunities. d’être, and contribute to build trust › Innovation › Innovative ambition In short, a global, strong and stable brand, prepared to respond to maramong all our stakeholders. They also address the main social, econo4 Ambition, transformation and › Systematic search for opportunities ket movements with a basic guidemic and environmental trends and new challenges › Not settling for what has been line: to move forward together with the expectations of our stakeholders, established or what has been achieved our clients. Moving Together. and define our role in society. › Collaborating with others to transform knowledge We have an international team with the necessary talent and commitment to offer excellence in both quality and service. This allows us to work with a criterion of continuous 4 5 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Arteche Group general policy The involvement and leadership of the President and CEO of the Arteche Group himself in the dissemination, development and updating of the values is reflected in his statement: We, the Arteche Group, As designers, manufacturers, integrators and marketers of products and solutions for the measuring, protection, automation, control and communication in electricity networks; and as project managers for the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity How we understand sustainability How we understand sustainability We are committed to: Offering our clients proximity and attention to detail that satisfy their needs and expectations, thanks to the highest quality of Arteche products and services. Establishing a transparent environment in which to operate and interact, focusing on those aspects of our code of ethics that are strongly present in our corporate values, guaranteeing that our management is appropriate to the context and purpose of our organization. Corporate Social Responsibility and _ “Our 0 sustainable development commitment 0 Developing and promoting a corporate culture of prevention of harmful conduct or control actions with appropriate procedures that allow us to is to move 1 detect, correct and sanction irregularities within the organization and with Arteche is a project that is shared with all our clients, with our suppliers, and with the whole of the society in which we develop our activity.. forward 1 any external party. together, 2 Protecting and ensuring human rights, occupational safety and the enviEthics, honesty, solidarity, and transparency are the principles that make MOVING 2 ronment in order to better understand and meet the needs of people and up our philosophy and constitute our management model, and which all of the environment. us at Arteche follow, always seeking excellence in quality and service. Our TOGETHER. commitment to society is strong, and all of us at Arteche want to participate We want to 3 Disallowing any form of forced and/or child labor and expressing our total actively in order to contribute to social development, to generate value for pave the way 3 rejection toward them. our clients and for society as a whole. together, 4 Respecting the individual and association rights of the people of Arteche and promoting a policy of equality and non-discrimination, on whatever Our companies are recognized for their socially responsible management, together, we 4 grounds. and the ISO 26000 principles and standards have been applied to various want to pave of their management systems, in order to maximize the social and economic 5 Encouraging teamwork, cooperation and collaboration across all levels of benefits of the society in which we develop our work. the way.” 5 the organization. At Arteche, we base the management of our Corporate Social 6 Wednesday, July 25, 2018 As part of our culture and in order to guarantee the most competitive version of our products, we trust in the innovative and professional attitude of Responsibility on the following fundamental matters: 6 Alexander Artetxe our personnel, with a preventive culture and continuous improvement, for Labor practices 7 Chairman and Chief the improvement of our products and services thanks to our vocation for efficiency and excellence. 7 Executive Officer Environment Plans to stimulate and attract talent These values are in alignment with the principles of Sustainable Development, Corporate Social Responsibility and, therefore, with the 2030 Agenda Advanced development of knowledge Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations. management Respect for human rights Fair operating practices Our goal is to develop innovative projects that help us in implementing the concept of sustainability in each and every one of our company’s activities. In fact, the Code of Ethical Conduct of the Arteche Group establishes a clear guideline regarding non-financial performance: “We take on the commitment > Welcome manual intended to society as an indispensable basis for the sustainable development of for new additions to the Arteche Group.. Arteche. Each Arteche employee must contribute to the achievement of sustainability goals, must support economic progress, and must care for the environment and social development” and a concise a Group goal: “To offer our clients a quality service in a responsible and efficient way. To promote support for charitable, educational and community service activities”. Our goal is to develop innovative projects that help us in implementing the concept of sustainability in each and every one of our company’s activities. Warm Life. Nan Yang (Artphoto 2019) 6 7 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 1.2. Overview of the Arteche Group Location of operations, markets served We sell our products in 150 countries, although our sustainability impacts are focused on five countries: Spain, Brazil, Mexico, Argentina and China. Activities, brands, products and services The Arteche brand is an international of electricity, as well as in industrial Location of the Arteche Group’s production plants reference in the design, manufactuelectrical applications and in turnkey and commercial offices re and marketing of electrical equiprojects for substations and renewapment and solutions in the areas geble generation plants, energy quality neration, transport and distribution and distribution automation. Our product and service portfolio consists of the following families: How we understand sustainability How we understand sustainability 0 0 1 1 2 2 3 3 ARGENTINA SPAIN FRANCE 4 AIT -CórdobaGRUPO ARTECHE -MungiaParís (Office) 4 (Headquarter) Buenos Aires (Office) ELECTROTÉCNICA ARTECHE 5 HNOS. -MungiaINDIA 5 AUSTRALIA ELECTROTÉCNICA ARTECHE SMART GRID -MungiaARTECHE SMARTGRID INDIA 6 ARTECHE SMART DIGITAL ARTECHE CENTRO DE PVT -Bangalore6 OPTIC -SídneyTECNOLOGÍA -Mungia7 SAC -MadridMEXICO 7 BRAZIL ARTECHE GAS INSULATED INSTRUMENT ARTECHE NORTH AMERICA TRANSFORMERS -Vitoria/ -Tepeji del RíoARTECHE EDC -CuritibaGasteizAMYT -Mexico DFARTECHE STK -CuritibaSevilla (Office) ARTECHE ACP -Mexico DFSão Paulo (Office) ARTECHE MÉXICO TURNKEY SOLUTIONS -Mexico DFCHILE UAE SOUTH AFRIKA Santiago de Chile ARTECHE MIDDLE EAST JLT (Office) -DubáiJohannesburgo (Office) CHINA USA THAILAND ARTECHE DYH -DalianShanghái (Office) ARTECHE USA -MiamiBangkok (Office) In 2019 there have been no significant changes to operations or to their location, including facility openings, closures and expansions. Our recruitment has increased by 16% in the year 2019. 8 9 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Arteche Group’s 2019 geographical distribution of recruitment EMEA NA LATAM APAC Europe, Middle East North America South America Asia-Pacific & Africa 33 % 36 % 23 % 8% 298 M€ How we understand sustainability How we understand sustainability 0 EMEA NA LATAM APAC 0 Europe, Middle East North America South America Asia-Pacific & Africa 1 33 % 36 % 23 % 8% 1 2 2 3 2019 Order Intake Heat Map 3 4 4 EMEA NA LATAM APAC 5 5 6 6 7 7 SALES + SALES 10 11 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Participation in external institutions Arteche belongs to many associations related to its activity, aiming to be an agent of change in the different sectors in which it develops its activities. Some collaborations How we understand sustainability How we understand sustainability 0 0 1 1 2 2 3 3 4 4 5 5 6 6 7 7 12 13 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 1.3. Our sustainable commitment Constitution of the sustainability committee One outcome of Arteche’s commitment to sustainable development and the 2030 agenda, was that in 2019 we set up a global executive body (led by the Commitment to the United Nations Global company’s top executive, the Chairman and CEO) called the Sustainability Committee. The constitution of the Committee responds to a need to order Compact and systematize actions that Arteche has been promoting since its constitution more than 70 years ago. In 2014, by means of a letter which was later updated in 2018 and which was sent to the United Nations General Secretary, we have stated our commitment The operation of this Sustainability Committee is based on: a) leadership and and connection to the human and labor rights recognized in national and coordination of sustainability goals and actions, b) relocation into regional international legislation and with the principles on which the United Nations sustainability sub-committees and c) monthly sessions. Global Compact is based, the Norms of the Responsibilities of Transnational Corporations and Other Business Enterprises with Regard to Human Rights How we understand sustainability How we understand sustainability of the United Nations, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, Organizational scheme of the Sustainability the Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning Multinational Enterprises and the Social Policy of the International Labor Organization, as well as any Committees documents or texts that may replace or complement those referred to above. As members of the United Nations Global Compact, we are committed to the fulfillment of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development approved by the ARTECHE Sustainability UN in 2015, whose Sustainable Development Goals (SDA) are as follows: Committee (ASC) 0 CSA EMEA CSA Asia-PacIfic CSA North America CSA South America 0 1 The purpose of this Committee is as follows: “To actively promote, from a 1 global perspective, sustainable development: working for social progress, en2 vironmental balance and economic growth. The 2030 Development Agenda is an action plan for the people, the planet and for prosperity”. 2 The main actions carried out by this Committee during the 2019 fiscal year 3 were: 3 › High-level diagnosis of the Group’s situation in terms of sustainability 4 › Definition and prioritization of Arteche’s contribution to the ODS (See “Our 4 Sustainability Plan”) › Proposed GRI indicators to monitor for selected ODS 5 › Definition of the operations’ system of the Committee and Subcommittees 5 › Reflection on tools at the disposal of the Committee (computer systems, 6 communication channels, budget, etc.) › Communication of the Committee’s formation to the whole Group 6 › Analysis of first actions proposed through the communication channels 7 Senior management has been a 7 strong supporter of the development of these activities, as well as the integration of the objectives into the strategy, which is currently being developed. In 2019, the Group has set concrete goals, measured by specific indicators in order to align the organization’s goals with the ODS. This strong commitment to Arteche’s sustainability is based on the firm support of the Board of Directors, the Audit and Compliance Committee, and, especiaIn order to facilitate the analysis from the point of view of the contribution lly, on the direct involvement of to the 2030 Agenda, it is important to establish the relationship between the Chairman. the activities described by Arteche throughout this report and the different ODS that are boosted by the activities carried out. To this end, each section identifies the ODS the Group contributes towards, but only includes those ODS towards which the company considers it makes a relevant contribution. 14 15 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 1.4. Our sustainability plan Main communication channels with internal and external stakeholders The Group’s sustainability strategy has been based on the identification of possible sustainability impacts and possible risks that may arise from our activities, and on the development of our first Sustainability Plan, aligned with our 2022 Strategic Plan. For this purpose, we have carried out a materiality Internal stakeholders External stakeholders analysis in the following steps: Internal Newsletters Arteche website All Hands Meeting Contact forms › Analysis Intranet Annual Report › Identification › Prioritization of 1 of the Stakeholder 2 of material 3 material aspects Internal News Social Networks aspects map Performance Assessment E-mail address How we understand sustainability How we understand sustainability Deployment of strategic objectives Ethical Channel Analysis of the stakeholder map Information panels Sustainability Committees In Arteche we consider as stakeholders those who are influenced by our decisions and by the Group’s activity, and also those who are relevant for Ethical Channel the operation and sustainability of our business. At the end of the year, the Group’s Management Committee carries out an internal process to identify the stakeholders with whom its activity is involved. 0 Identification of material aspects 0 This process is part of the annual strategic reflection process for the coming year. We have conducted a materiality analysis in order to understand and prioritize 1 the most relevant issues for both its key stakeholders and its strategy. That is, 1 it is an analysis that contributes to the development of the business strategy 2 Arteche Group’s Stakeholders in line with what is expected from the Group, and also determines what 2 information should be reported on. At the end of 2018, as part of the strategic reflection process, the Group 3 The Group has different communication strategies with each of its Management Committee carried out an analysis of Arteche’s main 3 stakeholders, and they are always based on transparency, on offering stakeholders. This exercise took into account the main needs and concerns of accurate, reliable, understandable and relevant information, and always with each of them, which had been detected through the different communication 4 honesty, as reflected in the Code of Ethical Conduct. channels available. 4 Knowing the expectations of the stakeholders with respect to Arteche is a Likewise, one of the main tasks of the Arteche Group’s Sustainability 5 fundamental aspect and, thus, we have fluid, two-way communication with Committee in the 2019 fiscal year has been to identify the expectations of 5 all of them through the different communication channels that we make its stakeholders in terms of sustainability. Following the GRI standard, the available to them, or through the regular meetings that are held. analysis phases have been: 6 6 › Identification › Aggregation › Assignment › Prioritization › Benchmarking 7 1 › Internal › Employees and family members 7 › Works council and trade unions Identification of Aggregation of Assignment Prioritization of Benchmarking › Shareholders, owners and Board of issues relevant the issues into of each of the issues according analysis of other Directors to each of the a single listing relevant issues to their companies in stakeholders of 47 relevant to Each ODS importance the sector and cases in the 2030 the geographical Agenda environment 2 › External › Clients › Vendors › Government and Public Administration › Training and knowledge centers › R&D and alliance centers › Financial institutions › Industry associations › Competitors › Environment › Company 16 17 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Through this process, we have identified those economic, social, environmental and ethical behavior aspects that are relevant to stakeholders Prioritization of material aspects and to our strategy, and which have been covered throughout this report. As a result of the continuous dialogue with our stakeholders and, being aware of the unquestionable economic, social and environmental repercussions of all our activities, at Arteche we frame all our business actions within the commitment to a mission and values, and in the context of respect for Arteche Group’s Materiality Matrix Human Rights. We focus our efforts on the ODS where our contribution is most relevant: + 96 3 2 › Ensuring inclusive, equitable and quality Importance to Stakeholders 5 1 8 4 education and promoting lifelong learning How we understand sustainability How we understand sustainability 7 opportunities for all 10 13 14 12 11 › Achieving gender equality and empowering all 19 women and girls 16 0 0 18 15 1 17 1 20 › Promoting sustained, inclusive and sustainable 21 economic growth, full and productive 2 employment, and decent work for all 2 Importance to ARTECHE + 3 3 Priority Relevant Other relevant issues issues issues › Developing resilient infrastructures, promoting 4 inclusive and sustainable industrialization, and 4 1 Employment 11 Subcontracting and 18 Consumption of fostering innovation suppliers raw materials 5 2 Health and Safety 12 Contamination 19 Consumers 5 3 Work organization 13 Use of renewable 20 Actions to fight 6 4 Social relations energies food waste › Making cities and human settlements inclusive, 6 5 Company 14 Sustainable use of 21 Biodiversity safe, resilient and sustainable commitment resources protection 7 to sustainable 7 development 15 Circular economy and prevention and 6 Training management of 7 Equality waste › Ensuring sustainable consumption and production 8 Human rights 16 Climate change patterns 9 Environmental 17 Tax information management 10 Fight against corruption and bribery 18 19 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Main lines of action of our 2020 sustainability plan Although these ODS are our priority objectives due to our ability to influence them and because of our stakeholders’ expectations, we also promote initiatives related to the rest of the ODS. In fact, our contribution to the 17 ODS will be seen in each of the following chapters. Good governance, ethics and risk management › Internal training plans How we understand sustainability › Active collaboration with colleges, schools and training centers to encourage technical vocations › Implementation of equality committees in all companies › Parity work in new hires and defining objectives in 0 0 Chapter 2. internal succession plans 1 1 2 › Promoting internal training in Health and Safety Good governance, 2 ethics and risk › Extending the code of conduct to suppliers and other collaborators 3 3 4 › Reduction of plastic consumption in suppliers’ packaging Management 4 › Encouraging the use of recycled and renewable 5 materials. 5 2.1. Corporate governance system _ ”In the 2019 6 fiscal year, 6 Arteche’s corporate governance system is mainly made up of the Corporate › Developing local initiatives aimed at offsetting our energy Bylaws, the Regulations of the different governing bodies, the Group’s mission, the Group’s 7 footprint and supporting local communities. vision and values, the Code of Ethical Conduct, the corporate policies and the corporate 7 Integrated Management Model. governance system was Key documents in the corporate governance system updated to › Energy efficiency study in all plants continue › Reduction of non-recyclable / non-reusable waste adapting it to › Reduction of consumption regarding 2019 indicators › Articles of Association better practices” > Level 1: Rules › Board of Directors Regulations governing the › Regulations of the Audit and governing bodies Compliance Committee › 76% of employees › Code of ethical Conduct and trained in Code of ethical channel > Level 2: Policies and regulations Ethical Conduct in › Integrated management model approved by the 2019 › Corporate Policies › Basic standard of internal audit Board of Directors › Improvements › Crime prevention program in corporate › Corporate risk map governance › Boosting the Risk › Rules and procedures for > Level 3: Policies and Management System implementation regulations approved by the management team 20 21 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 In a context of growing importance of corporate governance, in the 2019 fiscal year we have updated our corporate governance system, to continue Committee Functions adapting it to better practices. The main changes are summarized as follows: › Oversight of information systems, internal › Updating the Regulations of the Board of Directors control and risk management › Updating the Regulations of the Audit and Compliance Committee › Oversight of the economic and financial Audit and Compliance › Promoting the three-line defense model by creating two new organizational reporting process Committee areas: Internal Audit and Compliance Officer › Accounts auditor supervision › Approval of the Basic Internal Audit Standard › Oversight of the internal audit function › Creation of an ethical channel, as a basic communication tool of the Code of › Oversight of the Group’s ethical channel and Conduct internal compliance function Good governance, ethics and risk management Good governance, ethics and risk management › Updating certain corporate policies that develop the principles of the corporate governance system and contain the guidelines that govern the › Development of the Arteche Group’s strategy, Group’s actions. The Compliance Officer is currently in the process of Strategy Committee with a special focus on corporate development reviewing the corporate policies, as well as evaluating which of them should and inorganic growth. be approved at the highest level. › Implementation of the Ethics Committee › Proposals for the appointment and re-election › Updating the Crime Prevention Program, by reviewing the risk map and its of directors associated monitoring › Proposal for the system and its remuneration All these new features are endorsed by the Company’s highest governing Appointments amount and policies body, which is a further step towards improving the Group’s governance and Remuneration 0 and fostering an ethical culture, both key aspects in the sustainability of our Committee › Approval of annual remuneration of executives 0 business model. › Assessment of the training, promotion and selection policy for managers 1 1 2 The board of directors and its committees 2 The corporate and governance structure of Arteche Lantegi Elkartea, S.A. In 2019, the composition of the Board of Directors changed, with a woman Can be seen in the following diagram: joining the Arteche Group’s top management body and one of the male 3 members being replaced by a new one. 3 4 Corporate and governing structure of Arteche 4 Lantegi Elkartea, S.A. Composition of the Board of Directors by December 31st, 2019 5 5 Arteche Lantegi Elkartea, S.A. 6 Chairman Board of Directors 6 and Position Director Condition Committee executive 7 officer Advisory Committees Chairman and Chief Executive Alexander Executive Strategy and Appointments and 7 + Artetxe Officer Remuneration Management Audit and Compliance Strategy Appointments and team Committee Committee Remuneration Committee Lander Audit and Director Executive Arteche Compliance Business Dámaso Director External Strategy Quintana Arteche Instrument Arteche Smart Grid Other Naire XXI (*) Transformers companies José María Director External Strategy Abril > (*) The business developed by Naire XXI (turnkey projects) does not fall within the scope of this Sustainability Report. Pablo Audit and Director External Ramallo Compliance Guillermo Strategy and The Board of Directors is, after the General Meeting of Shareholders, the Director External Appointments and Ulacia highest decision-making body of the Company, which is regulated by the Remuneration Articles of Association and its Regulations. Director Luis Aranaz External Audit and The Board of Directors has three committees, which do not have executive Compliance functions and act as information, advisory and consultative bodies, and also Audit and Yolanda make proposals on matters within their competence. Director External Compliance Beldarrain > Secretary non-counselor: José Ramón Berecibar. 22 23 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 The Chairman and Chief Executive With regard to the procedure Officer is responsible for the implemented to avoid conflicts of direction and proper functioning of interest in the highest governing the Board of Directors, management body, it should be noted that the supervision functions, institutional directors inform the Board of representation of the Group, as well Directors of any situation of direct as for the leadership and promotion or indirect conflict of interest they of the Group’s strategy and its may have with the Company, in Good governance, ethics and risk management Good governance, ethics and risk management transformation process. compliance with Article 229 of the Law on Corporations. Directors who With regard to the concentration are in said situation refrain from of power in the Chairman of the intervening in those matters where a Board of Directors, who is also the conflict between the interests of the company’s chief executive, the Group Company and those of the directors has taken measures to limit the risks or of their related parties may arise. of such concentration, including: The existence of committees, with a The Arteche Group continues majority of independent or external its commitment to progressively directors, whose resolutions are incorporate the best corporate 0 subsequently ratified by the Board; the delimitation of the functions governance practices possible, especially in relation to the structure 0 of the Chairman in the Board’s of the Board of Directors and its 1 regulations, etc. different committees, their functions and operation. 1 2 2 Organization and 3 structure 3 4 Our current organizational structure is based on functional areas, which 4 provide support to all productive Council 5 societies, which in turn have their own hierarchical management Secretariat 5 mechanisms. Internal CEO 6 The General Manager is responsible Audit (*) President 6 for the day-to-day management Compliance Talent of the Group’s business, reporting Officer development 7 directly to the Chairman and CEO, Corporate 7 and is supported by the Group Development Management Committee, which is an executive body made up of the Legal Directors of the different functional areas, (except for the Directors of Internal Audit and Compliance General Officer) with supervision and Manager assurance duties. Marketing R&D Finance TS Turnkey HR and Sales Projects and Shopping Information Excellence Services Technology > (*) Functional dependence of the Audit and Compliance Committee. PLC-USA Coupler. Andoni-Gallastegi. (Artphoto 2019) 24 25 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2.2. Ethics › Code enforcement system. › Obligation to act: Queries and complaints ethical channel: this channel is a twoThe Compliance Goals are part of our strategy and together with the way communication tool that is offered so that any doubts in connection to the Group’s values, principles, standards and rules of conduct are set out in Code of Conduct can be cleared and, when applicable, any possible irregularities Arteche’s Code of Ethical Conduct, which was approved in 2018 by the Board or behavior that goes against said regulations can be reported. All communications of Directors. In it, a set of fundamental principles and general guidelines received are subject to objective, independent and confidential analysis, and for conduct is established and it is aimed at guaranteeing the professional, in all cases a response is given to the interested party. The ethical channel has ethical, and responsible behavior of all directors, managers, and the Group’s been launched in 2019 through postal mail and email: etica@arteche.es, ethics@ employees, both in relation to the performance of their duties and in their arteche.com. Arteche guarantees that the consultations and complaints received relations with colleagues, managers, subordinates, clients, suppliers, and through this channel are treated with the utmost reserve and confidentiality by the market and the general society in which they operate, always complying with the regulations of each country and respecting their ethical principles, the Ethics and Compliance Subcommittee, and are managed in an impartial and Good governance, ethics and risk management Good governance, ethics and risk management serving as a guide for their professionals’ operation in a global, complex and independent manner, and, in connection to this, Arteche has adopted a specific ever-changing environment. commitment to prohibit reprisals against any person who submits an inquiry or complaint, either formally or informally. In addition, the Code was drawn up by taking into account both the generally recognized recommendations on good governance and the principles of social responsibility accepted by society, thus constituting a basic reference for the Group’s monitoring. It also responds to the new crime prevention obligations imposed in the area of criminal liability of legal persons. The Code thus constitutes a fundamental part of the Group’s system of corporate governance and is fully compliant with the principles of corporate 0 organization established in said system. It consists of: 0 1 1 Stars at the Hydroelectric (Hoces del Cabriel).Pau Lillo (Artphoto 2019) 15 Ethical Conduct Code general principles (action 2 guidelines, commitments to 2 conduct, and responsible 3 practices) 3 4 4 › Respect for legality 5 › Professional conduct with integrity. Conflict of interest 5 The Code of Ethical Conduct is available at www.arteche.com, so that any › Anti-corruption measures 6 external interested parties (clients, suppliers...) can comply with it. 6 › Fair employment practices: Equal opportunities and nonThis Code has been communicated to the entire organization for its correct understanding, knowledge and compliance. 76% of the Group’s employees 7 discrimination have been trained in the Code in 2019. 7 › Information transparency Throughout 2019 we have developed various initiatives aimed at informing › Relationship with customers and and training staff on the ethical reference framework and the guidelines for suppliers action to comply with it, both at a general level and at an area-specific level, › Health & safety according to the risks inherent in them. Thus, we have tried to strengthen the ethical culture of the organization in matters such as: › Protection of own and third party assets › Values and principles that should govern the business relationships in Arteche › Protection of competition › Behaviors that are defined as not tolerated by the organization, and behaviors that may be considered a criminal offense › Environment › Use and management mechanism of the ethical channel for queries › Use of company goods and and complaints, obligation to act, confidentiality guarantee and specific services commitment to prohibit reprisals against any person making a complaint › Confidential information. Trade secrets In addition to this Code, Arteche’s “Crime Prevention Program” is also integrated in its Corporate Compliance Program, which contains measures › Sustainable development that tend to our concern for ethics and legality (See chapter 4 “Our commitment against corruption and bribery”) in a practical manner. › Financial control › Relationship with authorities and This commitment to ethics and good governance is in turn transmitted to the officials third parties with which the Group has relations through various initiatives, such as for example, the introduction of clauses in contracts with suppliers requiring them to have a system of compliance and to respect the Code of Ethical Conduct. 26 27 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Bodies responsible for regulatory compliance The members of the Subcommittee have access to all of Arteche’s information as well as the duty to demand and the right to obtain the appropriate and The area in charge of ensuring compliance with regulations is the Compliance necessary information from the Group that will help them to fulfill their Officer, which is an internal unit within Arteche, reporting to the Chairman of obligations. They are not subject to instructions from third parties or from the Board of Directors, and which has the aim of providing the organization Arteche’s Management Committee, and are therefore guaranteed full with basic and fundamental support to ensure compliance both with indemnity for their opinions, actions and the decisions in which they intervene the regulations in force and with the Code of Ethical Conduct and with within the Subcommittee. the Group’s internal policies and regulations on the part of the different Throughout 2019, the Ethics Subcommittee has met on 6 occasions, the most companies that make up the Group, their management bodies, departments important activities being the monitoring of the main issues related to the or areas, the people responsible for them and the employees. The Compliance implementation of a corporate compliance model, the updating and review of Officer therefore focuses on deepening the principles of action and values the assessment of criminal risks and the controls that help to minimize them, of the Group’s companies in order to provide the Board of Directors and the monitoring of the complaints and queries received through the ethics Good governance, ethics and risk management Good governance, ethics and risk management senior management with certainty on these issues, thus contributing to the channel, as well as the verification of the initiatives aimed at training and protection of the Group and its reputation: informing Arteche’s staff on ethical Conduct. › Supervising compliance with applicable regulations. During the 2019 fiscal year, a total of 11 consultations were received through › Supporting existing controls and moving towards greater commitment and the Ethical Channel or other means, with a maximum resolution time except accountability challenges for the management in the development of all for one exception justified by the complexity of the consultation of 8 days. business activities Most of the queries made concerned behaviors related to: › Promote improvement in the coordination of non-compliant behavior › Handling of confidential information prevention. › Possible conflicts of interest › Reinforcing excellence in the management of default risks › Information transparency 0 The Compliance function has autonomy and powers to carry out its tasks › Gifts and business courtesies policy 0 without requiring any authorization, always with objectivity, impartiality and independence. It also has the authority and legitimacy to gather information In addition, during 2019, five complaints were received regarding compliance 1 at any time and to access the records and documentation it requires to carry with the Code of Ethical Conduct, one of which resulted in disciplinary action 1 out its function. for Code breaching conduct. 2 The Ethics Committee is the supreme, autonomous and independent None of the allegations were related to cases of corruption, fraud or bribery. 2 oversight body responsible for ensuring compliance with regulations. This body is responsible, among other functions, for receiving communications 3 concerning allegations of non-compliance with this Code and/or queries on 2.3. Risk management system 3 its interpretation. Similarly, it is responsible for the supervision and execution of the Corporate Compliance Program, and the attributions contained therein. The activities carried out by the different companies that make up Arteche 4 It is also in charge of promoting an ethical culture within our organization. are subject to numerous contingencies which, were they to materialize, would 4 This body may act on its own initiative or at the request of any person subject prevent or hinder the achievement of the goals set, the latter being measured through the measurement systems established in the Integrated Model. Some 5 to the Code. Its decisions are binding both for the company and the employee. Its members are: a representative of the Commission, the Compliance of these risks are inherent in the countries in which the Group carries out 5 Officer, the Director General, the Legal Director and the Human Resources activities, or even in the markets or sectors in which it operates. 6 Department. The sub-committee has its own regulations which define its functions and responsibilities. The risks in Arteche are managed by means of identification, measurement, 6 management and control systems in each of the areas defined in this report, establishing the necessary controls for their reduction in each of the affected 7 areas in each case. 7 The Company’s Board of Directors, at the initiative of the Audit and Compliance Committee, aware of the importance of this aspect in the control > Arteche plant in Mexico and management of the business, has promoted an improvement in the risk management system in 2019, the main advances of which have been: Updating the Corporate › •Alignment with Risk Map Strategic Plan 2021 › COSO Methodology › Responsibility allocation Laying the foundation for a world-class risk › Reporting mechanism management system › •Audit Plan Alignment › 2022 Roadmap Implementing a regulatory › Supervision by the compliance model Compliance Officer Updating the contingency › Business Continuity Risk plans of the different plants Management 28 29 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Long-term risks and opportunities Festival of the light!. Sebastian Gora (Artphoto 2019) The main risks which were identified in the Group are categorized as follows: › Strategic Risks › Financial Risks › Technological Risks › Operational and Technical Risks › Reputational Risks › Economic-financial Information Reliability Risk Good governance, ethics and risk management › Corporate Governance Risks › Regulatory Compliance Risks Our commitment against corruption and bribery These risk categories also include non-financial risks, such as those related to the environment, people, remuneration and equal opportunities. Arteche’s activity is of a multinational nature, just like our clients, which entails currency risks. To mitigate this risk, the Group tries to use natural currency hedging and exchange rate insurance hedging as well. The Group’s indebtedness also makes our results vulnerable to the risk of changes in the interest rate on our debt. Chapter 3. In order to control credit risk, the Group has a credit management policy 0 with scaled approvals and ceilings for the attribution amounts, as well as 0 rating databases. The application of this policy is supervised by a committee 1 specialized on credit risk, which reports to the financial area. 1 2 Geopolitical conflicts, the macroeconomic environment and alliance policies in the market also affect our results. Our commitment 2 against corruption We use raw materials for our production processes, which are subject to price volatility arising from supply conditions, political and economic variables and 3 other external factors; this risk is not covered by the Group. 3 4 and bribery 4 5 5 The Arteche Group’s corporate governance system is based on the commitment _ “At Arteche, we 6 to ethical principles, good practices and transparency, and is articulated always bear in 6 around the protection of social interest and the creation of sustainable value for its stakeholders, and it also allows these principles and good practices to mind that the 7 be extended to our entire system of internal and external rules. best way to go 7 Within this framework, the fight against corruption and bribery is part of our on growing and basic goals in terms of sustainability and good governance, and has meant developing our the establishment of preventive measures which ensure strict compliance with the legal system in force in the territories where we carry out our business is by activities, including the approval of the Code of Ethical Conduct and the doing things Crime Prevention Program. properly and with integrity” › Adjustment of the criminal risk map to the new regulations › Full review of the Crime Prevention Program › Delivery of the “Welcome to Compliance” pack to all new additions 30 31 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 3.1. Risks and crime prevention program We have a Program for the prevention of crime in our business activity which has the aim of reducing or preventing the risk of committing crimes, in response to Organic Law 5/2010 of June 22, which amends the 1995 Criminal Code and which came into force on December 23, 2010, and which introduces the criminal liability of legal persons into the Spanish legal system. The change of legal context implies new risks for societies. Considering all of the above, we have implemented a criminal risk management system, which has been called the Crime Prevention Program and which aims to prevent the conduct of its managers, employees, collaborators and any person subject to the dependence or hierarchy of the Company in general, who acts on behalf of and in the benefit of the Company, and which may trigger the possible criminal liability of the company. Our commitment against corruption and bribery Our commitment against corruption and bribery This program includes the commitment of the management, the organizational model detailing the assignment of professionals and the description of functions which are responsible for the crime prevention OPEN2. Isabel Ros (Artphoto 2019) program, as well as different policies and procedures. During the 2019 financial year and within this program, said program was adapted to Organic Law 1/2019 of February 20th, which amends Organic Law 10/1995 of the Criminal Code. In order to update the management 3.2. Corruption prevention measures 0 system for crime prevention within the framework of the regular verification 0 At Arteche, we always bear in mind that the best way to go on growing and and continuous improvement to which it must necessarily be subjected in developing our business is doing things properly and with integrity. 2019, the following exercise has been carried out: 1 The Code of Ethical Conduct establishes clear guidelines against corruption, 1 › Joint assessment with those responsible for the areas affected by the risks that have undergone changes in oder to confirm their application or specifying that Arteche’s professionals may not directly or indirectly offer 2 to discard them. or grant or request or accept advantages, gifts or unjustified benefits that have the immediate or mediate purpose of obtaining a present or future 2 › Analysis of the potential extension to other areas of the organization of benefit for Arteche, for themselves or for a third party. More specifically, it is the application of the risks after the modification. 3 › Identification of how the new offenses incorporated in the risk map could established that they may not give or receive any form of bribe or kickback from any other party involved, such as public officials, other companies’ staff 3 be applied to all areas of activity. members, political parties, authorities, customers or suppliers. 4 › Review the new concepts of financial instruments, currency and public Arteche’s professionals will also not accept money from customers or 4 official. suppliers, not even in the form of loans or advances or hospitality. › Modify the risk impact in accordance with the new penalties 5 In the management of preventive measures and controls, and to the extent No gifts, presents, amenities, services, or any other kind of favor that could 5 that the previous year’s risk analysis and evaluation has led to changes in the illicitly influence the commercial or professional relationship will be admitted or offered, only allowing those which: 6 map, the adequacy of the preventive measures assigned has been assessed and, where appropriate, new controls have been implemented or existing 6 › Are permitted by the legislation of each country and its ethical principles ones strengthened. › Are delivered for the purpose of commercial practice or are of an accepted 7 Likewise, a complete review of the program has been carried out from the courtesy social use 7 Compliance area, in order to implement continuous improvement actions in › Have of irrelevant or symbolic economic value the system. Professionals responsible for all relevant areas and processes in › Do not damage Arteche’s image the Group have been involved in this review. Where there is doubt as to what is acceptable, the bid must be declined or, as the case may be, consulted first with the immediate superior of the Group company concerned, who may refer the consultation to the ethics subcommittee, when appropriate. Likewise, we promote the existence of true accounting that completely, accurately, and truthfully reflects Arteche’s economic, financial, and patrimonial reality and that is subject to annual external audits. We select our suppliers objectively and impartially, avoiding any conflict of interest and any favoritism in their selection. Professionals who deal with clients and suppliers have the obligation as set out in our code of ethics of avoiding any type of interference that could damage their impartiality and professional objectivity in their decision-making, guided by criteria of transparency and applying at all times the internal rules established for the processes of supplier approval and of contract awarding in general. This obligation especially affects employees who have to make decisions on contracting supplies and services and those who decide on the economic conditions of transactions with clients. The line of life. Marta Ferrero (Artphoto 2019) 32 33 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Measures to prevent money laundering SDO OCT (Paranagua-Brasil). Andoni Gallastegi (Arphoto2019) Although the Group’s companies are not obliged to comply with Law 10/2010 on the prevention of money laundering and financing of terrorism, and even though Arteche does not consider itself to be excessively exposed to such risk, in our Criminal Risk Management System we have proceeded to evaluate it, and we have established and applied measures of collection and payment control to prevent them from being used to activate money laundering, and we apply the precautionary principle to our relationship with clients and suppliers, as well as to our property and corporate operations. To date, we have not detected any suspicions of money laundering or corruption. Our commitment against corruption and bribery Contributions to foundations and Non-profit organizations We get involved in social development in the regions where we are located, by collaborating with local organizations and NGOs, both by making financial contributions and, at times, by providing counseling in regard to company 0 management and networking and relations with other companies. All these 0 Our commitment to the people actions are aligned with the Group’s strategy, with its Code of Ethical Conduct, and the Crime Prevention Program, especially with regard to the corruption 1 risk. 1 2 The Human Resources Department, with the approval of the General Management, is the area responsible within the Group for establishing the strategy, for receiving communications and for channeling donation and Chapter 4. 2 Our Commitment to sponsorship approvals. Some of the decision criteria are: 3 › Proposals that do not comply with the applicable regulations or that go 3 against the social and/or ethical customs and manners of the community 4 to which they are addressed are not accepted. Neither are those that could damage Arteche’s image or reputation. › No donations or sponsorships are made that could lead to any kind of the People 4 discrimination or exclusion 5 › No proposal is accepted that may lead to a conflict of interest, or that 5 may have the intention of, or may be interpreted as a benefiting Arteche The people who make up the Arteche Group are key to developing a _ “We comprise 6 › Arteche does not make donations that directly or indirectly end up in sustainable project as explicitly expressed in our Code of Ethical Conduct and our values. more than 6 political parties People’s experience, knowledge and motivation are reflected in each of our 1,800 people Contributions to foundations and non-profit organizations amounted to EUR 7 18 thousand in the 2019 fiscal year. products and services. We remain committed to ensuring our organization is from different 7 an attractive place to work, where knowledge can be acquired and shared in cultures and Within “Chapter 6. Our Social Commitment” describes partnership and order to develop professionally within a context of innovation and where the sponsorship actions where we collaborate with the aim of contributing to the levels of demand are never at odds with the creation of spaces for balancing backgrounds improvement of the societies in which we are present. personal and professional lives. In relation to our performance with people, with the we consider these material aspects: same goal: to continue Subject matter Related ODS moving Employment forward” Health & safety Work organization Social relations › 82% of workers on permanent contracts Training › Reduction of the salary gap to 10.1% Human rights › Virtually all employees Equality under collective agreement We comprise more than 1,800 people from different cultures and backgrounds, with a shared goal: to move forward. 34 35 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 4.1. Our Team Likewise, at the time of joining the Arteche Group, new recruits receive the “Welcome Manual” and sign their adherence to the Code of Ethical Conduct. The purpose of this document is to provide initial information about our standard and integrated management system (Quality, Environment, Health and Safety and Information Security), as well as the Human Resources and Social Responsibility aspects that are necessary for the development of their work. People Development We have established a methodology which guarantees that the organization’s personnel is competent and equipped with the necessary training, experience and skills to develop and carry out their functions. It is based on induction for the new talent recruitment, training, development of leadership skills, alignment with objectives, development of professional careers and evaluation of performance, commitment and satisfaction of the people in the Organization. Likewise, we encourage the management of internal knowledge in the corresponding processes. In order to do so, we rely on the Leadership Model. 0 4.1.1. Employment We consider knowledge to be the key factor in competitiveness. Therefore, 0 Our commitment to the people Our commitment to the people in all our values, reference is made to this approach by proposing active 1 listening and learning from clients, a drive for continuous improvement, collaboration and cooperation with other entities and bodies and, most 1 Leadership Model significantly a proactive attitude to sharing knowledge, good practices and 2 People are what is at the heart of our sustainable business model, which is all kinds of useful and relevant information. 2 why the Group’s strategic plan includes the development of a leadership In this context, in 2019, the process map has been strengthened, processes have been updated and the procedure for staff induction and training has 3 model based on 15 principles of behavior, with the aim of contributing to a shared management model aligned with the corporate values. been updated. 3 The Group must be strongly cohesive around common ideas and philosophies, This training seeks to ensure that the people in the organization acquire the 4 teamwork is fundamental and the effectiveness of the Group depends on the necessary skills for the proper performance of their duties according to their 4 leaders operating in a manner which is consistent with these principles. job profile, both at the time of joining the company and throughout their whole career. 5 To have an attractive common project we need leaders in relationships and 5 teams; clarity of ideas, ability to communicate and alignment with the long Once the training needs have been identified, the corresponding plans are term. drawn up and implemented. 6 6 Leaders behaving in accordance with the Values is the key to building work environments in which there is positive learning and a good work 7 7 > ARTECHE_CT_CE (Cánada) environment. Incorporation The management of each plant, together with the management of each area, determines in the annual and multi-year plans, the resource requirements for carrying out their activities and attracting talent. They are also responsible for ensuring that the needs set out above are adequately met. Taking into account the need for the resources required after the analysis of the annual and multi-year plans, Human Resources proceeds to implement the corresponding process for searching, analyzing, evaluating and recruiting the right person according to the needs indicated. Before any employee joins the organization, they receive the “Welcome to Compliance” pack as a set of principles and values that guide us in our activity so that they are aware of the type of company they are joining and can commit to its ideology. 36 37 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Template description In Arteche we are 1,858 employees, 23% of which are women, with a very low voluntary rotation, attracted and integrated in a stable way by the good economic and social conditions fundamentally related to the conciliation of work and personal life. Total number of employees and distribution by gender and professional category Men Women Total Men % Women % 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 Specialists and 46 58 12 13 58 71 79% 82% 21% 18% Managers Sunset over Muskiz. José María Pérez Vicente Operators 769 871 167 187 936 1.058 82% 82% 18% 18% (Artphoto 2019) Technicians and Administration 181 162 91 96 272 258 67% 63% 33% 37% Staff 0 0 Our commitment to the people Our commitment to the people In 2019, a large part of the training has been oriented towards knowledge Graduates 230 296 100 119 330 415 70% 71% 30% 29% of the Code of Ethical Conduct, recycling in occupational health and Management 43 45 10 11 53 56 81% 80% 19% 20% 1 safety issues, recycling in regular work, improvement in language skills 1 and more specifically we have dealt with issues of Inspection and testing, Total 1.269 1.432 380 426 1.649 1.858 77% 77% 23% 23% Comprehensive internal audit, Harmonized management systems, Tax 2 update and electronic credit invoice, AMFE methodology, Management of 2 commercial contracts, Product manager, Digitalization in HR management, Cybersecurity, Data exploitation, communication protocol 61850, New Apart from the equality, diversity and non-discrimination goals which will 3 product development procedure, etc. be discussed in detail below we focus our efforts on continuing to provide 3 a stable and quality work environment. In this regard, the percentage of During 2019, a total of 23,058 hours of training have been invested (30,381 indefinite-term contracts in the Group is 82% of the total and the average 4 hours in 2018), which represents an average of 12.41 hours of training per seniority is of 9.74 years (10.1 years in 2018). There is no high seasonality in 4 employee (18.5 hours per employee in 2018). In 2018, the data we had was not Arteche’s operations, so it is considered that the average number of indefinite segregated by gender or by professional categories due to the fact that our contracts is not significantly different from the figure at the end of the fiscal 5 reports did not contemplate such differentiation, nor did we have a system to year. The average annual number of indefinite contracts is 81.45%. 5 facilitate the data with such a structure at the time. 6 6 Training hours per year per 7 professional category 2019 7 Tomorrow is Monday. Rosly Majid (Artphoto 2019) Management 2.844 Specialists and Managers 614 Operators 10.370 Technicians and Administration Staff 3.337 Graduates 5.893 Shared project, commitment and communication with people The Organization has the mechanisms to provide the necessary respect and consideration to individuals and to establish the appropriate formal and informal channels of communication (cascade communication, monthly corporate newsletters, performance evaluation, feedback, plenary sessions presenting deployments of strategic objectives, management meetings, results communication meetings, meetings with workers’ representatives, etc.) that contribute to strengthening awareness, staff satisfaction and commitment to the Organization to carry out a shared project. 38 39 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Percentage of employees distributed by gender, age, 2019 turnover rate and new hires professional category and type of work contract Tasa Activation Deactivation rotación (*) Indefinite Temporary Indefinite % Temporary % Total 88 100 2,2% 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 > (*) Calculated as (Group deactivations in 2019 / Total workforce) X 100 Specialists and Managers 51 71 7 88% 100% 12% 0% Professional Operators 667 744 269 314 71% 70% 29% 30% Technicians and Administration Staf 252 247 20 11 93% 96% 7% 4% Of the total number of deactivations in the Group, 43 have been as a result category Graduates 316 397 14 18 96% 96% 4% 4% of layoffs: Management 53 56 100% 100% 0% 0% Gender Men 1.049 1.184 220 248 83% 83% 17% 17% Women 290 331 90 95 76% 78% 24% 22% Distribution of layoffs by gender, professional category, age and employment contract <30 164 176 175 183 48% 49% 52% 51% Age 30-50 972 1.093 117 140 89% 89% 11% 11% >50 203 246 18 20 92% 92% 8% 8% Layoffs 0 TOTAL 1.339 1.515 310 343 81% 82% 19% 18% 2018 2019 0 Our commitment to the people Our commitment to the people Management 1 1 1 Professional Specialists and Managers 1 4 In addition, concerned about the renewal and incorporation of young people, Operators 12 22 the average age of the staff is 38.8 years (39.9 in 2018). 2 categoryl Technicians and Administration Staff 5 11 2 Graduates 10 5 3 3 Gender Men 17 21 Woman 11 22 4 <30 6 4 Age 30-50 13 21 5 >50 15 16 5 6 The Arteche Group currently employs people of various nationalities, 6 the predominant ones being Spanish, Mexican, Brazilian, Argentinean and Chinese. An appropriate management of cultural diversity results in tangible 7 competitive advantages, in connection to openness to knowledge and 7 to plural points of view, the contribution to the attraction and retention of talent, the strengthening of Arteche’s culture, the increase in innovation, in creativity and in productivity. Distribution of employees by country 2018 2019 Spain 39% 39% Mexico 34% 37% Argentina 8% 7% China 12% 11% Brazil 6% 6% Quality of excellence. José Alejandro González Agüero (Artphoto 2019) 40 41 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 4.1.2. Equality and accessibility Parental leave We are committed to seeking equal treatment and equal opportunities between women and men, and to avoiding gender inequalities with regard to access to employment, training, promotion and working conditions, all of Men Women Total which fall within the conduct commitments and responsible practices of the Total number of people who have been Code of Ethical Conduct. entitled to parental leave 49 18 67 Total number of people who have taken As such, promoting a work environment based on ethical behavior, respect for 49 18 67 parental leave diversity and effective equality is a commitment that is part of our corporate culture and is translated into internal policies. In this way, we go beyond the Number of people who have returned to 47 14 61 locally applicable laws, promoting policies of real equality of treatment and work after the end of parental leave opportunities among the people of Arteche. Return-to-work rate 98% 78% 91% To achieve these goals, the Group is committed to developing the principle of equal opportunities, compliance with which is one of the foundations of (*) Calculated as: number of employees who have in fact returned*100/no. of those who had to return professional development promoted by the organization, by practicing and displaying equal treatment towards the people in the company, creating an environment that facilitates the integration and the reconciliation of professional, personal and family life. With regard to reductions in working hours, these have been granted in accordance with the preferences for the reconciliation of the workers’ work lives. We apply diversity and equal opportunities by promoting the integration of people with disabilities, in accordance with the General Law on the Rights of People with Disabilities and their Social Inclusion. We collaborate with several 0 Special Employment Centers (SEC), favoring the social and occupational 0 Our commitment to the people Our commitment to the people integration of disabled people. 1 As an example of reconciliation measures applied in several of our plants, we 1 mention the following: > Photovoltaic installation in Nuñez de Balboa (Extremadura-Spain) 2 › 30 calendar days’ leave without pay: In order to facilitate the possibility of 2 caring for dependent family members, employees shall be entitled to one continuous month’s unpaid leave within a calendar year. 3 › Partially paid leave: This leave is framed within a period of 5 consecutive years, 3 during which the worker will provide full-time services for 4 years and will have 4 one year to exercise the leave right (Basque Country). During the 5 years the employee will receive 80% of their salary. 4 Each of the Group’s companies applies local reconciliation measures, in 5 accordance with the customs of each place. 5 In the Arteche Group’s staff we have 4 men and 2 women with disabilities 6 (the same as at the end of 2018). In Spain, by virtue of the declaration of 6 exception resolution, our companies are exempted from reaching the 2% of disabled employees in our staff, due to the adoption of alternative measures, 7 such as service provision contracts with various special employment centers. 7 In addition, all workers who have applied for paternity or maternity leave have been given the opportunity to adapt it to the most convenient dates according to their preferences, in order to reconcile the leave with their working life. > (*) Calculada como nº empleados de los que han regresado*100/nº de los que tenían que regresar 42 43 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Pay and wage gap data Our remuneration policy establishes salary levels linked to the position held in the organization, regardless of gender, race, religion, age, sexual orientation, nationality, marital status or other factors. Historically, the nature of the production process has generated lesser attraction on the part of the female collective, which is why Arteche is developing actions to improve the integration of women into the organization. The Group confirms that there is equal pay for men and women in all production centers. An example of this is the collective agreements, whose salary tables by category are the same for both genders. Consequently, the differences presented in the following table are based on the age of each group in the Group. This means that women have less average seniority than men in the Arteche Group and therefore have a lower associated salary level. Even so, and despite having registered a progressive improvement in recent years, the average salary level of women in the Arteche Group is 10.1% lower than that of men (15.1% at the end of 2018). Average wage by age and professional category 0 0 Our commitment to the people Our commitment to the people 2018 2019 1 <30 6.835 7.714 1 30-50 26.147 23.773 2 Age 2 >50 41.581 40.030 > Interior planta Arteche Gas Insulated Instrument Transformers Management (*) 85.703 84.371 3 3 Professional Specialists and Managers 10.022 12.549 Operators 15.482 14.903 4 4 category Distribution of part-time contracts by gender, professional Technicians and Administration Staff 22.003 21.503 category, age and employment contract Graduates 43.580 38.121 5 5 > (*) Including the Group Management Committee, Functional Area Management Committees, Part-time 6 6 Geographical Management Committees, and Area Directors reporting directly to the Group contracts Chairman. 2018 2019 7 Management 7 Professional Specialists and Managers Operators 1 5 Average total wage and salary gap category Technicians and Administration Staff 3 4 Graduates Men Women Gap (*) Gender Men 3 2 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 Women 1 7 Total 25.121 23.567 21.322 21.194 -15,1% -10,1% <30 2 7 Employment > (*) Calculated as Average wage women / Average wage men -1 30-50 2 2 >50 contract Temporary 3 8 Age Indefinite 1 1 Total 4 9 44 45 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 We have been working for a long time to reduce the salary gap in new hires, as Absenteeism rate well as in the promotions of our younger workers. The policies implemented in this area have led to a reduction in the 2019 gap for workers under 30 and between 30 and 50 years of age. 2018 2019 There is a better evolution of the wage gap in regions where the absolute weight of women is lower, due to the fact that new incorporations of women Absenteeism rate 0,10% 0,09% are taking place in positions of greater responsibility. The average wage of the people considered to be executives was EUR 84.3 thousand in 2019 (EUR 90.9 thousand and EUR 57.4 thousand, men and The Group’s companies comply with the legislawomen, respectively) and EUR 85.7 thousand in 2018 (EUR 91.8 thousand and tion in force at each location with regard to soEUR 59.3 thousand, men and women, respectively). cial dialogue and employee participation in maInformation on the remuneration of the members of the Board of Directors, tters relating to Occupational Health and Safety. directors with executive functions and senior management is provided in note In the manufacturing plants and corporate head27 of the consolidated Annual Accounts of the Arteche Group for the 2019 quarters, which is where most of the workers are fiscal year. grouped, we have Works Committees, or their The Arteche Group has equality plans in the plants where legal regulations equivalent denominations (Union Committees, demand it. Since the end of 2019, the Arteche Group has started certain Guild representatives, etc.). initiatives for the further development of the equality plans. These include Similarly, at these plants we have Occupatiocarrying out a diagnosis in the main production plants in Mungia and Madrid nal Health and Safety Committees (CIPA, etc.) and creating equality committees in certain locations that did previously not where workers’ and companies’ representatives have them. The situation is in a process of continuous improvement, due to make their suggestions and recommendations 0 the progressive hiring and retention of women in the different areas of the and carry out control and monitoring work in 0 Our commitment to the people Our commitment to the people Arteche Group. this field. 1 On the other hand, workers employed in larger companies are subject to collective agreements 1 or contracts or have them as their main reference. 2 4.1.3. Work organization and social relations The labor relations of 100% of the Group’s em2 ployees have as a reference framework some collective agreement, at either the company or 3 The Arteche Group respects the personal and family life of its professionals and promotes conciliation programs to help reach the best balance possible sector level. 3 between this and their work responsibilities, tending to it as much as possible At the time of the analysis, the Group does not 4 given the complexity, location and place of performance of the different activities. have any formally approved policies for worker 4 disengagement after working hours. Applies regulations, policies and programs for the reconciliation of work and 5 family life among its workers, as set out in its internal regulations, collective In Test. José Alejandro González Agüero (Artphoto 2019) 5 agreements, collective contracts, etc. 6 We are concerned about people’s well-being, which is why we encourage 4.1.4. Health & Safety 6 conciliation through good practices in flexibility of working hours and work organization. Because of this, we have different working hours, shift schedules, Arteche is an organization that is fully committed to the continuous 7 split shifts, morning schedules, etc. The total hours of absenteeism recorded improvement of safety and the Prevention of Occupational Risks, with the 7 in the Arteche Group amounted to 169,748.7 hours. aim of achieving and maintaining a healthy working environment, focused on both the people who are part of the Group and those who collaborate with us or use our products and services. In order to develop the health and safety management model, in 2018 and at a global level, the Health and Safety Department was created with the aim of standardizing and homogenizing health and safety management processes in all the Group’s companies; in 2019, the local areas which required it were reinforced, and in them the organizational modality is at least in line with the legal requirements of each country and shares the good practices of all the companies. The participation of the entire organization is encouraged, by setting up health and safety committees in all the Group’s companies. Their basic function is to ensure compliance with the provisions on the prevention of occupational risks (both legal and internal to the Group) and to propose the necessary actions for the continuous improvement of working conditions and the prevention of occupational risks. These committees collaborate with the Management team of the company in the continuous improvement; promoting and encouraging the cooperation of workers in the execution and fulfillment of the regulations, and exercising a vigilance and control work. 46 47 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 General Management, aware of the importance of good planning for the prevention of occupational risks, assumes the following functions within its 4.2. Our fight for human rights responsibilities: In Arteche, on top of committing ourselves to the strictest respect for the › Approval and regular monitoring of established safety and health objectives legal system in force in all the territories where we carry out our activities, › Monitoring and continuous improvement of health and safety management and we are also strongly committed to the defense of human rights, so that its implementation, as well as improvement indicators for Health and Safety workers can exercise their rights of freedom of association and collective bargaining, and so that we avoid child labor, forced or compulsory labor, › Promoting development, continuous improvement, and compliance with the assignment of dangerous jobs to young people, as well as the violation procedures that support the health and safety processes as defined in the model of ethnic minorities’ and indigenous peoples’ rights in the places where we › Assurance that the integrity of the system is maintained when changes are carry out our activities. implemented The Group adopts the measures it considers necessary to guarantee and In 2018, the OHSAS 18001 multi-site certification was maintained for all the promote the protection of and respect for human rights in order to prevent, Group’s companies. In 2019, the transition from this standard to the ISO 45001 mitigate and repair any possible impact on human rights. To this end, our was made. practices are aligned with the principles underlying the United Nations Global Compact (see section 1.3 “Our Sustainable Commitment”), the United Nations Norms on the Responsibilities of Transnational Corporations and Other Business Enterprises with Regard to Human Rights, the OECD Types of accidents and accident frequency rate, Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the Tripartite Declaration of occupational diseases and days lost Principles concerning Multinational Enterprises, and the Social Policy of the International Labor Organization. 2018 (**) 2019 This commitment to human rights is expressly stated in our Code 0 51 28 of Ethical Conduct, whose principles are binding on all the Group’s 0 Our commitment to the people Our commitment to the people Incidents with time off professionals, regardless of where they carry out their activities. With Incidents without casualties, but with this declaration, Arteche along with formalizing its public commitment 1 first aid attention 29 34 wants to send a clear message to all its stakeholders that the company 1 is committed to respecting human and labor rights recognized in national Material accidents 21 22 and international legislation. 2 Incidents suffered in itinere 12 15 2 As explained in the section “2.2 Ethics”, we have several tools to ensure Days lost 390 414 compliance with the commitments included in the Code, tools such as the 3 Diseases detected in the year 3 1 Crime Prevention Program, the Risk Map, Corporate Policies and the Ethics 3 Channel, mainly, which are supervised by the Compliance Officer. Time off frequency rate 17,67% 8,22% 4 Severity index (*) 0,14% 0,12% 4 Incidence rate of occupational diseases 1,84% 0,57% 5 Severity rate for occupational diseases 0,06% 0,01% 5 6 > (*) Calculated as the number of days lost*1000/no. of hours worked > (**) For 2018 we only have aggregated data by gender starting on June 1st (date when the new 6 incident reporting was implemented in the Group). 7 7 Types of accidents, days lost, severity rate and accident frequency rate by gender 2019 Hombres Mujeres Incidentes con baja laboral 23 5 Días perdidos 398 16 Tasa de frecuencia con baja (*) 8,76% 6,38% Índice de gravedad (**) 0,15% 0,02% > (*) Calculated as the number of incidents with time off*1,000,000/no. of hours worked > (**) Calculated as the number of days lost*1000/no. of hours worked The typology of the accidents has a predominance of blows and cuts with tools, followed by objects falling due to manipulation. In addition, at the Arteche Group, we consider that, in general, there are no risk situations that could generate a high incidence of occupational illness or The matter of light. Antonio Farto Casado (Artphoto 2019) a serious case of said illnesses. 48 49 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Most of our suppliers come from countries where these rights are legally protected. Nonetheless, with the supervision of the Compliance Officer, we are also working on this commitment, not only in Arteche’s own operations, but also in the supplier qualification/approval process itself, in which we evaluate suppliers by taking into account environmental, safety and social responsibility criteria. We require a commitment from our suppliers to comply with human rights issues as specified in the supply chain chapter. During the visits, audits and performance evaluations of the Group’s suppliers carried out throughout 2018 and 2019, no suppliers with forced labor, child labor or other aspects related to human rights have been detected. We approach these commitments from a corporate social responsibility point of view, relying on ISO 26000:2012 as a reference. Likewise, in the companies located in Spain, we have an Action Protocol in case of harassment at work which includes the commitment to avoid situations of sexual harassment and gender-based harassment, as these are detrimental to dignity and to the working environment and generate undesirable effects on people’s health, morale, confidence and self-esteem. It should be noted that the Ethics Subcommittee did not receive any complaints regarding human rights in any of the Group’s companies during 2019, whether it be informally or through the ethics channel. Nor has there been any sanctioning resolution, either judicial or administrative, that reveals any breach of human rights in the Group’s companies as a whole. 0 0 Our commitment to the people With regard to the fundamental conventions of the ILO, we are in a position to guarantee compliance with them in regards to forced labor and its abolition, 1 to freedom of association and collective bargaining, and to the minimum age 1 Our environmental commitment 2 and prohibition of child labor. Chapter 5. 2 3 Our environmental 3 4 SDO CFD (Alicante). Andoni Gallastegi. (Artphoto 2019) commitment 4 5 5 Our Code of Ethical Conduct, our Integrated Management Model and our _ “Our calling is 6 values reflect the commitments we have made to the environment. This is to promote and 6 something our stakeholders are asking of us, but it is also something to which we have made a commitment by signing the United Nations Global Compact. integrate an 7 In relation to its environmental performance, Arteche considers the following environmentally 7 material aspects: responsible culture” Subject matter Related ODS › Reduction Energía of electricity Residuos consumption by 2.7% › Reduction of water Emisiones consumption by 11.8% › 0 environmental accidents 50 51 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 5.1. Management and environmental approach Environmental policies As part of Arteche’s commitment to sustainable development, our vocation is to promote and integrate a responsible culture with the environment. For this purpose, we ensure compliance with environmental regulations and propose Management approach the necessary actions for continuous improvement and the prevention of environmental risks. The responsibilities on environmental aspects at Arteche are structured in the following organizational scheme: Likewise, we promote the improvement of preventive action, complying 0 with or exceeding the standards of applicable environmental regulations, › Global Director of Quality and Environment. 0 minimizing the environmental impact of our business activities, making › Director of Quality and Environment (in all production plants). efficient use of resources and preserving biodiversity. 1 › Environmental technicians (in plants required by size and high environmental 1 Our environmental commitment Our environmental commitment General Management, aware of the importance of good environmental scope). planning, assumes the following functions within its responsibilities: Our plants have environmental goals that seek continuous improvement in 2 › Approval and regular monitoring of environmental objectives. their performance. Our continuous improvement indicators relating to the 2 environment are mainly: › Monitoring and continuous improvement of indicators for environmental 3 improvement. 3 › Promoting development, continuous improvement and compliance with the No. of environmental incidents procedures that support the environmental processes as defined in the model. 4 As part of our integrated and multi-site management system we have Electricity consumption rate 4 integrated, implemented and certified all the items required by the Water consumption rate ISO14001:2015 standard, among which are the corresponding procedures for 5 the prevention of environmental impacts. No. of non-conformities in audits 5 Likewise, in our Code of Ethical Conduct, approved at the highest level, the 6 people who are part of this Arteche project accept the following as behavioral In this regard, a new supplier qualification system is currently being 6 guidelines: to minimize waste and pollution, to preserve natural resources, to implemented, which includes environmental criteria and monitors the promote energy saving, as well as to carry out and sponsor research and 7 development projects that promote the protection of the environment. We evolution of the environmental performance of these plants through the 7 also convey this commitment to our suppliers, clients and collaborating established indicators. In the years 2018 and 2019, 100% of the suppliers that companies, demanding their compliance if necessary. were qualified were evaluated according to environmental criteria. In addition, internal and external communication channels have been established to gather the suggestions, opinions and complaints of stakeholders, and to manage them appropriately (See section “1.3 Our Sustainable Commitment”). From the 2019 fiscal year, we would like to White energy. Juan Rodríguez Pazos. (Artphoto 2019) highlight the high degree of acceptance that the opening of sustainability mailboxes has received, through which numerous initiatives related to ODS have been introduced, the vast majority of which are related to environmental aspects (recycling of materials, elimination of plastic, efficient use of resources, etc.). We periodically carry out both internal and external audits in order to evaluate the degree of compliance with the standards: › Internal audits (annual for all of the Group’s plants) › LRQA certification audits in ISO14001:2015 (annual), all plants are S/ISO14001:2015 certified within the integrated and multi-site management system In addition, we have the tools at our disposal that make it possible for us to immediately become aware of the new legislation applicable in the environmental and tax fields, so that we are up-to-date with financial implications and other risks and opportunities arising from climate change. 52 53 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Precautionary principle or approach When developing new company products and activities, we apply the precautionary approach in order to avoid any negative impact that such product or service may have on the environment. As part of our integrated and multi-site management system we have integrated, implemented and certified all the points required by the ISO14001:2015 standard, among which are the corresponding procedures for the prevention of environmental impacts: › Controlling, monitoring, measuring and evaluating S&H, MA legal compliance and Quality › Identifying, recording, updating and evaluating environmental aspects › Emergency Plans S&H and MA › MA Operational Control › Coordination of S&H and MA business activities In addition, we have taken out liability insurance to cover the environmental risks to which the Group’s production plants are exposed. 0 5.2. Environmental issues 0 We have a standard procedure for the entire Group to identify, record, update and evaluate environmental aspects. It describes how to proceed with the 1 1 Our environmental commitment Our environmental commitment identification, evaluation and work plan (if required) for the environmental aspects of all the Group’s production plants. This evaluation is carried out on 2 an annual basis. 2 As a result of this assessment, no significant environmental aspects have been identified in the Group for 2018 and 2019. 3 3 › No sanction or communication has been received for non-compliance with environmental regulations 4 4 › No negative environmental impact in the supply chain has been identified › There are no provisions for environmental risks 5 5 We perform the environmental evaluation of the main products we manufacture, taking into account the measures necessary to reduce the 6 international indicators that affect the environment such as: environmental 6 incidents, electricity consumption, water consumption, etc. 7 In order to do this, we take into account the most appropriate designs and 7 technologies, considering the environment and product quality, and following preventive criteria. We carry out measurements required by applicable legislation regarding emissions, environmental noise, etc. in all of the Group’s plants. Circular economy and waste prevention and management We conduct studies on the minimization of hazardous waste and packaging released to the market. Every year, we prepare environmental programs that include the best use of raw materials, reduction of waste and optimization of packaging released to the market. We have also implemented the analysis of the product’s environmental life cycle within our product development procedure. During the 2019 fiscal year, the variation in waste generated was as follows. Due to the direct correlation between production and waste generation, we additionally report the rate of variation corrected for increased production: 54 55 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Waste reduction rate by type 2019 Although the generation of hazardous waste has been reduced in several Group companies, the overall increase has been due to three main causes: › The strong increase in production of reclosers in Brazil, › The increase in rejects in the transformer production plants, in particular, Rate of waste the significant increase in the generation of hazardous waste in Mexico due Rate of waste variation corrected to the effect generated by the increase in production and by the failures in Country variation (*) for production (**) high voltage equipment due to the process of active parts carried out in the supplier, and Hazardous +115% +78% › The management of obsolete transformers in the Mungia warehouse. Spain Not hazardous +10% -9% After this analysis, we have determined the following improvement actions for 2020: Recycled -7% -23% › We will continue to promote the analysis and improvement of defects and rejects in partial discharges in all of the transformer plants, Hazardous +181% +133% › We will work on the minimization of waste generation stemming from raw Mexico Not hazardous -76% -80% material used in oil and resin insulation processes (Mungia and Mexico) and, Recycled +102% +67% › At out Mexico plant, we have designed a work plan with the supplier, including within the company, a small area of active parts with the intention of Hazardous +154% +110% improving the rejects and waste generated from this manufacturing. Argentina Not hazardous -5% -22% Thanks to the application of continuous improvement actions across the different plants (highlighting several actions implemented in Mexico), we Recycled -26% -39% have achieved a decrease in the generation of non-hazardous waste, even 0 when we have considerably increased the production of reclosers in Brazil, 0 Hazardous -31% -43% managed obsolete transformers in our warehouses and we have increased China Not hazardous 0% 0% the segregation of packaging waste in Mungia. 1 1 Our environmental commitment Our environmental commitment Recycled -7% -23% We would also like to highlight that we have implemented the “0 plastic cups” action in Mungia in this 2019 and we are going to extend this action to 2 Hazardous +115% +78% the rest of the Group’s plants. 2 Brazil Not hazardous +100% +100% 3 Recycled +321% +248% 3 4 Hazardous +138% +96% Sustainable use of resources 4 Total Not hazardous -5% -21% Below, we can see the data for the reduction in electricity consumption in Recycled +90% +57% 2019 as compared to the previous year: 5 5 > (*) Calculated as: (tonnes per country 2019 / tonnes per country 2018) 1 6 > (**) alculated as: (tonnes per country 2019 / (group income 2019 x tonnes per country 2018 / Rate of reduction in electricity consumption by 6 group income 2018) 1 country 2019 7 7 Rate of variation Rate of variation in electricity in electricity Country consumption (*) consumption corrected for production (**) Spain +2% -16% Mexico -13% -28% Argentina -1% -19% China 0% -17% Brazil +27% +5% Total -3% -20% > (*) Calculated as: (kWh country 2019 / kWh country 2018) 1 > (**) Calculated as: (kWh country 2019 / (group income 2019 x kWh country 2018 / income group 2018)) 1 56 57 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2019 INFORME DE SOSTENIBILIDAD The light Show 2. Amri Arfianto (Artphoto 2019) Greenhouse gas emissions We have calculated the scope 1 and 2 of direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions: › Scope 1: direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Emissions stemming from combustion in boilers, furnaces, vehicles, etc., that are owned or controlled by the entity in question › Scope 2: indirect GHG emissions associated with the generation of electricity purchased and consumed by the organization The data on the reduction of direct CO2 emissions for each year with respect to the previous year is: Reduction rate in direct and indirect CO2 emissions 2019 Country 2019 Country 2019 0 Spain -1% Spain -2% 0 Nuestro compromiso medioambiental Mexico +8% Mexico -13% During the 2019 fiscal year, we have worked on raising awareness and 1 sensitizing all the personnel in our plants and offices to reduce electricity Argentina +10% Argentina -1% 1 Our environmental commitment consumption, one of our main sources of energy. We have developed several China 0% China 0% initiatives in all our plants: Brazil +100% Brazil +27% 2 › Air conditioning system replacements 2 Total Scope 1 emissions +33% Total Scope 2 emissions -3% › Switching all luminaries to LED 3 › Presence sensors in bathrooms 3 › Work teams to define and launch energy saving awareness actions Although we have reduced emissions in 2019 thanks to the continuous 4 › Changes in the lighting systems in our Mexico plants improvement analysis we have implemented, we have experienced a 4 Also, as part of the measures to reduce energy consumption, energy audits significant increase in Brazil due to the large growth in recloser production have been carried out. in that region. 5 5 Due to the type of production process, in the Arteche Group we do not consider water consumption as a material or significant aspect, despite the 6 fact that in the year 2019 several awareness initiatives have been developed 6 for its responsible use. Consumption has been reduced by 11.8% in 2019. 7 With regard to external noise, measurements are taken annually at our work 7 centers, and satisfactory results have been obtained, mainly due to the low external noise of our production process. Main raw materials consumed (in thousands of euros) 2019 Aluminum 11.451 Magnet mat 3.681 Steel 10.148 Mineral oil 3.598 Stainless steel 5.882 Resin 2.502 Copper 8.828 Paper 2.433 Plastic 1.862 Wind Farm. Bernard Pasatiempo (Artphoto 2019) 58 59 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY INFORME REPORT 2019 2019 DE SOSTENIBILIDAD Biodiversity Protection The industrial activity developed by Arteche is carried out with respect for the natural environments in which it takes place, which are not protected areas. Main Environmental Indicators Category Indicators Unit 2018 2019 Diesel C Liters 500 800 Sustainable use Diesel B Liters 79.275 80.374 of resources Gasolina Liters 0 11.452 (fuel, electricity, water and Natural gas m3 24.021 20.992 raw material LPG/GLP Liters 797.302 1.098.108 consumption) Electricity kWh 16.490.997 16.040.394 0 Water 0 consumption m3 35.039 30.914 1 Hazardous 1 Our environmental commitment Tn 264 627 Chapter 6. Circular waste economy Non-hazardous 2 and waste waste Tn 1.000 954 2 Our social management Nuestro compromiso social 3 Recycled waste Tn 290 550 3 4 Climate change Scope 1 emissions (*) Kg CO2e 1.582.658 2.107.702 commitment 4 Scope 2 Kg 5 emissions (*) CO2e 7.091.129 6.897.369 5 > (*) The emission factors used are the MAPAMA (Spanish acronym for Ministry of Agriculture We get involved in social development in the regions where we are located, _ “We 6 and Fisheries, Food and Environment) (April 2018 Version 10) by collaborating with local organizations and NGOs, both by making financial collaborate 6 contributions and, at times, by providing counseling in regard to company management and networking and relations with other companies. with various 7 Likewise, our strategy is oriented towards improving competitiveness associations of 7 throughout the supply chain, and, in order to do so, we rely on both local a technological suppliers and suppliers with a global presence. and social In relation to its social performance, Arteche considers the following material nature at an aspects: international level, in line with our Subject matter Related ODS motto: Moving Collaborations Together” Suppliers Clients › 54 collaboration External support agreements signed with different training centers › 74% of our purchases from local suppliers 60 61 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 6.1. Our collaboration with society Conferences and events in which we have We have undertaken a commitment to the society and the environment in participated or which we have sponsored which we operate, and consequently declare our willingness to work with responsibility and honesty, contributing to the well-being and economic and We are committed to sharing knowledge and sponsoring events that social progress of the communities where we carry out our activities. contribute to the dissemination of knowledge. For example, in 2019 we participated in the Smart Grids Congress, the XVI International Conference We promote the support of charitable, educational and community service on Electrical Equipment, CIRED (International Conference on Electricity activities, contributing to the improvement of the societies in which we are Distribution) and CIGRE (International Council on Large Electric Systems), present through different actions. In this section, we provide a non-exhaustive among many others. list of the actions undertaken during 2019. Likewise, we collaborate with different society outreach activities: › Host company at the Industry Day, organized by FVEM (Spanish acronym for the Basque Federation of Metal Companies) in order to attract talent and strengthen the incorporation of women in the sector (Bizkaia) › Host company at the Bizkaia Vocational Training Centers Directors Visit within the framework of the 9th Business Route, organized by CEBEK (Business Confederation of Bizkaia) (Bizkaia) › Participation in the 12th edition of the Be Basque Talent Conference, organized by Bizkaia Talent (Paris) › Participation in the work table to set the agenda for the chemical engineering degree program at the Technological University Tula Tepeji (Mexico) 0 0 › Forum on road safety prevention in the municipal presidency of Tepeji del Río (Mexico) 1 › •Participation in forums to discuss new environmental and labor laws at the 1 Industry Federation of Paraná (Brazil) 2 › Signatories of the collaboration Agreement and the manifesto, with the PWN (Professional Women’s Network) association, as participants in the “Men on 2 board” project, whose objective is to promote gender-balanced leadership at 3 all decision-making levels and to develop organizational strategies that favor 3 Our social commitment Our social commitment equal conciliation and co-responsibility (Bizkaia) 4 4 R+D projects in which we participate in 5 5 collaboration with other entities 6 In line with our mission to always be at the forefront of technological 6 innovation in the sector and to be recognized internationally for quality and service level in all our products and solutions for the network of transport 7 and distribution of energy and with one of our Values (Innovation), we 7 collaborate in investigation and development projects with different entities. Throughout 2019, among other things, we participated in projects related to HVDC links for marine energy evacuation, new cyber-security and data analysis technologies for electrical substations, efficiency and sustainability of the eco-designed electrical substation, and the development of two environmentally, energetically and economically optimized measurement eco-transformers. Along the same lines, we participate in the main international Forums for the development of knowledge, technology and innovation, with the following entities: European SmartGrids Platform Futured Platform T&D Europe 62 63 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 And we collaborate in various technical forums on standardization and updating of standards and regulations in the sector. We also participate in Social partnerships various local R&D initiatives: Actions that are carried out on a regular bases or specifically, depending on the needs that arise in the societies which surround us. The actions carried out in 2019 have focused on: Txorierri Politeknika Euskalit Advanced Ikastegia Management Basque Agency for Management and Finance Roadside Assistance Association Innovation (Innobasque) Forum Firefighters Without Borders Energy Cluster Association for Progress in NGO Creating Future Management Members of GAIA’s Board Food Bank of Directors IRAM Argentina Association Against Cancer (AECC) Associations for the disabled In addition, we have established alliances with the Basque Electrical Laboratories Alliance (BELA), the Tecnalia Board of Trustees and CADIEEL (Argentine Chamber of Electrical Industries). In addition to these actions that are carried out regularly, in Mexico there are annual campaigns to support homes for the elderly, regular visits to hospitals of the Social Institute and campaigns to plant trees in the surroundings and donate toys to different groups. Every year we also deliver tons of wood, 0 Academic collaborations tools, and other materials to different groups and associations throughout 0 the region. In 2019, a special fundraising campaign was also held to support Attracting and retaining talent is a priority for us. Therefore, we consider that children with cancer. promoting training and collaboration with the different academic entities 1 of the societies in which we are established is essential in order to allow 1 the incorporation of new qualified professionals, the transfer of talent and technical knowledge, and the general development of the societies around 2 us. It is for this reason that the following collaborations have taken place Sport Collaborations 2 throughout 2019: From Arteche we promote and participate in social competitions related to 3 › Collaboration agreements for internships with universities and career companies and other local entities. We also sponsor various sports teams 3 Our social commitment Our social commitment completion projects: 22 collaboration agreements have been signed with and activities in the area where we operate. Some examples of this are the universities. following: 4 › Collaboration agreements for internships with vocational training centers: 20 › We are members of the Athletic Club Foundation, a non-profit organization 4 agreements have been signed with centers. that uses football and the values and social dimension of Athletic Club in 5 › Dual university and vocational training projects: we have participated in 11 order to promote sport and help improve the quality of life of people and 5 projects in total. disadvantaged groups in Bizkaia. We participate in the Bizkaia Business Race, and in the inter-company football league. We sponsor Mungia’s football, › Collaboration agreements for internships for recent graduates: 12. 6 basketball, cycling, rugby and Basque Pelota teams as well as a local elite 6 In addition, during this year we have attended various job fairs, such as the Paralympic Athlete Job Fair in Jilotepec (State of Mexico), the Tula de Allende Job Fair (Hidalgo) › In Mexico, we participate in the Tepeji del Rio Tournament, as well as in 7 and the Atitalaquia Job Fair (Hidalgo). different sports events in competition with other companies in the area 7 At the level of our internal staff, we provide financial support for the training of workers who want to improve their academic profile. In this sense, throughout 2019 we have financed 7 masters and 51 formal training courses (university, professional training, etc.) for obtaining a degree. In addition, in Argentina, school materials are distributed to the children of Group employees, and in Mexico, scholarships are given to employees’ children. 64 65 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Cultural collaborations 6.2. Subcontracting and suppliers We participate by making donations towards sociocultural activities in the region, such as aid to promote the Basque language or local identity events in the regions where we are present. Supply chain description On the other hand, we encourage and sponsor participation in activities such as the ArtPhoto Competition, a photography contest held annually with the The goal is for the supply of materials or sub-assemblies to be manufactured theme of the use and impact of electricity, with 4 different categories: in compliance with the established requirements of quality, cost, time, etc. › Life and electricity: the photographs must reflect the impact of electricity on Regardless of the fact that the Arteche Group is organized by areas, we work the daily lives of people and society, its influence on the daily life of each one by processes. The supply chain encompasses the following tasks, even though of us in any regard: how electricity illuminates us, warms us up, moves us or they are executed by different areas (purchasing, operations, excellence). entertains us › Selection and negotiation with suppliers. Awarding. › Electrical infrastructure and equipment: the impact of electricity on our lives would be impossible without the infrastructure and equipment generation, › Procurement transmission and electrical distribution -, which facilitate their use and shape › Supplier Quality our landscapes › Reception of materials › Arteche products: compositions that integrate Arteche products in › Storage of materials substations, projects, specific products, landscapes, etc. › Internal logistics › Electrical work: the compositions must represent the connection between › External logistics professionals in the electrical sector and the tasks they perform Mainly raw materials and sub-assemblies are purchased. In the case of raw This competition is free of charge and open to our employees and to anyone materials, they are awarded to suppliers both locally (for each production 0 from any geographical location who is interested in participating, and there is center) and globally (global awarding and local procurement.) In the case 0 a prize for each category. of sub-assemblies the purchase is made locally. In both cases, before the Throughout the 5 years that we have organized this cultural activity, the level awarding of the contract, the supplier must be evaluated/approved, 1 of participation has increased year by year. In fact, in 2019, the number of according to the criteria of the technical department and the excellence area. 1 contestants doubled with respect to the previous year, having received 550 photographs from 35 different countries, spanning the 5 continents. In the case of production companies located in Mungia, purchases of sub2 assemblies are, in several cases, made from special employment and 2 occupational centers. 3 In the cases of greater volume purchases, the communication channels with 3 Our social commitment Our social commitment the suppliers establish communication matrices that identify the interlocutors of both companies in matters of quality, deliveries, new projects, prices, 4 logistics, so that the relationship is facilitated both for the daily supply and 4 for incidents or corrective actions and improvement projects. 5 5 6 6 7 7 66 67 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Consideration of suppliers’ and 6.3. Clients subcontractors’ social and environmental responsibility, and oversight of said Policies and results responsibilities during our relationship with At Arteche we value our local service capacity as a competitive advantage them that we reinforce by adding new remote monitoring and predictive data analysis technologies, which allow us not only to provide a local service but During the supplier qualification/approval process, Arteche evaluates also to identify possible defects before they occur. its suppliers by taking into account environmental, safety and social responsibility criteria. We require a commitment from our suppliers to comply In addition to the local service teams, located close to our main users around with the following aspects. the world, we have a first class technical engineering team. › Compliance with all applicable laws and regulations of the country where the Innovation and high value proposals make it possible for us to be part of activities are carried out, unless these are less demanding than international the transformation of the electricity transmission and distribution network ethical behavior, in which case the latter will be followed. sector, being pioneers in the development of optical measurement solutions, › Respect for human rights, and no employee shall suffer harassment, physical allowing our customers to improve the continuity and quality of their service. or mental punishment or any other type of abuse › Compliance with wages, and working hours must comply with the laws, rules At Arteche we are proud of being part of the transformation of the electric and regulations applicable in that regard in the country in question, including sector, of being close to our customers, of adding value to them and being minimum wages, overtime and maximum working hours next to them in the development of the electric networks in over 150 countries, › No forced or compulsory labor shall be used, and employees will be free to always distinguishing ourselves for our vocation for service and closeness. 0 leave employment once they have provided sufficient notice 0 › No child labor will be used, and ILO standards will be specifically complied with 1 › Respect for the right of employees to associate freely 1 › All employees must be provided with good conditions of safety and hygiene at work 2 › Respect for the environment, observing all relevant legislation in the country 2 concerned, through the sustainable use of resources 3 › Supply of products and services in a manner that meets the quality and safety criteria specified in the relevant contractual elements, and is safe for its 3 Our social commitment Our social commitment intended purpose 4 › Not using fraudulent means, such as the payment of bribes 4 › Using wood from sustainably managed forests that respect the environment, thus combating climate change efficiently 5 › Ensuring that the acquired conflict minerals (tantalum, gold, tungsten and tin) 5 originate only from smelters and mines that are classified as “conflict-free” › Not using fraudulent methods in order to ensure the correct results and 6 records of required materials and functional tests 6 During the visits, audits and performance evaluation of the Arteche Group’s 7 suppliers, no suppliers with forced labor or child labor operations have been 7 detected. In these audits, not only are aspects related to the quality of the production processes checked, but also aspects related to the environment, occupational health and safety and human rights. For our activities, we make a high percentage of purchases of goods and services from national companies: Proportion of spending on local suppliers 2019 Spain 78,1% China 89,1% Mexico 74,0% Brazil 64,9% Total 74,0% Argentina 55,8% 68 69 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 We guarantee compliance with applicable safety regulations in the design of In order to strictly control and monitor the customer complaint process, our products (CE marking and its equivalents in other locations) both for the in 2019 we have set up a global Customer Support structure, made up of product and for its use by the user. All our products are labeled in accordance a global representative, managers, administrators and service technicians with the standards applicable in each country. in the various manufacturing entities and geographical regions. Likewise, agreed campaign policies and trade concessions have been implemented. For the management of complaints and claims or queries, we have a client communications procedure that guarantees customer support. All We highlight a 60% increase in the complaint rate in 2019 compared to 2018; management of complaints and queries is recorded in our ERP according this is the result of a higher demand in our controls, recording all kinds of to the requirements established in our protocols. At Arteche, there is a minor incidents, even of a documentary nature, (test protocols, stickers, plate specific and exclusive area of Customer Support for attending to these data, packaging markings, etc.) and because of them we have achieved a communications and their management. higher degree of customer satisfaction. Likewise, a commitment has been established to carry out a customer 100% of customer complaints have immediate solutions to solve the client’s satisfaction evaluation every two years, per the internally established problem, which are recorded in our ERP, within quality notifications. The procedure. Group’s procedures determine a maximum of 48 hours for acceptance of the claim. In all cases in which customer complaints are recognized as serious or Complaints received and their resolution important, in addition to the immediate actions, a corrective action is opened where a multidisciplinary team analyzes the root causes and Within our customer complaint management processes there are defined determines and implements the actions to contain, correct, and avoid the indicators for the control and improvement of the process. repetition of the problem. In addition, with the aim of continuously improving the efficiency of our There have been no cases of non-compliance relating to the health and safety 0 service and our communication with customers, in order to resolve their complaints and claims, in 2018, we defined and implemented the following impacts of product and service categories, or any claims relating to breaches 0 of privacy or loss of customer data. service policies for the Customer Support process: 1 › I. Once we receive a customer complaint, we make a commitment to send the 1 customer the confirmation of the reception of the complaint and its internal 2 management in less than 48h. 2 › II. Once we have all the required information, we will issue our proposal for 6.4. Tax information immediate action (to resolve the Client’s problem) in under 1 week 3 › III. If field intervention is required, we commit to carrying it out within 3 weeks 3 Our social commitment Our social commitment of the previous analysis, provided that we are authorized to do so by the Client Policies and results 4 › IV. In the case of equipment factory analysis, we undertake to have the 4 The fiscally responsible behavior of all the Arteche Group companies is part corresponding analysis report and proposal for action within 2 weeks of of the General Policy of Corporate Responsibility, which includes the basic 5 receiving the equipment (and sending it to the Client) action principles that must be respected. 5 › V. We are committed to informing the client of each and everyone of the The taxes and duties paid by the Group in the countries in which it operates advances, dates, deadlines, etc., relative to this claim, until said claim is 6 definitively closed constitute the main contribution on the part of the Group companies to the 6 support of public charges and therefore, one of its contributions to society. 7 Arteche’s fiscal policy is integrated within the ethical principles, social responsibility, transparency and institutional loyalty with which the Arteche 7 Group is governed. The principles of Arteche’s fiscal policy include: › Prevention and reduction of fiscal risks in each location, providing the necessary human and material means to carry it out › Strengthening the relationship with the tax authorities, based on law, loyalty and trust, collaboration and reciprocity › Conceiving of the taxes and duties paid by the various Group companies to the relevant authorities as the main contribution to the support of public expenses and therefore, as a contribution to society 70 71 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Variation in the direct economic value generated and distributed 2019 Direct economic value generated (*) +20% Economic value distributed (**) -2% Economic value retained +13% > (*) For direct economic value generated, turnover and other operating income have been considered > (**) For economic value distributed, all supplies, personnel expenses, other operating expenses, exceptional expenses and financial expenses have been considered The nature of the Arteche Group’s business and its great commitment to research and development generate large tax deductions, which, together with the negative tax bases from previous years, mostly explains its low net tax burden. The profit before tax by region is included in the annex. 0 Based on these principles, the Group maintains the following tax practices: 0 › Not using artificial corporate and tax structures which are aimed at avoiding or reducing tax obligations, and not carrying out related transactions with the 1 sole purpose of reducing taxable bases or of transferring taxation to regions 1 with lower tax rates 2 › Avoiding structures of an opaque nature that pursue the goal of preventing 2 the tax authorities from knowing who is ultimately responsible for operations in the region 3 › Not incorporating or acquiring companies in tax havens 3 Our social commitment Our social commitment › Taking into consideration the recommendations and codes of good tax 4 practice implemented in the countries where the Group operates 4 5 Responsible taxation 5 6 The Group has an impact on the economic development of Bizkaia, Araba, Madrid, Mexico, Brazil, Argentina and China, mainly through the tax 6 contribution generated by its activity, thus fulfilling a double economic and 7 social function and respecting the value of transparency: 7 › Corporate tax: In 2019 and 2018, certain Group companies (mainly Spain and Mexico) do not have to pay any income tax due to tax losses and deductions generated in previous fiscal years. In 2019, Argentina, China and Brazil have accrued income tax of EUR 650 thousand, EUR 276 thousand and EUR 69 thousand, respectively. › Personal Income Tax: EUR 9 million › Social Security: EUR 12.2 million › Value-Added Tax: EUR 1 million › Other fees: EUR 2.2 million In doing so, we have contributed EUR 25.4 million in taxes and levies to the communities in which we operate. 72 73 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Financial assistance received from the N-19_Sandra Balodzedas (Arphoto2019) government During 2019 and 2018 the grants received amount to: 2019 2018 R+D+i grants 419 484 Bonuses 30 25 In addition, in 2019, refundable loans were received for the execution of activities amounting to EUR 912 thousand, of which EUR 284 thousand are linked to R&D projects and EUR 628 thousand to the execution of investment and competitiveness improvement projects. In accordance with Article 64 bis of the Vizcaya Corporation Tax Law, in 2019 the Company obtained the monetization of tax credits for the execution of R&D projects amounting to EUR 177 thousand. 0 Basque Venture Capital Fund, whose sole shareholder is the Basque 0 Government-Eusko Jaurlaritza, has a 7.55% stake in Arteche Lantegi Elkartea, as it has converted the participative loan it had granted the company for EUR 1 5,000 thousand in the 2018 fiscal year into capital. 1 2 Chapter 7. 2 3 About this report 3 Our social commitment 4 4 5 5 About this report Information scope for this report 6 6 The scope of this report refers to the information relating to the 2019 fiscal year of the companies over which Arteche has control. Also, following GRI 7 standards, companies from India and Australia and corporate delegations 7 have been excluded from the scope of this report, mainly, as they are not considered relevant for the purposes of this report in terms of relative importance. The companies included in the scope are those considered relevant for sustainability purposes. In participating companies without effective control capacity, we promote the policies approved by the Group in matters of sustainability, through the governing bodies of these companies. Therefore, the list of subsidiaries included in the scope of this report all of which are fully consolidated because in all cases they hold a majority interest or control of the company is as follows: 74 75 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Company Country % Arteche Lantegi Elkartea, S.A. Spain 100% Electrotécnica Arteche Hermanos, S.L. Spain 100% Electrotécnica Arteche Smart Grid, S.L.U. Spain 100% Arteche Centro De Tecnología, A.I.E. Spain 100% Arteche Gas Insulated Transformers, S.L. Spain 100% Grupo Empresarial SAC, S.L. Spain 100% AIT, S.A. Argentina 100% Arteche EDC Equipamientos e Sistemas, S.A. Brazil 100% Arteche DYH Electric Co. Ltd China 70% 0 Arteche North America, S.A. de C.V. Mexico 100% 0 Arteche ACP, S.A. de C.V. Mexico 100% 1 1 Arteche Medición y Tecnología, S.A. de C.V. Mexico 100% 2 2 3 3 Information Constraints 4 The “Global Scope” of Group companies is detailed in the consolidated financial statements for the 2019 fiscal year. However, in accordance with 4 the previous section, the “scope of this report” is reduced to the relevant 5 companies for sustainability purposes. 5 About this report About this report With these criteria in mind, Arteche considers that this report reflects in a reasonable and balanced way the economic, environmental and social 6 performance of the Group. 6 7 7 76 77 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT arteche .com Síguenos @GrupoArteche
