January 13, 2020 Mr. António Guterres Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. Secretary-General, I am pleased to confirm that Zensar Technologies Ltd. supports the ten principles of the Global Compact on Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to implement those principles. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engage in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations. In addition, we would like to declare our intention and commitment to focus on Gender Equality and Women Empowerment principles in line with the United Nation’s Sustainable Development goals and the ten principles of Global Compact. Zensar Technologies Ltd. will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the public. There was a change of guard at Zensar early in the year 2018. Due to internal miscommunication, we missed reporting the progress within the due timelines. Zensar is committed and has been compliant with the Global Compact on Human Rights through this period. We will ensure that the timelines and processes are strictly adhered to in future. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (“COP”) that describes our company’s efforts to implement the ten principles and support any specialized United Nation’s Global Compact issue platform that our company may join at a later date. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress within one (1) year of joining the Global Compact, and annually thereafter according to the Global Compact COP policy. This will include:  A statement signed by our Chief Executive expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing our ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. This is separate from our initial letter of commitment to join the Global Compact  A description of practical actions to implement the Global Compact principles in each of the four issue areas  A measurement of outcomes Sincerely yours, Sandeep Digitally signed b y Sandeep Kishore D N: c=U S, o=Personal, postalCode=94539, st=California, 2.5 .4.20=0ff45da92 53c4bdb79a24d Kishore a581663eda711b519aae31313958b 8eeff16 ca4f53, cn= Sandeep Kishore Date: 2016.07.0 5 1 5:46 :29 +05'30' Mr. Sandeep Kishore Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director of Zensar Technologies Ltd.
